Document of
FILE COPY                        The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1902-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
TOBACCO PROCESSING PROJECT
August 20, 1976
This doeument hs a rtricted distributon and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties Its cootents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as at August 1, 1976)
Tanzania Sh    =    US$0.12
US$1.00        =     T Sh 8.05
(The Tanzania Shilling is officially valued at
a fixed rate of 9.66 T Sh to the SDR. The US
Dollar/Tanzania Shilling exchange rate is there-
fore subject to change. Conversions in this
report were made at US$1.00 to T Sh 8.05, which
is close to the short-term average exchange rate.)
ABBREVIATIONS
TANU          =   Tanganyika African National Union
The Authority     =   Tobacco Authority of Tanzania
The Company       =   Tanzania Tobacco Processing Company, Ltd.
TANZANIA FISCAL YEAR
July 1st - June 30th



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A TOBACCO PROCESSING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the United Republic of Tanzania for the equivalent of US$8.0 mil-
lion on standard IDA terms to help finance a tobacco processing project.
From the proceeds of the credit, the equivalent of US$2.0 million, would be
relent to the Tobacco Authority of Tanzania (the Authority) and, the equiva-
lent of US$6.0 million, to the Tanzania Tobacco Processing Company Ltd.
(the company) at 10 percent annual interest and would be repaid over seven
and eight years, respectively.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
General
2.        Although it has been sometime since the last full economic and
updating reports on Tanzania were finalized in May and December 1972, re-
spectively, considerable staff economic work has been accomplished on the
country since that time. An agricultural sector report was issued in December
1974. The report of an industry and mining mission was distributed in April
1975 and a study of the fiscal aspects of Tanzania's recent decentralization
was completed in April 1975. In March 1976, at the request of the Government,
the Bank mounted a special mission which analyzed the fiscal implications of
the Government's programs for Universal Primary Education and Universal Rural
Water Supply. The work of this mission will provide a substantial input to
the work of the basic economic mission which visited Tanzania in July/August
1976. Throughout the last two years or so Bank staff have engaged in a
continuous economic dialogue with the Government on the serious balance of
payments difficulties which have been encountered by the country and the
Government's policies and programs designed to close the external gap. These
policies and programs were reviewed in the Program Loan President's Report No.
P-1517a-TA, dated November 25, 1974 and in a memorandum (M75-687) from the
Secretary dated September 25, 1975. The Consultative Group for East Africa
met in April 1975 to discuss the progress and prospects of the Tanzania
economy and the need for additional resources to support the Government's
development program.
3.        The TANU Party, under the leadership of President Nyerere, has been
the guiding force in Tanzania's political evolution since the 1950's. Over
the years following independence the political leadership has developed a
philosophy of egalitarian socialism which has been articulated in many
documents, most central of which is the Arusha Declaration of 1967. In
restructuring the political, economic and social life of the country the
leadership has introduced an impressive series of far-reaching institutional
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
reforms. For the past decade Tanzania's social and economic policy has been
guided by three fundamental objectives: (a) the achievement
of a participatory, decentralized socialist economic order; (b) the eradi-
cation of absolute poverty and progress toward greater income equality;
and (c) more rapid long-term economic growth with full participation of all
regions and population groups in the development process. Reflecting this
philosophy some of the Government's most significant decisions have been
in the area of incomes policy. The tax structure is highly progressive
and middle and upper incomes have been restrained while lower income wages
have been increased. In the provision of social infrastructure services,
poorer areas have been favored. As a result of these and related policies,
differentials in living standards between upper and lower income urban dwellers
have been narrowed and some impact has been made on urban/rural differentials
and regional disparities of income.
4.         The overriding goal is to develop a socialist economic system
and one of the consequences of this has been a series of industry nationali-
zation measures and proliferation of government parastatal enterprises. The
state has increasingly intervened in the price mechanism; prices of domestic
factors and products and imports are controlled directly or by such indirect
methods as import licensing. These structural changes have resulted in some
implementation problems. In addition, scarce managerial manpower has been
spread very thinly, exacerbating already serious shortages of top and middle-
level staff. Some of these conflicts should be seen, however, as the inevi-
table consequences of a "frontal" attack on poverty and underdevelopment.
5.         With a per capita income of only $170, Tanzania is classified as-
one of the 25 least developed countries as defined by the United Nations
(country data are provided in Annex I). Between 1968 and 1973 Tanzania's
GDP grew at 4.6 percent per annum. Domestic savings averaged 17 percent of
GDP, while gross investment averaged 21 percent -- extremely high rates for
a country at Tanzania's low level of per capita income. The growth rate of
GDP was not commensurate with the magnitude of the investment effort, how-
ever, in part because of the high proportion of investment which was di-
rected into infrastructure and social services projects such as the trans-
portation links with Zambia, because of sluggish growth in the agricultural
sector and because of stagnant or declining productivity in parastatal en-
terprises. During this period the balance of payments position of Tanzania
was generally satisfactory, despite the disappointingly slow growth of ex-
ports (overall export volume grew at only three percent per year from 1968
to 1972 and in 1973 export volume fell back to the 1968 level). Neverthe-
less, because of a sharp increase in capital inflows, the overall balance
of payments was in surplus from 1971 to 1973, and there was a modest build-up
in foreign exchange reserves. As a result of prudent financial management,
net reserves were increased to approximately $145 million by the end of
1973, the equivalent of four months' imports.
6.         Events then occurred which resulted in a drastic change in the
overall balance of payments of Tanzania. The 1973 and 1974 rains failed
in many parts of the country necessitating substantial increases in imports
of basic food items beginning in mid-1974. The drought also affected cash
crops, leading to a further decline in the export volumes of coffee, cotton



- 3 -
and sisal. Although world prices for Tanzania's exports jumped 52 percent
in 1974, total export receipts rose only 18 percent due to drought-affected
crop yields. At this same time as a result of higher prices for imports
the total import bill for 1974 rose by 60 percent over 1973. The outcome
of these forces was a rapid depletion of net reserves to only $50 million
at the end of 1974, equivalent to only three weeks of imports. Industrial
production also stagnated in 1974, due in part to shortages of imported raw
materials and spare parts stemming from the growing foreign exchange con-
straint. As a result, overall GDP may have actually declined slightly
during the year although official statistics indicate an increase of 2
percent. While production declined, domestic demand increased rapidly,
due to expansionary fiscal, monetary and wage policies, causing severe
pressure on the domestic price level. The retail price index for low in-
come workers rose by 57 percent in 1974 while that for middle-grade civil
servants jumped 35 percent.
7.        During 1975, while the food production shortfall was substantially
reversed and inflation was reduced to around 30 percent, grain imports were
still required and the balance of payments situation remained critical. In
addition, export performance was extremely disappointing with total value
of exports declining by over 11 percent. The overall balance of payments
gap for 1975 was about $140-145 million, equal to the deficit for 1974.
Tanzania was able to cover the 1975 foreign exchange gap by curtailing im-
ports to the bare minimum and by securing substantial program type assis-
tance, including a $30 million Program Loan (No. 1063-TA) from the Bank
and the IMF special oil facility approved in August 1975.
8.        Tanzania's present economic crisis cannot be attributed exclusively
to drought-related crop failures and import price escalation. The most
disturbing aspect of Tanzania's economic situation has been the declining
growth rate of output from the agricultural, industrial and mining sectors.
The growth rate of agricultural output had been running slightly behind the
rate of growth of population for six years prior to the harvest failure of
1974. Inadequate producer price incentives, inefficiencies in the transport
and distribution systems for inputs and marketed production, and the effects
of inadequately planned villagization contributed to this disappointing
performance. In the modern sector many enterprises have experienced declining
labor productivity which has been attributed to lack of incentives, poor
discipline and ineffective management. Furthermore, while the ratio of
domestic savings to GDP rose during the 1960's, it began to decline by 1973
and fell drastically to 7.5 percent in 1974 as a direct outcome of the balance
of payments crisis. In addition to the above-mentioned factors, the high
level of investment which has gone into slow-gestation social and economic
infrastructure rather than into the directly productive sectors has prevented
more rapid growth of output.
9.        The Tanzanian Government in late 1974 formulated a comprehensive
program of policy actions to bring the balance of payments under control
in the medium run and to restore the growth rate of output. The principal
elements of the program included a reallocation of investment in favor of
directly productive sectors, measures to raise agricultural output, steps



- 4-
to improve incentives in industry and mining and to increase the export
orientation of these sectors, and constraints on public and private con-
sumption demand. Imports were cut through direct controls and measures
were introduced to slow down the rate of growth of private consumption.
Indirect taxes were raised and further increased in the 1975/76 budget.
User charges for water and electricity were also raised and an extremely
restrictive wage and salary policy has been followed. Further, the Gov-
ermient is making a serious effort to bring the rate of growth of public
consumption expenditures under control. The 1975/76 budget called for a
level of current expenditures below the revised estimate for 1974/75 and
while this target may not be realistic the intentions of the Government
are nevertheless clear. In addition cuts of about 7 percent in the civil
service were made in March 1976.
10.       On the production side, several steps have been taken to increase
output. The Government has raised agricultural producer prices to levels
approaching world parity and certain progressive export taxes have been
reduced or eliminated. The overall planning capability of the Ministry
of Agriculture is being strengthened and a project coordination unit to
improve imnplementation has been established in the Ministry. Furthermore,
as a major component of its effort to expand material production the Gov-
ernment has made significant progress in reallocating public investment
in favor of the directly productive sectors of agriculture, industry and
mining. Another problem area in which action has been undertaken is that
of export development. In October 1975, Tanzania, in conjunction with
Kenya and Uganda, devalued the shilling by approximately 14 percent. Given
the heavy reliance of the East African Community for export markets in the
U.K. and the substantial recent decline in the value of sterling, this de-
valuation can be construed as an attempt at restoration of competitiveness
of exports to the U.K. and also an incentive to exporters to non-sterling
markets. The Government's progress in implementing policies and programs
designed to close the balance of payments gap in accordance with under-
standings relating to the program loan was the subject of a memorandum
(M75-687) from the Secretary to the Executive Directors dated September 25,
1975 (paragraph 2 above). The most encouraging aspect of the Government's
response to the balance of payments crisis was the demonstration that
Tanzania retains the ability to push through necessary and unpopular
measures over a wide front. It is this characteristic of a "hard state,"
together with the basically sound program of economic restructuring, which
holds the promise for the future.
II.       Tanzania's prospects for bringing the balance of payments deficit
under control in the medium term clearly depend upon the effectiveness of
the program of policy actions outlined above. It is not possible to deter-
mine the time period over which all the policy measures introduced by the
Tanzanian Government will take effect. The austerity measures introduced
in 1974 and 1975 have already had an impact on imports and on domestic
consumption, and the recovery of food production in 1975 has clearly helped
to alleviate the food deficit. However, the basic program of economic re-
structuring will require more time before its full effects can be realized.



- 5 -
For example, some new investments in agriculture, industry and mining that
will directly benefit the balance of payments will take several years to come
to fruition. Thus the balance of payments will remain weak in the short
run. However, Tanzania should have a stronger economy at the end of the
restructuring process. The central focus of the assistance efforts should
be, therefore, to ensure that the balance of payments gaps arising over
the next few years do not prevent Tanzania from implementing a development
program designed to incorporate the required policy changes. In this connec-
tion, negotiations for a proposed second program credit were recently held
in Dar es Salaam. In addition, and despite Tanzania's impressive domestic
savings performance, a continued capital inflow in excess of the foreign
exchange component of high priority projects will also be required if Tanzania
is to achieve its development targets. Financing of some local expenditures
will, therefore, be justified.
12.       In terms of debt outstanding and disbursed, the Bank Group is
Tanzania's second largest creditor after the People's Republic of China. Other
major lenders are Sweden, Canada, Denmark, the Netherlands and the Federal
Republic of Germany. The current low overall debt service ratio of about 7
percent is expected to rise to about 11 percent by 1980 and remain at about
that level throughout the 1980's. Including a notional one-third share
of the debt of the East African Community Corporations, the IBRD is presently
holding 13 percent of Tanzania's outstanding external debt and IDA 10 percent;
the IBRD share is expected to rise to about 23 percent in the next five years,
and the IDA share to rise to about 13 percent. Debt service payments to the
Bank are about 13 percent of total debt service payments; the corresponding
share for IDA is about 3 percent. These two figures are projected to rise to
about 25 percent and 3 percent, respectively, by 1980. The debt service ratio
of Bank loans to exports is expected to rise to about 2 percent by 1980. The
Bank's exposure is high because several major donors are now making their aid
available either on grant basis or very concessional terms and because as a
result of prudent debt management suppliers' credits have been kept to a
minimum. The average interest rate on loans to Tanzania outstanding at
December 31, 1974 amounted to only 2.4 percent and the average term was 22
years.
East African Community
13.       The East African Community Corporations have experienced diffi-
culties in recent years. While the 1967 Treaty for East African Coopera-
tion is one of the most far-reaching and comprehensive economic cooperation
agreements in existence among sovereign states in the developing world, in
practice, the degree of economic integration and cooperation among the
Partner States is much less than what was envisaged in the Treaty. Poli-
tical developments in the Partner States have created tension within the
Community and impaired the growth of interstate trade. These difficulties
have been compounded by the balance of payments constraints which all three
Partner States experienced.



14.       Of the Community Corporations, the East African Railways Corpora-
tion (EARC) has been the most severely affected. As a result of long delays
by the Partner States in approving increases in tariffs and restrictions on
the interstate transfer of corporate funds, EARC was unable to order essen-
tial spare parts and supplies with the result that its operational capacity
has deteriorated considerably. In July 1974, the Partner States agreed,
with Bank assistance, on a package of financial measures to rehabilitate
the EARC including interstate transfer of funds and injection of additional
capital. However, this agreement was never fully implemented and as a re-
sult disbursements under Loan No. 674-EA (East African Railways III) were
suspended in February 1975. A further meeting was held in July 1975 at
which an agreement was again reached on a formula for sharing of debt ser-
vice payment by the Partner States, and suspension of the loan was lifted.
15.       The Partner States recognized that because of their fundamental
political and economic differences, a review of the 1967 Treaty was called
for. For this purpose a Commission has been established consisting of three
Cabinet level officials from each country, with Mr. Demas, President of the
Caribbean Development Bank, as Chairman. This Commission is expected to
submit its report by the end of 1976. While there is hope that the Com-
mission may recommend measures to deal with the structural differences in the
long run, the Corporations are still facing a difficult period.
16.       Since February 1976 the relationship between Partner States further
deteriorated. Arrangements for debt service payments were again disrupted
resulting in long delay in making debt service payments to the Bank. Disburse-
ments to the East African Railways Corporation, the East African Harbours
Corporation, the East African Posts and Telecommunications Corporation and the
East African Development Bank were suspended by the Bank on April 28, 1976.
As the Executive Directors were informed on May 25, 1976 (Sec. M76-383), a
mission visited East Africa in May to discuss with the Presidents and Finance
Ministers the debt service problems which endangered both the Bank's opera-
tions in East Africa and the credit standing of the Community and the Partner
States (being jointly and severally responsible). Agreement was reached on
May 28, 1976 to ensure remittances from the Regional Offices of the Corpora-
tions to complete all over-due payments and as these were made by June 1,
1976, the suspension was lifted. Since then debt service payments are being
made on time. Regarding future debt service payments, the agreement (i)
specifies fixed contributions by each Partner State to meet external debt
obligations, (ii) commits the Government to ensure remittances from the
Regional Offices of the Corporations, (iii) establishes a mechanism and
procedure for timely payments, and (iv) provides automatic foreign exchange
cover to debt service remittances.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
17.       Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962.     Beginning with
an IDA credit for education in 1963, 24 IDA credits and 11 Bank loans



amounting to $395.8 million have so far been approved for Tanzania. In addi-
tion, Tanzania has been a beneficiary of 10 loans totalling $244.8 million,
which have been extended for the development of the common services and
development bank operated regionally by Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda through
their association in the East African Community. The only IFC investments
in Tanzania to date, totalling $4.7 million, were made in the Kilombero Sugar
Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company encountered financial difficulties
and in 1969 IFC and other investors sold their interest in the Company to
the Government. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans and IDA
credits to Tanzania and the East African Community organizations as of July 31,
1976 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.       In keeping with Tanzania's overall development strategy our lending
operations are increasingly focusing on the rural sector and directly produc-
tive projects. Up to the end of FY72 10 out of 15 Loans and credits made
directly to Tanzania had been for infrastructure. Of the 20 Tanzania opera-
tions approved since then all but five: Urban Sites and Services (Credit No.
495-TA), Highway Maintenance (Credit No. 507-TA) Technical Assistance (Credit
No. 601-TA) and Education IV and V (Credits No. 371-TA and 607-TA), were for
directly productive projects. These directly productive projects are support-
ing both the agricultural and industrial sectors, including the Kigoma Integra-
ted Rural Development Project (Credit No. 508-TA), the National Maize Program
(Credit No. 606-TA), the recently approved Fisheries Development Project
(Credit No. 652-TA) and the first direct Lending for an industrial project,
Mwanza Textile Project (Loan No. 1128-TA). The first Bank Group assisted
project in the forestry sector, Sao Hill Forestry Project (Loan No. 1307-TA),
approved on July 1, 1976 will provide the raw material for Tanzania's first
paper and pulp plant, also under preparation for Bank Group financing. -We
plan to continue assistance for productive projects in the industrial and
agricultural sectors and a project to support selected industries at Morogoro
is expected to be ready for consideration by the Executive Directors in the
near future and a proposed second rural development project and a water sup-
ply project have been appraised in the field. In view of Tanzania's con-
tinuing balance of payment difficulties, negotiations for a second program
credit were recently held in Dar es Salaam.
19.       While it should be borne in mind that over one-half of total
Bank Group lending to Tanzania has been approved in the last two fiscal
years and that initial start-up difficulties are perhaps inevitable, the
project implementation difficulties referred to in Annex II of this report
have been greater than anticipated. Some of these problems stem from the
scarcity of suitably trained and qualified manpower, some reflect the un-
derstandable reluctance and apprehension of an essentially conservative
traditional sector to adopt new "technology", and others are undoubtedly
a reflection of the strains created in a society which is attempting a
unique traverse from one set of economic, institutional and political
rules to another. The Government has become extremely conscious of these
implementation issues and is taking steps to resolve these problems. An
earlier reluctance to recruit technical assistance for planning and im-
plementation has been replaced by a willingness to utilize such assis-
tance whenever it is demonstrably necessary. A technical assistance
project designed to strengthen project preparation and implementation
was recently approved by the Executive Directors. At the request of the



- 8 -
Government about 10 technical staff have been supplied by the Agriculture
Development Service and a Bank staff member has recently been seconded to
the Project Implementation Unit in the Ministry of Agriculture. In a longer
term attempt to alleviate the human resource constraints our lending is ex-
pected to increasingly emphasize formal and non-formal training. Furthermore,
a conscious attempt is being made to develop less complex projects.
20.       The difficulties facing the East African Community and the common
services corporations (paras 13-16 above) have affected the Bank's lending
program to the Community. Yet while the exact form of the reorganized Com-
munity services remains to be determined, the development of the transport
and communications infrastructure to facilitate national programs of the
Partner States will continue to be an important aspect of the development of
the three countries. We therefore anticipate a continuing role for the Bank
in these sectors. Field appraisal of a fourth Posts and Telecommunications
project has been completed and a Railways project and a Harbours project will
be ready for appraisal in fiscal year 1977. In each instance all organiza-
tional and guarantee questions will be resolved before conclusion of lend-
ing arrangements.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General Background
21.       Agriculture and related activities constitute the largest single
sector in the Tanzanian economy. Roughly 40 percent of GDP is derived from
the sector of which 50 percent constitutes subsistence production. Agri-
cultural exports, which account for 80 percent of total exports, include
mainly sisal, cotton, cashewnuts and coffee. About 94 percent of the pop-
ulation live in rural areas and 90 percent of the economically active peo-
ple are engaged in agriculture.
22.       Most production is from smallholdings using family labor.     Large-
scale agriculture is represented by a small number of private estates and
some state farms producing sisal, coffee, tea, wheat, rice and livestock.
Estate production has diminished in importance and the state farm program
remains small. Tanzania's national herd, the second largest in Africa, is
grazed extensively over the 40 percent of the country which is free from
tsetse fly infestation. It is largely managed along traditional lines.
There is limited use of oxen for cultivation, mainly in the western cotton
areas. Major food crops in Tanzania are maize, millet, sorghum, paddy,
potatoes, cassava, bananas and beans. These are produced predominantly
by smallholders who use most of their production for subsistence. Agri-
cultural output has stagnated in recent years (paragraph 6 above). Food
crop production has failed to keep pace with the expanding population, and
Tanzania has become increasingly dependent on imports of maize, rice and
wheat. The deteriorating food balance position was seriously aggravated
by the poor, drought-affected harvests of 1973, and of 1974 (paragraph 8
above) when some 440,000 tons of grain were imported.



- 9-
Agricultural Development Strategy
23.       The Government has undertaken a comprehensive program to support the
development of productive activities, particularly in the agricultural sector,
in conjunction with efforts to achieve balanced regional growth and a more
equitable income distribution. With these objectives, and in the light of the
country's current balance of payment difficulties, particular attention is
being given to support for those crops which represent sources of foreign
exchange earnings. The proposed project fits into this strategy, and although
tobacco generates only about 4 percent of current foreign exchange earnings,
the potential for expansion of total output is significant. In addition to
priority to the expansion of selected export crops, the Government, in response
to the drought and food crises of 1974 when the output of maize declined by 30
percent, has given greater emphasis to a program of self-sufficiency in food
production. This program was assisted by a recent IDA Credit of $18.0 million
for a National Maize Project (Credit No. 606-TA). The substantial increases
in producer prices of May, November 1974 and September 1975 (paragraph 10
above), the reform of the coffee export tax structure, and the formation of a
permanent Agricultural Price Review Commission constitute major rationaliza-
tions of production incentives in agriculture and further evidence of the
Government's newly found recognition of the importance of agricultural pricing
policy. In the light of the critical economic difficulties facing the country
and in an attempt to generate a quick production response, the Government is
now placing greater emphasis on production rather than social aspects of new
rural development projects.
Tobacco Production
24.       In the last ten years the production of tobacco in Tanzania has in-
creased from 5 million kg to over 18 million kg and most of the expansion was
achieved in the smallholder sub-sector where 75 percent of Tanzania's tobacco
is grown by nearly 40,000 smallholders cultivating an average of 0.5 ha of
tobacco each. The main tobacco growing areas are Tabora, Iringa and Mbeya
regions with production expanding also in Singida, Shinyanga, Kigoma and Lindi
regions. In Iringa region production is dominated by about 60 large-scale
farmers who are mainly expatriates. Smallholder production is assisted by the
Tobacco Authority of Tanzania (the Authority) which provides extension advice
on growing, curing and classifying tobacco, as well as essential inputs. The
average smallholder produces a crop with a potential yield equivalent to about
1,000 kg of wet cured leaf per ha. It is however estimated that up to 45 per-
cent of this crop is lost due to shortage of barn capacity, poor curing tech-
niques, and inefficient bulking and grading operations. Consequently, the
average smallholder produces only 550 to 600 kg per ha. of saleable tobacco.
There is therefore considerable potential for an increase in tobacco produc-
tion if measures are taken to reduce these losses.
25.       With the considerable further expansion of tobacco into new areas,
and with the yields per family increasing as farmers gain experience of
tobacco cultivation, the Authority has forecast a 20 percent production
increase from 1973/74 with production reaching nearly 46 million kg by
1979-80. However, these projections are considered over-optimistic and we



- 10 -
estimate growth at an average of 7-1/2 percent per annum: on this basis,
tobacco production is expected to increase from 20.2 million kg in 1975-76
to about 40 million kg in 1984-85 (the basis for this projection is discussed
in detail in Annex III of the appraisal report).
Flue-Cured Tobacco Project (Credit 217-TA)
26.       An IDA credit for US$9.0 million was extended in October 1970 for
a project designed to increase the production of flue-cured tobacco in
Tanzania. The project aimed at settling some 15,000 new tobacco growers in
villages of 100 families each; it was estimated that these farmers would,
on average, cultivate about 0.5 ha of tobacco along with basic food crops.
The project also included provision for on-farm credit, extension services,
construction of curing barns and grading sheds, access roads, water supplies,
a minor expansion of processing facilities and additional storage. Although
national tobacco production has been on the increase (paragraph 25) the prog-
ress under the IDA financed project in the three districts covered by it
(Tabora, Mpanda and Chunya) has been slower than expected and incremental
tobacco production is three years behind schedule. The principal reason for
this poor performance has been the settlement nature of the project with
initial delays occurring in the construction of water supplies for the new
tobacco villages, slow recruitment of farmers due mostly to early attempts
at communal production, and smaller areas cultivated per family than esti-
mated at appraisal. In addition, yields have been low in the past due to
shortage of extension staff to advise new farmers on tobacco cultivation.
A full review of the project was carried out in 1972 which resulted in the
rephasing of both physical development and of project costs, and the estab-
lishment of more realistic production targets. Total production of wet leaf
from the project is estimated to increase from 675,000 kg in 1974/75 to 1.6
million kg in 1975/76, which would be appreciably below the appraisal esti-
mates of 6.3 million kg. Indications are that the project is now beginning
to show substantial progress, and it is expected that project production
will expand at a greater rate than will overall national tobacco production.
Tobacco Processing
27.        Tobacco processing is currently carried out in two plants in
Tanzania. The one at Songea handles only fire cured tobacco, while the Moro-
goro plant, which is to be expanded under the proposed project, handles all
types of tobacco. Both these plants are operating close to full capacity.
The Morogoro plant has a maximum capacity to handle 18.5 million kg of wet
leaf which gives a production of about 15.6 million kg of dry weight tobacco.
Some of the equipment in these plants is, however, old and performance has not
been up to the standard required by export buyers. Under the project, it is
proposed to provide equipment to replace and further expand the processing
facilities in the Morogoro plant to meet the increased tobacco production in
the country. Alternative locations for the new processing capacity were
examined; Morogoro was selected as the best site for the current expansion
because of its excellent rail and road communications with both the tobacco
growing areas and the port at Dar es Salaam, the availability of physical
facilities, and management and technical staff which can, with minor addi-
tions, handle the expansion proposed under the project.



- 11 -
Tobacco Authority of Tanzania (the Authority)
28.       The Tobacco Authority of Tanzania (the Authority) was established
as a statutory body under the Tobacco Industry Act of 1972 and is responsible
for the development of the tobacco industry. Its functions include supervi-
sion of growers; research on cultivation, processing and marketing; control
over transport and processing; and the regulation of marketing. The Minister
of Agriculture has direct responsibility for overseeing the activities of the
Authority. The Authority is headed by a Board of Directors representing grow-
ers, the Regional authorities and concerned Ministries and has an Executive
Chairman and a General Manager. In March 1976, the Authority was reorganized
into 6 functional departments: Administration, Finance, Marketing, Produc-
tion, Development and Planning and Research. A Management Committee which
meets once a month has been formed to assist the General Manager with the
formulation of overall policies for the Authority. Prior to the recent reor-
ganization, the Authority had serious organizational and management problems.
While the organizational problems are now under control, the management is
still hampered by a lack of specialist staff, particularly in the Marketing
and Finance Departments. This situation is being remedied and under the pro-
posed credit financing for the position of a Financial Controller, originally
provided under Credit 217-TA, will be continued (Section 4.03 Project Agree-
ment). The Authority purchases the tobacco crop from the growers, who for the
most part are organized in local village cooperatives which act as agents for
the growers in dealing with it. The leaf is purchased on the basis of grade
classifications, with prices for each grade being established in advance by
the Authority. The Authority which also arranges transport to Morogoro for
processing by the Tanzania Tobacco Processing Co. Ltd. (the company) and from
factory to port for exports.
29.       In addition to providing extension and marketing services, the
Authority is responsible for the supply of inputs, including tobacco seed and
fertilizer. Recently fertilizer has been supplied with a 75 percent subsidy.
This has been justified in view of the temporarily high cost of fertilizers
and has avoided the need for cumbersome credit operations. The cost of this
subsidy increased from about $0.7 million in 1974/75 to $4.0 million 1975/76
and continuation at this rate would have caused the Authority's otherwise
sound financial position to deteriorate rapidly. The Government has, however,
reduced the subsidy level to 50 percent for 1976/77 and is proposing that most
of this cost be met from the Government's recurrent revenues. The whole ques-
tion of fertilizer subsidies is being kept under scrutiny in connection with
the National Maize Project (Credit No. 606 TA) and Government's policy regard-
ing the continuation of the subsidy as a charge on the Authority would be
reviewed in the same context.
Tanzania Tobacco Processing Co. Ltd. (the company)
30.       Tanzania Tobacco Processing Co. Ltd. (the company) was incorporated
in 1966 and is now a wholly owned subsidiary of the Tobacco Authority of
Tanzania. The company is charged with responsibility for the processing and
re-drying of leaf purchased by the Authority and preparing it for export.



- 12 -
The company's Board of Directors supervises the activities of the General
Manager, who is in day-to-day charge of the company's operations. The com-
pany's main activity is the operation of the tobacco processing facility
at Morogoro. The plant is under the supervision of a Senior Engineer, but
although there are adequate number of staff to assist with plant operations,
most of these are poorly trained and need close supervision. Provision has
been made under the project for overseas and on-the-job training for selected
factory staff. The company's accounts indicate that it is in a sound finan-
cial position. This is made possible by the relatively high processing fee
paid by the Authority, which is negotiated annually.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
31.       The project would assist in expanding the capacity of the Morogoro
factory to accommodate tobacco production increases in Tanzania. The project
was appraised in October-November 1975 and negotiations were held in Washington
from July 7 to 10, 1976. The Tanzanian delegation to the negotiations was
headed Mr. Mushi, Principal Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture. An appraisal
report entitled "Tanzania Tobacco Processing Project" (Report No. 1141a-TA)
dated August 20, 1976 is being distributed separately to the Executive Direc-
tors. A Credit and Project Summary is provided as Annex III to this report.
General Description
32.        The proposed project would over a five year period (1976-1980) in-
crease the operational capacity of the Tanzania Tobacco Processing Company,
Ltd. facility at Morogoro from a maximum of 18.5 million kg cured leaf per
annum to some 41 million kg. This expansion would be carried out in two
stages; initially the existing threshing line would be improved and enlarged,
and at a later date a second, somewhat larger, line would be installed.
Specifically, the project would include provision for:
(a) improvement and enlargement of the existing processing
line at Morogoro through the purchase of equipment,
machinery and quality control devices;
(b) installation of a completely new processing line;
(c) construction of two new storage facilities at Morogoro
and one new store and office in Dar es Salaam;
(d) construction of roads, water supply facilities, offices,
railroad sidings and other basic infrastructure at Moro-
goro;
(e) technical assistance and training; and
(f) a study of further tobacco processing investment require-
ments.



- 13 -
Overall responsibility for the organization and management of the project
would be that of the Tobacco Authority of Tanzania. The Tanzania Tobacco
Processing Co. Ltd. which currently operates the Morogoro processing factory
would have specific responsibility for the expansion of the plant's capacity
and for the construction of storage and infrastructure at the plant. The
Authority would be responsible for the construction of the storage at Dar es
Salaam, for the recruitment of technical assistance staff and for hiring
consultants to undertake the tobacco processing study.
Machinery and Equipment
33.       For the immediate short-term expansion of the Morogoro plant the
project provides for the purchase of additional machinery and quality con-
trol devices. This new equipment would both improve the quality of the
leaf produced and also increase the total plant capacity from 18.5 to 21
million kg per annum. To be ready for the 1977 tobacco season this equip-
ment is required to be installed by late 1976. Consequently advance
contracting ($375,000) for this equipment was approved. Since by 1979/80
the total crop would again exceed processing capacity within the country the
proposed project provides for the installation of a new and larger processsing
line at Morogoro to supplement existing production. This new line would
increase the plant operating capacity from 21 million kg to about 41 million
kg per annum. In addition to expanding overall capacity, the installation of
a new line would also introduce a degree of flexibility into the operation of
the plant by enabling the simultaneous processing of different types of
tobacco destined for separate markets and, by reducing the processing season,
would reduce risk of loss of wet leaf. Moreover, the existence of an alterna-
tive line would substantially reduce the likelihood of a total plant shut-down
due to equipment failure. In order to assure better maintenance of existing
equipment, and to provide the tools necessary for the maintenance of the new
equipment, the project would also include provision of tools for the factory
engineering workshop.
Storage Facilities and Infrastructure
34.        To facilitate handling of the expanded volume of leaf to be pro-
cessed at Morogoro, adequate storage facilities are required at the factory
site. The project includes provision for the construction of two new stores
with a total floor area of 10,700 m . With the proposed construction, the
total fl2or space available at Morogoro woulj be 35,100 m     consisting of      2
16,900 m of existing good storage, 10,700 m of new construction and 7,500 m
of temporary sheds. This storage capacity would meet the planned capacity
of the plant in 1979/80. Additional storage is also required for tobacco
stored in Dar es Salaam awaiting export. The present storage facilities at
Dar-es-Salaam are scattered and unsuitable for this purpose and new facilities
are required to prevent unnecessary losses. The project therefore includes
provision for the construction of 6,400 m storage facilities capable of
holding about 5 million kg of processed dry tobacco. In order to ensure the
construction of new storage in Morogoro and in Dar es Salaam in time to
handle the expected increased volume of tobacco, authorization to enter into



- 14 -
contracts was communicated to the Governmen5 in January 1976. This authoriza-
tion was for advance cpntracting of 2,600 m of storage space at Morogoro
($365,000) and 6,400 m at Dar es Salaam ($1,260,000). Additional infra-
structural facilities would also be required at the Morogoro plant site both
to allow better handling of the increased volume of leaf processed there and
to provide services for the expanded labor force which will be recruited over
the project period. The investments required would include the improvement
and extension of roads in the factory area, storm drainage, railway sidings,
and water storage and distribution facilities.
Technical Assistance and Training
35.       In order to strengthen the company's management capability and to
provide engineering back up for local staff the project would include technical
assistance at the Morogoro processing plant. At present an experienced
Senior Engineer (expatriate) is managing the plant. It is expected that the
incumbent engineer would continue to be employed until the completion of the
project and in addition a Tanzanian graduate engineer would be employed
to receive training and support from the Senior Engineer. In the event that
the incumbent senior engineer does not continue in service, an experienced
engineer would be recruited internationally and would also have the respon-
sibility for training a Tanzanian counterpart. (Section 2.02 (a) i and ii
Project Agreement). The project also provides for the employment of a produc-
tivity officer to improve employee selection and training techniques, and
three expatriate specialists who would provide on-the-job training to local
operators at the plant in the operation of the new equipment and in quality
control. Two of the three experts would be required for about six months each
year over a two year period and the third expert for only four months in the
second year of project implementation (Section 2.02(b) Project Agreement).
The project would also provide for overseas training in quality control and
local training in plant maintenance for selected staff.
Tobacco Processing Study
36.       It is expected that the expanded Morogoro processing facility
would be operating at full capacity by the mid-1980s. As total production
of tobacco is expected to continue to expand in the following decade, some
future expansion of Tanzania's processing capability will ultimately be
required. The project would therefore include provision for a study to
investigate the timing, scale and location of future investments in to-
bacco processing facilities; particular attention would be given to the
feasibility of establishing future plants at different locations within
Tanzania. The study would also evaluate future storage requirements and
would investigate the possibility of introducing a greater proportion of
labor intensive methods into processing.



- 15 -
Project Cost and Financing
37.       The total cost of the project, net of taxes, is estimated at US$11.3
million. The foreign exchange component would amount to $8.0 million or 70
percent of total costs. Details of project costs are included in Annex III.
The proposed IDA Credit of $8.0 million would finance only the foreign exchange
costs of the project. The Authority and the company would together contribute
$3.3 million or the remaining 30 percent of total project costs.
38.       The Government would onlend from the proceeds of the IDA Credit
$2.0 million to the Authority at 10 percent annual interest for 7 years in
-cluding 4 years grace and $6.0 million to the company also at 10 percent
annual interest for 8 years including 3 years grace. The interest rate is
that at which these organizations currently borrow internally. The finaliza-
tion of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government on the one hand
and, the Authority and company on the other would be a condition of loan
effectiveness (Section 5.01 (b) Development Credit Agreement). Both organiza-
tions would have to contribute $3.3 million to meet the local cost require-
ments of the project. The cash flows of both these organizations indicate
that the Authority would be able to meet this obligation only with some
changes in the charges -- fertilizer subsidy -- that it is required to meet or
in the prices paid to farmers for tobacco, while the company's contribution
assumes continuation of adequate processing fees (paras 29 & 30).     The
Government has agreed that the Authority would be allowed to retain each year
sufficient funds, and that the company's processing fees would be maintained
at such levels as to enable both these organizations to cover their project
obligations (Section 3.02 of Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursements
39.       Equipment and materials financed out of the proceeds of the IDA
Credit will be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank Group guidelines except for equipment to improve the
existing tobacco processing line at the Morogoro plant (detailed in Annex 5
Table I of appraisal report) which is being purchased through international
shopping. This exception has been made as there are only two or three sup-
pliers of this type of specialized tobacco equipment and international com-
petitive bidding would have unnecessarily delayed procurement without achieving
economy in purchase. This equipment is estimated to cost under US$375,000.
The civil works contracts which are divided between Dar es Salaam and Morogoro
would be too small to attract international firms; these have been advertised
locally. To ensure that improvements to the existing threshing line at the
Morogoro plant is carried out in time for the next tobacco processing season
and to ensure that the construction of new storage in Morogoro and Dar es
Salaam is completed in time to handle the expected increase in the volume of
tobacco, advance contracting for equipment of the value of $375,000 and civil
works of the value of $1,625,000 have been authorized. It is recommended that
retroactive financing for these items up to an amount of $0.7 million incurred
after February 1, 1976 be approved. A schedule of estimated disbursements is
included in Annex III.



- 16 -
Markets and Prices
40.       Out of the total production of 18 million kg (1972-73) of tobacco
in Tanzania the domestic market takes around 4 million kg annually and the
remainder is exported mainly to the United Kingdom and the rest of the Euro-
pean Economic Community. Tanzania is well established in the U.K. market
where it obtains a duty preference. Export potential is also growing in
continental EEC countries where imports are expanding and where Tanzania's
associated status gives it duty preferences. The outlook for increased flue
-cured tobacco exports from Tanzania are therefore considered good. Such
exports are unlikely to affect international prices as the incremental pro-
cessing under the project would be a little less than 2 percent of world
import demand by 1985. Tobacco leaf prices on the world market have shown
an upward trend with a sharp increase of 15 - 25 percent in 1974. Export
prices (FOB Dar es Salaam) for Tanzania flue-cured tobacco have increased from
T Sh. 8.36 per kg in 1967 to T Sh. 16.40 per kg in 1975. It is estimated that
world prices will hold firm, in constant terms, with some increases anticipated
in the early 1980's. Hence an export price of T Sh. 16.48 (FOB Dar es Salaam)
has been used for project evaluation purposes.
Benefits and Risks
41.        The project would double the total tobacco processing capacity of
the company and would provide needed capacity for processing anticipated
increases in tobacco production up to the mid 1980's. Most of the incremental
tobacco processed would be exported. The gross foreign exchange value of the
tobacco crop is expected to be about US$57 million by 1985 as compared with
about US$27 million in 1976.
42.        The economic  rate of return for the project is estimated at 25
percent over twenty-five years. The risks faced are that tobacco production
might not increase to the levels estimated, that the world market prices
for tobacco might be lower or that the processing costs might increase dispro-
portionately. The project is very sensitive to tobacco production and export
prices, and a 10 percent reduction in either could reduce the economic rate
of return to 19 percent; and if both these events occurred simultaneously
the return would be reduced to 11 percent. A combined increase of both
tobacco production and export prices could, however, increase the rate to
nearly 42 percent. These risks have been taken into account and the processing
facilities under the project have been designed to accommodate a range of
tobacco production. Although the production growth rates, assumed for plant
capacity, at 7-1/2 percent per annum from 1975 to 1985 are conservative
in view of the recent trend of a 12 percent per annum growth, the processing
facilities would have sufficient flexibility to accommodate a more than 25
percent higher level of production than that projected. The company has in
the past had a good record of managing the Morogoro plant and the further
technical assistance provided under the project should enable the new equip-
ment to be operated at a reasonably efficient level of production.



- 17 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
43.       The draft Credit Agreement between the United Republic of Tanzania
and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association, the
Tobacco Authority of Tanzania and the Tanzania Tobacco Processing Company
Ltd., the Report of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d)
of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a resolution approving the
proposed credit are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
The draft Development Credit and Project Agreements follow the form previously
used for this type of project.
44.       Features of the Development Credit and Project Agreements of special
interest are referred to in paragraphs 28, 35 and 38 of this report. The
ratification of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
between the Authority and the company referred to in Section 3.01 (a) and (b)
of the Development Credit Agreement, are additional conditions of Credit
effectiveness.
45.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
46.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
August 20, 1976






ANNEX 1
Page I of lj pages
TABLE SA
TANZANIA             - SOCtAL tNDRCAT13RS DATA SHVEET
LAND AREA (TNOU RNZ)                  -   -          ----  --------  -------          - ---
----- ---                                   TANZANIA                             REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       945.1                                        MOST RECENT
AGIRIC.        ..                        960       1910    ESTIMATE          KENYA           KOREA, REP. 01' MALAYSIA-
.4P PER CAPITA CUSS)                        70.        12.0         10.0        ~        .          i.          4.
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATIO  (MID-YR.MILLION)          9.6 /a     12.9 /a      1a.7 /a            11.2         31.4        10.h4
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                          10.0        14.0        16.0                19.0       119.0         32.0
PER SQUARE KM.    AGITIC. LAND          23.0 /a     23.0                                      1 320.0       291.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH BATE PER TMOUSAND           51.5        50.5        50.2                4i9.0       35.0        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER THOUSAND           27.1        23.0        20.1                17.0        11.L4       1 2.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE C/THOU)         1 90.0      160.0 L/b       .                55.0/a                  4l0.8 /a
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)          36.7        41 *8       44.5                4~7.5       57.7        56.7 -
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                              S . 2       31.2                3. 4        2. 6        2.6 /a
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (Z)
TJTAL                                    2. 1 /a     1. 0/a        t/( a             1. 1        2.3         2.6
URBAN                                    5.0         5.6         5.7                 6.5         6.b         3.6
URBAN POPULATION (2 OF TOTAL)              4&.6        6. 0        6.8                 9.9        41 .2       27.8
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 TEARS                         142.5 /a    44. 4/b        .                48. 4        42. 1       4.7/
15 TO 64 YEARS                          55.5 Z~,    53.0           .4.                          5 4. 6      52.1 7?-
65 YEARS AND OVER                        2.0 /a      2 . 6                         4 .  36       3. 3        3.2 7-
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                       O .8 /a.b   0. 9 /b4    I..                 1.1         0.8
EC04GRIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  1.0  =j     1. 2(.U~     ..                 1. I/b      1 .41            a
FAMILY PLANNING-
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)              ...                      .66.1                          .        222. 2
USERS (I OF MARRIED WOMEN)                ...                      ..                            42.0        80   .
EMPLOYMENT
TOTL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)           4 900.0 /b   5600.0 ~a b60.     b50.                     00.          900/
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (I)            96.0a gj 1. o 7           ..               9~0   i      50. Ia       43.0 
UNEMPLOYED (1 OF LABOR FORCE)                ...                                         .         5.0         6. 0a
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
1 O0PIVTE     NCMEREC-D 8Y-
HIGHEST   5x OF   HOUSEHOLDS              ..        1.5           ..20.2/d                      17.1        28.03
HIGHEST 200 OF    HOUSEH0LIIS                       63.3          .                52.6 d       441.5       56.0
LOWEST   200 OF   HOUJSEHOL.DS            ..          .03                            3.9 /  ~    7.~         3.5
LOWEST   401 OF   HOUSDEHOLDS             ..         .A            .111                         17.7        11.2
OISTRIVUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
1 OWNED BY TOP 101 OF DONERS                .                        ..                           28.0
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 101 OWNERS               ...                                         .         2. 0
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              20000.0/a.dZ1570.0/.     21450.0    ~~        7830:0/e    2210:0/
POPULATION PRNURSING PERSON             8900. Otdh4i890.0Z8     411 0. 0            1 7 0  7e   1 76 0.0    1080.0 /a.c~
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED              5530.:0 a,.d  10 0.0       .                800.0      1 9 2 0.0    2170.0 /
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (I OF REQO INEMENTS)          69.0         70.:0       98. a              10 1.0     1 03.0        9 4.0   d~~
PROTEIN (GRAM4S PER DAY)                42.0        4 3.0       6 3.0 Ic             I 0        65.0        4 9.0 
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           22.0/e      23.O                            29. 0       19.0        2 0.0 
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4                 .            ..                              ..                    5.5
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                         224.0 AL     36.0 If    143.0 /d             614.o/     10 4.0       89. 0 /a
SCCONOART bCHOOL                         2.0 .       3. 0 7?     3.0 7-d             9 .O0LbL   41.0        3 4. o7a, e
TEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                1 3.0      0 3.0        0 3.0               1 3.0       12 .0       I s. O/a
VOCATIONAL ENRO-LMENT
Cl OF SECONDARY)                        2 3.0       1O0~ 0d                          2 .0~ 1gi6.o        0   s./a
ADULT LITERACY RATE (Z)                   17.0           .         49.0 lb            50.0        87.0        17.0 If
HOUS ING
PERSONS PE   OM(AVERAGE)                    .12                                                                23
OCCUPIlED DWELL INGS WI THOUT                           .            ..                             .           .
PIOPEO WATER (0)                         3. 0-0/b.o.a              ..                           80.0 /d     65.0
ACCESS TO ELLCTRICITY
(I OF ALL DWL' INGS)                      ...                                         .         50.0        4 3. 0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY CI                          ..                      ..                            0.0        30.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)             2 .0        1. 0      1 6. 0              4 8. 0     1 26.0       4 1. 0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)              3.0/a       3. 0        3 .0                9.0         2.0        23.0 Ia
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)              13.Oa       3.     ~3.0 ~                    80        307.0       38.    a
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                  0 .1        0.1I        0. 1                0. 9        3. 4        4. 0  a
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX T
Page 2 of 4 page-
NOTES
Lhnlen otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betwee  1959 and 1961, for 1970 bet-ee   1969 and 1970, and for Most Recent Erlnote betwee
19 73 andI1973.
-  ... hllyl  ansee  slce    asnnbjeLtte     countrY beta..oe Ire PoPoistion in trePorablo In lne and it. etonot development In        - ne Srlantps ahead
TANZANIA            1960     /  MalndTa....nis        /b  1951, Afetten ppolatine;    It  ROacio of popolatIon onder 11 and 65 and -ovr -o rOsl. labo
_________   ____     -  fore     /d  1962,   ,jj  1961-63,   L.f 1959, taneibse;   a&  E9N3;   /b  le1rlodiv  aldelve-ad   arennh nd-tcr
qnalifi-taiest; regIstered, n-t all peanntinig In the tnontey,    /1  6-12 nod 13-IN ynare nf a ge r         1-eooe
1970    IaMainland Ta....ets;    lb  1967;   /c H-aeeblds,     /d  1965,    In  Urban only    IE 7-13 and 14-19 years of aog
ree Pen ties ly.
HMOST RECENT I SCAT]M    Isa Mainlend Tsn...nin,  Lb   1972;   Ic  1969-71 averge.    Id  7-13 and 14-19 v-a   ot age r-perl-ely
KENYAo              1970     Ls  Rgagtstred only,   Lb  RetEn of pop.o.latn  ander 15 and 61 end -os  to labor forvo age 15-59 ynnr,    Ic  La,bor fCr,
sn15-59yer       Id UErhan    -nhntdn.,   /  Regtecered, tot oil proctiring to the -ontry,     If  5-11 yer     f ngv
Totel setendery inclnJden nearber training at the third leve
KOREA, REP. OF      1970    /A.O percentage of neMplny-sst,    lb  Registered;   /t  Reginterd, not all proctiting iv the cconoev      ILd  Piped corer
insIde
MALAYSIA            1970     Ia  gnt Meleysla;   Lb  Registered applicansn   fee nnrk,  Ic  Gove-rnet only,    'A  i9646-h.   In   12-10 yent  of go,e
7?  1967,   /A  Pipsd water Inside.._
E9, Aoguot 10. 1976
DEFINITIONS OF SsiL IDIDCCAIORS
Lend area (th-o bm2l                                                                PoPolon     e   ooaoEro,-POpyLa_tcon di,idnd by oujccr of1 p-oti-
Totni - To.to  aofonsescmpiin           -ed area end inland waters                     o maleodfml          reo      ona    "L-oced" 0v "Celttafcod" vor,no,
Igrir' - Mono reet nhoc      of sget-ltoea1 nrea osed temporarily nr                 od nooli-vy pernovoel -ot traoinig or -opemenc-
pnr,aneiiaforcros, petaen,narrar4 kitcben g-dem  or to Ie. fal Io.      P0onclotlco net, iceoitol bed - Popolaccoc diecdnd bly voor of hoopntai1
heds craclble cc public a-d povoto g-ra1 and opeomico-d honpitolA
Glipon  cpta Y(iS$   - GNP Pen naptte estiamtee an norrect Maraket prines,,           and reoiioi        o vetern; encouder vovocg h.On   and ootaibliclnncntn
naolid  ysn  n"er"rdon methad .e Worlid BReAttida" (2973-75 hoja             for vontodit Ro,d preve-ntive -rn.
1960, t970 and 1775 data-                                                         Percai,     enorcr ofcasurpoly   of ecormeoc       - omnmotd fro    co-ry
eqoirolent of net. fodnpln          tole cv vovoc'iryet opoco P.r
Pnliinn' end vital c-etnion                                                           day; ovolloble nuppliensopre      domantcv  r.-dotio-,  opo-te Inn
Ponolotio  bid-yr.  ilnn  -Aso of July first i  ot"aAibI,nPorte.tohd nhooge                           cc Stockc; OMi voppline  "oood  aoc-w  foci, cevdn,
aonrgn Of o     - ed-year ontlsaet-, 1960, 1970 ned 1975 darn.                      qoseti nn  ,,ned iv food P- Onno   ovA lnevcditbtn;to
qoc-emoin" were eS timated by PRO cooed on phyniOiogcvir neel   for
Ponclaion dnottv -net ncare In - Hi-yearpnpaI.loti   Per Sq-  kilo-       vo-1a coiiycd hnlth...vneder-g anvircooental terpnnotwn,
netor (100 bectarca I ef total area.                            vit'~bod weightn, age and sr dtnorbctoens of population, cod alloccog
rovulotln deeniveOt 50am  inn f agrin  land -COMpared as n ov  for       17% for wate at hoonebo.ld lne-l.
a Orion licral land onlp.                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Per capita muroly of ptrlem  (gpacra Po, day) - PrOt-in mactent of P.r
capita net noyply of fon  per day; coo   cmpply of fond is d.fnceo o
vital n-ainoirn                                                                        b-nce reqolreemot fnt oil COc-irtses otablished by illin Euncov-
Crude h1irh rate per rhosad - denal ILin     births per thb....nd Of ed-              lins ...  letrrn  procede fey a eci_nnon o1lowocre of 61) grot  Of .totl
yorpopolatlo_  t-yea    arthetc     eeaga    ne    In 1960 and 1970,             p,ctno" per day, aci /0 gram   Of atolci ad pours    .. pronic  -00,
aed fv-ea      -craoe endc   In975 for ...t recent earimate.                        grants nh-ld inn anraci p.totn    Lhno. cLandordz -0 13-cr ti, tloo
fi-ds death rate nor rhoosand - ninoal desoba" pe r rhesand.ni nid-ysar               of 75 gaMan  of totol pOtotco  Rod 23 graMo of ani-n1 protein an anovr
popalarln, ten-yar aritbeetin avrages enieg in 16f1 and  970, andage for the  ,rld  prOpOnd by FA0 iv the Third World Fond Sorvey.
flo-yea   acerge ending in 1975 fnr Mnet recente ..imot..                           rcpt      rti    nonoly frm. animat and oulne - Protein oupplys Of food
nfanr nortalry raeC Ibo   - Annual dearhs nf inf-tra order one year of            derived frm.  onolol and pulses tin grott pint day
aePer Lboc-ndlIve bOrrhe                                                               fate   thi        1-   - Ainocl deothn per thooanod in age grocp
tife -ooociancv at birrh fYre  - Average camber of yeare of life reInaing             1-ly   Lrn,     hild.. cc tims ago groovi cggvItnd on -v ind-ctor
atbirIh. unly fine-year      -rsrgan endieg In 1960, 1970 and 19/5 for              of Malnotr_tioc
irsrG r   odocrom rate-A-erage nonber of lIve daughtser     a  oa    ill            Education
bea     ba hr noma- rpodI    e  period if oh. s.oprla...e. prseer age-            Adloestedaernilmeo racL      rmaEeho        - Grilc      o    i agoo0
opcfifetlity rate; .... hr, fireyer-aerges ending In 1960,                        pertyetarsbe of privacy   , dnbfn-agr ppltico i" ia     hlrnAe
1070 and 1975 for deenlpfng roontLries                                              6-f yer     o   dotafrdfeeti               tho of Primry edonotion;
Pneoiatlon growt  rats  M  - total - Conpoted .enoaI growth rates Of mid-             for co,nstrien with onciveroa odocatitn, eorolln..ot may emced til/%
fear pepolatlon for1950-if, 1960-70, and 1970-73.                                   nion  .noo  popiln are below  -r bo-v ,I,, Official nohoot age.
Populmation cro.00 rate (%) - wham, - Conepted lIke groeth rat of total               lmtderlaotaio-nrdrynbt-Cmptdnahn;c-
oopciiotioo,; different defliitl.nm  of oba,,ao rease may affect Lompara-           ondans- aduaction requireo at leant foor ye..roof approed pri-ioy
bilit  vfdt     mn   countries                                                       inotroitionn  provides geonral, oco   nior teo-her troiinnog tnr
lirionpopoloioc (0of cata1) - Ratio of urban to total population; dif-            tac   o    obeof1      n1     rr   o   g;tr"podonohr                r
felnt dnfcntL.oon  of orhov orae na. y affet noeparabolitty of data                 eealonldd
leave Of echnoltg provde,d (firet.and enoonrd laevei) - Total yearn Of
- . -  ,  v-        fo~Children (l-il, yearn). oa-k-g-ngs (15-61. yearn),       srbooling; at oecodn- leel     voaiclntouotrm      ion coy be partially
-.,-and yOst) an roercntcgnn Of mid-yea  ponulatint              Vor -onwletelsr emctudnd.
Ag -~  ,                                                                          VocS,,In Rto  fpplto   d   5  n  5adO-t  ational enrollment j% of Secondary.) - Sn-atoonal -otbtotionn Lonldod
Aredeeidi_    rato    Ratioh ofp6    ltn  adr5      n   6   n     tt                  tevhmhnal, indostrial or othnr prgro.n  hbcc. opera.te ldepncdaatly
Evoroon de,nmdeny ratio - Ratio Of ponolnioma under 15 and 65 co,d vner         r    A.   antoa- dee tmetso eotndaty adnults atiln.t.raan            t)
-otelbor forc  in age grow of 15-64. yerarn                                                   oe      -Ltrt        dlo(al      ora          rt)a
Faomil; plsait-ig - acceptern (noalett~ee  09) - Coo_cttee nmoaber of                  pecnaeof total adult populatio aged 15 yaaro and over.
accptors Of birth-oootral devOcee anidsr auspices of mational family
placciog program eiocn inception.                                                  ho3n
faMily Planning - users (0  ftoridam          - P-r  tgnofmridPer,nOo tIe room )orvrag) - Adrarge comber of pe...ooo per roam ho or-
womn of obild-bear-nig age (15-1. yearn) tbo uace birth-cotrol din-                  copiedtoStrecturesan denfcipge     dI ra  arnl-t  ilEo    nld    cn
allotoot married iMoe  in namea age group.peentnrntae                                                 aduocpidpto
09eipied dlljingo wthou      le ae     ()-Ocped ocooremtlonol
Obmtooe,sct frye                                      doefliogo iv oman and rora) arean witboat ~~ivoide or outoid. pipnd
~zr..       furl(thousand) - F&ooniotally ectime persons, inolodicg                    water facilities an preretaefalorpid            seIig.
arced forcce  ond ooemployed hou, exocluding hno sne    todente, Set.;             Aceet      lnrot (        faldeln             Conventional dwollcogn
deitnticne in variono -ootriec ore cot o.Mpara ble.                                  with eLentirlaty in lrloing quartero an pertent of total dwelliago
fint. force in aerin,alt-u   M  - hginltna.e lebnr torne (In Conig,in arb.an cd rura                     areas.
as Ps mtsRO Of total laRbrl dwellirs".nmceT ed to electricity (0) - Computed an above for
forestr, bootng ondfiohin) enpretg      fttllbo        oc.raa                        wfog     noSy
who fm~~~ce) - Unemployed are asually defined as personsn
hor.e able ao  oilltog to tkhe a Job, Oat of a Job on e gOrse day,               cnom,a
pemaloed o.t Of a job, and oeeklcg aorh fcr a   pe.alfied  lnicnSim                kMdi    re are  pa  tbo  p) - All types of e-eirer      for rcdio broad-
perodno nteding cnn. Weekl may cot he comparable between ocac-                  cne     gnrlpbi          e   btedo       oaaic       nldooi
tre  InI different definitionn of unemployed and e.care of data,                tensed receIers bo ontrl       "'anrd inyorn populareintr ot,iond rradio
e.g., employment office etotietices esaeple sornya, compnlsonry ome-                  e.d-e,rin            ut.0adnyashnrgsrtonfrdo
ployment Insorance.                                                                  onto wee io affect; data for recent peeve5 may not be oneparab2e oSime
most vooutrien abolisbed licensing.
boyce dtntrtbot Pon  -Pertnrgs mi peinsos Ia-   both L. cashb and bled)        Paseeeer cars (ner tbhou no    - P..sanger care oonprin  ector oars neat-
renaied by richest 5%, elbeat 201, poorest 201, and penmen hat 4   a f                Mg lean than eight P5r..5    sacldee ambolanee, hearoen cod mili-
boasebolds.                                                                          tary rehinls..
El Ctrlicity4skelVyrpgR gp -r    ocAnul cocsaptlcv of industrial, con-
1ltetribuotton oflan,1,d naorehn  Perten.tgee of land n,amed by ,seesth-               aoo   'Iulcmd pritate electricity' in kilowtt boats per ospita;
test IfSnod  cornt  of  and na,ner..                                          geoerasl  baoed on pmnduntion data, withoot alnaoefor losnsn iv
grida hot alloving for imports and amprte of' s1-trloity.
Henalti Lid Rutrititn                                                                Newprint (kg/yr pere is) - Per napita annuial conaumption in ktilogramw
Popooti  perolnyIania  - Popolation diided by cwaber of prac ticing               estimated fran domestic produetloi pita cet impon-tn of onweprint.
phyolcioce qoalfied fron a Medical shobon   at unlnershoy iseel.



Aglual                                t~~~~~~~~~~~9d7-  19 73-  19 7A-  19 75 -
NIATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                                                                  ____Fd17   17  2_5 la       1973     AP275   19 80
i.                                                                                                      400.0   10 2 4~~~~192  97  175 190  _
Gross DomTesti     f                                              rc:&D      ag     ae          vrg AnnualGrowh Ra~te .          As Percet of CDI
GalasfecaleresoTraec)-                          -14 2       - 45 6   -03     - -7 98                                                 _ 2 4  -33
Gr-o  D-wstlc Incm.11.                              flORa       fT. 6l9.o  77rS6  DINY       4.5       1 9      2.2      4.7    7M TO0  Sor     1Or
IFOort (tact. 870)              ~~~~~~~519.8  530. 6  469.3    483 3   584 8      6.8       2 I    -11 6      4. 5     78.6   I- 24.8 8.5
moons  "  (isniort capacity)     Al~~tO,   698n.8     257 R8   28 3.4  382.8       2.6    -25 9    -16 5       8 2     22.9    13.6   16.0
Resu.c lap                                  102.8    l7'TTX9      rr 5TTT.s  9e,r    077t                                       _.-3- 7   r      -rsY
Consutiptlo  Eopeditures                   1538.6   1668.4      1688.4   1772.2  2052.5      4.8       8.4      1.2       4.6     84. 6  89.1    86.6
Invetment        (iloot  stocks)            406.6    407.0      410.1     455.5 3 533. 6     8.4       0.2      2. 7      5.0     22.4   22.1    22.4
Domestic Saulogs                            280.6    189.2       206.6    255.4   331.6       2.7    -34.0     11.6       9.9     15.4   10.9    13.9
Nat..Ioa  Sa-Ings                           286.8    187.2       212.9    256.8   291.7       3.4    -34.7     14.3       6.4     15.R    11.3   12.2
MM  HIAnSI8S TRAIlS                        Annual Data at Currnt PrIces                                                         Au Percet of Tct1
1.~~~P-t. ~~1972                  1973       1974                         1980                 -                        973     19_71  1980
Capito1 goode                   125.2     125.1    185.7                        329.6                                          29.4    25 7    29.3
Ihtersditat  gooda Wc.fnato    15a.4      169.4    189.2                        3;8.2                                          36.8    31.9    33 .7
Fools and related reterioa.      41.3      55.1    148.5                        3111.1                                         11.6    26.0    26 
o f wich,   Petroleu           (41.3)    (53:1)  6148.5)                      (302.1)                                        (11.6)  (26.0) (26 R)
_n0 tloc gods                   ILL      Jg    2   ALjl                         fjju8                                          22.2    16.5    10.2
Tcta1 Morel. I.ports (cof)      403.8     459.8    738.5                       1123.7                                         106.0    100.0  160.0
Primar   rOducta ~i=. fuals)    208.6     263.6    309.8                        471.0                                          79.R    75.0    69.8
RueS, and related   aterials    30.7       12.5     18.5                         52.5                                           3.8     5.0     7.8
o.f ahlch; Petroleu            (30.71     12.5)   618.5)                       (52.5)                                         (3.8)    (5.0)  (7.8)
Macfoturod nn.ds               491        54.4     55.4                        151.0                                          16.5    19.2    22.4
Total M-eh. Noporte (fob)       288.4     330.5    383.7                        674.7                                         r99Th    tM9Th   romb
Tounin  and B.rder   Trat
NerhledsoT'rade Indice                       Aerg    1973.    - tO
typort PIce Ind-o                89.6      108.0    152.0      142.2     151.9' 201.6
Import Price. Index              86.7     108.0     159.0      177.1     185.9  243 6
Ter-  of Trade Indco            100.2     Loo.0      95.6       003       04.9   02.8
Zoporta Volum  Iedvo            109.7     100.0      81.2       71        79    11L
VALUS AD15E81 BY lCTIOR           A-oa Data at 1973-      Price and E1olage Rate,             AvergeAnnalGrowh Rateo            As Percent of Tctal
16-2 172-34   1970-80       19(3    1975   1980
AUri-utore                      648.6      647.7    634.1      665.8     685.0   784.7        2.6      -:0.5      -3.3        30.73  37.9   35.6
Idadctrp and Mlinig             206.6     208.7     210.8      217.1    278.0    201.1       5.0         G.6      5.3         12.7   12.3   22.7
Se-i-e                          737.0     790.0     B34..3.~.  876..0A.  919.8  1141.6       6.1         8.4      1.4        48.0    49.8   51.7
Total                          1594.2    1666.4    1679.2     1758.9    1833.5  2207.3       4.5         3.1      4._6       oo 100.0  100.010.
A.tol                 fat.    Bdgot                                                                     2
PUBIC FI86A8E                       Ff72     FY73      fY74      FY75       Ff76                                                  hA. Percet of GOP-
TCen-trallGe-ncet)                   _(In illioes of curen      T Shilliags)                                                     FY72   Ff73   FY74
C-ret Recopta                  1859        2357     3082      3884      4007                                                  17.7   09.7   23.2
C_ty4p      F49Cr              1717        2134     2685      3696      3530                                                  16.4   17.8   26.8
cdgettry! rd-Iaga.             142        223       317       190      477                                                    1.3    1.9    7.5
OterIlbl  Sector-          241         264       .         .        .                                                     2.3    2.2     .
010Setor Inestarat        1694       1836      1996      2301       .                                                   16.2    15.3   15.4
CIOORIIT ElPflIIOJRE DET0II                          Actul         P-eli..    Es.t
As % Total Curet fapr0d.)                     FYt972    FYt973   Ff19_74  Ff1975
Ed.eation                                       17.5      16.7     14.8l    16.1
Giber SocIa   IcrAces                           12.5      11 .0    11.      i4.6
Giber fronozaic servIces (         ~~~~~     ~~~~28.3  25.4  31.4  23.2
Admdiatratlon sad Defense.                      41.8      46.1     42.2     46.1
Total Curret Epeaditores                       100.0     100.0    100.0    108.0
SEIZCTflD INDICAITORS                             1965      1973     1976     1981
(Calculated r-e 3-year averged data)             1970       1975     1980    1983
Aeerge ICORt                                      -rg       -a7      _rr      -rs
I80ot lfltloity                                   1.6       -0.0      1.0     1.1
Pftrgtal l~etic Soelag     Rate                   0.1       -8.6      0.3     0.2
Pigi-agta NAtional so-igs Rate                    0.2       0.6t      0.2     0.1
IA.8)R FOFES AND                               Tot.l labor Force                               Value Added Perlrn(i        onsn     rcs
OUTPUT7 PER WORKE                in gIL...n          % nof Total                          InU.D.lbsl.l.as      eetoAere
~~~~~ ~~~      1971                                    1971                 1971
AgrliclIt-r                     3.3                 91                                     98                    43
Indostry                        0.1                  2                                   1590                   696
Service                 8~~        ~        ~~~~~.4  7                           2170                   948
not applloable          nit Or aegluglOl                       aasnncnrbct              ontoretln
ant avilable            I..tee  than half the             zi  A-ecaRd f0 rc 1amlad     year 
smalest -nit sheenC47



Page 4 of 4 Pages
BALANCE OP PAmDi78. EXTBNAAL. ABSSISTANICE AND DEBT
(aounts in millions of D.8. dollars at current prices)
AvS . Aonual
Actual                                                    Projected                                        Growth Eate
1972         1973        1974                     1976      1977        1979       1979       1980                     1972  -198
SBOhMARY BALANCE OF PAYBDUTS
Ecports (    .incI  NFS)                    397.5        417.0       491.0                    574.4      643.0      718.7      816.2       922.1                      11.1
7.=oprt  (tool. NPS)                        476.1        519.8       843.6                    775.8     883.5       989.4     1113.1      1265.4                      13.0
Resource Bala.o. (X-M)                      -78.6       -102.8      -352.6                   -201.3    -240.5      -270.6     -297.0      -343.3                      28.8
Istereat  (set5                             )34           10.4        -6.8                    -24.8     -30.1       -32.7      -35.6       -39.8                      34.2
Direct Iveatmast Iscomo                     )            -5.5         0.5                     -2.0       -2.0       -2.0       -2.0        -2.0
Workers' Remittasce                            0.0         0.0          0.0                     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
Creast Transf rs (oat)                        -1.7         0.7         15.7                    22.4       15.0       13.0        13.0       15.0
Balance 00 Ourreot Accuots                   83.7         97.2      -343.2                   -205.7    -257.6       290.4     -319.6     -320.1
Private Direct 1-veatscet                    -             1.5         2.7                      2.8        2.8        2.8        2.8         2 8                      12.5
Official Capital Grants                       16.0        16.0        20.0                     27.5       30.3       33.3       36.6        40.3
Public M&LT Lo..omsI.
Disb.rsnm-.ta                              110.6        88.4       107.6 3!                 112.9 4/   111.3 5/   133.5 5/   160.8 5/    191.4 5/                   11.2
-renayuemts                                -15 .4       -18 .3      -12. 7                   -[8 .4    -21.1       -22.4      -30.3       -39.6                      12.5
Net Dioburs.nrota                             95.2        70.1        94.9                     94.5       90.2      106.1       130.5      151.8                       6.0
Other MALT Looas                                                                               ...        ...
Dibur-eoeots
-Repav-ent_
Net Disbursements                              4.5         9.9         24.3                      ..        ..
One cf lMFP Resources                          -           -          46.3                                                                 Actual
Capital Transactions n.e.i.                   28.2       -29.3        63.8                                           7/       97      1973     1974      1923
Chango is Net Reserves                       -60.2       -20.5         91.0                   DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE 2
Public Debt Out. & Disbor-ed 332.5      428.9    578.1   762.1
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
official Greets 6 Grant-lIko                                                                    Iteroot on Public Debt        6.9      8.2      8.9     11.9
Repaymonts on Public   Debt 29.0       11.4     12.7    23.1
Public MALT Loans                                                                               Total Public Debt S-ite      35.8      19.6     21.6
IBRD                                         -            -           65.0                      Other Debt Service (net)
IDA   6/                                      10.8        28.8        61.2                      Total Debt Servier (net)
Other --                                                  --
016cr "ultilateral                             3.3         1.8          7.1                   Burden oc Expert Earn-ns (T.)
Governaents                                   49.3        94.9        112.5
Suppliers                                     -           -            -                        Public Debt SDrvice           9.0       4.7      4.5      4.6
Finencial lntiltati..s                        -           -            -                        Total Debt Serv-cc
Bonds                                                                                           TDS+Dorect Invest. Inc.       10.2      6.0      4.4      5.2
Public Loand n.e 1.                          ---
Total Publc M61T Loans                          63.4       123.5        245.8                   A--rgef Terms of Public Debt
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31. 1975                  nt. a   . % Pricr Year D004  2.6       2,5      2.0      1.9
EXTERNAL DEiT                             Diabursed b L0 z              Percent                   Accc. as % Prier Year DO6    10.9      4.2       2.7     2 1
World BDnk                                   bO.4 
IDA                                          83 1                     I0.9                     I0R8   Debt Out. & Disbursed
other multila-erel                            19.o                      2.5                          n % Public Debt 06D0      7.2      7.7       7.1     10.6
Gen__sents                                  554.5                     72.8                          an 7. Public Debt Serv _/ 3.6     11.2      13.0     16.9
Suppliorr                                      0.1
F-nenclal Inseiten.ns                         11.3                      [.5                    IDA Debt Ouc. & Diobersed
Bonds                                          4.2                      0.6                       as 7 Public Debt O&D        14.8     13.4      11.0     10.9
Public Debts n.e.c.                            9.4                      1.2                      as % Public Debt Serv. -/     1.1      2.0      2.8       1.9
Total Public M&LT Debt                       762, I
Netlonal n--tLhird share of EAC debt          93.3
of which: Wor1d Bank                       (50.7)
Other                           (42 .6)
TOTAL                                        835.4
not epplicable                                             e atoff esticate                  1/ Parostotal sod Private MALT loans.
..nt -vilable                                              - nil cr oOEligible        2      / I n cludos drawing on Arab Fund for A-fr-c ($7.1 i.)
not available separately                                  -- less than balf t..              3/ hI-leden bilateral and =ultilatecal proBra   assistanco of $91.0 =.
bet included it total                                        nemcllest unit hobwn          4/ Includes proposed IBRD progrea   credit of $30 0 t.
5/ Ne progrem assistance as.a.. ed.
6/ SDtF Oil Facility and Credit Tranche.
2/ Net including Tancania' share is EAC debt.
8/ 8RD0 acd IDA Debt Service as % of Public Debt Service
EgACPIA
Auguat, 1976



STATUS_QLEBANK_GROUPQOPERATIQNS                ANNEX II
IN TANZANIA                        Page 1 of 11
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
AS OF JULY 31, 1976
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellations
No.       Year     Borrower       Purpose                     Bank    IDAV7 Undi sbursed
Three loans and six credits fully disbursed                   65.2    43.0
586-TA    1969     Tanzania       Roads                        7.0                1.9
149-TA    1969         "          Education                            5.0       0.4
217-TA    1970         "          Tobacco                              9.0        0.8
232-TA    1971                    Education                            3.3        1.2
265-TA    1972                    Roads                                6.5        2.6
287-TA    1972                    SmalLholder Tea                     10.8        3.6
371-TA    1973                    Education                           10.3        9.5
382-TA    1973         "          Livestock1/                         18.5       12.6
454-TA    1974                    Cotton                              17.5       15.6
460-TA    1974                    Tanzania Investment Bank             6.0        2.9
715-TA    1974     TANESCO        Power                        5.0                0.3
1014-TA    1974     Tanzania       Cashewnut                   21.0               12.5
495-TA    1975        it          Sites and Services                   8.5        6.2
507-TA    1975        it          Highway Maintenance                 10.2       10.2
508-TA    1975        to          Rural DeveLopment                   10.0        9.3
513-TA    1975         "          Sugar                                9.0        1.7
1041-TA    1975        of          Sugar                        9.0                9.0
580-TA    1975        It          Dairy                               10.0        9.8
1128-TA    1975         "          Textile                     15.0               14.6
1172-TA    1975                    Tanzania Investment Bank    15.0               13.1
601-TA    1976                    TechnicaL Assistancea/               6.0        6.0
606-TA     1976                   National Maize Program              18.0       17.9
607-TA    1976                    Education                           11.0       10.9
1306-TA    1977     TANESCO        Power                       30.0               30.0
1307-TA    1977     Tanzania       ForestryZ/                   7.0                7.0
652-TA     1977    Tanzania       Fisheries2/                          9.0        9.0
TotaL                                     174.2    221.6     218.6
of which has been repaid                  1.2      3.4
Amount soLd                   0.1
of which has been repaid    0.1
Total now outstanding 3                   173.0    218.2
Total undisbursed                          88.4    130.2
1/    Includes grant participation of $6.2 million of which $3.4 is undisbursed
2/    Not yet effective
3/    Net of exchange adjustments



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 11
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF JULY 31, 1976
--------------------------------------------------------------
(S$_MJ Lion)
Amount Less canceLLations
No.             Year     Borrower     Purpose                           Bank     Undisbursed
Three loans fulLy disbursed                                             75.0
638  EA         1969     EAHC         Harbours                          35.0         2.1
674  EA         1970     EARC         RaiLways                          42.4         11.3
675  EA         1970     EAPTC        Telecommunications                10.4           .01
843  EA         1972     EADB         Development Finance                8.0           .3
865  EA         1972     EAHC         Harbours                          26.5         11.3
914  EA         1973     EAPTC        Telecommunications                32.5         10.2
1204  EA         1976     EADB         Development Finance               15.0         15.0
Total                                         244.8         50.2
of which has been repaid                     34.3
Total now outstanding                          210.5
Amount sold                    24.4
of which has been repaid     24.4             0
Total now held by Bank 21                      210.5
Total undisbursed                               50.2
1/ $21,251.53 remains undisbursed
2/ Net of exchange adjustments



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 11
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of July 31, 1976)
There are currently 21 projects under execution in Tanzania.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 217 TA-Tobacco Project: $9.0 million
Credit of October 9, 1970; Date of Effectiveness -
February 1, 1971; Closing Date - September 30, 1976
Project infrastructure Investments are 95% complete; all 15 complexes
and 114 villages are established and water development has improved with 54
villages having permanent water supplies, 50 temporary water and the remaining
10 are being surveyed for water. Only 314 km of roads have been established
compared with appraisal estimates of 1,104 km the reduced road construction
program is however considered sufficient for present production. A total of
10,700 farmers, about 70% of appraisal target have been recruited and total
production of wet leaf from the project is estimated to Increase from 675,000
kg in 1974-75 to about 1.2 million kg in 1975-76. Measures to enforce minimum
tobacco acreages per family are expected to contribute to increased tobacco
production. However, yields per hectare and quality of leaf have been below
anticipated levels. Improvements are required to strengthen the extension and
cooperative services.
Credit No. 287 TA-Smallholder Tea Project: $10.8
million Credit of March 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness -
July 26, 1972; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
After initial serious management problems the Tanzania Tea Authority
(TTA) has now finally reached a satisfactory level of senior staffing and
this has had a clear impact on the working of TTA and a definite control
over the field activities. The April supervision mission estimated that
5,734 hectares would be planted by the end of 1975/76 seasons, i.e. 69%
of the target of 8,300 ha which should have been achieved by June 1974.
Yields are lower than expected due to competition from coffee and/or
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
and problems which are being encountered, and the actions being
taken to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with
the understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced
evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 11
maize in some areas and lack of labor and poor soil conditions elsewhere.
This may adversely affect the viability of TTA which is already seriously
overstaffed and depends on factory profits for its revenue. TTA are
reviewing their operational plans which will include construction of
another tea factory in the Rungwe area.
Credit No. 382-TA - Second Livestock Development Project:
$18.5 million Credit of May 23, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Project implementation has been extremely slow and disbursements
thus far have been a fraction of the appraisal forecast mainly as a result
of the size and complexity of the Project and due to delays encountered
in recruiting staff and in concluding contracts for the construction of
abattoirs and the supply of heavy earth moving machinery. Project imple-
mentation is expected to pick up momentum now that these problems have
been resolved. However, a number of post appraisal developments such as
marked reduction in the world market price of bully beef and meat products,
escalation in project costs, delays in project implementation and critical
financial position of the implementing organization have adversely affected
viability of the project and because of this an indepth review was under-
taken by the Bank staff and consultants. The consultants' report is now
awaited.
Credit No. 454-TA - Geita Cotton Project: $17.5 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness - April 5,
1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Progress has been made during the year in the consolidation of
scattered holdings into village block farm areas for cotton and maize.
Altogether about 60% of the cleared arable land has been consolidated
with 8,000 families having cotton and maize plots of 1.25 ha each. This
is an essential first step in the villagization process without which
the extension service and the inputs to be supplied by the project
cannot be efficiently utilized. Some increases in farm input use and
small improvements in husbandry are apparent. A number of infrastructural
components will be reduced in size to maintain productive investments in
the face of rising costs.
Loan No. 1014-TA - Cashewnut Development Project: $21.0
million Loan of June 24, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
September 2, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
The project has been progressing satisfactorily with materials
for civil works either on site or in transit. Original completion target
dates are likely to be achieved in spite of an initial delay of about two



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 11
months. The Cashewnut Authority's take-over of the industry and consoli-
dation of its activities are proceeding slowly. The Finance and Accounting
Department needs strengthening to speed up the establishment of meaningful
financial and physical control over the Authority's activities. Recruit-
ment of senior staff at departmental head level needs to be intensified
in order to develop capacity for growth resulting from the project's con-
struction of five additional cashewnut processing factories.
Credit No. 508-TA - Kigoma Rural Development Project:
$10.0 million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effective
ness - November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Project implementation during the present fiscal year has been
mixed. Villagers' response under various self-help schemes has been
extremely positive. Progress in agricultural production appears encourag-
ing, with improved husbandry practices and widespread and timely use of
fertilizers where available. Fertilizers were delivered as scheduled
while insecticides were distributed late to eligible farmers. Performance
of the marketing parastatal organizations (TCA and NMC) has been satis-
factory while that of the credit institution (TRDB) requires improvement.
Implementation of the program of village infrastructure, including water
supply, health and educational facilities and godowns, has been slow,
but measures are planned following the recent supervision mission to
improve implementation capacity. A total of 45 villages are to be
included for project financing during fiscal year 1976/77. Preparation
of Mwanza and Shinyanga integrated rural development project, supported
under this project, is it an advanced stage and the preparation team's
report will be discussed within the Bank shortly.
Credit No. 513-TA and Loan No. 1041-TA - Kilombero Sugar
Development Project: $9.0 million Credit and $9.0 million
Loan of September 27, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
February 24, 1975; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
Estate field development and outgrower planting program is
ahead of schedule with 2,740 acres of sugar cane planted during 1974/75
(about 500 acres over the target), but Kiliosa District Development
Corporation is lagging. Construction of the new sugar mill, financed
by Dutch and Danish loans, is on schedule and should be completed by
July 1976. Procurement of field machinery and equipment and supporting
project activities are progressing reasonably well. Due to cost escalation
of the housing and community development component some problems have
been encountered in initiating construction of staff housing but this
should not hold up the actual production.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 11
Credit No. 580-TA - Dairy Development Project: $10.0 million
Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - November 28,
1975; Closing Date - April 30, 1981
The Government is proceeding with the recruitment of key
personnel and the first phase of procurement.
Credit No. 606-TA - National Maize Project: $18.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - May 28,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
The initial stages of project implementation are proceeding
well. Key personnel for the project have been recruited.
Credit No. 652-TA - Fisheries Development Project: $9.0
million Credit of July 12, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
This Credit is not yet effective.
Loan No. 1307-TA - Sao Hill Forestry Project: $8.0 million
Loan of July 12, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
This Loan is not yet effective.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 149-TA - Second Education Project: $5.0 million
Credit of May 29, 1969; Date of Effectiveness - June 19, 1969;
Closing Date - December 31, 1976
Following successive extension of the Closing Date by three years
to December 31, 1976, the project is now nearing completion. Clean-up of
minor civil works was expected to be finished by April 30, 1976. A bal-
ance of about US$60,000 equivalent for equipment remains to be committed,
and direct purchase has been agreed in order to facilitate completion. The
processing of applications for disbusement on account of expenditures for
equipment by Crown Agents of approximately $150,000 is a continuing problem,
but timely resolution appears feasible. The Government has tentatively
agreed to a Completion Mission in December 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 11
Credit No. 232-TA - Third Education Project: $3.3 million
Credit of February 5, 1971; Date of Effectiveness - May 10,
1971; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
The Closing Date for this project has been extended 18 months
to December 31, 1976, to provide ample time for its completion. All
civil works furniture and equipment contracts have been awarded. Civil
works are about 80% completed and the entire works is expected to be
completed before the current closing date. Ineffective project unit
management, currently under-staffed because of budgetary problems and
shortage of qualified personnel have limited follow-up activities and
correction of deficiencies and may result in further delays. A number
of changes in the programs and management of the institutions involved
in this project are being discussed with the Government.
Credit No. 371-TA - Fourth Education Project: $10.3 million
Credit of April 13, 1973; Date of Effectiveness - July 2,
1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
Statements of project cost overruns are now reduced to about
25% over appraisal estimates as a result of curtailments of the project
(deletion of three secondary schools) and more favorable than anticipated
bids on civil works. Out of 18 project institutions, construction works
have started on 10 sites. Disbursements are less than 10% of appraisal
estimates. Time lost in design and tendering is being made up, but
project completion is likely to be about 12 months behind schedule. A
medical health consultant has given impetus to the lagging medical
health components of the project. The experimental self-help construction
project item (eight Community Education Centers) requires special attention
in future to help overcome problems of supply, distribution and control of
building materials and supervision of construction standards. Disbursements
are not a good criterion of the progress of implementation, which is now
satisfactory.
Credit No. 607-TA - Fifth Education Project: $11.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
A good start has been made with respect to the Village Management
Technicians (VMT) Training Program. All five Rural Training Centers have
been rehabilitated and instructional staff trained. VMT courses commenced
at three of the five Centers. Budgetary constraints are likely to impose a
reduction in the level of training activity in the coming year. The Project
Executive is adequately staffed. Also, the program has been handicapped
by slow procurement of vehicles and equipment and delays in the selection of
housing sites. Planning and tendering for schools is progressing well.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 11
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Credit No. 460-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank Project:
$6.0 million Credit of February 13, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness - April 18, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
This Credit has been fully committed.
Loan No. 1172-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: $15.0 million
Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - February 20,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Commitments under this loan are proceeding quickly. Nine sub-
projects totalling $7.8 million have been approved for disbursements.
Loan No. 1128-TA - Mwanza Textile Project: $15.0 million
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - October 6,
1975; Closing Date - July 1, 1979
The project is progressing extremely well and project execution
is on schedule. Tenders for the bulk of the plant and machinery have
been evaluated and contracts placed with suppliers. Contracts for civil
works have been concluded. Cost of project is currently well within
appraisal estimates. A study by consultants to examine the feasibility
of establishing a textile plant to produce cotton-polyester blend material
is underway.
Credit No. 601-TA - Technical Assistance Project: $6.0 million
Credit of January 9, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB) has selected Tata Consulting
Engineers to man the key feasibility unit staff to supervise the execution
of this credit and a contract is in preparation. In order to allow
sufficient time to prepare the contract and complete other formalities
the terminal date of effectiveness has been postponed a second time to
September 14, 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 11
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 715-TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project Phase I:
$30.0 million Loan of December 14, 1970 and $5.0 million
Supplementary Loan No. 712-2-TA of June 24, 1971; Date of
Effectiveness - March 31, 1971 and September 26, 1974;
Closing Date - December 31, 1976
Construction work for this project has been completed. The
project is on schedule and the first and second unit came on stream in
March 1975 and July 1975, respectively. In order to allow sufficient
time to process any residual withdrawal applications, the Closing Date
was postponed to December 31, 1976.
Loan No. 1306-TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project Phase II:
$30.0 million Loan of August 12, 1976; Closing Date -
December 31, 1981
This loan is not yet effective.
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Credit No. 265-TA - Third Highway Project: $6.5 million
Credit of August 6, 1971; Date of Effectiveness - October 12,
1971; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
After long delays in completing tender arrangements, the contract
for the Mtwara-Masasi road was signed at nearly three times the appraised
cost. Most of the overrun is covered by a $4.4 million loan from ADB and
use of the $1.8 million balance from the Bank's Second Highway Project
(Loan No. 586-TA). The portion of the road now financed by the Bank is
nearing completion. Execution of road betterment works in two agricultural
areas commenced about a year ago and is progressing satisfactorily in one
but is behind schedule in the other. Preinvestment studies for Kilombero
and Kilimanjaro areas have been completed and final reports are being
prepared.
Credit No. 507-TA - Highway Maintenance Project: $10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1979
The project is more than one year behind schedule. Tenders for
equipment, vehicles and spares procurement were opened in October 1975 and
notifications of bid acceptance have been issued with the exception of
some equipment. After a considerable delay, some progress has been
made in obtaining technical assistance. Following the initiative taken
by the Bank staff, ORT, Geneva expressed interest in providing the



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 11
technical assistance and subsequently visited Tanzania. We are awaiting
the outcome of the discussions. The final report of the Trucking Industry
Study, approved under this credit, is being prepared by the Consultants
(TRIMAC) following comments on the draft report from, the Government and
Bank's staff.
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 495-TA - Sites and Services Project: $10.0
million Credit of July 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
October 3, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1978
The project is proceeding very well. Contracts for infrastruc-
ture construction at all seven sites have been awarded and are expected
to be completed on schedule. Other components of the project, i.e.
training, monitoring/evaluation and nutrition studies are progressing
satisfactorily.
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are six projects under execution.
Loan 674 EA - Third Railways Project: $42.4 million
Loan of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness -
October 30, 1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1977
The physical execution of the original project has been seriously
delayed due to administrative and political problems within the Community
and the East African Railways Corporation's unsatisfactory procedures for
procurement, investment planning and coordination. In November 1974, the
Executive directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of
the Loan to be used for consultant services and emergency investments.
Agreement was reached in July 1975 for the hiring of consultants to assist
EARC with outstanding organizational and financial issues. Coopers and
Lybrand (financial consultants hired by ODM) completed their asset studies
in early 1976 and CANAC (technical consultants) have submitted a report on
decentralization of the railways.
Loan No. 638 EA - Second Harbours Project: $35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness -
December 16, 1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
Loan No. 865 EA - Third Harbours Project: $26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness -
April 16, 1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1977
Considerable delays have occurred in implementing the project
financed partly by Loan 638-EA. However, construction is now more than
95% complete. The Closing Date has been postponed from December 31, 1975



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 11
to December 31, 1976. The major civil works financed partly by Loan 865 EA
were completed in September 1975, six months behind schedule. Some smaller
project elements intended to be financed under Loan 865 EA, will have to
be deleted. Serious cost overruns for cargo handling equipment, tugs and
lighters financed by CIDA have occurred, and its credit has been increased
accordingly from Can.$26.0 million to Can.$33.5 million. Cargo handling
productivity has stagnated in Mombasa, but improved in Dar es Salaam. At
the same time cargo throughput has declined considerably for Mombasa and
increased above forecasts for Dar es Salaam, where the three berths financed
under Loan 865-EA are now being used.
Loan No. 843 EA - East African Development Bank Project:
$8.0 million Loan of June 28, 1972; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28, 1972; Closing Date - June 30, 1977
The entire loan has been fully committed by EADB.
Loan No. 1204 EA - East African Development Bank Project:
$15.0 million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
June 2, 1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
The loan was declared effective on June 7, 1976. No funds have so
far been committed under this Loan.
Loan No. 914 EA - Third Telecommunications Project:
$32.5 million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
All major works other than microwave and UHF/VHF system construc-
tion have now been completed despite initial delays caused by staffing and
other problems associated with the relocation of the headquarters. Because
of the long lead time required for the delivery of the microwave equipment
the project is expected to be fully completed by late 1978.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
TANZANIA - TOBACCO PROCESSING PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:         United Republic of Tanzania
BENEFICIARIES     The equivalent of US$2.0 million to Tobacco Authority of
Tanzania and $6.0 million to Tanzania Tobacco Processing
Company Ltd.
AMOUNT:           US$8 million equivalent
TERMS:            Standard
RE-LENDING        At 10 percent per annum to be repaid by the Authority
over seven years and the company eight years.
PROJECT
DESCRIPTION      The project would, over five years (1976-1980), increase the
operational capacity of the Tanzania Tobacco Processing
Company facility at Morogoro from a maximum of 18.5
million kg cured leaf per annum to some 41 million kg,
of which 36 million kg would be mechanically processed. This
expansion would be carried out in two stages, the first
comprising additions and improvements to the existing process-
ing line through purchase of equipment, machinery and quality
control devices and secondly, installation of a completely
new processing line. This would accommodate incremental
leaf production over the next five years. A survey to deter-
mine timing, scale and location of any further investment in
processing plant would be provided for in the project. The
project would also include technical assistance and training
and would provide for improved storage facilities at Morogoro
and a new office and export storage in Dar es Salaam. Con-
struction of roads, water supply facilities, offices, railroad
sidings and other basic infrastructure at Morogoro would also
be provided for in the project.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS:
Foreign
Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange
-------US$'ooo-------    %
Machinery and Equipment 1/
Improvement to Existing Line          39      353      392     90
New Line                             410    3,689    4,099     90
Sub-total                         449    4,042   4,491
Storage
Morogoro Storage                      552        552   1,104     50
Storage at Dar es Salaam              764       764    1,528     50
Sub-total                      1,316     1,316   2,632
1/   Includes installation and related charges.
Foreign
Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange
_---- US$oo 00
Infrastucture
Roads and Drains                     165       41      206     20
Water Supply Facilities               17         7      24     30
Other Facilities at plant            288      288      576     50
Security, Equipment & Other Costs     84         9      93     10
Sub-total                       554      345     899
Training                              51       11       62     17
Technical Assistance                  58      327      385     90
Tobacco Processing Study              62        62     124     50
Base Cost Estimate                 2,490    6,103    8,593
Contingency Allowance
Physical                             226       537     763     70
Price                                648    1,348    1,996     67
Total Project Cost                 3,365    7,987   11,352     70



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
FINANCING PLAN:
US$ Million            %
IDA                     8.0                70
TAT                     0.8                 7
TTPC                    2.5                23
ESTIMATED
DISBURSEMENTS:                      FY77    FY78   FY79    FY80   FY81
Annual                   1.3      5.5    1.0    0.1     0.1
Cumulative               1.3      6.8    7.8    7.9     8.0
PROCUREMENT:      The new processing line and ancillary equipment (US$4.5 mil-
lion) would be let as a turnkey contract selected by inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guide-
lines. Due to the small number of specialized tobacco
processing machinery suppliers and the small order size
(under $375,000) equipment for improving the existing line
has been procured by international shopping in accordance
with guidelines. Since civil works construction is scat-
tered and too small to attract international bids, part has
been and remainder will be,procured by contracts subject to
competitive bidding advertised locally. Retroactive financing
in the amount of about US$0.7 million on civil works and
equipment procured after February 1, 1976 is recommeded.
CONSULTANT SERVICES:   The project includes funds for technical assistance and
consultants for the post project investment study (4 man
months) and would be in accordance with IDA guidelines
for selection and use of consultants.
RATE OF RETURN:        25% over 25 years.
APPRAISAL REPORT:      Report No. 1141a TA dated August 20, 1976
General Agriculture Division, Eastern Africa Region
MAP:                   A map of Tanzania which identifies tobacco growing
areas, flue cured tobacco project areas and the factory
site, is attached.



IBRD 12126
U G A N D 1Ar  It  t t32- / / C  K E---; g            at            TAN ZAN I A          MARCH 1976
*/~~~S  T .. L~--  KE" ----i.                6-TNAI
_43kobo                          TOBACCO      PROCESSING PROJECT
RWANDA         AeOO           k~ia  M   A  R   A
R-, rbacco  Growing  Areas  Morn  roods
F,,,.  ~ure  Tobcco  --+**Rolwoys
rAE        i* .*i ureasd To   4-,-_t+  TAZARA railway
aNn   ,b                                 NATO          ArasRegion         boundaries
e-                             Fact~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~ory siie  District boundaries  ~  
G E I T           -v                        l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  nternationali boundaries"
|3 U R U N D I  )             ltNoknuC_MordulS                    \MslW        S   ' 
Jil  I4lSc;ndoV  <   H X Ny  Gk A A  , - , M   AT  A A  M  h
Xo  O ' AU A  KatianTa                   O AAIKoA
? 1 TS t U R A S E O & 4 >I  b                      doo i\ $ 
KI>AJ     AASAA,A
0~~~~~~~Tmi~                                                        oou  Tonga  PEMBA
Nam  .                         ZANZIBAR
ilOAS /) _(inasrA  OR,,Aa- 0 O /AR ES SALAAM
sevusLIc8\S,~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ DA ES SALAAM,, 
REPUBLIC                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KisiooMu A
-~~~~~~~u                        A                                   Uten e2~ ECuy  73Hll/s  \ g
J  1t  (u e t  Mb  y i )  F I _ X/ EMohenoe            W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kil.. Mosoko
- )   7 <     \t MDkumbot   oh~~~~~~~~~~~anyi 
5_g  J49~~~uy   c a a                L P  be  A 
Z A M B I A          t>-tzS;                                     eD<AL       SLn
IAILOMErEttO                       2AA                              ) Neo3l .-
I'      Tunduru       .., -~~~~~~~~~~~~~nd
10 ~ ~ ~ ~ ie                                aN | 21   j<om aty  ,  AT b A  A .  7 S     AGI   ~ (
32,        \,-,    ) -- b? all     o                  n> ,  .JMOZAMBIQUE  450



