Report No. 1141a-TA                                                         FILE
Appraisal of the
Tobacco Processing Project Tanzania
August 20, 1976
Eastern Africa Regional Office
General Agriculture Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization,



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS"/
gtDR 1.00                                   =  Tanzania Shillings (TSh) 9.66
SDR 1.00                                       US$1.20
US$1.00                                        Tanzania Shillings (TSh) 8.05
TSh 1.00                                       US$0.12
GOVERNMENT AND PARASTATALS FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)                              =  10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)                            =  0.62 miles
1 sq. kilometer (km2)                       =  0.39 sq. miles = 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)                             =  2.20 pounds
1 sq. meter (m2)                            =  10.76 sq. feet
ABBREVIATIONS
MAJI                                        =  Ministry of Water Development,
Energy and Minerals
TANU                                        -  Tanganyika African National Union
TAT                                         =  Tobacco Authority of Tanzania
TTB                                         =  Tanganyika Tobacco Board
TTPC                                        =  Tanzania Tobacco Processing Company
Ltd.
1/ In October, 1975, the three East African Community currencies were
pegged to the value of the Special Drawing Rights (SDR) of the
International Monetary Fund. An SDR/US dollar conversion rate of
1.2 has been assumed for purposes of this appraisal.



FOI OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
APPRAISAL OF THE TOBACCO PROCESSING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
SUNMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .................... .....   - ii
I.   INTRODUCTION....                                                     1
II.  BACKGROUND...                                                        2
A. General. .                                                2
B.  Tobacco Production  ...                 .       .        3
C. Tobacco Processing .                  .                   5
D. Government Tobacco Services .               .             7
III.  THE PROJECT.                                                        9
A. General Description...                                    9
B. Detailed Features...                                      9
C. Project Costs.                         ....... 13
D. Financing    ...15
E. Procurement               ...16
F.  Disbursement and Implementation    ...17
G.  Accounts and Audits .... . ... .                 ....   18
IV.         ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ...... .     ................ 18
V.          PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS .19
A. Production and Capacity .19
B. Markets and Price .20
C.  Foreign Exchange and Cash Flows .21
VI.         ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION         .      ......   21
VII.       AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .............. 22
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Tanzania
in October-November 1975 composed of Messrs. J.H. Cleave, P.M. Tamboli
and Mrs. B.J. Curling (IDA), and Messrs. C.S. Etheridge and J. Whitelock
(Consultants). Drafting assistance was given by Miss J. Maguire and
Annex 9 was prepared by Ms. S.C. Hadler.
Thi document has  restrined dninbutiu w_   y be ued by recipies osly in the perfofnce
i tbeir odciai duties. Its contents may osdiee be disclosed witout Wo   ank authorization.






ANNEXES
1. Tobacco Production in Tanzania
2. Tanzania: Flue-Cured Tobacco Project (Credit 217-TA)
3. Past Tobacco Production and Forecasts of Growth of the Crop
Table 1 - Projections of Tobacco Production from Major
Growing Areas by Region (1976-85)
Table 2 - Projected Total Tobacco Production in Tanzania
Chart - WB 15587 - Projected Total Tobacco Production for
Processing at Morogoro Plant
4. The Tobacco Authority of Tanzania (TAT) and the Tanzania Tobacco
Processing Company, Ltd. (TTPC)
Chart - WB 15992 - Organization of TAT
Table 1 - Summarized Balance Sheets of The Tobacco Authority
of Tanzania, 1974 & 75"(As of February 28)
Table 2 - Summarized Balance Sheets of The Tanzania Tobacco
Processing Company, 1974 & 75 (As of February 28)
5. Project Investments
Table 1 - Plant Required for Improvement of Present Tobacco
Processing Line
Table 2 - Plant Required for New Processing Line to be
Installed in 1979
Table 3 - Existing and Proposed Storage Facilities at Morogoro
6. Terms of Reference for a Study on Future Investments in Tobacco
Processing and Storage
7. Project Costs
Table 1 - Annual Project Cost
Table 2 - Infrastructure and Storage Costs
Table 3 - Technical Assistance and Training
8. Disbursement, Implementation and Monitoring
Table 1 - Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Chart - WB 15738 - Implementation Schedule



- 2-
9. Tobacco Marketing Prospects
Table 1 - Tobacco Leaf - Summary of Production and Consumption
by Economic Regions
Table 2 - Tobacco Leaf Prices - Actual 1955-75, Forecast 1976-85
In Current and Constant 1974 Prices
10. Cash Flow Projections
Table 1 - TAT Cash Flow Statement
Table 2 - TTPC Cash Flow Statement
Table 3 - Government Cash Flow Statement
11. Economic Costs and Benefits, and Sensitivity Analysis
Table 1 - Economic Rate of Return
Table 2 - Financial Rate of Return
MAP: Tobacco Growing Areas in Tanzania - IBRD 12126



TANZANIA
TOBACCO PROCESSING PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Tanzania's development strategy puts emphasis on increased agri-
cultural production by smallholders in villages and, in view of Government's
balance of payments problems, is concerned in particular with crops which
have export markets. Tobacco is one such crop which has been expanding
rapidly in the past decade and, although it is currently a relatively small
earner of foreign exchange, it is expected to expand steadily over the next
decade as a smallholder crop in response to ongoing programs. However, cured
tobacco leaf, as purchased from farmers, has to be processed into a form in
which it can be shipped for either domestic or foreign sale without deteriora-
tion and Tanzania's processing capacity is already virtually full.
ii.       The proposed Project would therefore provide additional processing
capacity. This would be in two successive increases in mechanical threshing
plant, the first comprising additions and improvements to the existing line
in the Morogoro factory and the second the installation of a complete new
line with a theoretical capacity of 7,000 kg/hour of cured leaf. This would
accommodate incremental leaf production over at least the next five years.
A survey to determine the timing, scale, and location of any later invest-
ment in processing plant would be provided for in the Project.  The Project
would also include technical assistance and training to improve plant produc-
tivity and tobacco qualities, and would make provision for improved storage
for both wet and processed tobacco at the factory site, and for storage of
export orders at the port of Dar es Salaam.
iii.      The Project would approximately double the total tobacco process-
ing capacity of the Tanzania Tobacco Processing Company, Ltd. (TTPC) which
is a wholly owned subsidiary of the parastatal Tobacco Authority of Tanzania
(TAT). TAT is charged with all aspects of tobacco production and marketing.
Overall Project execution would be by TAT, but TTPC would be given specific
responsibility for construction and installation at the Morogoro plant. The
additions to the present line would be installed by the engineering staff at
TTPC: the new line would be supplied and installed by a principal contrac-
tor who would provide a Project Engineer to direct operations through to
completion of acceptance trials. TAT would retain an independent consult-
ing engineer to scrutinize all civil works design, specifications, and con-
struction.
iv.       An IDA Credit of US$8.00 million is proposed.  This would cover
the foreign exchange component of the Project, 70% of the total cost of
US$11.3 million over the 4-year Project period. The remaining 30% (US$3.3
million) would be provided by TAT (US$0.8 million) and TTPC (US$2.5 mil-
lion) from self-generated funds. The proposed Credit would be to Govern-
ment on standard terms. To ensure that the improvements to the existing
threshing line are made in time for the next processing season and to



- ii -
ensure the construction of new storage at Morogoro and Dar es Salaam in time
to handle the expected increased volume of tobacco, authorization to enter
into contracts on these items, in advance of Board presentation, was agreed in
January 1976. Authorized advance contracts total US$2 million of which it is
anticipated some US$0.7 million may be subject to retroactive financing.
v.        The new processing line and ancillary equipment (about US$4.5
million) would be procured under a turnkey contract with a major contrac-
tor selected by international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Equipment for improving the existing line (about US$375,000)
is being procured by international shopping in accordance with guidelines.
Civil works construction (about US$3.9 million) would be subject to com-
petitive bidding advertised locally, with local firms given a 7-1/2% pref-
erence when competing with foreign bids. Technical assistance and con-
sultants for the post-Project survey (about US$0.6 million) would be in
accordance with Bank group guidelines for the selection and use of consultants.
vi.       The Project would facilitate increased farm incomes for an addi-
tional 100,000 smallholder families (compared to some 40,000 currently
growing tobacco), and would provide direct employment for about 325 semi-
skilled workers. The annual foreign exchange earnings from tobacco are
expected to be about US$57 million a year by 1985, up from US$27 million
at present. In 1974, Tanzania's total agricultural exports were valued at
US$254 million.
vii.      The internal economic rate of return of the Project is estimated
at 25% over twenty-five years. In this calculation, foreign exchange costs
and earnings were shadow-priced at 24% above the official exchange rate. It
was also assumed that if the Project did not take place and processing capac-
ity was exhausted, tobacco farmers would switch to an alternative production
of maize, groundnuts and cotton, using twice the anticipated incremental to-
bacco land area, and this lower value production was assumed for the "With-
out Project" base-line. The Project is sensitive to the projected expansion
of tobacco production and to world tobacco prices. At the extreme, a com-
bined 10% adverse movement of these two factors could reduce the IER to 11%
but a similar combined increase would give a return of over 40%. However,
tobacco throughput has been estimated conservatively, whilst processing ca-
pacity would be available to accommodate at least a 25% upward fluctuation
in production.
viii.     Nine IDA Credits and two Bank loans totalling US$139.1 million
have previously been approved for Tanzania in the field of agricultural
production and rural development. Project implementation has tended
to be slow with problems particularly arising from management and staff-
ing problems, and smallholder projects have been affected by the recent
acceleration of villagization. Two projects largely concerned with crop
processing (Sugar and Cashew nuts) are, however, proceeding well.
ix.       The Project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$8.0 million to
the Government of Tanzania.



TANZANIA
TOBACCO PROCESSING PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Tanzania has undertaken a comprehensive program
to support the development of productive activities, particularly in the
rural sector, in conjunction with efforts to achieve balanced regional
growth and a more equitable income distribution. With these objectives,
and in light of Government's current balance of payment difficulties,
particular attention is being given to support for those crops which rep-
resent sources of foreign exchange earnings. Although tobacco generates
only about 4% of current foreign exchange earnings (as opposed to 23% for
sisal, 17% for coffee and 10% for cashew), the potential for expansion is
significant. Total tobacco production has trebled in the past decade and
is expected to more than double in the period 1974/75-1984/85, with output
thereafter continuing to expand at a somewhat slower rate. Moreover, as
75% of this crop is cultivated by smallholders averaging under 0.5 ha of
tobacco each, the benefits from production are spread over a broad spectrum
of the population. Before sale for export or to local cigarette manufac-
turers, tobaccos are normally blended, the leaf and stem are separated, and
are dried to moisture levels suitable for transport and storage. Process-
ing is currently carried out in two aged plants, Songea (for fire-cured
tobacco only) and Morogoro (handling all types of tobacco) and both are
operating close to full capacity. If advantage is to be taken of the eco-
nomic potential of the tobacco crop, it is essential that adequate process-
ing capacity be available within Tanzania to handle the expected increases
in production.
1.02      The proposed Project would assist Government in expanding the
capacity of the Morogoro factory to accommodate production increases over
the next five years. The Project expansion would be carried out in two
stages to allow maximum flexibility; initially the existing threshing
line would be improved by the purchase of new equipment and quality con-
trol devices, and at a later date, a new and somewhat larger line would be
installed. The Project would also include provision for improved storage
facilities, additional infrastructure at the factory, technical assistance
and training.
1.03      Previous Bank group financial assistance to the agriculture
sector in Tanzania has included IDA credits totalling US$109.1 million
and two IBRD loans for US$30 million for 11 Projects with agricultural
production components. These Projects include, one for agricultural credit,
two for beef and one for dairy production, and one each for tobacco growing,
tea, cotton, sugar, cashew nuts and maize, and a rural development proj-
ect in Kigoma Region. Financing for agricultural training and for feeder
road development has been also provided under education and highway proj-
ects.



- 2 -
1.04      Project implementation has tended to be slow, although there have
been recent improvements in performance. In general, management, organiza-
tion and staffing have been continuing problems. The smallholder projects
for cotton and tea have been affected by the sudden acceleration of the
villagization program in 1973 and 1974 (which has required major reorienta-
tion of the projects and has caused significant delays), and have lacked
effective management, whilst the cotton project has been further affected
by the national emphasis on maize which competes with cotton. The tobacco
production project is about 3 years behind schedule having suffered from
problems particularly associated with its settlement aspects -- especially
with village water supplies -- and also from early attempts to pressure
farmers into communal cultivation (para. 2.06). The first livestock proj-
ect was reasonably successful, but the second is progressing slowly due to
delays in finalization of ranch plans, cost overruns in construction, and
changes in project management. The Kilombero Sugar Project and Cashew Proj-
ect, both largely concerned with construction of crop processing facilities,
are proceeding well. The dairy development project and the maize project
have only recently become effective. An agricultural and rural develop-
ment sector study, carried out by the Bank in December 1974, reviewed the
opportunities, constraints and strategy for agriculture and rural develop-
ment, and outlined a long-term lending program.
1.05      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
to Tanzania in October-November 1975 composed of Messrs. J.H. Cleave,
P.M. Tamboli and Mrs. J. Curling (IDA), and Messrs. C.S. Etheridge and
J. Whitelock (Consultants).
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Tanzania has a total area of about 880,000 km2.  The population
of 15.3 million (mid 1976), which is increasing at the rate of about 3% a
year, is concentrated in a few regions, with about two-thirds of the popu-
lation occupying only 10% of the land. Over 90% of the people are depend-
ent on agriculture and 40% of GNP is derived from this sector. Per capita
GNP was estimated at US$130 in 1974 but, in many rural areas, the per capita
income does not exceed US$50 per year. The growth rate of the economy was
about 5% per annum from 1964 through 1973; actual growth has lagged behind
the Second Five-Year Plan (1969-1974) targets, mainly due to failure of the
main agricultural crops to reach plan projections.
2.02      The 1973 drought and other factors, including the accelerated vil-
lagization program, resulted in a serious reduction in agricultural produc-
tion in 1974 and necessitated the import of 440,000 tons of food grains
causing severe balance of payments problems. The total value of imports in
1974 was some 60% greater than in 1973 and, as total exports expanded at only
about 2.4%, the trade gap increased, from TSh 0.9 billion (US$0.1 billion) in



-3-
1973 to TSh 2.5 billion (US$0.31 billion) in 1974. The overall balance of
payments deficit in 1974 was estimated at TSh 980 million (US$122.5 million).
Grain imports of about 415,000 tons were also reported in 1975, and although
less than the previous year, were still seven times the normal level. The
recent increase in petroleum prices and worldwide inflation have also had a
severe adverse impact on the Tanzanian economy, and aggravated its problems.
2.03      Government recognized that immediate steps were required to meet
this situation, and a comprehensive program designed especially to deal with
the balance of payments problem was put forward in 1975. The main elements
of the program consist of: (i) a reallocation of investment in favor of the
directly productive sectors; (ii) measures to improve output in agriculture;
and (iii) efforts to improve incentives in industry and mining and to in-
crease the export orientation of these sectors. Tanzania's development
policy also aims at reducing inequalities in income distribution through
emphasis on smallholder agricultural and rural development, and on state
control of important industries, services and large-scale agricultural
enterprises, and the initiative for planning and implementing many devel-
opment tasks has devolved to the regional and district administrations.
Although the third five-year plan for the period 1975-1979 has been de-
layed, it should be ready shortly and is expected to reflect these aims
and continue the emphasis of the current program.
B. Tobacco Production
Tobacco Production (Annex 1)
2.04      About 75% of Tanzania's tobacco is grown by nearly 40,000 small-
holders cultivating an average approaching 0.5 ha of tobacco each. The
main tobacco growing areas are Tabora, Iringa and Mbeya Regions (see Map,
IBRD 12126), although production is also expanding in Singida, Shinyanga,
Kigoma and Lindi. In Iringa Region, production is dominated by about 60
large-scale farmers (mainly expatriates). However, the contribution of
these farmers is decreasing and it is anticipated that over the next dec-
ade their share of the nation's production will decrease from 25% to about
10%. Smallholder production is normally carried out in a village or vil-
lage cluster and, under the Village Act of 1975, is subject to the control
of an elected Village Council. It is not yet clear how this new Act will
operate, but it does appear that communal or Ujamaa production will only
be introduced at the wish of the village assembly. The Tobacco Authority
of Tanzania (TAT) provides extension advice on growing, curing and classi-
fying tobacco, as well as essential inputs.
2.05.     Tobacco is typically grown in a five year rotation with food
crops (mainly maize) and fallow. Farmers plant their own nursery beds
in September and transplant the seedlings at the start of the rains in
November. Reaping starts at the end of January and continues until March.



4
Farmers cure their own crop in individual or small-group tobacco barns con-
structed largely from local materials and heated with wood cut from the ad-
joining miombo (Brachystegia and Julbernadia spp.) forests. Farmers then
grade their crop and sell it through the village cooperatives to TAT at the
prices set in advance for each grade classification by TAT. Marketing starts
in February and continues through March. The average smallholder farmer
produces a crop with a biological yield of about 1,000 kg of wet, cured leaf
per ha, similar to large farmers; however, it is estimated that the small-
holder loses about 10% of his crop in the field due to lack of barn capacity,
about 10% in the barn through poor curing techniques and another 25% in
inefficient bulking and grading operation (mainly because of poor construction
of, or a lack of grading sheds). Consequently, the average smallholder
produces only 550 to 600 kg/ha of saleable tobacco. These figures indicate
that there is considerabe potential for the improvement of overall yields,
particularly from better handling.
Flue-Cured Tobacco Project (Credit 217-TA)
2.06      An IDA credit for US$9.0 million was extended in 1970 to increase
the production of flue-cured tobacco in Tanzania by about 9 million kg by
1978 (Annex 2). The Project aimed at settling some 15,000 new tobacco
growers in villages of 100 farmers each; it was estimated that these
farmers would, on average, cultivate about 0.5 ha of tobacco along with
basic food crops. The Project also included provision for on-farm credit,
extension services, construction of curing barns and grading sheds, access
roads and water supplies and additional storage facilities. Progress under
the Project has been slower than expected and incremental tobacco produc-
tion is three years behind schedule. Some of the main problems have been
associated with the settlement nature of the Project: delays in construc-
tion of village water supplies; slow recruitment of farmers, due mostly to
early attempts to pressure farmers into communal production; and smaller
areas cultivated per family than anticipated. In addition, yields have
been low and stagnant, in part due to an acute shortage of extension staff.
A full review of the Project was carried out in 1972 which resulted in the
rephasing of both physical development and of project costs and the estab-
lishment of somewhat more realistic production targets. The reduction in
the number of farmers participating in the project from 15,000 to 9,000
(along with the other factors mentioned above) has direct implications for
the total volume of production expected to be achieved by the end of the
Project period (1976). Total project production of wet leaf in 1974/75 was
675,000 kg, as compared with estimates of 3.9 million kg made at the time of
appraisal. Production in the year 1975/76 season is expected to increase to
about 1.2 million kg, which is still, however, well below the appraisal esti-
mate of 6.3 million kg. Indications now are that the project is beglnring to
show substantial progress, and it is expected that project production will
expand at a greater rate than will overall national tobacco production.
Projected Production (Annex 3)
2.07      In the last ten years, the production of tobacco in Tanzania has
increased from 5 million kg to a peak (in 1972/73) of over 18 million kg
cured leaf; most of the expansion was achieved in the smallholder subsector.



- 5 -
Considerable further expansion into new areas is likely, without special pro-
jects or external investment, and yields and area grown per family can be ex-
pected to increase as farmers gain experience. It is not yet clear, however,
at what rate production increases will be achieved; the rate of growth will
depend on the number of families taking up and maintaining tobacco production,
the area grown by each family, and the yields achieved; these variables will
in turn be subject to such factors as relative product and input price levels,
the availability of supplies, the longer-term effects of villagization, the
delayed impact of Cr. 217-TA, and the efficacy of the extension service.
TAT had forecast increases averaging 20% a year from 1973/74 (mainly in
flue-cured tobacco), with production reaching nearly 46 million kg by 1979/
80. These projections appear overly optimistic, however, and the follow-
ing pattern of growth, the equivalent of 7-1/2% p.a., is considered more
realistic.
…______________------…million kg cured leaf------------------------
Tobacco     75/76  76/77  77/78  78/79  79/80  80/81  81/82  82/83  83/84  84/85
Flue-cured  14.8   15.9   17.3   18.6   20.9   23.5   25.2   26.3   27.6   28.6
Other        5.4    5.7    5.9    6.2    6.7    7.0    8.1    9.0   10.3   10.7
Total       20.2   21.6   23.2   24.8   27.6   30.5   33.3   35.3   37.9   39.3
The basis for this projection is detailed in Annex 3.  In addition to uncer-
tainties in the average rate of growth of production, year to year fluctua-
tions in area planted and yields can be considerable, and although process-
ing capacity can be expanded by extending the processing season and reducing
down-time for maintenance of plant, these measures have attendant risks in
terms of losses of tobacco and lower quality. For purposes of planning the
timing and scale of new plant installation, a higher level of production has
been assumed to ensure capacity is available in peak years (Annex 3, Chart
WB-15587).
C. Tobacco Processing
2.08      Tobacco as purchased from farmers has varying moisture contents
and is in farm grades which suit neither the buyers nor the manufacturers.
Before export it is, therefore, processed: this involves blending var-
ious grades of wet cured leaf tobacco according to buyers' specifications;
the separation of the lamina from the stem (if this is required); drying
to a target moisture content; and packing in a form suitable for shipping.
This processing is carried out by three methods: bundle packing, hand
stripping and machine threshing. The first, for which there is limited



demand, consists simply of re-drying and packing whole leaf in tied bun-
dles as purchased from farmers. Hand stripping involves removing the mid-
rib (stem) from blended leaf (lamina) by hand and then re-drying and pack-
ing the leaf. Hand stripped tobacco often commands a premium over machine
threshed leaf, as the pieces obtained by this method are somewhat larger;
this advantage is, however, reducing, as cigarette and tobacco manu-
facturers have tended to adjust their blends to the more fragmented
machine-threshed leaf. Also, hand stripping, as it is labor intensive,
tends to be particularly susceptible to wage increases, and requires more
floor space and greater supervision; for these reasons processors generally
prefer machine threshing.
2.09      Machine threshing is a process whereby the mid-rib is separated
from the leaf by a mechanical process. The bundles of leaves are moved on
a conveyor belt through a cutter which removes the tips and breaks open the
bundles. The leaves are then shaken over sieves to remove dust and then
passed on to a series of threshers in which the lamina is beaten from the
stem. The pieces of lamina are then blown off by airlift separators. This
separation is repeated after each threshing to reduce fragmentation of the
lamina, as larger pieces have higher value. The separated lamina and stems
are re-dried by heat down to a very low moisture, and then, after cooling,
controlled moisture percentages (usually 10-15%) are restored. The object
of the re-drying process is to reach a safe storage moisture content, and
to ensure the chosen content is uniform throughout the consignment. 1/ Leaf
is normally taken straight off the re-drying machine and packed while still
warm into cases, hessian bales or hog-heads (barrels) as appropriate for
the particular customer for which it is destined. Stem is packed and sold
separately.
Morogoro Processing Plant
2.10      The TTPC facility at Morogoro is designed to allow bundle packing,
hand stripping and mechanical threshing of the leaf. The maximum throughput
ever handled at Morogoro was 15.3 million kg of wet leaf in 1974, giving
an outturn of about 13 million kg dry weight. It is estimated however that,
under pressure, the facility could handle up to 18.5 million kg wet leaf
a season to produce 15.6 million kg of processed tobacco. This envisages
a demand for bundles of about 2.3 million kg, a continuing hand stripping
1/   This standardization of moisture content is a necessary pre-requisite
of proper aging. Also, accurate consistent moisture content is essen-
tial with the leaf destined for the United Kingdom (the main export
market for Tanzania) both because of the very high specific duty rates
and the increased rate of duty payable on tobacco imported at less than
10% moisture.



capacity of 5.0 million kg wet leaf, 1/ and the present maximum operating
capacity of the mechanical threshing line, estimated to be about 11.2 mil-
lion kg wet cured leaf, based on some 39 weeks of operation (a longer-
than desirable season) using 3 shifts, 5 days a week. The installation
includes a threshing plant, two lamina re-dryers and a small stem re-dryer.
A good part of this equipment (the thresher and one of the larger dryers)
is old, and performance has not been up to the standard required by the
export buyers; consequently, the buyers have insisted on trial processing
before they will accept the final product. Also, as a result of the inade-
quacy of the older equipment, the remaining part of the plant has at times
been obliged to operate more or less continuously for up to 6 days a week
for over 45 weeks. Such a schedule of necessity leaves no allowance either
for adequate maintenance or for the possibility of break-downs and means
wet leaf is stored for long periods.
2.11      Although alternative locations for new processing capacity have
been considered -- in particular an expansion of the Songea facility, or
a new plant at Tabora which is at the center of the most important growing
area -- Morogoro is the best site for the current phase of expansion. A
particularly persuasive argument is that the physical plant at Morogoro
can be enlarged with only minor increases in management and technical staff.
Further, parallel processing lines at the same location give a flexibility
in handling tobacco which would be lost if a new factory were opened, whilst
the factory building at Morogoro is already available to accommodate the
improved and new line. Although semi-skilled labor is not plentiful at
Morogoro, there would be no difficulty in recruiting the additional num-
bers needed for the Project. The much smaller Songea factory which is
also close to full capacity offers, to a smaller extent, the management
advantage, but is badly located relative to most existing and anticipated
production compared with Morogoro which is on the major road and rail link
between all tobacco areas and the port of Dar es Salaam.
D. Government Tobacco Services (Annex 4)
Tobacco Authority of Tanzania
2.12      The Tobacco Authority of Tanzania (TAT) was established by the
Tobacco Industry Act of 1972 and is directly responsible for the develop-
ment of all facets of the tobacco industry including supervision of growers;
research on cultivation, processing and marketing; control over transport
and processing; and the regulation of marketing. The Minister of Agricul-
ture has direct responsibility for overseeing the activities of TAT. The
Authority itself is headed by a Board of Directors representing growers,
the Regional authorities and concerned Ministries of Government, and has
an Executive Chairman and a General Manager. In March 1976, TAT was re-
organized into 6 functional Departments: Administration, Finance, Market-
ing, Production, Development and Planning, and Research (Annex 4, Chart,
1/   Hand-stripping is done over some 36 five-day weeks with 2 shifts a day
by 350 workers stripping about 40 kg each per shift.



- 8 -
World Bank 15992). A Management Committee which meets once a month has
been formed to assist the General Manager with the formulation of over-
all policies for the Authority. Prior to the recent reorganization, TAT
had serious organizational and managemnent problems. While the organiza-
tional problems are now under control, TAT management is still hampered
by a lack of specialist staff, particularly in the Marketing and Finance
Departments. Steps are being taken to fill these gaps.
2.13      TAT purchases the tobacco crop from the growers, which for the
most part are organized in local village cooperatives which act as agents
for the growers in dealing with TAT. The leaf is purchased on the basis
of grade classifications, with prices for each grade being established in
advance by TAT. TAT arranges transport to Morogoro for processing by the
Tanzania Tobacco Processing Co. Ltd. (TTPC). TTPC consigns processed to-
bacco but responsibility for the transport and marketing of the leaf re-
mains with TAT which retains title to the leaf at all times.
2.14      In addition to providing extension and marketing services in the
tobacco areas, TAT is responsible for supply of inputs, including tobacco
seed and fertilizer. Recently the latter has been supplied with a 75% sub-
sidy. This has been justified in view of the temporarily exceptionally high
cost of fertilizers and has avoided the need for cumbersome credit opera-
tions. The cost, of Tsh 5.9 million in 1974/75 and Tsh 33 million in the
1975/76 season, was borne by TAT, and continuation at this rate would have
caused TAT's otherwise sound financial position to deteriorate rapidly. Gov-
ernment has, however, reduced the subsidy level to 50% for 1976/77, and is
proposing that most of the cost henceforth will be met from recurrent reve-
nues rather than charged to crop Authorities. Fertilizer subsidies are being
kept under scrutiny in connection with the National Maize Project (Cr. 606-TA)
and Government's policy regarding the continuation of the subsidy as a charge
on the Authorities would be reviewed in the same context.
Tanzania Tobacco Processing Co. Ltd. (TTPC)
2.15      TTPC was incorporated in 1966 and is now a wholly owned subsid-
iary of TAT. The Company is charged with responsibility for the processing
and re-drying of leaf purchased by TAT and preparing it for export. TTPC's
Board of Directors supervises the activities of the General Manager, who is
in charge of the Company's day-to-day operations. In reality, however, major
policy decisions affecting TTPC are made by the General Manager of TAT, who
exercises close control over the subsidiary's operations. TTPC's main ac-
tivity is the operation of the tobacco processing facility at Morogoro. The
maintenance of the plant and routine installation is under the supervisioni of
a Senior Engineer, but although TTPC has an adequate number of staff to assist
with plant operations, most of these are poorly trained and need intensified
supervision. TTPC's accounts indicate that the company is in a sound finan-
cial state, a fact made possible by the relatively high process'ing fee paid by
TAT.



III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The Project would, over a four year period (1976-1980), increase
the operational capacity of the Tanzania Tobacco Processing Company (TTPC)
facility at Morogoro from a maximum of 18.5 million kg cured leaf per annum
to some 41 million kg of which 36 million kg would be mechanically processed.
This expansion would be carried out in two stages; initially the existing
threshing line would be improved by the purchase of new equipment and qual-
ity control devices and, in 1978/79, a second somewhat larger line would be
installed. Specifically, the Project would include provision for:
(a) improvement and enlargement of the existing
processing line at Morogoro through the pur-
chase of equipment, machinery and quality
control devices;
(b) installation of a completely new processing
line;
(c) construction of two new storage facilities at
Morogoro and one new store and office in Dar
es Salaam;
(d) construction of roads, a water supply, offices,
railroad sidings and other basic infrastructure
at Morogoro;
(e) technical assistance and training; and
(f) a study of further tobacco processing invest-
ment requirements.
Overall responsibility for Project implementation including procurement
would be assumed by the Tobacco Authority of Tanzania (TAT), which would
delegate responsibility for day-to-day Project activities at Morogoro to
the Tanzania Tobacco Processing Company (TTPC).
B. Detailed Features
Machinery and Equipment (Annex 5)
3.02      Improvement of the Existing Processing Line.  Projections indi-
cate that, with normal production conditions, the future output of tobacco
in Tanzania will exceed the processing capacity of the country and provision



- 10 -
is therefore included under the Project for the immediate short term expan-
sion of the major facility at Morogoro. The Project would provide for the
purchase of additional machinery (classifier, airlift, dust collector, seives,
etc.) and quality control devices (Annex 5, Table 1). This new equipment
would both improve the quality of the leaf produced by the line, and increase
the total plant capacity from 18.5 to about 21 million kg (wet weight) per
annum, working a 39 week season. To be available for the 1977 season, this
equipment is required to be in place by late 1976 and it is imperative that
every effort be made to facilitate its timely purchase. Consequently, advance
contracts for the purchase of these items have been entered into prior to
approval of the Project by the Association, and retroactive financing is
recommended (para 3.16). Bank group guidelines have been followed throughout.
3.03      Installation of a New Line.  It is estimated that by 1978/79 the
total crop could once again exceed processing capacity. The Project would
therefore provide for the installation by that time of a new and somewhat
larger line to supplement the existing equipment. This new line would be
at Morogoro and would be able to handle up to 7,000 kg per hour wet cured
leaf tobacco. It would increase the plant operating capacity from 21 mil-
lion kg per annum to about 41 million kg per annum. In addition to expand-
ing overall capacity, the installation of a new line would also introduce
a degree of flexibility into the operation of the plant by enabling the
simultaneous mechanical processing of two different types of tobacco
destined for separate markets and customers and, by reducing the process-
ing season, would reduce risk of loss of wet leaf. Moreover, the exist-
ence of an alternative line would substantially reduce the likelihood of
a total plant shut-down due to equipment failure. The specific machinery
equipment and other items required for the new line are detailed in Annex 5,
Table 2.
3.04      Workshop Equipment.  In order to assure better maintenance of ex-
isting equipment, and to provide the tools necessary for the maintenance of
the new (and in part slightly more sophisticated) equipment, the Project
would include provision for tools for the engineering workshop run by TTPC.
This equipment would include a large lathe, a universal milling machine, a
large drilling machine, sheet metal machinery, a portable pipe threading
machine and pipe bending equipment.
Storage Facilities
3.05      To facilitate handling of the expanded volume of leaf to be pro-
cessed at Morogoro, adequate2storage facilities are required at the factory
site.  Of the iotal 38,700 m  of storage floor area now available at Moro-2
goro, 21,600 m is in well constructed go-downs but, of this, some 4,600 m
currently used for dry-leaf stora e would be taken up by the new process-
ing line. The remaining 17,100 m of space is under temporary sheds, many
of which are falling apart, have leaky roofs, and lack proper ventilation.
Since leaf stored under such conditions develops molds and deteriorates in
quality, substantial improvement of these storage facilities is important.
The Project would therefore include provision for the demolition of 33 of



- 11 -
the temporary sheds now used to store leaf, and for 2the construction of two
new stores, with floor areas of 2,600 m and 8,100 m respectively. Storage
can be used for wet-leaf and dry packed leaf interchangeably.
3.06      The peak inflow of cured tobacco can be expected at some time
between weeks 20 and 25 of a 35 week season and, given normal flows, would
comprise up to 30% of the season's production. However, a 2-week shut-down of
plant at this period and bottlenecks in shipping out processed tobacco could
increase storage demand to 35% of the season's throughput. Using this factor
and based on the planning capacity of 30 million kg2 by 1980 storage2would be
needed for 10.5 million kg of wet leaf, or 21,809 m  at 480 kg per m , end
for 8.5 million kg of pro essed leaf, or 9,400 m  at about 900 kg per m .
In addition, some 3,000 m  would be needed for stora e of packing materials.
Total storage need would therefore be about 34,200 m .
3.07      After the proposSd construction, tota2 floor space available at
Morogoro2would be 35,100 m , comprising 16 900 m  of existing good storage,
10,700 m of new construction, and 7,500 m of temporary sheds. This total
would meet the planning capacity of 2the plant in 1980 with a small margin,
and the permanent storage (27,600 m ) will meet a 35% peak storage demand
for the forecast crop of about 22.5 million kg of wet leaf in that year.
In the 1980s, further storage is likely to be needed and would be reviewed
in the survey (para. 3.12). A list of the existing and proposed storage
facilities at Morogoro together with their capacity is at Annex 5, Table 3.
3.08      Additional storage would also be required for tobacco being held
in Dar es Salaam pending export. At the present time, TAT has at its dis-
posal a large number of storage facilities in this area, some of which are
rented and some of which have been permanently acquired. Much of this space
is, however, quite unsuited either in size, condition or location for the
use to which it is being put, and immediate improvement of these facilities
is required to prevent unnecessary losses. The P5oject would therefore in-
clude provision for the construction of a 6,400 m  storage facility capable
of holding nearly five million kg of processed dry tobacco; the storage unit
would include areas for reception, fumigation and examination of the packed
leaf, and would include a small office building.
Infrastructure at Morogoro Plant Site
3.09      Additional infrastructural facilities would be required at the
Morogoro plant site both to allow better handling of the increased volume
of leaf processed there and to provide services for the expanded labor force
which will be recruited over the Project period. The investments required
would include improvement and extension of roads in the factory area, storm
drainage, railway sidings, and water storage and distribution; in addition,



- 12-
provision would be included for fencing, fire-fighting equipment and tele-
communications facilities. Finally, a number of staff buildings including
a training center, stores, a guard house, a workshop and offices would
be constructed (Annex 7, Table 2).
Technical Assistance and Training
3.10      In order to strengthen TTPC's management capability and to pro-
vide a more advanced engineering back-up for local staff, the Project would
include provision for technical assistance at the Morogoro processing plant.
Staff to be provided would include:
(a)  Engineering Manager.  The Manager would have overall
responsibility for the maintenance and efficient running
of the entire Morogoro plant. The candidate should pre-
ferably be a Tanzanian graduate engineer who would receive
training and support through the Project period from the
incumbent experienced Senior Engineer. However, in the
event that either a suitably qualified Tanzanian is not
available or the Senior Engineer does not continue in service,
an experienced engineer should be recruited internationally
and would be made responsible for training a Tanzanian coun-
terpart. Provision is made in the Project for the second,
more costly, course. At negotiations, Government agreed to
these arrangements for this key post, and declared TAT's
intention to continue to employ the incumbent senior engi-
neer. It also agreed that the agreement of the Association
would be obtained on the qualifications of any engineer
appointed and that the appointment of the graduate engineer
would be made within six months of Credit effectiveness.
(b)  Productivity Officer.  A Tanzanian Productivity Officer
would be appointed to the staff of TTPC, to improve
employee selection and training techniques, worker
motivation, make supervision and discipline more effec-
tive, and improve the working environment. He would
report directly to the General Manager, TTPC.
(c)  Production Staff.  Provision would be made for the
secondment of three experienced expatriate 1/ personnel
to train local operators at Morogoro; these specialists
would include a Threshing Line Supervisor, a Re-drying
Supervisor, and a Quality and Moisture Control Supervisor.
The first two experts would be required for two years
for about six months each year, while the latter would
be required for only four months in one year.
3.11      The Project would provide for selected training of factory staff.
Training would be provided for the Productivity Officer (para. 3.10) both
1/   Personnel could be hired from areas where the production season is
complementary to the Tanzanian season.



- 13 -
overseas (for about 10 weeks at a recognized institute) and on the job at
Morogoro under a consultant to be provided in the Project. The Project would
also include provision for a continuous training program for fitters and
electricians at the East African Railway Workshop in Dar es Salaam.
Tobacco Processing Study (Annex 6)
3.12      It is expected that the expanded Morogoro processing facility
would be operating at full capacity by the mid-1980s. As total produc-
tion of tobacco is expected to continue to expand in the following decade
(Annex 3), some future expansion of Tanzania's processing capability will
ultimately be required. The Project would therefore include provision for
a study to investigate the timing, scale and location of future investments
in tobacco processing facilities; particular attention would be given to the
desirability of establishing future plants at alternative locations within
Tanzania. The study would also evaluate future storage requirements and would
investigate the possibility of introducing a greater proportion of labor
intensive methods into processing.
C. Project Costs (Annex 7)
3.13      Total Project Cost is estimated at TSh 91.35 million (US$11.3
million) of which US$8.00 million (70%) represents the foreign exchange
requirement. These costs are detailed in Annex 7 and summarized below:



- 14 -
Foreign
Local   Foreign    Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
--------TSh'OU---------   -------US$'000-------          %
Machinery and
Equipment 1/
Improvement to
Existing Line          315    2,835    3,150       39      353      392   90
New Line               3,300   29,700   33,000       410   3,689    4,099   90
Sub-total          3,615   32,535   26,150      449   4,042    4,461
Storage
Morogoro Storage       4,446    4,446    8,892       552     552    1,104   50
Storage at Dar
es Salaam            6,150    6,150   12,300      764      764    1,528   50
Sub-total         10,596   10,596   21,192   1,316   1,316    2,632
Infrastructure
Roads and Drains       1,331       333    1,644      165      41       206   20
Water Supply             140        60      200       17       7        24   30
Facilities for
Employees            2,315    2,315    4,630      288      288      576   50
Security, Equip-
ment & Other
Costs                  675       75       750      84        9        93   10
Sub-total         4,461    2,783    7,244       554      345      899
Training                            85      500       51      11        62   17
Technical Assistance    464    2,630    3,094         58     327       385   90
Tobacco Processing
Study                  500      500    1,000       62       62       124   50
Base Cost Estimate   20,051   49,129   69,180   2,490   6,103    8,593
Contingency
Allowance
Physical             1,820    4,320    6,140       226     537       763   70
Price                5,219   10,847   16,066       648   1,348    1,996   67
Total Project Cost   27,090   64,296   91,386   3,365   7,987   11,352   70



- 15 -
Project costs have been estimated at January 1976 prices and are exclusive
of taxes.  A physical contingency of 10% has been included on buildings and
civil works, and price contingencies are at the following annual rates:  (a)
equipment and salaries - 1976:  10%; 1977-80:  8% a year; and (b) buildings
and civil works - 1976:  20%; 1977:  17%; 1978 and 1979:  15%.  Price escala-
tions total 23% of baseline costs. This is low relative to recent Project
experience because a large proportion of expenditures occur within the first 2
years of the Project, much of it for specialized equipment to be ordered in
1976.
D. Financing
3.14      The financing of Project costs would be shared in the following
amounts and proportions:
US$ million                %
IDA                        8.0                   70
TAT                        0.8                     7
TTPC                       2.5                   23
11.3                  100
The proposed IDA credit of US$8.0 million would be on standard terms, and
would cover all the foreign exchange costs of the Project (US$7.98 million)
or about 70% of total Project costs.
3.15      The credit funds would be channelled to Government which would
onlend, at 10% annual interest, to TAT for 7 years including 4 years grace and
to TTPC for 8 years including 3 years grace. The interest rate is that at
which the Authority and Company currently borrow internally. TAT and TTPC
would contribute the US$3.3 million necessary to meet the Project's local cost
requirements. The TAT and TTPC cash flows (para. 5.05) indicate that TAT
would be able to meet this obligation only with some changes in the charges --
sales taxes or the fertilizer subsidy -- that TAT is required to meet or in
the prices paid to farmers for tobacco, while TTPC's contribution assumes
continuation of adequate processing fees. Assurances were therefore obtained
at negotiations that TAT would be allowed to retain each year sufficient funds
to meet its obligations for Project financing and that TTPC's processing fee
would be maintained at a level which would cover its Project obligations.
Completion of a subsidiary loan agreement between Government, TAT and TTPC
would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
3.16      To ensure that the improvements to the existing threshing line
be carried out in time for the next processing season and to ensure the
construction of new storage both in Morogoro and in Dar es Salaam in time
to handle the expected increased volume of tobacco, authorization to enter



- 16 -
into contracts in advance of Board presentation, at Government's risk was
communicated to Government in January 1976, and part of the contracts would
be financed retroactively, subject to Board approval. Items and sums covered
by this authorization were:
Authorized
Advance               Retroactive
Contracts               Financing
------------   -Us $…
(a) Machinery and equipment
for improvements to the
existing line at Moro-
goro                              375,000                  337,500
(b)  ConstruEtion of a
2,600 m store at
Morogoro                          365,000                  106,500
(c) Constru5tion of a
6,400 m store and
office in the port
of Dar es Salaam                1,260,000                  250,000
2,00O,000                  694,000
The retroactive financing figures shown would be applicable if Board approval
was given as late as September 1976.
E. Procurement
3.17      Procurement from the Credit would be as follows:
(a) as there are only two or three suppliers of specialized
tobacco processing equipment, and as the order is small
(under US$375,000), but needed to be placed without
delay to meet delivery deadlines, equipment to improve
the existing line is being procured by international
shopping in accordance with Bank guidelines.
(b) the contract for the new cleaning and classifying
line, handling and packing equipment, quality control
equipment, additional boiler plant, electrical sub-sta-
tion and associated equipment, engineering machinery and
spare parts, and installation (US$4.5 million) would be
let as a turnkey contract to a major contractor selected
by international competitive bidding in accordance with
the Bank group guidelines. There is no significant advan-
tage for this new line to be supplied with equipment from
the same supplier as that referred to in (a) above.



- 17 -
(c) civil works construction amounting to $3.9 million is
divided between Dar es Salaam and Morogoro. Experience
in Tanzania indicates that the contracts would be too
small to attract international interest; this would be
procured by contracts subject to competitive bidding
advertised locally, for which foreign firms would still
be entitled to compete. Contracts let in advance of
Board presentation (para. 3.16, US$1.6 million) and
included in the above sum were advertised locally in
accordance with Bank group guidelines.
(d) the procurement of technical assistance, and of consultants
for the post-project investment study (US$0.6 million)
would be in accordance with the Bank group's guidelines
for selection and use of consultants.
Assurances would be obtained at negotiations that the above procurement
procedures would be followed.
F. Disbursement and Implementation (Annex 8)
3.18      Disbursement of funds from the Credit would be on the following
basis:
(a) 100% of the foreign exchange expenditure or 90% of
the local costs for purchasing machinery, handling
and packing equipment (US$4.9 million);
(b) 100% of the foreign exchange expenditure or 47% of the
local costs for storage and infrastructure facilities
(US$1.4 million);
(c) 100% of the foreign exchange expenditure or 70% of the
local costs for technical assistance, training and survey
(US$0.4 million);
(d) an unallocated amount of US$1.3 million representing
contingencies on the above categories and transferable to
them as required.
A schedule showing the estimated rate of disbursement is at Annex 8. Dis-
bursements would be fully documented. Any funds remaining in the accounts
at the completion of the Project would be available for reallocation at
the discretion of the Association. Annex 8 also indicates indices for
monitoring Project progress, and includes a chart (World Bank 15738) showing
the implementation of the Project.



- 18 -
G. Accounts and Audit
3.19      Separate accounts reflecting the income and expenditure of the
Project and normal commercial accounts geared to cost control and manage-
ment information related to all their operating departments would be kept
by TAT and TTPC. TAT's accounting has been strengthened by provision under
Cr. 217-TA of a Financial Controller to assist the Finance Department.
Credit 217-TA will be completed in 1976 but development will continue for
some years (para. 2.06). The Project would provide for the continuation
of the position (to be renamed Financial Manager) and, at negotiations,
assurances were given by Government that the post would continue to be
filled during the Project period with a suitably qualified person. Assurances
were also obtained at negotiations that accounts maintained by TAT and TTPC
would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association and
that the accounts and auditors reports would be submitted to the Association
within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01      The Tobacco Authority of Tanzania (TAT) would have overall respon-
sibility for the organization and management of the Project. The Tanzania
Tobacco Processing Co. Ltd. (TTPC), which currently operates the Morogoro
processing factory, would have specific responsibility for the expansion
of the plant's capacity and for the construction of storage and infrastruc-
ture at the plant. Both organizations are well established and experienced
(Annex 4). TAT would assume direct responsibility for the construction of
storage at Dar es Salaam, for the recruitment of technical assistance staff,
and for the tobacco processing study for which consultants would be hired.
Difficulties with details of past construction projects by TAT point to a
need for professional verification of specifications and performance. To
this end, TAT has recently employed a clerk of works, whose task is to
verify that materials and construction in civil works are in accordance
with specifications. At negotiations, Government agreed that such a
suitably qualified clerk of works would continue to be employed.
4.02      Under the Project, TAT's most important role in Project execution
would be to effect the procurement of the processing equipment required for
the plant. It is envisaged that procurement of the new threshing line would
be on a turnkey basis (para. 3.17 (a)) and that the contracts would provide
for supervision of installation, through to completion of acceptance trials,
by a qualified project engineer to be supplied by the principal contractor.
Consultant services would however be obtained by TAT to assist in the design
of the plant, preparation of the contract, and scrutiny of bids. TAT would
also have an important supporting function in that it would be responsible
for assuring the availability of an even flow of tobacco to the Morogoro plant
by supporting tobacco farmers with credit, extension services, and improved
curing, grading and baling facilities. It is considered that TAT is capable
of carrying out these functions in a satisfactorily efficient manner. The
financial position of TAT and TTPC is generally sound (paras. 2.13 and 2.14).



- 19 -
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Production and Capacity
Incremental Production
5.01      The outturn of processed tobacco from wet cured leaf at Morogoro
has averaged 85%, divided between leaf 65% and stem 20%. Although a mar-
ginal reduction in loss of up to 1% is possible with the new plant as well
as some improvement in grade, it has been assumed for evaluation purposes
that production from the Morogoro plant will continue to reflect a 15%
weight loss in processing. The incremental outputs have been calculated
over a base level of the highest output thought to be achievable with the
present Morogoro plant, 15.6 million kg dry leaf. The highest outturn ever
actually reached was about 13 million kgs dry weight in 1974 and, in that
year, over 6 million kg were hand stripped or sold in bundles. The incre-
mental outturn data, derived from cured leaf projections (para. 2.07 and
Annex 3) at 85% outturn are therefore conservative. They are (million kg
dry processed tobacco):
1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985
Incremental Output:
Planned for         1.8   4.3   6.9  10.1  13.3  15.6  16.7  18.0  19.3
Expected trend      -       -    1.4   3.4   5.7   8.6   9.1  11.2  12.0
Processing Capacity
5.02      Operational capacities of processing plants are considerably lower
than theoretical capacities and depend on the rate of inflow of cured leaf
and on management, labor productivity and maintenance. Under Tanzanian
conditions it is realistic to assume initial operating capacities of 70% of
maximum capacity, rising to 75% with five years of experience. Plant will
normally be kept running for 3 shifts totalling up to 22 hours a day, 5 days
a week. The processing season is set, on the one hand, by the harvesting of
tobacco leaf and, on the other hand, by the limited time that wet cured leaf
can be held in store prior to processing without molds and taint developing.
For Tanzania, a season of 30-35 weeks (150-170 days) is desirable although,
with good wet storage, this can be extended. The relationship of operating
capacity of the mechanical threshing lines, input and processing season
estimated for the Morogoro plant is shown in Annex 3 (paras. 6-8). It is
calculated that some extension of the season would be necessary if peak har-
vests occur in the period 1976-78 before the new plant becomes operational
and a further line would be needed by about 1983 if throughput runs close
to planning capacity. (This would be decided by the survey for post-project
investment). However, except for some strain in 1978, total capacity including
that to be provided by the Project would be adequate at all times on the basis
of expected growth of the crop.



- 20 -
B. Mlarkets and Price
Markets
5.03      The Tanzanian market takes around 4 million kg annually of flue-
cured and varying quantities of fire-cured tobacco. Local consumption has
been restrained by successive increases in excise duty and this policy is
likely to continue: the larger part of incremental production is, there-
fore, expected to be exported mainly to the United Kingdom and the rest of
the European Economic Community (EEC). Tanzania is already well established
in the former market where it obtains a duty preference, but its greatest
possibility lies in the EEC, where imports are expanding considerably faster
than in the UK and where the East African countries have Associated status
which gives them access to EEC duty free plus a preference of about 15%.
With this preference, the outlook for increased flue-cured tobacco exports
from Tanzania is encouraging even if Rhodesia should re-enter the world
market and, as the incremental processing under the project is little over
1% of world import demand in 1985, it is unlikely to effect international
market prices. The prospects for tobacco market'ing are detailed in Annex 9.
Prices
5.04      Tobacco leaf prices on the world market have trended upwards
with particular sharp increases of 15-25% occurring in 1974. The rise
was even greater for Tanzania flue-cured tobacco for which recent export
prices have been as follows:
--------------TSh…--------------
Processing Year                  1967   1969   1973   1974   1975
Average price/kg,
dry weight, FOB,
Dar-es-Salaam                   8.36   9.35   9.55  13.20  15.98
Given the close balance between projected supply and demand on the world
market in the coming five years, prices are expected to hold firm in constant
terms, with some upward movement anticipated in the early 1980s (Annex 9).
Therefore, the current export price of TSh 16.48 FOB Dar-es-Salaam (1976
values) has been used for evaluation.



- 21 -
C. Foreign Exchange and Cash Flows
5.05      The gross foreign exchange value of the tobacco crop is expected
to be about TSh 455 million (US$57 million) by 1985 (1976 prices), compared
with some TSh 217 million (US$27 million) in 1976. Tanzania would finance
some US$3.3 million of the Project cost (para. 3.14) of which US$2.5 million
would be drawn from TTPC and US$0.8 million would be supplied by TAT. Cash
flows for TAT and TTPC are shown in Annex 10, Tables 1 and 2. For cash
flow purposes, a processing fee to TTPC of TSh 2.50/kg has been assumed
throughout. Government would expect to receive duties at 12.5% on all tobacco
exports, excise duties on cigarettes, and a margin on the onlending to TAT and
TTPC that will give a positive cash flow of over US$5 million in 1979 rising
to US$9 million by 1985 (1976 prices) (Annex 10, Table 3). In fact, however,
Government's new policy on fertilizer subsidies (para. 2.14) will mean a
greater direct charge on the central budget while reducing the costs to be
met by TAT.
VI. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Nature of Benefits
6.01      The Project would provide needed capacity for processing antici-
pated increases in tobacco production: without such capacity, the incre-
mental crop could not be marketed and producers would operate alternative,
lower-value enterprises: alternative production of a mixture of maize,
groundnuts and cotton has been assumed to reflect the use to which farm
labor resources would be put if tobacco production for the market were not
possible (Annex 11, para. 2). Most of the incremental processed tobacco
would be exported, and the Morogoro factory would expand its work-force by
about 100 skilled and clerical staff and 325 semi-skilled workers over the
present permanent and seasonal work-force of about 2780 employees. The
Project's benefits therefore include increased farm incomes affecting, by
1985, some 100,000 smallholder families, increased foreign exchange earnings
and a small amount of direct employment.
Economic and Social Rate of Return
6.02      The internal economic rate of return (IER) on the Project as a whole
is estimated at 25% over 25 years (Annex 11). The IER on the investment in
storage at Morogoro and Dar es Salaam would be 16% on reasonable assumptions
regarding loss-savings on cured-leaf and processed tobacco (Annex 11, para.
7.) In these calculations, foreign exchange costs and earnings were shadow-
priced at TSh 10.00 per US$1.00 (124% of the official exchange rate of TSh
8.05 per US$1.00) to reflect the opportunity cost of foreign exchange. 1/
Other costs and benefits are taken at market prices in January 1976 terms,
net of taxes and excise. The social rate of return has not been calculated but
should approximate closely to IER as changes expected in the pattern of pri-
vate consumption as a result of the Project would not be significant on a
national scale.
1/   Since the appraisal of the Project the shadow exchange rate for
Tanzania has been revised to TSh 11.00 per US$1.00. Application of
this rate to the Project calculations would be marginally favorable.



- 22 -
Sensitivity Analysis
6.03      The Project could be adversely or favorably affected by several
factors and the influence of these on IER have been tested (Annex 11).
Risks faced in the Project include levels of tobacco production which differ
from projections, lower than predicted world market prices and increased
variable costs of processing. The Project is sensitive to the growth
of cured tobacco production and to export prices -- a consistent 10% re-
duction in either could reduce IER to 19% -- and if both adverse events
occurred simultaneously, IER would be reduced to 11%. However, a similar
combined increase would give an IER of nearly 42%. A detailed analysis was
carried out of production prospects (Annex 3) and the levels arrived at and
used in the evaluation are considerably below Tanzanian expectations. They
are also significantly below the recent trend (being some 7-1/2% a year
from 1975 to 1985 against nearly 12% a year average in the previous decade)
and are probably conservative. On the other hand, processing capacity is
being provided to accommodate a more than 25% higher level of production
than is the trend projected in the analysis and shortages of capacity due
to year-to-year fluctuations in production are unlikely. Provided
orders are placed in 1976, there is ample time for the new processing
line to be shipped and erected. A 15% increase in variable costs of
processing the anticipated crop would reduce IER to 16%: this is pro-
bably an outside risk as the major unpredictable cost, labor, is only 1/3
of the total. The Project IER is not very sensitive to changes in the
assumptions on "Without Project" benefits.
Ecological and External Effects
6.04      No liquid residues or gaseous fumes are discharged from the pro-
cessing factory which is electric powered. Fine residues of broken lamina
and stem are either used in making low quality cigarettes, or in the manu-
facture of card board boxes, and the weight loss in processing tobacco is
almost almost entirely from reduction of moisture content. No ecological
problems are anticipated in the Project,
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      At negotiations, agreement was reached on the following principal
points:
(a)  that the incumbent Senior Engineer would continue to
be employed through the Project period and a graduate
engineer, whose qualifications had been approved by
the Association, would be employed within six months
of Credit effectiveness (para. 3.10 (a));
(b)  that Government would ensure that charges on TAT were
such as to allow TAT, and in turn TTPC, to retain
sufficient funds to meet their obligations under the
Project (para. 3.15);



- 23 -
(c) that the position of Financial Manager in TAT would
continue to be filled by a suitably qualified person
(para. 3.19);
(d) that TAT would continue to employ a suitably qualified
clerk of works whose task would be to verify that materials
and construction of civil works under the Project are in
accordance with specifications (para. 4.01).
7.02      Assurances were also given at negotiations that, as a condition of
effectiveness, a Subsidiary Loan Agreement would be completed between govern-
ment, TAT, and TTPC (para. 3.15)
7.03      The proposed Project would be suitable for an IDA Credit  of US$8.0
million on standard terms to the Government of Tanzania.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
TANZANIA
TOBACCO PROCESSING PROJECT
Tobacco Production in Tanzania
Introduction
1.     Two main types of tobacco are currently grown in Tanzania:  flue-
cured used for Virginia tobacco, and fire-cured used for dark tobacco.
The former is used almost entirely in the manufacture of cigarettes,
while the latter is used in pipe smoking mixtures, chewing tobacco and
to a minor extent in cigarettes (dark cigarettes and shag tobacco for
individually rolled cigarettes). In addition to these, some limited
areas have recently been devoted to the cultivation of burley tobacco.
The main tobacco growing areas in Tanzania are illustrated on the map
(IBRD 12126).
2.     Production of flue-cured tobacco (grown principally in the West-
ern region and the Iringa area) has grown from 3.9 million kg in 1964/65
to some 12.5 million kg in 1974/75. Likewise, fire-cured production
(mainly from the Ruvuma area) has grown from 1.2 million kg in 1964/65
to some 3.0 million kg in 1974/75. Flue-cured production showed a steady
increase in each year (except for 1974/75 when production declined),
while the fire-cured crop has fluctuated from year to year with no con-
stant rate of increase. About 90% of the overall crop is produced by
some 40,000 smallholders cultivating rather under 0.5 ha each. The
average smallholder produces a crop with a potential yield of about 1,000
kg of wet, cured leaf per ha, but it is estimated that on average, he
loses about 10% of his crop in the field due to lack of barn capacity,
10% in the barn through poor curing techniques and another 25% in in-
efficient bulking and grading operations (usually due to leaking roofs
and poor construction of grading sheds); consequently, the average small-
holder produces only 550 to 600 kg/ha of saleable tobacco.
Curing, Grading and Bulking
3.     After harvesting, the tobacco leaves are tied into bundles or "hands"
and packed evenly into a barn for curing -- a heating process whereby the
tobacco is yellowed, the color fixed, and the product dried. For flue-
curing, hot air from a furnace is passed through flue-pipes to heat the
interior of the barn. Sacks are then put on the flue pipes and water
poured over them and produce steam; it is this "steaming" of the tobacco



ANNEX 1
Page 2
which produces the desired yellow hue. When the process is complete,
the sacks are removed and the barn temperature gradually raised over
some six or more days. At this point, the color is "fixed" and the
heat is turned off completely. The tobacco is then left to cool in
the barns until completely dried.
4.     After curing, the tobacco is graded by the farmers.  Leaves of
the same color, length from the same position on the plant, and having
the same amount of spotting are put together and retied into "hands".
In this form, smallholders deliver the crop to local village coopera-
tives for sale to the Tobacco Authority of Tanzania (TAT); the leaf is
purchased on the basis of a grade classification, with prices for each
grade being established in advance by TAT. The "hands" are then bulked
by grade and packed into baling boxes lined with paper and hessian.
Each "bale" normally holds some 100 kg. Once baled, the tobacco is in
a form suitable for transport for processing. The marketing season
runs from February through March.
Tobacco Processing
5.     TAT undertakes or, more commonly, arranges transport by road and
rail to the processing plant. The fire- cred tobacco is mostly sent for
processing in the TAT factory in Songea - while all the flue-cured
tobacco (as well as some fire-cured) is transported to the newer TAT
processing facility at Morogoro.
6.     The processing of tobacco involves the blending and preparation
of the leaf, followed by drying of the product to specified moisture
contents. Three different types of processing can be used; these,
beginning with the most simple process, are:
(a) Bundle Packing. Here the whole leaf bundles received
from the farmer are re-graded if necessary, re-dried
and packed exactly as is.
(b) Hand Stripping. This is a manual process whereby the
mid-rib (or stem) of the leaf is separated from the
lamrina (leaf), with each component then re-dried and
packed separately.
1/ As the Project is not concerned with this factory (which will
continue in operation), no further discussion of this facility
is considered necessary.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
(c) Threshing. Threshing is the separation of the stem
(or mid-rib) from the lamina (or leaf) by a mechanical
process. The bundles of leaves are moved on a con-
veyor belt through a cutter which removes the tips
so that these are not threshed, and breaks open the
bundles. The leaves are then shaken over sieves to
remove dust and passed on to a series of threshers
in which the lamina is beaten from the stem. The
pieces of lamina are then blown off by airlift separa-
tors. This separation is repeated after each thresh-
ing to reduce fragmentation of the lamina (larger
pieces have higher values). The separated lamina and
stems are re-dried by heat down to a very low moisture,
and then, after cooling, controlled moisture percentages
(usually 10-15%) are restored. The object of the re-
drying process is to reach a safe storage moisture con-
tent, and most importantly, to ensure the chosen content
is uniform throughout the consignment. Leaf is normally
taken straight off the re-drying machine and packed
while still warm into cates, hessian bales or hog-heads
(barrels) as appropriate for the particular customer
for which it is destined. Stem is packed and sold
separately.
7.     The standardization of moisture content is a necessary pre-
requisite of proper aging. An accurate consistent moisture content
is especially important for leaf destined for the United Kingdom,
which is the main export market for Tanzania, both because of the very
high specific duty rates charged by weight and the increased rate of
duty payable on tobacco imported at less than 10% moisture.
8.     After processing and packing, the tobacco is consigned to its
domestic or overseas purchasers by TTPC, usually by rail but also by
road. Transport is again the responsibility of TAT but TTPC vehicles
used to bring in packing materials from Nairobi are also used on occa-
sion. Export orders are fumigated and stored by TAT in go-downs at
Dar es Salaam prior to shipping. Customers take delivery FOB.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
TANZANIA
TOBACCO PROCESSING PROJECT
Tanzania:  Flue-Cured Tobacco Project
(Cr. 217-TA)
1.     An IDA credit for US$9.0 million was extended in October 1970 for
a project aimed at increasing the production of flue-cured tobacco in
Tanzania by about 9 million kg by 1978. The project specifically in-
cluded provision for:
(a) settlement of 15,000 new tobacco growers in villages
of 100 farmers each, 10 such villages which would
comprise a complex sharing common services and
being served by a cooperative society;
(b) seasonal and medium farm credit for farm imports;
(c) construction of curing barns and grading sheds;
(d) access roads and water supplies for each village;
(e) administrative staff including extension workers,
training, and tobacco research;
(f) additional tobacco storage, processing activities
and construction of auction floors.
Responsibility for the crop development, training and research was given
to the Tanganyika Tobacco Board (the predecessor of the Tanzania Tobacco
Authority); and the Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB) was given
responsibility for the extension of credit to the Project tobacco far-
mers. The Project became effective on January 15, 1971.
2.     By February 1972, it became apparent that the project was well
behind schedule. In particular, settlement of farmers in Ujamaa
villages was well behind appraisal estimates. Much of this difficulty
was attributed to local over-enthusiasm in the implementation of the
Government's Ujamaa policy by pressuring farmers to undertake collective
cultivation of tobacco. The appraisal mission had proceeded on the
assumption that cultivation would be on an individual basis with each
farmer having about 0.5 ha under tobacco, and each having his own cur-
ing barn and gradirng shed. The decision to collectivize cultivation



ANNEX 2
Page 2
had severe repercussions on the rate of farmer recruitment and even
resulted in the abandonment of tobacco-growing by some Project farmers.
As a result, after one year the established tobacco area was only one-
third of what had been expected. Other difficulties were precipitated
by Government's decisions to build large curing barns for each village
(rather than allowing individual simple structures), and to install a
more sophisticated type of water system in the villages than had been
originally planned. As the problems with grower recruitment became
steadily more apparent, Government took steps to alleviate the situa-
tion. Most importantly, it agreed that the type of cultivation within
each settlement would be left to the discretion of the project farmers.
Thereafter, recruitment of farmers to the project increased substantially.
3.     In light of the changed conditions, Government requested that IDA
review the entire project with the aim of providing more realistic develop-
ment targets and cost estimates. A full project review in the fall of
1972 resulted in recommendations for the reallocation of the Credit to
allow for more expensive water systems, and for rephasing of physical
development and costs. The closing date of September 30, 1976 remains
unchanged, however.
4.     By the 1974/75 growing season, some 7,160 project farmers were
cultivating at least minimum areas of tobacco. Some apprehension has
been expressed that much of this growth in numbers is unselective,
attributed to Government's villagization program, and it has not always
been possible to select the potentially most efficient farmers. More-
over, overall the area cultivated per average farmer has remained low.
This has been attributed to the large proportion of farmers who are
newly recruited, and who are obliged to devote a large part of their
time to building houses and curing barns, and to the cultivation of food
crops before establishing major tobacco areas. It is expected that the
1975/76 season will be one of consolidation, and that the recruitment of
new growers will be restricted in order to allow project management to
provide more efficient services to participating farmers. This will
of course mean that the total number of farmers involved at project
completion will be substantially below the projected figure, probably
some 9,500 as compared with 15,000 estimated at appraisal.
5.     The reduction in the number of farmers participating in the project
(as well as numerous other factors discussed in Annex 3) has direct
implications for the total volume of production expected to be achieved
by the end of the project period. Total project production of wet leaf
in 1974/75 was 675,000 kg, as compared to estimates of 3.9 million kg
made at the time of appraisal. Likewise, current indications show an
expected volume of 1.2 million kg of wet leaf in the 1975/76 season, as
compared with the 6.3 million kg forecast earlier. This project produc-



ANNEX 2
Page 3
tion is a small proportion of the total volume of flue-cured tobacco
produced in Tanzania. Growth of production in the 20-years since
tobacco was introduced has been based on an established smallholder
farms who have gradually integrated the crop with their existing enter-
prises and who have not been faced simultaneously with the problems found
in Cr. 217-TA of resettlement, shortages of water and heavy land clear-
ing tasks. Total production in 1974/75 was some 12.0 million kg. This
was down from some 15.5 million kg in 1973/74 - a reduction attributed
to drought combined with the effects of an accelerated villagization
program which took place in 1974, but output is expected to expand
considerably in 1975/76 possibly to around 18.0 million kg (Annex 3,
Table 2). From now on, project production should begin to represent
an increasingly significant part of total national wet leaf production;
preliminary figures show that it should rise from 5.6% of the total in
1974/75 to 9% in 1975/76.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
TANZANIA
TOBACCO PROCESSING PROJECT
Past 7oTacco Production and Forecasts of Growth of the Crop
1.     Two main types of tobacco have been grown in Tanzania, flue-
cured (principally in Western Region and Iringa) and fire-cured
(principally in Rukwa, West Lake and Kigoma). Burley growing has
started only recently.  Production over the last eleven years is
summarized in the Table below. The flue-cured tobacco production has
steadily increased from 3.9 million kg cured leaf in 1964/65 to a
peak of 15.2 million kg in 1972/73, while fire-cured production has
fluctuated from year to year.
Tobacco Production (million kg/cured leaf)
Production         Flue-Cured         Fire-Cured          Burley        Total
Year
64/65                 3.91               1.22               -            5.13
65/66                 3.58               1.50               -            5.08
66/67                 4.58               3.18               -            7.76
67/68                 8.15               2.13               -           10.28
68/69                 8.89               3.50               -           12.39
69/70                 8.74                2.14              -           10.88
70/71                10.56                3.60              -           14.16
71/72                11.58                1.85              -           13.43
72/73                15.20                2.91              -           18.11
73/74                11.09               4.1               .01          16.11
74/75                11.94                2.3              .02          14.26
2.     The Miombo woodlands, widespread in central Tanzania, offer favour-
able agro-climatic conditions for tobacco growing. Besides the attractive
returns to land and labor, tobacco fits well in the crop rotation with
staple foods in the smallholder economy. With proper land use planning,
supervised credit, extension and other facilities of water, fuel wood
supply and curing barns, it is feasible to expand tobacco production.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
The TAT forecast of expected expansion of tobacco production for the
period 1975/76-1979/80 is presented below:
TAT Forecast of Tobacco Production 1975/801'
(million kg cured leaf)
Production      Processing      Flue-Cured      Fire-Cured      Burley      Total
Year            Year                                                      _
75/76            76              23.0            4.7           1.4        -9.1
76/77            77              27.0            5.1           1.5       33.6
77/78            78              31.7            5.5           1.6        38.8
78/79            79              34.9            5.9           1.8        42.6
79/80            80              37.5            6.3           1.9        45.7
1/ TAT Report No. 1085/RI dated March 24, 1975.
3.     Any accurate projection of future production is rather difficult
due to the many uncertainties involved. The TAT forecast of a 200%
increase in production in the coming five years appears optimistic. The
following are considerations in forecasting:
(a) The villagization program is likely to slow down the rate of
growth of production. Recruitment of farmers in tobacco
villages takes time, especially in areas such as the Chunya
district, where competition for labor from other sectors
(like steel, gold mining and the Lake Rukwa project) reduces
the prospects of getting more tobacco growers. Once re-
cruited, the new growers give priority to building houses and
curing barns, and clearing land for food crops. Few of them
plant tobacco in the initial year, and those who plant have
0.2 to 0.3 ha per family under tobacco as against the full
potential averaging 0.8 ha per family.
(b) The experience of the ongoing IDA-financed project (Annex 2)
indicates that delays in construction of village water
supplies (due to the shortage of cement, pipes and pumps and
to insufficient staff capacity of Maji) have resulted in fewer
growers and less area planted per family and also lower yields
per unit of land; thus the production is lagging three years
behind the appraisal estimate. These constraints may continue



ANNEX 3
Page 3
to hinder production progress in the future.
(c) In order to meet the food shortages, the producer price
of maize has been increased from TSh 265/ton in 1968/69
to TSh 750/ton in 1974/75 (i.e. an increase of 183% in
the last six years), while the producer price of flue-
cured tobacco has increased from TSh 5160 per ton to
TSh 7000 during the same period (i.e. 36%). This higher
relative price combined with subsidized input supply under
the IDA-financed expanded National Maize Project is likely
to shift use of land and labor resources more towards maize
than tobacco resulting in reduced area per family,
especially in tobacco/maize crop zone.
(d) To encourage tobacco production, TAT is providing fertilizers
to tobacco growers at heavily subsidized rates (about 75%).
The fertilizer subsidy alone amounted to TSh 33 million in
the 1974/75 season, and this has had a deteriorating effect
on the financial position of TAT. At this rate, TAT is
losing about TSh 2.75/kg of tobacco produced. If this sub-
sidy is continued, the total obligation would rise to TSh 65
million by 1985, causing heavy losses to TAT, but if Govern-
ment should change this policy by withdrawing all or part
of the subsidy on fertilizers, it may reduce the number of
growers and also yields per unit of land.
(e) One ha of indigenous forest is presently being used to cure
tobacco production from one ha. If a well planned afore-
station program is not executed, tobacco growers would be
required to fetch wood from natural reserves from distances
of 10 to 15 miles. This would involve heavy transport
costs and considerable labor. Absence of easy access to
fuelwood may be a constraint on crop growth in several older
established areas.
(f) Unfavorable weather conditions, late rains or prolonged dry
periods have affected yields in the past and this could happen
during any year of the project period. Projections tend to
underrate the effect of inter-year fluctuations in yield.
(g) In Iringa region, expatriate growers have been responsible
for about 25% of the total national production. Should they
decide to leave the country, a considerable drop in the TAT's
projected production could result.
(h) The average Tanzanian leaf export price, FOB Dar es Salaam,
expressed in 1975 constant terms per kg of dry leaf, has
increased gradually from TSh 8.4 in 1966/67 to over TSh



AYNEX 3
Page 4
16.0 in 1975/76 (i.e. an increase of 95% in the last nine
years). (On the world market, leaf prices tended upwards
by an average of 38% during 1966 to 1973). Sharp increases
occurred in 1974 when the average price of Tanzanian flue-
cured leaf was over 25% above that of 1973. Although
according to projections,l/ there would be a close balance
between the projected supply and demand on the world market
through 1985 and the prices are likely to hold firm, this
is always an uncertain area. Production in Tanzania would
tend to be sensitive to world merket price movements
both above and below expectations.
(i) On the plus side, Government's ongoing efforts to encourage
tobacco production through TAT and expected to continue
with a view to earning foreign exchange and should result in
a trend towards significant increases in national production.
4.     Since data for accurate projections of tobacco production are not
available and simple extrapolation of trends has no special validity,
a probability analysis was adopted to arrive at estimates of projected
production of flue-cured tobacco. The 1973/74 data on number of growers,
area per grower and yield per unit of land in each of the major growing
areas of Tabora, Mpanda, Chunya and Iringa Regions were first assigned
lowest and highest limits and then a probability (estimates based on the
uncertainties discussed in para. 3 above) of occurance was attached to each
of five levels in the range for each of the categories for each year
(1976 through 1985 ) for every Region, and a frequency distribution ob-
tained for each Region. The mean value on the frequency distribution
represents the most probable production in each Region. The values thus
obtained for the highest, lowest and most probable production were
tabulated for each region and by year and summed. Confidence limits at
the 95% level were also established for this expected value for each year
and Region (Table 1). Since the production of flue-cured tobacco in
other areas and the production of fire-cured and burley tobacco is
relatively small, no separate probability analysis was done for these
crops. TAT's projected values for them were modified on the basis of the
trends found in the probability analysis for flue-cured production in the
major areas and added to the flue-cured values to obtain the total highest,
lowest and most probable expectation of production in the country.  ihe
total projected tobacco production is summarized in Table 2.
5.     Fluctuations in production around even the most highly accurate
trend forecast are to be expected and processing capacity has to be
available for peak crops. A capacity level above expected production is
1/ IBRD Report No. 814-Price Forecasts for Major Primary Commodities -
July 1975.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
needed for planning a processing line. The estimate used, somewhat
arbitrarily, was the level mid-way between the highest and the most
probable production levels, some 25% above the latter.  Not only does
this provide for a higher capacity to cover the risk of production
exceeding the trend level but also gives a lead time to expand the
tobacco processing industry on a long-term basis should the trend prove
higher than expected.  The projections of total lowest, highest, most
probable production and the level used for planning processing line
capacity are shown on the attached Chart, World Bank 15587.
6.     The relationship of the capacity of mechanical threshing lines
to the expected and planning inputs of cured leaf is best described
in the number of processing days needed to handle the crops. 'Capacity'
in this context, however, means operational capacity, and not the
maximum or theoretical capacity of the machines. Operational capacities
of processing plants are considerably lower than theoretical capacities
and depend on the rate of inflow of cured leaf and on management, labor
productivity and maintenance. Operational capacities of 80% and above
are considered good and are only achieved in well established plants
supplied by a reliable marketing organization. Under Tanzanian con-
ditions, initial operating capacities of 70% of maximum capacity, rising
to 75% with five years of experience would be a realistic estimate.
Plant will normally be kept running up to 22 hours a day, 5 days a week.
The processing season is set, on the one hand, by the harvesting of
tobacco leaf and, on the other hand, by the limited time that wet cured
leaf can be held in store prior to processing without molds and taint dev-
developing. For Tanzania, a season of 30-35 weeks (150-170 days) is
desirable although with good wet storage, this can be extended.
7.     Based on the operating capacity of the mechanical threshing lines,
the processing season estimated for the Morogoro plant on the basis of
the planning input and the expected input respectively would be as
follows:
1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985
Planning input
Cured leaf (mln kg)  11.2  13.6  16.3  21.1  24.9  28.5  31.3  32.7  34.1  35.6
Processing days:      196   196   235   118   139   154   169   172   180   188
Expected input
Cured leaf (mln kg)   8.6   9.6  12.6  14.3  17.5  19.8  23.1  23.6  26.1  27.1
Processing days:      151   139   182    80*   98*  107   125   125   138   143
8Vperations would in fact be over 125 and 150 days in two shifts a day.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
8.     At the higher (planning level), it is shown that although the
input to the mechanical lines is increased from 1976 to 1977, the number
of processing days required remains the same, reflecting the improve-
ments to the existing line which would be operational by 1977. In
1978, quite serious extension of the season would be necessary if a peak
harvest occured, and even the expected level of input before the new
plant becomes operational would call for a season somewhat longer
than is desirable. For 1979 and 1980, there would be surpluses capacity
even in a peak season: but plant investments are lumpy and the next
smallest possible line (with a theoretical capacity of 4500 kg/hr)
would not,provide adequate capacity, whilst even on the present plan a
further line would be needed by about 1983 if throughput runs close to
planning capacity. However, except for the strain in 1978, total
capacity including that to be provided by the Project would be adequate
at all times through 1985 on the basis of the expected trend of growth
of the crop.



TANZANIA
TOBACCO PZOCESSIUD4  PROJECT
Projections of Flue-cured Tobacco Production from Major Growing Areas by Region, 1976-1985
(million kg)
1976             1977             1978             1979            1980        _     98.              1982             1983             1984             1985
TABORA
Highesc projected produictior         11.41            15.96            16.71            19.16            Z3.31            25.91             26.60            27.49            28.30            28.50
Moat probable production               9.06             9.73            10.46            11.33            13.14             15.0             16.30            17.34            18.37            19.01
Lowest projected production            6.71             6.76             7.34             7.37             8.09             9.0               9.35            10.49            10.64            11.12
iPANDA
Highest orojected produetion             .70             .83             1.1              1.53              2.20             2.35             2.38             2.56             2.74             2.94
MSost probable production               .40              .47              .56               .6S              .91            1.06              1.17             1.18             1.30             1.44
Lowest rrojected produzetion            .17              .17              .24               .26             .33               .36              .40              .43              .47              .50
CHUNYA
Highest proj'cted production           1.47             1.78             2.16             2.65             2.87             3.11              3.60             3.72             3.85             4.00
Most probable production               1.03             1,14             1.29             1.45             1.60              1.87             2.09             2.14             2.30             2.45
Lowest nrojeeted produetJon             .63              .70              .71              .79              .86              1.09             1.14             1.16             1.20             1.25
IRINGA- large farms
Highest nro ected oroduction             .94             1.34            1,52              1,76             1.88             2.34             2.44             2.48             2.52              2.57
Most probable production                .48               .56              .72              .82              .97             1.08             1.17             1.24             1.30              1.40
Lowest erojected Droduction              .24             .25              .27               .31              .39              .56              .62              .69               .71              .75
.RINGA- Smallnolders
Highest orojected production           3.73             3.91             3.94             4.17             3.87              3.56             3.25             2.99             2.63             2.49
Most probable production               2.80             2.91             2.94             2.97              2.81             2.75             2.60             2.40             2.21              2.10
Lowest projected production            1.88             2,05             2.01             2.00             1.92              1.90             1.88             1.71              1.34             1.34
Confidence Levels (95%) for 'most probable" production
Tabora                            8.93-9.19        9.71-9.76      10.44-10.4Q      11.30-11.36      13.11-13.18      14.77-15.22      16,06-16.55       17.08-17.60      18.12-18.62      18.76-19.26
Mpanda                             .39- .41         .44- .50        .54-  .58        .62-  .68        .88-  .94       1.01- 1.12        1.13- 1.20       1.L5- 1.22       1.25- 1.37       1.38- 1.54
Chunya                            1.01-1.06        1.09-1.19       1.26- 1.32       1.41- 1.5()      1.58- 1.64       1.83- 1.91        2.06- 2,17       2.00- 2.20       2.25- 2.38       2.29- 2.52
Iringa   L large farms             .47-  50         .53- .58        .67-  .73        .77-  .85        .92- 1.01        .99- 1.17        1.13- 1.23       1.18- 1.34       1.63- 1.41       1.32- 1.49
Iringa - Smallhollers             2.74-2.86        2.86-2.97       2.88- 2.99       2.92- 3.03       2.76- 2.88       2.69- 2.83       2,55- 2.66        2.35- 2.56       2.15- 2.27       2.03- 2.18
2-K



TANZANIlA
TOBACCO PROCESSITO PROJEC'r'
Projected Total Tobacco Production in Tanzania
(million kgl
Total Projected for       5/
Processing at Morogoro Plant
__________  Flue-cured      __________________         Fire-Cured for                   Total Projected Most
1/                 2/ Total Flue-Cured            Processinp  at  E/ y), Probable Production                                        Most       Used for
From Major Growing Areas         Other Areas    Used for Planning                                                                      lowest    Highest   Probable    Planninp
Production                       Most    Used for                                         3/
Year      Lowest Highest  Probable  Planning                                              Songea         rogoro
1        2        3         4              5                  6                7               8          9               10                  11         12         13            14
1975/76      9.6      18.3     13.8       16.6           1.0              17.6              4.7              -           .7            20.2                  9.9       20.0       15.5         18.3
1976/77      9.9      23.8     14.8       18.2           1.1              19.3              4.9              -         0.8             21.6                 10.5       25.0       16.5         20.5
1977/78     10.6      25.4     16.0       19.3          1.3               20.6              4.o             i.o        0.9             23.2                 11.5       29.5       18.0         23.4
1978/79     10.7      29.3     17.2       21.3           1.4              22.7              4.1             1.1         1.0            24.8                 12.0       34.0       20.0         26.5
1979180     11.6      34.1     19.4       24.6           1.5              26.1              4.2             1.2        1.3              27.6                13.5       39.0       22.5         30.2
1980/81     12.9      37.3     21.8       27.8           1.7              29.5              4.3             1.3        i.4             30.5                 14.0       42.5       25.0         34.0
1981/82     13.4      38.3     23.3       29.9           1.9              31.8              4.8             1.4         1.,             33.3                16.0       44.0       28.5         36.7
1982/83     14.5      39.2     24.3       30.5           2.0              32.5              5.1             1.5        2.4             35.3                 18.0       46.0       29.0         38.0
1983/84     14.6      40.0     25.5       31.3           2.1              33.4              5.4             1.6        3.3              37.9                18.5       47.0       31.5         39.5
1984/85     15.0      40.5     26.4       32.1           2.2              34.3              5.6             1.7        3.4              39.3                19.0       49.0       32.5         41.0
1/  includes Tabora, Mpanda, Chunya and Iringa.  For details of these pr" cctinns see Anney 3, Table 1.
2,  3ncludes Rukwa, Singida, Shinyanga, Figoma and Lindi. Based on TAT forecasts.
3 i/  of' t3- fire-cured tobacco is processed at Songea, but for 1977/78 some quantities rould be processed at Morogoro.
Ilased or TA! f'orecasts.
2/t  Exolndime  proxcc.zing of fire cured leaf at Songea.
Aoril 1, 1976



TANZANIA
TOBACCO PROCESSING PROJECT
Projected Total Tobacco Production
For Processing At Morogoro Plant 1
l    l                                I                 
50.0
-I 45.0.._                                                                                _
Z                                                               000, _00 HIGHEST PROJECTED PRODUCTION
O400                       /                         /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
a.
0
EC  40.0  -
0
0
0
1 35.0
0
1n 0         _, _ *                ~                     _ '      LOWES PROJECTEDPRODUCTION LEVEL USED FOR
PLANNING OF PROCESSING LINE
CAPACITY
2
: 30.0                      9.
Z                                                                  .l  MOST PROBABLE PRODUCTION
0                     9.-0
I 25.0 -
0
0
0
~~~~~~~  20.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.0
15.0                                                               0
0    LO WEST PR OJ ECT ED PRODU CTION
1976       77         78         79         80         81         82          83        84         85
PROCESSING YEAR
1/
Exculding Firecured Tobacco Expected to Be Processed At Songea
World Bank-15587






ANNEX 4
Page 1
TANZANIA
TOBACCO PROCESSING PROJECT
The Tobacco Authority of Tanzania (TAT)
and the Tanzania Tobacco Processing Co. Ltd (TTPC)
The Tobacco Authority of Tanzania (TAT)
1.     The Tobacco Authority of Tanzania was established by the
Tobacco Industry Act of 1972. It replaced and took over the assets
and staff of the Tanganyika Tobacco Board, (TTB) set up in 1963 with
monopoly powers of tobacco buying and marketing, although two ex-
patriate companies were used as agents for flue-cured and fire-cured
export sales. TAT has much wider powers than were accorded TTB, and
is directly responsible for the development of all facets of the
tobacco industry including supervision of tobacco growing; carrying
out research on cultivation, processing and marketing; control over
transport and processing; and the regulation of marketing.
2.     TAT comes under the direction of the Minister of Agriculture.
It is headed by a Board of Directors which includes three Regional
Development Directors of principal tobacco producing Regions; rep-
resentatives of the Ministries of Agriculture, Finance & Trade; a
number of farmers; and representatives from TANU. The authority has
an Executive Chairman and a General Manager. From 1 March 1976, TAT
has been reorganized into 6 functional Departments and is to have a
Regional representative in each producing area. The new organization
is shown in Chart, World Bank 15992 attached. The Management Committee
shown on the Chart is to meet once a month as a steering committee on
policy to assist the General Manager and comprises the Departmental
heads, the Internal Auditor, the Chairman of the Workers Council and the
TANU Secretary. TAT's headquarters are at Morogoro but an office is
also maintained in Dar es Salaam.
3.     TAT has had serious organizational and management problems but
the situation was improved in 1975 with the appointment of a new General
Manager who has concentrated his Departmental heads in Morogoro and has
injected new vigor into the organization. It is however, still hampered
by lack of specialist staff particularly in the Marketing and Finance
Departments.
4.     Comparative balance sheets for TAT at December 31st, 1974 and
1975 show a good liquid situation, but the net after-tax profit is
deteriorating. The Profit in 1974/75 was TSh 23 million but for 1975/76



ANNEX 4
Page 2
TAT is expecting a loss of TSh 12.8 million. This is a result of (a)
lower production (down from 15.5 million kg in 1973/74 to 11.9 million
kg in 1974/75), due principally to adverse weather, (b) an increase
in sales tax from 10% to 12.5% costing TSh. 22.1 million in 1974/75
but TSh 32 million in 1975/76; and (c) an increase in the cost of the
fertilizer subsidy, paid in full by TAT, from TSh. 5.9 in 1974/75 to
TSh. 28.9 million in the following year. Under the Tobacco Industry
Act, power to provide for the fees, costs, disbursements and prices
to be charged or paid by TAT rests with the Minister of Agriculture.
The Tanzania Tobacco Processing Co. Ltd. (TTPC)
5.     The Tanzania Tobacco Processing Co. is a wholly owned subsidiary
of TAT and was originally incorporated under the Companies Ordinance
(Cap. 212) as a company with limited liability in 1966. Consideration
is being given to formally making TTPC an autonomous department of
TAT, principally to avoid the current:situation under which its sur-
pluses are subject to a 45% Companies tax from which TAT is exempt.
The company operates the processing factory at Morogoro, and consigns
processed tobacco to its purchaser; at no time does TTPC assume owner-
ship of the tobacco which remains the property of TAT from purchase
in the growing areas until accepted at FOB by overseas buyers or de-
livered to the Tanzania Cigarette Company for domestic manufacture.
6.     The eight Directors of TTPC comprise 3 ex-officio members from
TAT namely the Executive Chairman, the General Manager, and the Develop-
ment and Planning Manager; three persons representing the political and
other interests of the Morogoro area, namely the Regional Party Chair-
man, the Area Commissioner, and the Regional Development Director; and
the Leaf Manager of the Tanzania Cigarette Company representing local
manufacturers interests. The eighth member is the Operations Manager
of the National Development Corporation. Operations are controlled by
a General Manager, and plant maintenance and operations are supervised
by an experienced Senior Engineer. The latter would need support with
the development of a second processing line. Labor productivity in the
plant has been poor and retraining and improved supervision of line
operatives is needed. The Accounts Department of TTPC has been operating
satisfactorily and budgetary control of the plant is generally good, al-
though the accounts would be improved for management purposes if the
product lines were costed separately.
7.     The processing fee paid by TAT is negotiated annually and is aimed
to cover average processing costs. It is currently uniform at TSh. 2.50/



ANNEX 4
Page 3
kg regardless of the form of processing and comprises (TSh/kg):
1.  Salaries and wages                           0.73
2.  Over-heads                                   0.33
3. Operations, Maintenance and
Repairs                                    0.20
4.  Depreciation                                 0.09
5.  Packing materials                            0.51
6.  Other costs                                  0.04
Cost             1.90
Profit           0.60
Total            2.50
This is high relative to costs elsewhere in Africa and in part, reflects
the low labor productivity, but also gives TPPC generous liquidity for
development.



ANNEX 4
Table 1
TANZANIA
TOBACCO PROCESSING PROJECT
Summarized Balance Sheets of
The Tobacco Authority of Tanzania. 1974 & 75 1'
(As of February 28)
1974            1975
------TSh '000 ------
Liabilities
General Fund 2                                    65,757         106,890
Loans:
Government of Tanzania                           4,000           4,000
Ministry of Agriculture                         12,991          14,956
Tanzania Rural Development Bank                  2,108            (215)
Current Liabilities                              4,242          16,446
Total Liabilities                      89,098         142,077
Assets
Fixed Assets                                       5,347          10,187
Shares in Tanzania Tobacco
Processing Company 3/                            8,026 4/       13,240 5/
Stocks:
Processed Tobacco                               23,116          45,611
Unprocessed Tobacco                               --              --
Packing Materials                                1,238           1,831
Debtors and deposits, less provisions           15,428          12,395
Cash and Bank balances                          18,000          11,959
Development funds for Cr. 217-TA                 9,186          40,839
Depreciation Allowances                          8,340           4,958
Pre-operational expenditure .6                     417           1,057
89,098         142,077
1/ 1974 represents audited accounts:  1975 figures
have not yet been audited.
2/ The General Fund consists of the following:
(a)  Balance 1st March 1973 & 1974:              42,985          65,757
(b) Excess of income over expenditure
for the year:                               28,422          35,920
(c)  Profit (Loss) for the year in TTPC:           (650)          5,255
(d) Adjustments of expenses to previous
years in TTPC:                                --               (42)
(e)  Less Exchequer contribution                  5,000             --
Total                                  65,757          106,890
3/ TAT holds 400,000 "A" shares at 20/- each in TTPC.
4/ Includes a profit of TSh .03 million.
5/ Includes a profit of TSh 5.2 million.
6/ For tobacco research and experimental projects established by TAT.



ANNEX 4
Table 2
TANZANIA
TOBACCO PROCESSING PROJECT
Summarized Balance Sheets of
The Tanzania Tobacco Processing Company, 1974 & 75
(As of February 28)
1974            1975
…TSh '000 ----
Liabilities
Paid up share capital held by TAT               8,000           8,000
TRDB long-term loan                               --            1,875
BAT long-term loan 1/                           1,710           4,958
Current Liabilities                             8,781           4,387
Accumulated Surplus (Losses)                       26           5,240
Total Liabilities                 18,517          24,460
Assets
Fixed Assets                                   13,947          13,653
Current Assets                                  4,570          10,807
Total Assets                      18,517          24,460
1/   These loans were repaid in full by TTPC during the financial
year 1974/75.






TANZANIA
TOBACCO PROCESSING PROJECT
TOBACCO AUTHORITY OF TANZANIA
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION CHART AS OF MARCH 1976
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN
IGENERAL MANAGER 
SUBSIDIARY COYS                                 I MANAGEMENT
T.T-P.C & SONGEA                                    COMMITTEE
(FACTORY)                   
COUI                   I                  INTERNAL AUDIT
VVORKERS COUNCILII  
I   I  f   I   I                I         I                I      I               I      I  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RESEARCH 1
ADMINISTRATION            FINANCIAL              MARKETING                 PRODUCTION               PLANNI                  TRANI
DEPARTMENT             DEPARTMENT              DEPARTMENT                DEPARTMENT              DEPARN                  D E T
PERSONNEL           RLEAP ACCOUNTS                                        NGINEERINO              PLANNING             ADMINISTRATION
CONTROL            ~~~SERVICES
STORFS                BUDGET &                 FIELD                  CREDIT CONTROL           OPERATIONS                FINANCE
SYSTEMS               MARKETING1
PROCUREMENT            FIXED ASSETS              EXPORT                  LAND PLANNING                                    RESEARCH
EXTENSION &
PUBLIC             DISBURSEMENTS              TOBACCO                   TECHNICAL                                       TRAINING
RELATIONS                                    CLASSIFICATION               SERVICES
OIFFI'CE &'
TRANSPORT              OREGIONAL                TBACCO
SERVICES               RETURNS                 BLENDING
MANPOSSER       DEVELOPMENT
DEVELOPMENTLOPMENT PROJECTS
I REGIONALMANAGERS I                                               |REGIONAL MANAGER
CROP PRODUCTION                                                          D S M
REGIONS                                                          EXPORT SERVICE
I l I n ~~~~~~EXTENSION   &                       Tn'llIf
ADMINISTRATION|I| TECHNICAL                         MARKETING       AD                                 PROCU
SERVICE
Vgofld B-kn-1 5992






ANNEX 5
Page 1
TANZANIA
TOBACCO PROCESSING PROJECT
Project Investments
A. Introduction
1.        The Project would provide for the expansion of the capacity of the
Tobacco Authority of Tanzania (TAT) processing facility at Morogoro (Annex 1).
This expansion would be carried out in two stages: first, the capacity and
efficiency of the existing threshing, cleaning and classifying line would be
expanded through the provision of badly needed equipment and quality control
devices; and second, a complete new processing line would be added.
2.        Originally TAT had requested that all the existing equipment at the
Morogoro plant be scrapped and an entirely new and much larger threshing line
be introduced. The investment required for this scheme would have been on the
order of some TSh 112.882 million (US$14.0 million) in 1973 prices; investment
items would have included a four-stage threshing and classifying plant, two
re-dryers (one each for the lamina and the stem); presses, and other associated
equipment including quality control devices. For a number of reasons the
mission determined that rather than undertaking such a wholesale transformation
of the existing facility, it would be preferable to proceed with the somewhat
more flexible approach outlined in para 1. Factors influencing this decision
were:
(a) Financial considerations. Under the Project that capacity
would be expanded in two stages at intervals designed to bring
the capacity in line with expected crop output (Annex 2). This
two-stage approach would reduce the initial capital outlay as
compared to what would be required if the entire plant were
replaced in one year, and would allow flexibility in the imple-
mentation of the plan if it should turn out that the expanded
capacity would not be required until a later date than was
envisaged at appraisal.
(b) Optimum Utilization of Capacity. The upgrading of the existing
facilities and the addition thereafter of a new line would both
minimize any time lost during the installation of the new
equipment, and allow maximum use to be made of the existing
equipment (which still has a reasonably long expected economic
life). Moreover, the incidence of down-time due to machinery
failure would be reduced with the existence of alternative lines.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
(c) Product Flexibility. The existence of two or more lines
would introduce an additional degree of flexibility into
the processing system by enabling the processing of a
different type of tobacco on each line. The facility
would thus be able to simultaneously process tobacco for
two separate markets with substantially different product
requirements.
(d) Maintenance Costs. The more sophisticated equipment pre-
viously suggested for the single new line would have in-
volved increased maintenance problems at a substantially
higher cost, and would, moreover, have required the
purchase of an entire supply of new spares. The plan now
suggested would help to minimize maintenance costs by
utilizing less sophisticated machinery which should be
easier to maintain and by reducing the incremental invest-
ment required for spare parts.
B. Project Investment in Morogoro Facility
Improvement of the Existing Line
3.     Since the total expected output of flue-cured tobacco in 1976 (see
Annex 2, Table 1) would exceed the processing capacity of the existing
facility at Morogoro (Annex 1, page 4) some immediate short-term expansion
of the existing line is considered essential. The equipment to be provided
under the Project for this purpose is listed in Table 1. The total cost of
this equipment would be about TSh 3.2 million (US$391,300); the equipment
would be procured by international shopping and contracts would be let in
advance of Board presentation. Upon installation, the new equipment would
both improve the quality of the leaf produced by the line, and increase total
plant capacity to some 21.7 million kg (wet weight) per annum.
Installation of a New Line
4.     By 1978/79, the total crop could again exceed the processing capacity
at Morogoro. At this time, the Project would therefore provide for the
installation of a new and somewhat larger line as a supplement to the first.
Specifically, the Project would include provision for a new threshing, clean-
ing and classifying line with a green weight input of approximately 7,000 kg
per hour whole leaf flue-cured tobacco; the specific equipment and machinery
required is detailed in Table 2. The total cost of this new line is estimated
at about TSh 33.0 million (US$4.1 million). When fully operational, the line
would increase the overall plant capacity to a maximum of 45 million kg (wet
weight) per annum, with a normal operating capability of some 41 million kg
per annum.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Workshop Equipment
5.      a order to assure better maintenance of existing equipment, and
to provide certain additional items necessary to allow service of the new
(and slightly more sophisticated) line, the following items would be
provided under the Project for the engineering workshop run by the
Tanzanian Tobacco Processing Company (TTPC):
(a) large lathe
(b) universal milling machine
(c) large drilling machine
(d) sheet metal machinery
(e) portable pipe threading machine
(f) pipe bending equipment
(g) ancilliary equipment
C. Storage Facilities
Storage at Morogoro
6.     In order to allow for storage of the increased inflow of wet
leaf and increased quantities of processed tobacco from the expanded
Morogoro plant, adequate and proper storage facilities would be required
at the factory.  The peak inflow of cured tobacco can be expected between
weeks 20-25 of a 35-week season and given normal flows, would be up to
30% of the season's production, A 2-week shut-down of plant at this
period and bottlenecks in shipping out processed tobacco could increase
storage demand to 35% of intake. Based on a planning capacity of 30
million kg in 1980 and a storage need for 35% of the crop, a capacity of
10.5 million kg would be needed, or 21,800 m2 of wet storage at 480 kg/m2.
On a similar basis, 8,400 m2 of storage would be needed to store processed
and packed tobacco, at about 900 kg/m2, for a total of 31,200 m2.  In
addition, some 3,000 m2 would be needed for packing materials.
7.     Of the total 38,700 m  storage floor area currently available
at Morogoro, 21,600 m2 is under well constructed go-downs or in the
area to be used for the new plant, while the remaining 17,100 m2 is
under temporary sheds which are falling apart, have leaky roofs, and
lack proper ventilation. Since leaf stored under such conditions
develops molds and deteriorates in quality, it is important that
adequate storage be available. The Project would provide for the
demolition of 33 of the 52 temporary sheds (which, with 4,600 m2
taken up by the new plant would reduce the available area by 14,200 m2),
and for the construction of two new storage buildings of 2,600 m2 and
8,100 m2 each of acceptable floor space.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
8.        After the proposed new construction, total floor space available at
Morogoro would be 35,100 m2 (16,900 m2 of existing good storage + 7,500 m2
temporary sheds + 10,700 m2 new storage), more than adequate to meet TAT's
requirements up to the year 1980; thereafter, additional storage may be needed.
9.        A list of the existing and proposed storage facilities at Morogoro
together with their capacity is presented in Table 3.
Storage at Dar es Salaam
10.       Storage is also required for tobacco leaf being held in Dar es Salaam
pending export. At the present time TAT has at its disposal a number of
storage facilities in this area, some of which are rented and some of which has
been permanently acquired. Much of this space is, however, quite unsuited
either in size, condition or location for the use to which it is being put,
and immediate improvement of these facilities is required to prevent unneces-
sary losses. Therefore the Project would include provision for the construction
of a 6,380 m2 storage facility capable of holding 4.92 million kg of processed
dry tobacco; the storage unit would include areas for reception, fumigation,
examination of the packed leaf, and for storage, as well as for a number of
offices.



AlTVTF Y 5
Table 1
Page 1 of 2
TANZAdiIA
TCEACCO PROCESSING PROJECT
Plant Required for Improvement
of Present Tobacco Processing Line
Cost (Exworks)
Item     Number      Specifications                                           T Sh.
1         1        10,000 lb/hour classifier for first stage complete
with infeed and outfeed circuits, lamina airlift,
tangential separators, fans, motors, ducting trans-
formation pieces and electrical control panel to
Tanzanian requirements.                                 551,000
2         1        Pneumatic airlift for separating smalls and stems
in fourth stage of a 10,000 lb/hour line complete
with infeed circuit and lamina airlift, tangential
separators, motors, ducting transformation pieces
and electrical control panel.                           163,000
3         1        Dust collector unit to serve the above equipment,
complete with fan, motor and electrical control
panel.                                                  183,000
4         2        Vibratory sieving conveyors 1.85 m long x 0.914
metres wide with 3.175 mm (1/8" dia) round hole
sieve plates and discharge spout.                        48,000
5         3        Vibratory sieving conveyors 4 metres long x 0.5
metres wide with 3.175 mm (1/8" dia) round hole
sieve plates and discharge spout.                        91,000
6         1        Quality control stem tester complete with individual
control panel.                                          305,000
7         1        Quality control, lamina sizing, 4-deck shaker with
perforated screens comprising:
1 off-screen 1" dia. round hole perf.
1 off-screen 1/2" dia. round hole perf.
1 off-screen 1/4" dia. round hole perf.
1 off-screen 1/8" dia. round hole perf.
Complete with individual electrical starters.            91,000
8         1        Quality control, lamina sizing, 4-deck shaker complete
with screens comprising:
1 off-screen 1" square aperture, i.e., between wires
1 off-screen 1/2" square aperture
1 off-screen 1/4" square aperture
1 off-screen 1/8" square aperture
Complete with electrical starters.                       91,000



ANNEX 5
Table 1
Page 2 of 2
9         4         Quality control balances for weighing
tobacco samples in 0.1 g divisions                        50,000
10        10         Tobacco moisture test ovens and 10 sample coolers.    352,000
11         3         Tobacco sample grinding mills.                            84,000
12         4         Cold junction temperature recorders.  Range               29,000
0 to 100°C.
13         2         Tobacco rapid moisture testers.                           56,000
14         2         Airflow velocity gauges.                                   3,000
Subtotal         2,097,000
Freight and installation charges                       1,053,000
Total installed cost                 3,150,000
Items 1 to 5 to be delivered to Morogoro by end of September 1976 and
Items 6 to 14 by end of January 1977.



AdNEX 5
TANZANIA                            Table 2
Page 1 of 2
TOBACCO PEOCIS2SING PROJECT
Plant Required for New Processing Line to be Installed in 1979
Item     Specification                                                  Cost
--T Sh--
1.       One complete threshing C & C line for a green weight           ('000)
input of approximately 7,000 kgs per hour whole leaf
flue-cured tobacco at a moisture of approximately
15% and density of approximately 0.065% kgs per cubic
metre. (5 lbs/cu.ft.). To conform to Tanzanian
regulations.                                                   11,000
The quality specification for the product from the
threshing line to meet the following:
(i)    Below 1/4" material not to exceed 4.5%
(ii)   Total stem in lamina not to exceed 1.5%
(iii)  Over 1" particle size to exceed 65%
(iv)   Over 1/2" particle size to exceed 85%
Charges for skilled erection and commissioning staff
to be allowed for in quotations.                                2,000
2.       Additional machinery of suitable manufacture to be
supplied by the main contractor:
(i)    Stems dryer and packina equipment to redry
stems;                                                  3,000
(ii)   Lamina redrier (reconditioned second hand one
if available);                                          7,000
(iii)  Packing equipment (not fully automated) to pack
200 kg wooden cases, 200 kg fibreboard cases and
100 kg bales.                                           3,000
3.       Other equipment and plant:
(i)    Additional boiler plant; full details of
stem specifications to be supplied with
official order.                                           500
(ii)   Electrical substation and associated ecuip-
ment; full details of electrical supply to
be supplied with official order.                          500
Subtotal           27,000
Freight and Installation C1arRes                                3,0uu
Total              30,000



ANNEX 5
Table 2
Page 2 of 2
Handling and Packing Equipment, Engineering Machinery and Spares
Cost
--T Sh--
Item                                 Number                       ('000)
Boiler plant                           1                           350
Tow motors                             3                            80
Trolleys                              18                            50
Fork-lift trucks                       3                           375
Mechanical stackers                    4                            35
Sack trucks                          100                            20
Sheet metal machine                    1                           250
Large lathe                            1                           320
Universal milling machine              1                           230
Large drilling machine                 1                           110
Pipe bending equipment                 1                            10
Portable pipe threading machine        1                            20
Other machinery, spares and                                       1150
ancillary equipment
Subtotal          3000
Grand Total       33,000



ANNEX 5
Table 3
TANZANIA
TOBACCO PROCESSING PROJECT
Existing and Proposed Storage Facilities at Morogoro
.   Existing Storage                                               Floor Area (m2)
A. To be retained.
1.  Good storage currently used for wet leaf                     6,178
2. 22 temporary sheds on opposite side of
road to No. 2 warehouse                                      7,525
3.  Packing material storage                                     2,676
4.  Storage under construction                                    8,027
Sub-Total          24,406
B. To be replaced.
1. Good storage in the existing plant area,
currently used for dryleaf                                   4,645 1/
2.  3 temporary sheds beside No. 3 warehouse                      2,759 2/
3. 30 temporary sheds on same side of road as
No. 2 warehouse                                              6,847 21
Sub-Total          14,251
II. Proposed New Storage
1.  Storage   (subject to advance contract)                       2,592
2.  Storage                                                       8,110
Total              10,702
III. Total Space Available at the End of Construction                     35,108
1/     This area would be utilized for the new plant.
2/     These temporary storage sheds would be demolished
during the Project period.



ANIEX 6
Page 1
TAUZA\TTA
TOBACCO PROCESSING PROJECT
Terms of Reference for a Study on Future Investments in
Tobacco Processing and Storage
A. Background
1.     Between 1965 and 1975, annual flue-cured tobacco production in
Tanzania increased from 4 to 12 million kg of cured leaf, and fore-
casts of future production range from 23 and 38 million kg by 1980.
The capacity of the Morogoro processing plant would be raised by the
Project to a maximtir of 41 million kg, including hand-processing, by
1981 assuming a 3-shift mechanical operation. If the higher pro-
duction forecasts are approached, a study of the levels and timing cf
future investment needs in tobacco processing would be needed no later
than 1980. Outline terms of reference for such a study are given be-
low, and provision is made in the Project for its execution.
B. Objective
2.     The objective of the study will be to prepare a detailed program
which will enable Tanzania to plan the timing, location and scale of
further investment in tobacco processing plant and storage facilities.
The Study will provide:
(a)  an assessment of Tanzania's expected tobacco production
over the 10 years 1980-1990;
(b) investment proposals covering the location, capacity and
type of plant and storage requirements, and estimates of
the financial and economic viability of these proposals.
C. Scope of Services
3.     The study would be carried out by a team of consultants recruited
internationally. The consultants would perform all agricultural,
engineering and other technical studies required, and would also carry
out the necessary economic and financial analyses. Specifically, the
consultants would:
(a) examine the prospects for tobacco production and markets
over the period 1980-1990 and identify the limitations in
production;



ANNEX 6
Page 2
(b) review the need for expanding processing capacity and
evaluate the advantages and disadvantages of locating
further plants in Songea, Tabora, Morogoro, or elsewhere;
(c) determine the most appropriate method(s) of processing;
(d) assess storage and infrastructure requirements at factory
site(s), Dar es Salaam, and up-country;
(e) identify the optimum organizational and staff arrange-
ments, and training and technical assistance requirements
to accompany the installation of new capacity;
(f) draw up specifications to support their proposals in such a
form that they may be used as a basis for appraisal and also
for tender notices for international competitive bidding; and
(g) verify the financial and economic viability of their proposals.
D. Costs
4.     Projected Study Costs are shown in Annex 7.  Provision is made
for:
(a) a processing specialist and an economist/financial analyst
for
(i) 2 man-months field work;
(ii) 2 man-months analysis and report preparation; and
(b) international and local travel.



ANNEX 7
Table  1
TANZANIA
TOBACCO PROCESSING PROJECT
Annual Project Cost
(T Sh'O00)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Total
Years
1 - 5
Machinery and Fquipment
Improvement to Existing
Line                                     3,150                          --        --     3,150
New Line                                   9,950   19.300    3.L750       --33,noo
Subtotal                           13,100   19,300    3,750         --       --    36,150
Storage                                      8,495   11,185    1,512        --        --    21,192
Infrastructure
Roads and Drains                             670       800      194       --        --      1,664
lWater Supplv                                100       100     --         --        --        200
Facilities for Factory
Employees                                1,635    2,770       225       --        --     4,630
Security, Fire Eacuipment
and Other Costs                            500       150      100       --        --        750
Subtotal                            2,905    3,820        519       --       --      7,244
Training                                       --        200       100      100       100       500
Technical Assistance                           --       696    1,016    1,026         355     3,094
Tobacco Processing Study                       --       --        --      1,000       --     1,000
Base Cost 1/                             24,500   35,201    6,897    2,126          455   69,179
Contingencies
Physical                                 2,130    3,430       580       --        --      6,140
Price                                   3,770    8,428    3,039         680      150   16.067
Total Contingencies 21              5,900   11,858    3,619        680       150   22,207
Total Project Cost                         30,400   47,059   10,516    2,806          605   91,386
NOTF-  1/  Pase cost estimates are at January 1, 1976 the month in which the retroactive
financing was authorized.
2/  Physical contingencies on buildings and civil works have been calculated at
10%. Inflation rates used in calculating price contingencies on equipment and
salaries are 1976-10% and 8% for 1977 to 1980. On builcings and civil works
the rates are: 1976-20%; 1977-17%; and 1978-79-15%.



ANNEX 7
Table 2
TANZANIA
TOBACCO PROCESSING PROJECT
Infrastructure and Storage Costs
Total Cost
Unit         (TSh'000)
I. INFRASTRUCTURE
Roads                                                              2
Private road improvement & extension                    15,000 m            1,364
Drains
Storm drainage                                              -                300
Water
Storage tanks & distribution network                    40,000 galls         200
Buildings
(a) Improvement & extension of existing buildings
Processing plant                                        -                500
Engineers' workshop                                     -                 10
Stores                                                  -                 50
Canteen & related facilities                            -                80
(b) New Buildings                                               2
Workers education center & stores                      245 m             310
Guard house                                             45 m2             75
Carpentry workshop                                      -                 50
Railway sidings 1/                                           2           300
Office & parking area                                1,200 m           2,535
Other Items                                                        2
Fencing                                                  2,460 m              300
Fire fighting equipment                                     -                 400
Tele-communications                                         -                  50
Sub-total                                                         7,244
II. STORAGE                                                              2  2/
Storage & office - Dar es Salaam                           6,930 m2          8,891
New Storage 1                                              8,110 m2          10,000
New Storage 2                                               2,600 m           2,300
Sub-total                                                        21,191
Total (infrastructure & storage)                                 28,525
I/   Includes earthwork and line installation.
2/   Includes 6380 m2 of storage capacity for 4.92 million kgs of tobacco,
and 550 m2 for offices.



ANNEX 7
Table 3
TANZANIA
TOBACCO PROCESSING PROJECT
Technical Assistance & Training
(T Sh '000)
Unit
Cost                                          Total
p.a.   Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Years
(1-5)
Salaries & Related Benefits 1/
Financial Controller            245       245       245      245       245       980
Consulting Services              73        73        73        73       -        219
Engineering Manager             128       128       128       128       -        384
Engineer Man. (trainee-local)  50 2/    50           50        50       60       210
Productivity Officer (local)   40 2/    40           40        50       50       180
Threshing Line Supervisor 3/  480          -        240       240       -        480
Redrying Supervisor 4/          480        -        240       240       -        480
Quality & Moisture Control
Supervisor 4/               480       160        -        -         -        160
Sub-total             696    1,016    1,026         355    3,093
Training
Productivity Officer 5/         100       100                                    100
Engineering Artisans 6/         100       100       100       100      100       400
Total Cost            896    1,116    1,126         455    3,593
1/ The unit costs shown for all expatriate personnel includes travel and living
expenses.
2/ Salary level during training period after which there is an increase.
3/ The threshing and redrying supervisors are to be seconded from a U.S. or
Canadian firm for a period of 6 months each year to train local employees in
both fields.
4/ On secondment for 4 months to train personnel on new equipment.
5/ Training will be in the U.K.
6/ Training will be in Dar es Salaam.



ANNEX 8
TANZANIA
TOBACCO PROCESSING PROJECT
Disbursements, Implementation and Monitoring
Disbursements
1.     A schedule of estimated Bank disbursements is shown at Table 1.
Implementation
2.     The time-table for Project implementation is shown on the attached
Chart (World Bank 15738). Critical dates are:
May 1976:         Start of storage construction;
September 1976:  Invitation for tenders for the new line;
September 1976:  Signing of contracts for civil works;
April 1977:       Commissioning of improved line;
January 1979:    Commission tobacco study; and
April 1979:       Complete installation of new line and commission.
Monitoring Indices
3.     In this Project, monitoring of progress should focus on four areas:
(a)  the physical procurement and construction of plants and
buildings, largely a matter of adherance to the implementa-
tion schedule;
(b)  progress with and factors influencing the expansion of the
tobacco crop;
(c)  the availability of local funds for Project expenditures; and
(d)  the efficiency of processing plant performance, for which data
in the Bolland report 1/ should be taken as base-line.
1/ M.G. Bolland: Report on Factory Operations at Morogoro (mimeo, November
1975) submitted to TAT.



ANNEX 8
Table 1
TANZANIA
TOBACCO PROCESSING PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedulel!
(US$ '000)
Bank Group Financial Year               Bank                 Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter Ending           Quarterly Disbursement           at End of Quarter
1976/77
June                               1343                          1343
1977/78
September                          2223                          3566
December                           1526                          5092
March                               926                          6018
June                                812                          6830
1978/79
September                           185                          7015
December                            310                          7325
March                               221                          7546
June                                222                          7768
1979/80
September                            73                          7841
December                             74                          7915
March                                53                           7968
June                                  8                          7976
1980/81
September                             8                          7984
December                              8                          7992
March                                 8                          8GCC.0
1/ This schedule assumes the Project would become effective by October 1,
1976 and have a Closing Date of March 31, 1981. It takes account of
Advance Contracting authorized in January, 1976.



TANZANIA
TOBACCO PROCESSING PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
I MAIN ACTIVITY             |          RESPONSIBLE                  1976                        1977                        1978                        1979
MAIN ACTIVITY                ~~~AUTHORITY  AT MJ FFI TWNI ATT                         JJI ATM TF      TT  TON  T J TF MT AMiJA  7
Invite tenders for machinery to improve existing line        TAT
Prepare contracts for store at Morogoro and Dar              TAT
Rearrange existing line                                      TTPC
Place order for machinery to improve existing line           TAT
Start construction of store at Morogoro/Dar                TTPCITAT
Take delivery of machinery to improve existing line          TTPC
Invite tenders for new threshing line                        TAT
Invite tenders for engineering machinery, boiler plant,      TAT
electrical substation equipment, handling and packing
equipment
Complete contract agreement for civil works                  TAT
Start site work for 2nd storage at Morogoro                  TTPC
Start site work for Morogoro infrastructure                  TTPC
Install machinery to improve existing line                   TTPC
Review tenders for new threshing line and place orders       TAT
Commission the improved line and 1st store at Morogoro       TTPC                                           0
Commission Dar-es-Salaam go-down                             TAT
Take delivery of engineering machinery and handling          TTPC
equipment
Take delivery of boiler plant                                TTPC
Receive in Dar-es-Salaam new threshing line and ship         TAT
to Morogoro
Take delivery of transformer and elec. equipment             TTPC
Erect new threshing line at Morogoro                         TTPC
Commission boiler plant and sub-station equipment            TTPC                                                                                             m
Start tobacco processing study                               TAT
Receive line spares                                          TTPC                                                                                                 0
Commission machinery                                         TTPC
Complete infrastructure at Morogoro                          TTPC
Complete tests                                               TTPC
World Bank-15738






ANNEX 9
Page 1
TANZANIA
TOBACCO PROCESSING PROJECT
Tobacco Marketing Prospects
Recent Trends
1.          World production of tobacco in 1975, is estimated at 5.4
million tons, of which flue-cured leaf -- the single most important
tobacco type -- accounted for 2.3 million tons or 43%. Reflecting the
continued and growing consumer preference for mild, blended cigarettes,
flue-cured leaf has continued in recent years to enlarge its share of
total tobacco production, mostly at the expense of the darker tobaccos.
Thus, while between 1960-74 production and consumption of all tobaccos
grew at an annual rate of 1.8%, flue-cured leaf sales grew at 2.4%,
the fastest rate of any tobacco type. 1/
2.          During 1960-75, the developing countries experienced faster
growth of production and exports than the developed countries (see Table
1), and their share in world exports increased from 36% to 44% in that
period. Among the factors most responsible for the growing significance
of the developing countries in the international tobacco trade are in-
creased production costs in the traditional developed exporting countries
(notably the USA and Canada) which have eroded their competitive position;
a plentiful supply of low-cost labor in several developing countries;
and, generally favorable prices, particularly for the blended tobaccos,
which continue to provide higher net returns to land and labor than most
other crops.
3.          Since the proposed Project is concerned primarily with flue-
cured tobacco, the following analysis will concentrate on this tobacco
type.
l/ Aside from flue-cured leaf, the major tobacco types are Dark, Oriental
and Burley which in 1975, accounted respectively for 31%, 16% and 10%
of total production. These tobaccos differ both according to curing
process and end-use. Thus, flue-cured leaf adds flavor and aroma to a
blend. Oriental tobacco is used as an aromatic filler and has a low
nicotine content; its share in a blend has necessarily to be limited or
the cigarette becomes too strong for consumers in most parts of the world.
Burley is a spongy type of tobacco whose advantage is that it absorbs
additives such as flavors and sweeteners. Dark tobaccos are used for
pipe tobaccos, cigars and traditional hand-rolled cigarettes in various
parts of the world.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
Demand IPrLspe--,
4.         Although world consumption of tobacco leaf has grown at a
tend rate of 1.8% per annum since 1960, demand for cigarettes over the
same period has grown at 3.8% per annum. This higher growth of
cigarette consumption than leaf usage reflects both a continued and
growing preference of consumers for cigarettes at the expense of pipe
and chewing tobaccos, and recent technological developments which reduce
both wastage and the amount of leaf per cigarette. The growth in de-
mand, particularly for the American-type cigarette which contains
approximately 50% flue-cured leaf, is responsible for the strong demand
for flue-cured leaf in recent years.
5.          Future levels and rates of growth of demand are assumed to
be determined primarily by the size and rate of growth of the adult
population, and consumption per adult to be determined by income, prices,
tastes and technology. In general, tobacco consumption shows a fairly
close correlation with income, although the relationship is not always
a simple one, owing to the effect of relative price levels and of con-
sumer preferences. In many developed economies, there has been com-
paratively little change in consumption per adult in recent years despite
income growth. This suggests that a satiation level has been reached,
although in some high income countries, the weight of tobacco leaf con-
sumed per adult has tended to decline because of economies realized in
the manufacturing process.
6.          The influence of price on per adult tobacco consumption has
not been particularly strong. The most important element in the retail
price of tobacco products is government taxation, and this accounts for
between 60% and >J% of the retail price in most developed countries, a
level made possible by the typically low price elasticity of demand for
tobacco.
7.          The influence of technology has been primarily to reduce
tobacco demand -- the quantity of leaf per cigarette has been reduced
through developments such as homogenized sheet and freeze-dried leaf,
and also by measures affecting the length of filters and the circumference
of the cigarette. For the future, probably the most important develop-
ment will be the substitution of synthetic tobaccos for natural tobacco
in cigarettes. Work in this field has been in progress for several years
in the UK, USA, Germany and Switzerland. Cigarettes containing between
20 and 50 percent cellulosic material have been test-marketed in several
countries and two plants are already in production, but in the immediate
future, cigarettes are unlikely to contain more than 20% synthetic tobacco.
Even if consumers readily accept cellulosic cigarettes, the expansion of
synthetic leaf production is likely to be slow, particularly as the new
materials will be subject to stringent and costly health tests and are
unlikely to be accorded any tax advantages. At most, synthetic tobacco
could account for 5% of total sales in 1985.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
8.          To date, campaigns against smoking and the publication of
reports on the relationship between smoking and health have not succeeded
in lowering aggregate cigarette consumption -- although the release of
reports in the UK and USA in the early seventies did coincide with a
temporary slowing in consumption -- and it is unlikely that more wide-
spread or intensive campaigns in the future will realize any demonstrable
effect on overall demand. Such campaigns, however, have helped to
stimulate the demand for tobaccos with a low tar and nicotine content and
to reinforce the trend towards milder, filter-tipped cigarettes. This
has become, and probably will remain, a decisive determinant of de-
mand.
9.          With these factors taken into account, demand for raw tobacco
in 1985 is estimated to reach 6.6 million tons, implying an average
annual growth rate of 2.3 percent over the period 1972-1974 to 1985.
This partly reflects a substantial increase in projected developing
country demand for tobacco leaf (see Table 1), and represents a con-
siderable increase over the historical (1960/62 to 1972/74) growth rate
of 1.8 percent per annum. Growth rates of consumption during the fore-
cast period for the developed, developing and centrally planned economies
are 1.3 percent, 3.7 percent and 2.1 percent respectively. The shift,
particularly in the developing countries, away from local tobacco uses
to blended, machine-made cigarettes, which dominated developments in
tobacco consumption in the 1960s, is expected to continue throughout
the forecast period and demand for flue-cured leaf is, therefore, ex-
pected to grow more rapidly. In the developed countries, some increase
in per adult consumption is probable in the EEC, but overall growth of
demand is expected to approximate population growth. In the centrally
planned economies, growth of demand is expected to be slower, although
still substantially greater than population growth. The centrally
planned economies, however, are not expected to enter significantly
into tobacco trade with the rest of the world.
Supply Prospects
10.         Production of tobacco leaf is also projected to reach 6.6
million tons in 1985; this implies an annual rate of growth of 2.3 per-
cent per annum between 1972-74 and 1985. The greater part of the increase
in production is expected to occur in the developing countries, largely
but not entirely to meet growing domestic demands. The centrally planned
economies are expected to retain their share in world output, while the
share of the developed countries will continue to decline. The projected
growth rates of production between 1972-74 and 1985 in the developed,
developing and centrally planned economies are respectively 1.2 percent,
3.2 percent and 2.1 percent (Table 1).
11.       During the next two to three years, production in the developed
countries is expected to increase by approximately 2.0 percent per annum,
reflecting a continued strong demand for quality, light tobaccos. However,



ANNEX 9
Page 4
these growth rates are expected to slacken late in the decade as develop-
ing country producers adjust production and plant protection methods so
as to produce the preferred light tobacco leaf with acceptable levels of
plant protection residues. It is anticipated that labor will remain the
major constraint to expanding production in the high income countries,
and, even if rapid advances are made in mechanical harvesting, this
would necessitate extensive structural changes in the tobacco growing
industries of the United States and Canada.
12.         The shift from dark to light tobaccos has been one of the
most significant developments in tobacco production in recent years
reflecting changing consumer tastes. This trend is expected to continue,
confining future increases in production primarily to light tobaccos,
particularly flue-cured and burley leaf. The share of oriental tobacco
will probably remain unchanged while that of dark tobaccos is expected
to continue to decline.
13.         Among the developing countries, major increases in production
are anticipated in Africa, South-east Asia and Latin America. The
projected accelerated growth in the centrally planned economies in the
1980s largely reflects expected continued increases in production in
the People's Republic of China. China became, in 1973, the world's lead-
ing producer of tobacco leaf and is expected to retain this position.
Trade Prospects
14.         Currently, approximately 25% of total tobacco production and
50% of flue-cured enters into international trade. Between 1960 and 1974,
world trade in flue-cured tobacco not only expanded rapidly but, on
account of production developments and the political situation in Rhodesia,
underwent considerable structural change. In the traditional developed
exporting countries (notably the USA and Canada), rising production costs
have undermined their competitive position in world trade. Thus, while
the USA remains the largest single exporter of flue-cured leaf, her
share in trade has fallen from 60% in 1960 to 37% in 1974. The situa-
tion was further and radically changed by the imposition of U.N. trading
sanctions on Rhodesia in 1966, which resulted in a sharp decline in
exports of flue-cured leaf and a steep increase in price for all flue-
cured tobaccos. While initially the loss of Rhodesian supplies was made
good by drawing down US stocks, the shortfall was subsequently made up
by increased exports from a number of developing countries, notably
Korea, Brazil and India. The emergence of a new class of exporters at
this time was further facilitated by the growing demand for low and medium
grade flue-cured leaf by manufacturers of blended cigarettes.
15.         Reflecting the general consumption trend, world trade in
tobacco leaf is expected to grow steadily in volume, although the overall
proportion of tobacco entering world trade is unlikely to changc. A
continued increase in the share of lighter leaf in world exports is
anticipated and this may result in shifts between types of lea£ and sources



ANNEX 9
Page 5
of supply. High production costs in the developed producing countries
are expected to stimulate the search for less expensive sources of
supply and so encourage expansion in the developing countries. The
growing preference for blended cigarettes, which require a lower pro-
portion of quality leaf, can also be expected to reinforce this expan-
sion.
16.         The market outlook for increased Tanzanian exports of flue-
cured leaf is good, provided quality tobacco is produced and the
marketing organization is efficient. It is assumed that sanctions on
Rhodesian exports will remain in effect. However, even if these are
lifted, and notwithstanding the recent streamlining of Rhodesia's
tobacco processing industry, the outlook for increased Tanzanian ex-
ports remains encouraging because manufacturers are unlikely to return
to their former situation of reliance on a single supplier and also
because Rhodesia will no longer enjoy a clear cost advantage. At this
time, although the EEC enforces some of the most stringent regulations
as to quality and permissible residue levels, it offers probably the
greatest potential market for Tanzanian tobaccos.
Tobacco Price Prospects
17.         In recent years, world tobacco prices have generally kept
pace with inflation, although in 1974, a particularly sharp increase
of the order of 20 percent was realized for most tobacco types. Be-
sides sharply increased costs (fertilizers, pesticides, etc.) in 1974,
price increases also reflected a widespread tight stock position. In
1975, larger flue-cured and burley harvests arrested the secular de-
cline in world stocks and resulted in generally easier supply conditions,
which slowed the rising trend of tobacco leaf prices. North American
and African flue-cured leaf prices fell moderately (the average auction
price for US flue-cured leaf was 5% lower), but Indian flue-cured leaf
increased 20 percent and Central America prices also increased sub-
stantially. For 1976, quotations for all tobacco types are expected
to harden in consequence of an expected small increase in the tobacco
harvest coinciding with an upturn in demand as the current world reces-
sion weakens. For the future, a close balance between projected supply
and demand is expected to result in prices holding firm, with some
narrowing in regional differentials as developing country producers
succeed in producing tobacco of the requisite quality. Price forecasts
for Indian tobacco are given in Table 2 below: Tanzanian tobacco,
the average FOB export price for which has increased gradually from
TSh 8.4 per kg dry leaf in 1966/67 to TSh 16.41 per kg in 1974/75, is
expected to retain its present position relative to the trend fore-
cast for Indian tobacco and remain stable in constant terms.
18.         The Project throughput of about 30 million kg of flue-cured
tobacco exports would account for less than 2.0% of world import demand
in 1985, and therefore would not be likely to have an appreciable effect
on international market prices.



TANZANIA
TOBACCO PROCESSING PROJECT
Tobacco Leaf - Summary of Production, Consumption and Trade by Economic Regions,
Actual 1960 - 1975, Forecast for 1980 and 1985
ACTUAL                                        ESTIMATED           FORECAST                       GROWTH RATES
1960 - 62       1970          1971         1972          1973         1974         1975 IL        1980          1985       1960/62 to  1972/74 to  1980 to
Average                                                                                                                  1972/74         1980        1985
-------------------------------------1000 metric tons--------------------------------------------------    ------percent per annum----------
Produlction
Developed Countries                      1554.0        1627.6       1562.2       1591.6        1598.1       1706.5        1800.0       1774.0        1893.0            0.4         1.2           1.3
Developing Countries                     1419.0        1667.6       1593.1       1833.1        1735.1       1869.7        1940.0       2229.0        2648.0            2.1         3.0           2.5
Centrally Planned Countries              1125.0 2/   1385.5         1367.5       1514.5        1625.8       1646.6        1615.0       1845.0        2068.0            3.0         2.1           2.3
World                                 4098.0        4680.7       4522.8       4939.2        4959.0       5222.8        5355.0       5849.0        6609.0            1.7          2.2          2.5
Apparent Consumption
Developed Countries                      1700.1        1910.4       1883.8       1886.2        1949.9       1986.5        2020.0       2125.0        2266.0            1.1         1.3           1.3
Developing Countries                     1197.6        1404.1       1299.1       1509.5        1387.1       1472.9        1550.0       1853.0        2255.0            1.6         3.5           4.0
Centrally Planned Countries              1155.0 2/   1396.0         1379.7       1561.0        1658.1       1678.2        1715.0       1888.0        2095.0            2.9         2.1           2.3
World                                 4052.7        4710.5       4562.6       4956.7        4995.1       5137.6        5295.0       5866.0        6616.0            1.8         2.2           2.5
Exports
Developed Countries                       460.1         466.6        464.7         597.7        576.5        652.4         662.0        714.0         800.0            2.4         2.3           2.3
Developing Countries                      311.3         404.1        445.4        492.9         518.0        603.5         625.0        732.0         921.0            4.7         4.5           4.7
Centrally Planned Countries                90.0 2/    115.4          122.9        119.5         125.1        125.7         129.0        144.0         167.0            2.7         2.2           3.0
World                                  861.4         986.1       1033.0       1210.1        1219.6       1381.6        1416.0       1590.0        1888.0            3.3         3.3           3.5
lmpor tS
Developed Countries                       606.2         749.4        786.3        892.3         928.3        932.4         882.0       1065.0        1173.0            3.5          2.2          2.0
Developing Countries                       89.9         140.6        151.4         169.3        170.0         206.7        235.0         356.0        528.0            6.1         10.0          8.2
Centrally Planned Countries               120.0 2/    125.9          135.1         166.0        157.4         157.3        229.0         187.0        194.0            2.4          2.2          0.7
World                                  816.1        1015.9       1072.8        1227.6       1255.7        1296.4       1346.0        1608.0       1895.0            3.7          3.5          3.3
I/ Provisional
2/ Estimate
Source:  FAO, Production Yearbooks
IBRD, Economic Analysis and Projections Department estimates.                                                                                                                                   -u'



ANNEX 9
Table 2
TANZANIA
TOBACCO PROCESSING PROJECT
Tobacco Leaf Prices - Actual 1955 - 75, Forecast 1976 - 85
In Current and Constant 1974 Prices
Calendar Years                            India, Export Unit Value
of Flue-Cured Leaf
(US$ per metric ton)
A.  Actual
1955                                            630
1960 - 62                                       762
1963 - 65                                       718
1967 - 69                                       931
1970                                            988
1971                                            970
1972                                            962
1973                                            992
1974                                           1275
1975 1/                                        1525
B.  Forecast                                                            2/
In Current Prices         In 1974 Prices -
1976                            1609                    1320
1977                            1732                    1310
1978                            1856                    1300
1979                            1994                     1300
1980                            2135                     1300
1985                            2995                     1300
1/ Partly estimated.
2/ Deflated by Economic Analysis and Projections Department Index of
International Prices (1974 - 100).



ANNEX 10
TANZANIA
TOBACCO PROCESSING PROJECT
Cash Flow Projections
1.        The following tables show the anticipated cash flow positions
for TAT (Table 1), TTPC (Table 2) and Government (Table 3) as affected
by the Project investments, and drawn up on the basis that TAT and
TTPC will at all times, be allowed by Government to retain sufficient
funds to meet their obligations under the Project. The Minister of
Agriculture has powers, under the Tobacco Industry Act, 1972, to vary
fees, disbursements and prices to be charged to or paid by TAT (Annex
4), and the selection of charges to be varied and the levels set in the
Tables are indicative of what would be needed to ensure adequate
liquidity for Project financing rather than prescriptions of how such
liquidity should be achieved.
2.       On this basis, the contribution of TAT to the fertilizer
subsidy (Table 1), currently running at the rate equivalent to TSh
1.00 per kg of tobacco in 1976 prices, has been assumed to be nil in
1976, TSh 0.75 per kg in 1977 and to have been maintained at TSh 1.00
thereafter, with none paid by Government (Table 3). In fact, Govern-
ments intention is to pay most of the subsidy from its recurrent
budget, and gradually to reduce the subsidy level, which is reviewed
annually by the Economic Committee of the Cabinet. Similarly, the
sales tax on tobacco, charged to TAT and currently set at 12.5%, is
assumed reduced to 7.5% for 1976 and 1977 only, with the balance
for these 2 years assumed paid (together with a full 12.5% on this
year's sales) in 1978. It has also been assumed that TTPC continues
to operate as a limited company and pays 45% corporate tax on its
net income (Tables 2 and 3).
3.       Processing fees charged to TAT by TTPC are assumed to run at
TSh 2.50 kg throughout (Table 2).
4.        The on-lending rate for Project funds to TAT and TTPC is 10%,
the rate charged to the Authority on internal loans.



TANZANIA
TOBACCO PROCESSING PROJECT
Tobacco Authority of Tanzania: Cash Flow Statement
(TSh '000)
1976            1977            1978            1979            1980            1981            1982            1983             1984            1985
Income (Tobacco Sales)                            217,206         231,050         252,144         281,160         314,768         350,200         399,145         406,232         441,334          455,342
Operating Expenses
Wet cured tobacco                               110,580         117,626         128,367         142,630         160,249         178,288         203,205          206,814         224,684         231,816
Classification & Packing                          7,512           7,992           8,721           9,690          10,887          12,113           13,805          14,050          15,265          15,750
Transport to Processing Center                    4,350           4,626           5,050           5,610           6,303           7,013            7,993           8,135           8,837           9,120
Processing                                       32,950          35,050          38,250          42,500          47,750          53,125          60,550           61,625          66,950          69,075
Marketing                                         7,776           8,272           9,027          10,030          11,269          12,538           14,290          14,544          15,800          16,302
Fertilizer Subsidy 1/ 2/                          --              9,870          15,300          17,000          19,100          21,300           24,200          24,700          26,800          27,600
Administration                                    7,776           8,272           9,027          10,030          11,270          12,540           14,290          14,545          15,800          16,302
Sales Taxes 1/ 3/                                16,290          17,328          53,930          35,020          35,235          43,775          49,893           50,779          55,167          56,920
Depreciation                                      1.845           1,963           2.142           2.142           2.642           2,642            2.642           2,642           2.642           2.642
Total Operating Cost                            188,959         210,999         269,814         274,652         304,705          343,334         390,743         397,309        431,895          443,527
Net Income                                       28,247          22,070         (17,670)          6,508          10,063           6,866            8,402           8,923          9,439           11,815
Source of Funds
Net Income                                       28,247          20,051          17,670           6,508          10,063           6,866            8,402           8,923           9,439 19  81
Depreciation Allowance                            1,845           1,963           2,142           2,142           2,142           2,142            2,142           2,142           2,1 2           2,14
Transfers from TTPC                               --              --             16,000           8.500           4.000           2,000            4.000           4               --0--
Total Internal Funds                             30,092          22,014             472          17,150          16,205           11,008          14,1544         15,063          11,581           13,957
IDA Credit  /                                     --              2.372           4.400              738           1.008             310           --              --               --              --
Total Funds Available                            30,092          24,386           4,872          17,888          17,213           11,318         i14,544          15,063          11,581           13,957
Application of Funds
Investment                                        4,749           7,276           1,164           1,750              345                           --              --              --              --
Transfers to TTPC                                22,000          16,500           --              --               --              --              --               _ 
Repayment of IDA Credit j/                        --                 237             667             751             851           3,545           3.558            3,590
Total Application of Funds                       26,749          24,013           1,831           2,501           1,196            3,546           3,558           3,590
Net Cash Flow                                     3,343             373           3,041          15,387          16,017           7,773           10,986          11,475          11,581          13,95,)
i The estimated cost of fertilizer to TAT is equivalent to TSh 1.00 per kg of tobacco, and the current sales tax is 12.5%.  These combined changes cannot be maintained in the first two yeast
if TAT is to have adequate project investment funds.  For illustrative purposes, no fertilizer subsidy is paid by TAT in 1976, and 75, in 1977.  Payment :-  lart of the sales tax for 1976
and 1977 has been delayed until 1978.
At an assss:ed reduced rate of TSh 0.75 per kg in 1977 only and TSb 1.00 per kg thereafter.
3_/ At an assumed reduced rate of 7.5% in 1976 and 1977 only.  The normal rate would be resumed in 1978 and the balance for 1976 and 1977 also paid.
R/ Repayment to Government over 7 years including a period of 4 years in which interest only would be paid.
July 12, 1976                                                                                                                                                                                                           0



TANZANIA
TOBACCO PROCESS1NG PROJECI
Tanzania Tobacco Processing Company, Cash Flow Statement
(TSh '000)
1976      1977       1978       1979       1980       1981       1982       1983       1984       1985
Income
Processing fees V                      32,950    35,050    38,250    42,500    47,750    53,125    60,550    61,625    66,950    69,075
Operating Cost
Salaries and wages                     11,300    11,526    11,785    12,457    12,952    13,120    13,300    13,510    13,760    14,025
Maintenance and overhead                8,730      8,900      9,080      9,100      9,600    12,460    13,400    14,300    14,300    14,300
Packing material                        6,721      7,150      7,805     8,670      9,741    10,838    12,352    12,575    13,658    14,091
Depreciation                            1,400      1,148      1,010      9,412     5,175      4,540      4,030      3,500      3,075      2,700
Total Operating Costs            28,151    28,724    29,680    39,639    37,468    40,958    43,082    43,885    44,793    45,116
Net Income Before Tax                   4,799      6,326      8,570      2,861    10,282    12,167    17,468    17,740    22,157    23,959
Corporate Tax at 45%                    2,160      2,846      3,856      1,287     4,627      5,475      7,860      7,983      9,971    10,782
Net Income                              2,639      3,480      4,714      1,574     5,655      6,692      9,608      9,757    12,186    13,177
Sources of Funds
Net Income                              2,639      3,480      4,714      1,574      5,655     6,692      9,608      9,757    12,186    13,177
Depreciation Allowance                  1,400      1,148      1,010      9,421     5,175      4,540      4,030      3,500      3,075      2,700
Total Internal Funds                    5,039      4,628      5,724    10,995    10,830    11,232    13,638    13,257    15,261    15,877
IDA Credit                              --       18,845    28,930       6,830        835        135      --         --        --         --
Transfers from TAT                     22,000    16,500
Total Funds Available                  27,039    39,973    34,654    17,825    11,665    11,367    13,638    13,257    15,261    15,877
Application of Funds
Investments                            26,675    39,756       9X329      1,032        250     --         --         --         --         --
Repayment of IDA Credit                --                    6,6612-   5,4613/   5,5443/   8,026         8,050      8,043      8,046      8,059
Transfers to TAT                        --         --        16,000      8,500     4,000      2,000      4,000      4,000
Net Cash Flow                               364        217      2,667      2,832      1,871      1,341      1,588      1,214     7,215      7,818
1/ Processing fee of TSh 2.50/kg processed tobacco charged to TAT.
2/ Interest at 10% on 197-7 and 1978 loan.
3/ Interest only.
July 12, 1976



TANZANIA
TOBACCO PROCESSING PROJECT
Goverrment Cash Flow Statement
(Tsh '000)
1976           1977            1978            1979              1980             1981           1982            1983            1984          1985
Cash Inflow
IDA Funds                                         --             40,990          17,865          4,750                780              64
Loan Service From TAT                             __                237             677             751               851           3,545          3,558           3,590
Loan Service From YfPC                            _,              __              6,661           5,461             5,544           8,026          8,050           8,043           8,046           8,059
Tobacco Sales Tax -                              16,290          17,328          53,930          35,020            35,235          43,775         49,775          50,779          55,167          56,920
Corporate Tax (TTPC)                              2.160           2.840           3.856           1.287            4.627            5.475          7.860           7.983           9.971          10.782
Total Inflow                                18,450          61,395          82,989         47,269            47,037           60,885         69,243          70,395          73,184          75,761
Cash Outflow Z/
Onlending to TAT and T,PC                         __             40,990          17,865           4,750               780               64           -_               __              __              _
IDA Credit Repayment                              --                307             441             477               483              483            483             483             483             483
Fertilizer Subsidy 1/                            13,170           3,500             --               --                                --     --         _             _               __
Total Outflow                               13,170          44,797          18,306          5,227              1,263             547             483             483             483             483
Net Cash Flow                                5,280          16,598          64,683         42,042            45,774           60,821         68,760          69,912          72,701          75,278
/  Payable by TAT at 7.5% for 1976 and 1977, and 12.5% from 178 -with the balance for 1976 and 1977 paid in 1978.
Assumes TAT finanees the whole fertilizer subsidy (see Annex 10, para 2) although in fact it is anticipated that most of these charges will be carried out by Government.
July 12, 1976
C2



ANNEX 11
Page 1
TANIZANIA
TOBACCO PROCESSING PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits, and Sensitivity Analysis
1.     Benefits attributable to the Project arise from its provision
of an essential stage in the production of marketable tobacco, most
of which is exported, and for which existing capacity is nearly
fully utilized. Tobacco growing in Tanzania has doubled in the last
10 years and is projected to continue growing at a rate equivalent to
nearly 8% a year over the next decade. Without the Project, this
expansion would be limited to that which could be processed at the
existing plant; thus the land area, farm labor and capital which would
otherwise have been used for tobacco production would be committed to
producing alternative, lower value crops with consequent reductions
in farm incomes, export earnings and Government revenues.
2.     In calculating this opportunity cost of tobacco growing, it
has been recognized that seasonal labor is typically the limiting
resource in Tanzania (although particular types of land may be locally
restricting and land becomes an increasing constraint with the popula-
tion grouped in villages). In the absence of tobacco, in the areas
suitable for tobacco growing, saleable crops to which labor might be
devoted include maize, groundnuts, and cotton. If it is assumed that
all incremental labor expected to be committed to tobacco would other-
wise be devoted to a combination of these crops, net returns to labor
could be as shown in the following tabulation:
Crops           Area I/          Yield            Net Value    Opportunity
(kg/ha)                             Costs
(TSh/ha)       (TSh/ha)
Maize           0.820      850 (grain)              715              586
Groundnuts      0.825     400 (shelled)            1034             853
Cotton          0.375      500 (seed cotton)        813              305
1744
These returns are derived from border price equivalents for the crops and
inputs and should be compared with a similarly derived net return for
tobacco of TSh 3128 per ha. An implicit simplifying assumption is that
economic costs ex-farm are similar for both the production of tobacco and
the mix of alternative crops.
1/ Based on 1 ha of tobacco = Maize 2.0, groundnuts 9.5, or cotton 1.5
and assuming average crop ratios of 0.42, 0.33 and 0.25 respectively.



ANNEX 11
9ge 2
3.     It is, however, unlikely that the same level of labor input
would be devoted to the lower-paying activity as to tobacco, but
the order of the elasticity of labor supply is not known. It has
therefore been assumed, arbitrarily, that only half of the tobacco
labor would be applied to alternative crops and the "Without Project"
production level is taken as TSh 872 per ha, (which is equivalent
to about TSh 3.70 per man day, and compares with TSh 6.60 per man
day calculated for tobacco). The Project is not very sensitive to
these assumptions (paras. 8 and 9 below).
4.     Table 1 shows the annual costs and benefits used in calculating
the IER from investments in the Project. The analysis compares the
net returns expected from sales of tobacco processed given the Project
with the returns which would be achieved without the Project. The
level of tobacco production assumed is that shown as "most probable"
in Annex 2, Chart, World Bank 15587. The assumptions behind this
estimate are detailed in that Annex. Cost figures are expressed in
constant January 1976 values and include: all Project investment
minus tax, plus physical contingencies; all incremental recurrent
expenditures net of identifiable direct and indirect taxes relating
to salaries and machinery; and vehicle operation and maintenance costs.
The foreign exchange costs of imported items have been shadow-priced
at US$1 = TSh 10.00.
5.     Gross sales proceeds from processed tobacco have been valued
FOB Dar es Salaam in constant 1976 prices adjusted to reflect ex-
pected price changes forecast for the world market. Sales proceeds
include export taxes. Benefits have been shadow-priced at US$1 =
TSh 10.00 to reflect the opportunity cost of foreign exchange in
Tanzania; this implies that all incremental production will be ex-
ported. In recent years, Tanzania has held down expansion of domestic
demand by successive increases in excise duties, and this policy is
expected to continue. To the extent that growth in domestic demand
cannot be curtailed, the Project would facilitate import substitution
which, valued cif and shadow-priced would increase the Project benefits.
The valuation adopted is, therefore, somewhat conservative.
6.     The IER with the assumptions and adjustments outlined above
would be 25% over 25 years. The financial rate of return on the pro-
cessing plant is estimated at 10% over 25 years (Table 2).
7.     The storage at Morogoro and Dar es Salaam would provide an IER
of 16% on the assumption that loss of some 10% of the annual value of
the incremental crop over and above that equivalent to existing good
storage capacity (up to the maximum which could be handled in the new
facilities) would be avoided over 25 years. In other words, loss has
been assumed only on that proportion of the crop which, without the
Project, it would not be possible to place in good storage, and a
ceiling equivalent to the crop for which Project storage would suffice
has been placed on the amount of tobacco assumed at risk. There are



ANNEX 11
Page 3
an data on losses in quantitv or of quality Gf leaf under present storage
conditions, but the saving is intuitively reasonable especially as, with-
out the Project storage, inter-year fluctuations in production would
lead to longer than desirable storage periods in bumper years.
Sensi_tivity Analysis
8.     The sensitivity of the Project to variations in costs and benefits
has been tested, and the results indicate that IER is relatively in-
sensitive to the assumptions on farmers opportunity cost of production,
rather sensitive to changes in variable costs and highly sensitive to
changes in tobacco production and prices. This analysis is detailed
below:
Variation                                       Rate of Return
(a) Tobacco Production
(i)  consistently 10% lower than estimate                  19%
(ii)  consistently 10% higher than estimate                 34%
(b) Tobacco prices on the world market
(i)  consistently 10% lower than estimate                 19%
(ii)  consistently 10% higher than estimate                 34%
(c) Tobacco production and world market prices
(i)  both consistently 10% lower than estimate             11%
(ii)  both consistently 10% higher than estimate            42%
(d) "Without Project" benefits
(i)  consistently 25% higher than estimate                 24%
(ii)  consistently 25% lower than estimate                  27%
(e)  Increase in variable costs of processing by 15%            16%
9.     The "Without Project" situation is based on crude assumptions about
the supply elasticity of tobacco (para. 3): it is shown in variation
(d), however, that returns to the Project are not critically dependent
on this. As might be expected, the Project is very sensitive to tobacco
prices and to the throughput of tobacco: a 1% change in either results
in a 0.5% to 1% change in the rate of return. This suggests . close



ANNEX 11
Page 4
watch needs to be kept on quality control in tobacco processing -- which
the Project facilitates -- and on Tanzania's efforts to expand tobacco
production and those policies which may influence this. The appraisal
is based on production forecasts which are regarded in Tanzania as very
conservative (Annex 2).
10.     Given reasonable accuracy in price forecasts, it seems likely
that the IER would be within the range 20%-35%.



TANZANIA
ANNEX 11
TOBACCO PROCESSING PROJECT                                                             Table   I
Calculation of Internal Economic Return
(T.Shs. '000)
Year 1        2         3           4          5             6            7             8            9            10
INVESTMENT
Improvement to Existing Line                            3,910
New Line                                               13,252       25,858     4,180
Storage & Related Infrastructure                       14,058       18,498     2,200
Technical Services                                                     822     1,219      1,219         411
Training                                                               220       100        100         100
Post Project Study                                                             _-1,121.
Total Investment                                       31,220      45,398      8,876      2,440         511
RECURRENT EXPENDITURE
Tobacco Production                                                                       13,900      39,200       60,450        93,000       97,650       120,900      130,200
Classification & Transportation to Processing                                               442       1,310        1,887         2,900        3,335         3,770        4,200
Processing                                                                                2,600       7,000       11,400        17,200       18,000        22,400       24,000
Marketing                                                                                   390       1,155        1,665         2,660        2,940         3,322         3,935
Administration                                                                 __           650       1.925        2.775         4.270        4.906         5.540        6,015
Total Recurrent Cost                                                                     17,982      50,550       78,177       120,030      126,831       155,932      168,350
TOTAL INCREMENTAL OUTFLOW                                  31,220       45,398     8,876      20,422     51,061       78,177       120,030      126,831       155,932       168,350
Project Benefits                                                                              26,064     70,173      112,200       171,800      181,500       222,551       240,600
Net Benefits (Costs)                                                                          5,642      19,111       34,023        51,770       54,669        66,619        72,250
Without Project Benefits                                                                       2,200      7,266         9,446       14,533        16,260       19,900        22,000
Net l-.g_me,.tat Benefits (Costs)                         (31,220)    (45,398)   (8,876)      3,442      11,845       24,577        37,237       38,409        46,719        50,250
Rate .     ) rT  25Z
May 13, 197t



ANNEX 11
TANZANIA                                                                    Table  2
TOBACCO PROCESSING PROJECT
Financial Rate of Return
(T.Sh. '000)
Year 1         2            3             4            5            6             7            8            9           10
I.     INVESTMENT COST
Improvement of Existing Line                3,150
New Line                                   10,890       21,230        4,180
Storage and Infrastructure                 12,590       16,500        2,200
Technical Services                                         780        1,098         1,108
Training                                                   200          100           100          110
Post Project Study                                                   __1.000                       100
Total Investment                           26,630       38,710        7,578         2,208          210
II.    OPERATING COST
Salaries and Wages                                                                    701        1,196        1,360        1,545         1,753        2,000        2,265
Packing Material                                                                      715        2,117        3,050        4,690         5,390        6,091        6,560
Maintenance and Overhead                                                            8.764        5.420        5,403        5,795         6.061        6.318        6.573
Total operating Cost                                                              10,180         8,733        9,813       12,030        13,204       14,409       15,398
III.   TOTAL FINANCIAL OUTFLOW                         26,630       38,710        7,578       12,388         8,943        9,813       12,030        13,204       14,409       15,398
IV.    TOTAL  FINANCIAL  INFLOW                                                                3,750         9,200       14,500       22,025        24,500       28,750       30,875
V.     Net Income Before Tax                          (26,630)     (38,710)      (7,578)       (8,638)         467        4,687         9,995       11,296       14,341       15,477
Corporate Tax at 45%                                                                                                 210        2,109,       4,497         5,065        6,453
VI.    Net Profit After Tax                           (26,630)     (38,710)      (7,578)       (8,638)         467        4,477         7,886        6,799        9,276         9,024
Depreciation                                                                            8,264        4,165         3,653        3,245        2,811         2,468        2,168
VII.   NET FINANCIAL FLOW                             (26,630)     (38,710)      (7,578)         (374)       4,632        8,130       11,131         9,610       11,744        11,192
Rate of Return: 10%
1/     Income derived from Processing fees charged to T.A.T. at the rate of T.Sh. 2.50 per kilogram of processed tobacco.






IBRD 12126
U G A N D;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  K E ~~~~~~~~~MARCH 19715
U0 G A N DrA<                 V 7 b(32e / t C     O RI   .............. s*                            .                       : TANZANfIA
.T,.   . tA            .TOBACCO  PROCESSING PROJECT
RWANQA                              8Uk~fl~WMTA            A                  Tobacco Grovrng Areas    - MmrOvdIs
fq                                                            o                        Flu Cured Tbc      -..-l-st- RIWO  ,
L4K       ?  Arus-----TAZA8A woilway
Xi'HNArnENyaOir nobA_e___Regn boundaries
3 8 -U; fi U U a I < M R ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                - .   A  F a t r   R   Il C 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Distrct bourIdaris
tnteruut_onot bourtdori"rS 
W ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ oqu 0S                                                             PEMBA
h i n YAo n                   MA8unyonY                           ZANZ EAR
X GN  <f/A N O A  '   j A4ungwvo   1    Y)MPWT RESEBSASA~~~~~~~~~AR E SALAMM
a arno                                                        KILa  M   r      0DAR ES SALAAM
So~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Ki             <        j                           /                       SMahenge 5                    r    WKilwoMesiho
1                        anu7A       N G                                                WgEA _
1 t   ' ' 7    U£Lt8   t~~         )        w(bnmbAoy   ,~             -uNDU                   '  
m                                     ZANZIBAR -- ¢' )MOZAMMIQUE    4  -



