CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMER 658 TA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Tobacco Processing Project)
betwee'a
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 16, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 16, 1976, between UNITED REPUBLIC
OF TANZANIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending the Credit
as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Tobacco Authority
of Tanzania (hereinafter called TAT) and the Tanzania Tobacco Pro-
cessing Company Limited (hereinafter called TTPC) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to each of them part of the proceeds of the Credit as
hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter aliL
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and TAT
and TTPC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafte.- called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise reqli.res, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Asso-
ciation and TAT and TTPC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement; and
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and TAT and TTPC pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement.
i1)


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to eight million dollars ($8,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in Section
2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿14-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing March 15, 1987 and ending September 15,
2026, each installment to and including the installment payable on
September 15, 1996 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause TAT and TTPC to perform in accor-
dance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obliga-
tions therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable TAT and TTPC
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such per-
formance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
TAT and TTPC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and TA and TTPC under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Association and which shall
include repayment by TAT in 7 years including 4 years of grace,
and by TTPC in 8 years including 3 years of grace, and interest
at the rate of 10% per annum.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, fail to enforce,
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿-6-
Section 3.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 3.01 (a) hereof, the Borrower shall take
or cause to be taken all measures necessary: (i) to enable TAT
to retain each year sufficient funds to meet its obligations
under the Project Agreement; and (ii) to enable TTPC to charge
processing fees at such level as shall be required for TTPC to
retain each year sufficient funds to meet its obligations under
the Project Agreement.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) TAT or TTPC shall have failed to perform any of its
respective covenants, agreements or obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that TAT or TTPC will be able to perform any
of its respective obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of TAT or TTPC or for the suspension of its respective opera-
tions, unless prior thereto the Borrower and the Association shall
have agreed on the arrangements to be made in order to replace
such entity by an organization which will assume and perform all
the obligations of such entity under the Project Agreement upon
said dissolution, disestablishment or suspension.
(d) The organization, powers or responsibilities of TAT or
TTPC shall have been amended so as to materially and adversely
affect its management, operations, or financial condition or the
carrying out of the Project or the operation of the facilities
included in the Project.


﻿-8-
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
0


﻿-9-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of TAT
and TTPC has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
corporate and governmental action; and
(b) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and TAT and TTPC, respectively, has been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional mat-
ters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Con-
ditiorn, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by TAT and TTPC, and is legally binding upon TAT and TTPC
in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and TAT and TTPC, respectively,
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and TAT and TTPC in
accordance with its terms.


﻿- 10                                      0
Section 5.03. The date December 15, 1976 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
III and the provisions of Article IV of this Agreement shall cease
and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date 25 years after the date of this Agree-
ment, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time respon-
sible for Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Principal Secretary
The Treasury
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:
Treasury
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
614,45  (WUI)
01


﻿-12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By /s/ Hamza Aziz
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Willi A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amount of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment and             4,900,000         100% of foreign
machinery                                    expenditures or
90% of local
expenditures
(2) Storage and infra-         1,400,000         100% of foreign
structure facil-                             expenditures or
ities                                        47% of local
expenditures
(3) Technical assis-             400,000         100% of foreign
tance, training                              expenditures or
and survey                                   70% of local
expenditures
(4) Unallocated                1,300,000
TOTAL      8,000,000


﻿2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in re-
spect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $694,000, may
be made on account of payments made for such expenditures before
that date but after February 1. 1976.


﻿- 15 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallo-
cate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to an-
other Category and which in the opinion of the Association are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that fur-
ther withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expen-
ditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, can-
cel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.


﻿-16-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
1.   Improvement and expansion of the tobacco processing plant at
Morogoro to achieve an operational capacity of about 41 thousand
tons of cured leaf per annum, of which about 36 thousand tons will
be mechanically processed. This includes improvement and expansion
of the existing processing line and installation of a new one.
2.   Construction of storage facilities at Morogoro, with an area
of about 10,700 m , and one storage facility with an area of about
6,4oo m , including a fumigation chamber, and an office in Dar-es-
Salaam.
3.   Construction of additional infrastructural facilities at the
Morogoro plant site, including improvement and extension of roads
in the factory area, storm drainage, railway sidings, water storage
and distribution, fencing, installation of telecommunications
facilities, provision of fire-fighting equipment, and construction
of stores, a training center, and workshops and offices.
4.   A program of technical assistance and training of factory
staff.
5.   A study of additional tobacco processing investment require-
ments in Tanzania.
* P   e
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


