 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14663

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 03/19/2015

               Country: Ukraine
             Project ID: P076338                                                    Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Development Of State         Project Costs (US$M):                       37.94                42.03
                         Statistics System For
                         Monitoring Social &
                         Economic
                         Transformation
                         Project (DEVSTAT)
  L/C Number:            L4729                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                       32.00                41.84
      Sector Board:      Economic Policy              Cofinancing (US$M):

          Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                 03/25/2004
                                                             Closing Date:            12/31/2009            12/31/2013
         Sector(s):       Central government administration (100%)
         Theme(s):        Economic statistics; modeling and forecasting (50% - P); Poverty strategy; analysis and
                          monitoring (25% - S); Other economic management (25% - S)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                  Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Clay Wescott              Robert Mark Lacey       Lourdes N. Pagaran          IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The project was designed as a Specific Investment Loan under the umbrella of the Statistical Capacity Building
    Program (STATCAP) horizontal Adaptable Program Loan (APL). The objective of the STATCAP program is the
    development of a comprehensive and integrated national action plan for statistical capacity building, often linked
    to a comprehensive national statistical plan. The key element of STATCAP is commitment to the implementation
    of a nationally-owned Statistical Master Plan based on a coherent statistical development strategy. Ukraine had a
    Statistical Master Plan for 2003-2008, and met the eligibility criteria for STATCAP.

    According to the Loan Agreement (p. 15), the objective of the project is: "to build a sustainable state statistical
    system which would efficiently and effectively collect, process and disseminate accurate, timely, coherent and
    trustworthy statistical data concerning the economy and social conditions of the Borrower required by the
    government, business and society to make informed decisions, and encompassing a comprehensive reform of
    the State Statistical System of Ukraine, primarily through the modernization of the State Statistical Committee."

    The objective as stated in the project appraisal document (PAD) was: "to dramatically increase access to
    assistance to strengthen National Statistical Systems and increase their capacity to produce more reliable, timely
    and accurate data." (p. 15).

    In 2012 the PDO in the Loan Agreement for Additional Financing was amended to state the objective: " to build a
    sustainable state statistical system which efficiently provides timely and accurate data for policy evaluation and
    decision making ", thus aligning the objective statement between the Loan Agreement and the PAD. This did not
    involve a substantive change in the objective statement. This Review will use this project objective statement.
b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

   There were six components at appraisal:

        The institutional framework for national statistics (US$3.91m at appraisal, US$0.67m at completion). This
         was to include improvements in legal and regulatory mechanisms to maintain integrity, independence and
         confidentiality, in the management and coordination systems for national statistics and in maintaining
         dialogue with users. The immediate objective was to ensure that an appropriate policy, legal and regulatory
         framework for statistics was in place. Development of efficient systems for managing human and physical
         resources would be included.
        Statistical infrastructure, such as statistical registers, sampling frames, classifications, databases,
         geographic information systems (US$0.85m at appraisal, for completion cost see next component). The
         immediate objective was to ensure that the main statistical agencies have critical data collection
         methodological standards and tools.
        Data development: improving the effectiveness and efficiency of statistical operations, including methods
         used to collect and disseminate statistical data, and skills and capacity of staff involved (US$7.17m at
         appraisal, US$4.95m at completion including previous component). The immediate objective was to see that
         main statistical agencies had the key sets of tools and methods that form the basis for statistical agencies to
         collect, compile and disseminate data.
        Strengthening of Informational Basis for Decision-Making and Forecasting in the Ministry of Economy
         (US$0.87m at appraisal, US$0.77 at completion). Included modernization of data presentation and
         processing for analytical purposes, and application of new short- and medium-term forecasting models.
        Investment in physical infrastructure and equipment (US$22.84m at appraisal, US$ 32.63 with additional
         financing, US$34.07m at completion). The immediate objective was to ensure that physical and
         communication infrastructure facilitate the production and dissemination of data by statistical agencies and
         was adequately maintained by the statistical agencies
        Project Management (US$1.04m at appraisal, US$1.27m after additional financing, US$1.38m at
         completion). Strengthening of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), especially in the areas of procurement
         and financial management, in order to enable it to properly coordinate and promote the Project activities and
         carry out the audits of the Loan, including provision of management training to the PIU staff, office
         equipment, and software. (PAD, pp. 16-17, Loan Agreement, p. 15-20, and ICR Annex 1).


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Project costs and financing . The estimated cost at appraisal was $37.94m, including the Bank's commitment of
   $32m and Government contribution of $5.94m. Actual cost based on components at appraisal was $34.88m, with
   a reduction in government counterpart funds. Total cost at completion was $42.03m, supported by $10m in
   additional financing approved in 2012 (ICR, Annex 1). The additional costs were mainly needed to expand the
   Integrated Statistical Data Processing System nationwide, drawing on the experience of pilots implemented in the
   earlier period of the project. Of the total $42m in the approved loan and additional financing, $41.84m was
   disbursed (ICR, Basic information sheet).

   The infrastructure component was expanded at the 2010 restructuring to include the nation-wide roll-out of the
   Integrated Statistical Data Processing System (ISDPS). Additional financing covered a financing gap caused by
   lack of state budget funds for statistical infrastructure investment. Actual costs for components for organizational
   Development, statistical infrastructure and data development were less than at appraisal. The reason was that
   under implementation it was found that some activities were closely linked to others, and the work of one covered
   by another. In such cases, some budgets could be reduced, freeing up resources for other areas to be expanded.


   Borrower contribution . Overall, the Borrower contribution was US$5.94m at appraisal, and US$3.19m actual,
   plus US$0.005m contributed as additional financing. This counterpart funding mainly covered tax payments, and
   the difference between appraised and actual costs was mainly because estimated tax payments did not
   materialize to the extent forecast.

   Dates. The project was approved March 25, 2004, and became effective June 15, 2005. It closed December 31,
   2013, four years after the date originally planned. There was an initial extension of the closing date by one year,
   due to delays in effectiveness due to the slow progress by Parliament in ratifying the loan agreement. In
   addition, there were two restructurings approved: November 24, 2010, and November 20, 2012. The first
   supported some changes in the results framework and a three-year extension of the closing date, and the second
   supported additional financing, changes to two components, and an additional one year extension of the closing
   date. There was no substantive change in the project development objective.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Substantial. The operation is aligned with the Bank's Country Partnership Strategy for the fiscal years 2012-2016
   commitment to address basic infrastructure needs in the sectors with established track records of cooperation,
   including state statistics (p. 16). Ukraine had Statistical Master Plans (2003-2008; 2008-2013), and met the other
   eligibility criteria for the Statistical Capacity Building Program (STATCAP), including champions in the Ministry of
   Finance, National Bank of Ukraine, and the State Statistical Service of Ukraine. The operation is relevant to
   country conditions because it continued a process begun in 1993 to reform the statistical system that had met the
   needs of a centrally planned economy to one meeting the needs of a democratic society and market economy,
   including a shift to concentrate resources in key statistical areas, use of sampling methodologies, and meeting
   international standards.


b. Relevance of Design:

   Substantial. There is a clear statement of the objectives, with a clear and broadly convincing link between
   funding, intermediate and final outcomes. The choice of a specific investment lending instrument was appropriate
   to finance mainly statistical physical infrastructure and equipment, which are difficult to prioritize for state budget
   funds in competition with more visible and politically salient needs in other sectors. The design was also flexible
   enough to address emerging capacity needs as they developed during the operation.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   The degree of achievement of the project development objective -- to build a sustainable state statistical system
   which efficiently provides timely and accurate data for policy evaluation and decision making – is assessed
   separately for the two sub-objectives :

   1. To efficiently provide timely and accurate data for policy evaluation and decision making . Substantial. The
   results framework has an extensive set of target indicators measuring timeliness and accuracy of data. All of
   these targets have been met or exceeded, including inter alia: meeting PARIS-21 methodological standards,
   automated statistical classification compliant with European Union Code of Practice, full compliance with UN
   Fundamental Principles of Official Statistics, increase in rate of response in basic enterprise surveys, upgraded
   forecasting models, and conformity to ISDPS functioning. In terms of the PARIS-21 statistical capacity building
   indicators, Ukraine’s system moved from a baseline of 2.9 to 3.5 on a 4 point scale, where 4 is best practice.
   Assuming that the indicator for timeliness scored in the range of the average overall score, then Ukraine
   statistical outputs are released somewhere between the time limits for the relevant General Data Dissemination
   System recommendations (score = 3) and well ahead of the time limits (score = 4). In terms of data accuracy,
   the average score indicates good performance in adequacy of source data, response monitoring, and data
   validation

   This has translated into better decision-making, for example, "improvement of the demographic, social and
   poverty statistics sub-component of the project has helped enhancing the efficiency of [the] social assistance
   system in Ukraine by improving the identification of target beneficiaries for social assistance and simplifying the
   benefits allocation procedures" (ICR, p. 11). In addition, the Ministry of Finance and Central Bank have been able
   to improve the quality of their analysis using the data, although it is hard to know if this analysis has been used by
   decision makers to produce better policy, since there are so many other factors that influence such policy.

   2. To build a sustainable state statistical system . Substantial. According to the ICR, the State Statistical Service
   of Ukraine (SSSU) has strengthened its capacity to provide more timely and accurate data as evidenced above,
   has sustained these achievements to date, and is now capable of providing technical assistance to other
   comparable statistical bodies in the region. Target indicators that have been met or exceeded include: piloting of
    two tier organizational model across the country, reduction in number of statistical forms, reduction in time
    needed to fill in structural business surveys, establishment of statistical business register, reduced number of
    reports as a result of small enterprises sample survey, increased use of electronic data collection methods,
    certified training of staff in core statistical software products as part of a new human resource development
    framework, expanded use of sample-based surveys, and strengthened collaboration between SSSU and other
    agencies through the Inter-agency Working Group. A concern about sustainability moving forward is the
    availability of funding. The ICR states that funding is not likely from regular budget resources for introducing new
    functionalities, as discussed in Section 7 of this Review. The ICR states that there was timely provision of
    counterpart funding based on budget requests of project beneficiaries, but does not comment on the
    sustainability of regular budget funding for ongoing operation and maintenance of the system.


5. Efficiency:

    Substantial. Aside from the broad economic benefits of the improvements documented in Section 4, the project
    has reduced the cost of data collection through moving to sample survey methodologies, and reducing the cost of
    compliance by surveyed businesses. Project resources were also used in a cost-effective manner. There was a
    contract with a consortium of European Statistical agencies to provide technical assistance, this was very
    cost-efficient, peer to peer. According to the ICR, it was much more efficient to manage one contract than to have
    a large number of small procurement packages, which had been foreseen in the original project procurement
    plan. Another efficiency was the practice of shifting resources among components, for reasons described above
    in Section 2d. Thus, resources were targeted where they were most needed. A shortcoming was the significant
    delays in finalizing the information and communication's technology (ICT) system development contract due to
    the complex contract review and clearance process. This led to the need to extend the project, but did not
    reportedly lead to major increases in project cost.


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        No
    ICR estimate                     No
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

    The objective of providing timely and accurate data through system-wide statistical improvements was
    substantially relevant to meeting the needs of a democratic society and market economy, and the design that
    used investment lending to finance mainly physical infrastructure and equipment combined with essential
    capacity improvements was substantially relevant. There was substantial efficacy of achievement with improved
    quality of analysis, although it is hard to know to what extent this analysis has been used by decision makers to
    produce better policy. There was substantial efficiency in use of project resources, through the use of a single
    contract with a consortium of European statistical agencies.

a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

    The PAD states: "Sustainability of the project benefits depends critically on the commitment of the
    government to provide budgetary support beyond the implementation phase, particularly
    for activities not directly connected with data collection but indispensable for maintaining
    the improved statistical process: staff training, statistical research, maintenance of newly
    installed statistical and physical infrastructure (p. 21)." This remains a critical risk today. The ICR states that
    introducing new features for ISDPS will require significant additional funding. Since the ICR states that regular
    budget funding may not be available, sustainability may depend on external resources. The Bank has recently
    received a new request from the National Statistical Office in Ukraine for a follow-up Investment Project
    Financing operation which is likely to be included in the lending program. This is evidence of Government
   commitment, and would help to mitigate the financing risk.

   The political and security situation adds additional risk, making it difficult to carry out data gathering in some parts
   of the country. However, there are alternative ways for data collection, including through the use of ICT, and the
   signs of continuing Government ownership and support is still in place and strong.


  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   As one of the first of two operations under the STATCAP Adaptable Program Loan (the other was for Burkina
   Faso), the project built selectively on a well-constructed template (PAD, Annex 1) envisioned to link with a
   country's comprehensive master plan for statistical capacity building. Among the desirable features was the
   focus on systemic rather than piecemeal interventions, and broad-based capacity building for all actors in the
   system, including statisticians, respondents, data compilers and data users. The use of a Project
   Implementation Unit (PIU) within the State Statistical Service of Ukraine (SSSU) helped to improve the
   borrower's institutional and managerial capacity. The STATCAP approach also facilitated knowledge sharing
   across several operations in different countries, and common processing procedures.

   The project team had the appropriate skill mix, and technical dimensions were well covered. There was a
   solid rapport with the Government counterparts based on the quality of advice and information that was being
   provided. Lessons from earlier operations and projects, and complementarities with ongoing initiatives were
   taken into consideration and acted upon. The design follows the UN guiding principles for technical
   cooperation in statistics. Key issues incorporated include an integrated program approach, and inclusive
   human resource efforts including respondents, data compilers and data users as well as statisticians.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   There was appropriate Bank supervision, with 18 Implementation Status Reports and accompanying Aide
   Memoires prepared during the project. When called for, the Bank requested weekly reports from the Borrower
   including the status of mutually agreed actions, challenges, and pending actions, including those requiring
   management attention. There was good oversight of procurement and fiduciary issues, although there was
   reportedly a delay of almost a year in obtaining the Bank's clearance for signing a key information and
   communication's technology (ICT) contract on the development of the Integrated Statistical Data Processing
   System, leading to the need for an extension of the closing date.



  Quality of Supervision Rating :                 Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :               Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   There was an initial delay in the ratification process of the Loan Agreement by the Parliament (the process
   subsequently changed so that loans don't need to be ratified by Parliament as long as the funds are included
   in the budget line for the implementing agency). There was strong Government support that facilitated
   adoption and implementation of a new regulatory and institutional framework for the national statistical
   system, including improved dialogue among all stakeholders. Counterpart funds were provided in a timely
   manner.
  Government Performance Rating                            Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

    The SSSU successfully managed the institutional requirements of the reforms supported by the project,
    including an improved organizational structure, and good support to the procurement and financial
    management elements of the operation., When necessary, corrective measures recommended by Bank
    supervision missions were put in place by SSSU and procurement implementation progressed satisfactorily,
    although with some delays in few contracts.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                 Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                    Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The monitoring framework captures sufficient indicators to measure most aspects of the objective. However,
   there could have been more effort to ascertain whether the improved data was being used "for policy evaluation
   and decision making".


b. M&E Implementation:

   Two new indicators were added to measure the impact of the additional financing provided in 2010. Original
   targets were retained, except that target dates were extended. Quarterly and annual progress reports were
   prepared, with the latter providing assessment based on the PARIS-21 methodology, see
   http://paris21.org/sites/default/files/scbi-final-en.pdf


c. M&E Utilization:

   M&E data were used as the basis for recommendations made in Supervison Aide-Memoires, and for follow
   up reports to the Bank (which were often weekly) to monitor appropriate follow-up.


M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   No safeguards were triggered in this Category C operation.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   The financial management was adequately performed by the PIU. All reports were submitted on time except for
   one quarterly report in 2006. No procurement compliance issues were raised. All issues arising from audits,
   management letters and financial monitoring reports were resolved in a timely manner.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
none

 d. Other:
none


12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                 Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Negligible to Low             Moderate           Because of uncertain funding for
                     Outcome:                                                  needed improvements in statistical
                                                                               infrastructure, and security issues that
                                                                               could hinder data gathering in some
                                                                               regions.
             Bank Performance: Satisfactory                 Satisfactory

       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

                 Quality of ICR:                            Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    The findings given in the ICR, Section 6 imply a number of lessons:
      Statistical capacity building requires a regulatory and institutional framework for the national statistical
        system that includes both users and producers of statistics, including effective dialogue among all
        stakeholders.
      The use of a single contract with a consortium providing statistical services is more efficient than using
        many small procurement packages, and helps to ensure that results delivered are coherent and
        well-sequenced.
      Procurement of ICT systems requires more time than procurement of less complex goods and services
        due to lengthy preparation of technical specifications, changes in specifications over time, and the
        demands on experienced ICT procurement specialists. A recent evaluation found this lesson applies
        across a wide range of ICT procurements (IEG, 2014. The World Bank and Public Procurement, Vol 2, pp
        59-71).


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR is broadly well done, drawing out evidence and analysis on results to back up a fair assessment. A
    minor shortcoming is that the "lessons" are actually "findings" about the specific operation. In addition, the
    quantitative target for the PDO indicator of "Statistical capacity of the state statistical system according to
    "PARIS-21" methodology" is difficult to interpret. The ICR states that it achieved the expected target of 3.5, with a
    reference to the PARIS-21 website cited above in Section 10b. The document explains how sub-ratings are
    constructed on a one to four scale, but the document cited does not explain how an overall capacity rating is
    constructed from the many different sub-ratings. Finally, the ICR states that the contract with the European
    statistical agencies was very cost-efficient; it would have been helpful if some actual cost comparisons were
    provided to support this.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
