                                                Documentof
                                             The World Bank

                                       FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                                  ReportNo: 36719-NP




                                          TECHNICAL ANNEX

                                                   ONA

                                            PROPOSEDGrant
                               INTHE AMOUNT OFSDR 12.1MILLION
                                  (US$18.2 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)


                                                 TO THE

                                       GOVERNMENTOFNEPAL

                                                 FORAN

                              AVIAN INFLUENZA CONTROLPROJECT

                                               UNDERTHE

GLOBALPROGRAMFORAVIANINFLUENZA AND HUMANPANDEMICPREPAREDNESS
                                         AND RESPONSE(GPAI)


                                            December 21,2006




SustainableDevelopmentDepartment(SASSD)
HumanDevelopmentSector Unit(SASHD)
SouthAsiaRegion


This document has arestncteddistribution and may be usedbyrecipients only inthe performance o ftheir
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                              (Exchange Rate Effective December 20,2006)
                                     Currency Unit = Nepali Rupee
                                                NR. 72 = US$1
                                                    US$ = SDR 1.50435

                                                   FISCAL YEAR
                                            July 15     - July 14

                               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AI      Avian Influenza                                 ILI         Influenza-Like Illness
APL     Adaptable Program Loan                          LSDSC       Livestock Services Development Centres
BSL     Bio-Safety Level                                M o A C     MinistryofApculture and Cooperatives
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy                     M o H A     MinistryofHome Affairs
CCT     Core Coordination Team                          MoHP        MinistryofHealth andPopulation
CDC     Center for Disease Control                      NARC        National Agnculture ResearchCentre
CEU     Central Epidemological Unit                     MOLD        Ministryof Local Development
CNDRC   Central Natural Disaster Relief C o m t t e e   NAIIPPRP    National Avian Influenza and Influenza Pandemc
                                                                    Preparedness and Response Plan
C V L   Central Vetennary Lab                           NCB         National Competitive Bidding
DGHS    Director General of Health Services             NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
DoHS    Departmento fHealthServices                     NPHL        National Public Health Laboratory
DoLS    Departmento fLivestock Services                 OFFLU       OIERAO network for Avian Influenza
EDCD    Epidemology and Disease Control Division        OIE         World Organization for Animal Health
EDP     ExternalDevelopment Partners                    OP          Operational Policy
EMP     EnvironmentalManagement Plan                    PIP         Project ImplementationPlan
EWARS   EarlyWarningReporting System                    PPE         Personal Protection Equipment
FA0     Food and Agnculture Organization                RRT         Rapid Response Team
FMD     Foot and Mouth Disease                          RVLs        Regional Vetennary Labs
GDP     Gross Domestic Product                          SARS        Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome
GPAI    Global Programfor Avian Influenza and           SBD         Standard Bidding Documents
        HumanPandemcPreparedness andResponse
GIS     Global Information System                       STD         Sexually Transmtted Disease
GoN     Government o f Nepal                            TAD         Trans-border Animal Disease
GPS     Global Positioning Satellite                    UNICEF      United Nations Children's Fund
HPAI    Highly pathogenic avian influenza               VBT         Village Based Training
H5N1    Influenza A virus                               UNDP        United Nations Development Program
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and       USAID       United States Agency for International Development
        Development
ICB     International Competitive Bidding               WHO         World Health Organization
IDA     International Development Association           WARUN       Walter Reed ResearchUnit




                                    Vice President:          Praful Pate1
                                  Country Director:          Kenichi Ohashi
                                   Sector Directors:         Julian Schweitzer, Constance Bernard
                                  Sector Managers:           Anabela Abreu, Gajanand Pathmanathan
                              Task Team Leaders:              Sundararajan Gopalan, Daniel Sellen




                                                        ..
                                                       11

                                                                                              FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                                                      NEPAL
                                                Avian InfluenzaControlProject

                                                                   CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                          Page

      A.   STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                              .................................................................   1
         1. Country and sector issues....................................................................................................                   1
        2. Rationale for World Bankinvolvement..............................................................................                                2

      B.   PROJECTDESCRIPTION                         .................................................................................................     3
         1. Project development objective andkey indicators..............................................................                                   3
        2. Financing instrument ..........................................................................................................                  3
        3.    Project components.............................................................................................................               4

      C.   IMPLEMENTATION                    ..........................................................................................................     5
        1. Partnership arrangements....................................................................................................                     5
        2. Institutional andimplementationarrangements ..................................................................                                   5
        3 .   Monitoringandevaluationof outcomes/results..................................................................                                  8
        4.    Critical risks andpossible controversial aspects.................................................................                             9
        5. Grant conditions and covenants........................................................................................                          11

      D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
       .                                            .................................................................................................      11
        1. Economic and financial analyses......................................................................................                           11
        2.   Technical........................................................................................................................... 11
        3.    Fiduciary........................................................................................................................... 11
        4.    Social................................................................................................................................. 11
        5.   Environmental...................................................................................................................              12
        6.    Safeguard policies.............................................................................................................              12
        7.   Policy exceptions andreadiness........................................................................................                        12

     Annex 1:CountryandSectorBackground                                 ..............................................................................     13

     Annex 2: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring                                   ........................................................................     20

     Annex 3: DetailedProjectDescription             . .       ......................................................................................      24



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

Annex 4: ProjectCosts...............................................................................................................     42

Annex 5: CoordinationandImplementationArrangements                                   ..................................................  43

Annex 6: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements                                            ..................................... 49

Annex 7: ProcurementArrangements              ......................................................................................     60

Annex 8: SafeguardPolicyIssues        ..............................................................................................     66

Annex 9: ProjectPreparationandSupervision                      .......................................................................   71

Annex 10: Documentsinthe ProjectFile                .................................................................................    73




                                                          iv

                                                  NEPAL

                               AVIAN INFLUENZACONTROL PROJECT
                                          TECHNICAL ANNEX
                                               SOUTH ASIA
                                              SASSDEASHD

Date: December 21,2006                           Team Leaders: Daniel Sellen, Sundararajan Gopalan
Country Director: Kenichi Ohashi                 Sectors: General apculture, fishing and forestry sector
 Sector Directors: Constance Bernard, Julian     (50%); Health (50%)
 Schweitzer                                      Themes: Natural disaster management (P); Other
 Sector Managers: GajanandPathmanathan,          communicable diseases (P); Rural policies and institutions
Anabela Abreu                                    (S)
Project ID:P100342                               Environmental screening category: B
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program




Total Bank financing (US$m.): 18.20
Prooosed terms: Standard IDA

                     Source                            Local              Foreign               Total
RECIPIENT                                                  0.00               0.00                 0.00

Total:                                                     11.00              7.20                18.20

ResponsibleAgencies: (i)    Departmento f Health Services, Ministryo f Health and Population,
Kathmandu, Nepal Tel: 977-1-4255796; (ii)     Department o f Livestock Services, Ministry o f Agriculture
and Cooperatives, Kathmandu, Nepal, Tel: 977-1-5522056


FY                           07               08               09              10                 11
Annual                                         6.00            6.00             3.OO               2.20
                              1.oo
                              1.oo
Cumulative                                     7.00           13.00           16.00               18.20




Does the project depart from the CAS in content or other significant respects?
Avian influenza was not a threat during CASpreparation and is not specijkally
mentioned therein. However, theproposed assistance is aligned with a CASpillar i.e.,        []Yes [XIN o
Social Sector Development, as the risk of eroding human capital due to this disease is
serious, ifthe epidemic does strike.
Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?                                 [ ]Yes [XIN o
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                                [ ]Yes [XIN o
Does the project include any critical nsks rated "substantial" or "hlgh"?                   [XIYes [ ] N o




                                                     V

I Does  the project meet the Regional cnteria for readiness for implementation?                 [X]Y~S[INO     1
  Projectdevelopmentobjective:
  The overall objectives o fthe Project are to minimize the threat inNepal posed to humans by Highly
  Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI) infection by controlling such infections amongbirds, especially
  domestic poultry, and to prepare for, control, andrespond to possible human infections, especially an
  influenza epidemic and related emergencies. Though the objectives are specific to HPAI,the
  interventions are expected to contribute to the control o f other zoonotic diseases and other types o f
  infectiousdiseases, interms o f buildingoverall response capacity. These objectives will be achieved
  through three types o f interventions: (i)
                                           prevention; (ii)preparedness and planning; and (iii)  response and
  containment. Ifthese types o f interventions achieve their goals, the proposed Project will reduce the
  burdeno f disease, the consequent economic losses, the risk o f human infechon and the loss o f
  Droductivitv attributable to human infections inNeDal and limit the nsk o f HPAIto other countnes.
  Projectcomponents:
  (a)     AnimalHealth:This component will support activities for: (i)      enhancing avian influenza
  preventionand preparedness capability; (ii)  strengthening o f vetennary services, disease surveillance, and
  diagnostic capacity; (iii) strengthening avian influenza control programs and outbreak containment plans,
  and improving bio-securityinpoultry production and trade; (iv) the establishment o f an appropnate
  compensation fund

  (b)     HumanHealth:This component aims to prevent human illness due to avianinfluenza, and in
  case this cannot be prevented, reduce its impact, through: (i) year-round surveillance; (ii)building
  laboratory capacity to enable effective and accurate methods o f diagnosis / case-detection as part o f the
  overall public health systemresponse; (iii)  prevention and containment activities including social distance
  interventions and the use o fvaccines where appropnate; (iv) curative interventions (including case
  management and antiviral drugs) should human infections occur.

  (c)      Communications:This component is aimedat carrying out information, education, and
  communication activities to ensure appropriate behaviours on the part o fpoultry farmers, consumers,
  health care workers and the general public to prepare for andrespond to the avian influenza threat.

  (d)      ProjectManagement:There will be no Project ImplementationUnit,butinstead core
  coordinationteams (CCTs) designated within the line departments to coordinate, monitor and report on
  Project activities. These core teams would be accountable for the implementationo f the Project. This
  component covers humanresource development, technical assistance, logistical, communication, and
  transportation support for the CCTs inDoLS and DoHS. The overall coordinationwill be carried out by
  the Technical Sub-committee on Avian Influenza (TSCAI), o f the Central Natural Disaster Relief
  Committee, constituted by the Council o fMinisters. This Technical Sub-committee will serve as the
  steering committee for the Project.
  Which safeguardpolicies are triggered, if any? Environmental Assessment (OP 4.0 1)
  Significant, non-standard conditions: None.
  Board presentation: Will be approved at VPU level and approved by Board on a non-objection basis,
  since this project falls within the approved Global Program on Avian Influenza.
  Grant effectiveness conditions: None.
  Covenants applicable to pro] ect implementation: Standard financial covenants only.




                                                       vi

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXTAND RATIONALE
1. Country andsector issues

Avian influenza: Outbreaks o fHighlyPathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI) caused by the H5N1 subtype
o f influenzaA were first recognized inHongKong in 1997. Since late 2003, this subtype has been
spreading at an alarmingrate, from East Asia to Central Asia, and now to the Middle East, Europe,
Africa, and South Asia. Inaddition to its impact on animal health, with millions of domestic poultry
having died or been destroyed worldwide, H5N1 has been causing severe human disease. Of the known
258 humans with confirmedHPAIas o fNovember 2006, most (154) have died. The rapidly expanding
area inwhich HPAIhas been discovered and the escalating number o f human infections have raised
concerns worldwide over the possible evolution o f the next influenza pandemic and its disastrous
consequences.'

Nepal's risk status: Nepal i s a landlocked Himalayan country o f 24 million people. The country has so far
not had any cases o f HPAIineither avians or humans. However, the country i s at highrisk, with the
disease recorded inChina to the north and inIndia to the south. The limitedborder controls with China
andIndia on animal andhumanpopulation flow increases the potential for spread o f infectionto Nepal. In
addition, Nepal i s on two routes for migratory birds, which are h o w n carriers o f the disease. The ability
to detect avian influenza inthe country is severely handicapped due to access problems related to Nepal's
ruggedterrain and widespread security problems.

Poultry sector and veterinary services: There are an estimated 22 million chickens and 408 thousand
ducks inNepal. The poultry industry employs roughly 400,000 people, and provides livelihood to
millions o frural households. Poultry farming takes place within two systems: 45 percent o f (hybnd) birds
are found ina few large commercial farms located inperi-urban areas. The remainder consists o f
backyardunitso f indigenous fowl and ducks inroughly half o f the rural households across Nepal. While
most o f the commercial farms have good bio-secunty arrangements inplace, poultry meat marketing i s
traditional and unorganized, i.e. sold, transported, and butchered inthe open air, with no disposal
mechanism for waste material. There i s a well-knit vetennary infrastructure with one central vetennary
hospital, 75 distnct livestock service offices, 999 livestock service centres, 132 livestock officers, 178
veterinary officers, 1,000 para-vetennary staff and 6,000 village animal health workers.. There i s
considerable experience inthe control o f many livestock diseases. However, there i s no experience with
culling and disposal o f chicken and related compensation to farmers. Bio-secunty protocols, ring-fencing
and foreign border quarantine are under implementation, and there was for a time a ban on imports o f
poultry from India as a result o f the recent outbreaks o f avian influenza inthat country. The Ministryo f
Agriculture and Cooperatives (MoAC) i s already suffering from capacity constraints for the testing o f
suspicious birds (1,800 have been tested thus far). Checking o f trans-border movements o f animals i s a
daunting task because o fremoteness o f the borders from the capital, insufficient check-posts, and
traditional free movement o f animals and people between India and Nepal.

Human health: A public health service delivery system i s reasonably well established inNepal with the
MinistryofHealthandPopulation(MoHP) at the center, five regionalhealthdirectorates, regional and

 Avian influenza (also called avian flu or bird flu) refers to a group of different influenza viruses that primarily
affect birds.An influenza pandemic happens when a new subtype emerges that has not previously circulated in
humans. IfH5N1adapts into a strain that is contagious among humans, it will no longer be a birdvirus but a human
influenza virus.




                                                            1

zonal hospitals and district level hospitals. All 75 distncts have health offices and district hospitals with
an outreach network o f 188 primary health care centers, 698 village healthposts and 3,2 19 sub-health
posts. However, the health system i s constrained by quality o f care and access, issues that are being
addressed within the IDNDFID-financedNepal Health Sector Program. With respect to a possible
pandemic, this system will be requiredto: (i)   detect and characterize human influenza outbreaks promptly
through surveillance mechanisms within the existing system for disease control and epidemic
management; (ii)   be prepared to diagnose and treat large numbers o f people with influenza and its
complications; (iii) implement a communication strategy to inform the public on the progress o f avian
influenza, its risks and threats, methods o f self-protection against infection, sources o ftreatment, and; (d)
ensure inter-sectoral and inter-governmental coordination inprepanng for, and responding to, the threat
o f awan influenza and its possible spill-over to the human population.

National PreparednessPlan: MoAC and MoHP are well aware o fthe potential risko f awan influenza.
The Government o fNepal (GoN) set up an inter-sectoral Task Force under the chairmanship o fthe
Director-General o fHealth Services (DGHS) to coordinate Nepal's response to avian influenza andits
potential for human infections. In early 2006, the M o A C and MoHPjointly prepared a National Avian
Influenza and Influenza Pandemic Preparedness and Response Plan (NAIIPPRP) with assistance from the
World Health Organization(WHO) and the Food and Agriculture Organization(FAO).This Planwas
formally endorsedby the GoN. After prepanng the plan, the Task Force was dismantled and the
coordination function now resides under a technical sub-committee o fthe CentralNatural Disaster Relief
Committee (CNDRC). The NAIIPPRPprovldes a strong basis on which to detect and combat possible
outbreaks, and outlines the institutional mechanisms for doing so. The plan i s also candid about what
capacity and resource constraints exist. This NAIIPPRPwas later supplemented with an Operational Plan,
which formed the basis for the World Bank appraisal and this Technical Annex.

2. Rationalefor World Bank involvement

First,the growing pandemic risk, andthe needfor a coordinated internationalresponse provides a global
public goods argument for Bank involvement. Second, with its experience elsewhere, the Bank i s well
placed to field multi-sectoralteams to tackle the technical, social, economic, and regulatory dimensions o f
the problem on a country-by-country basis. Third, while agencies such as W H O and FA0have the
technical expertise to assist the respective line departments, the Bank has a comparative advantage in
workmg with the Ministryo f Finance (MoF) and the National Planning Commission (NPC)             -- critical in
any inter-sectoral activity such as preparedness for andresponse to avian influenza. Fourth, despite donor
interest from many sides, a considerable financing gap i s likely to remain without World Bank
participation. Finally, the Bank has now inplace an Adaptable Program Loan (APL)to finance the Global
Programfor Awan Influenza and Human Pandemic Preparedness and Response (GPAI), which can
rapidly support country-specific preparedness using guidelines for accelerated project processing. The
current Technical Annex i s consistent with the GPAI guidelines for project processing.

Notwithstanding the comparative advantages o f the Bank, the avian influenza program will require the
financial and technical inputso f all development partners. Thus, the proposed project i s being tightly
coordinated with programs supported by agencies such as the EU, FAO, WHO, UNICEF,UNDP,
AusAid, and USAID. For example, USAID is provlding fundingthroughFA0to build surveillance
capacity. UNDP i s workmg with the Ministries o f Local Development (MOLD)and Home Affairs
(MoHA) to builddisaster preparedness andresponse capacity. WHO has been instrumental inpreparing
the NAIIPPRPand Operational Planwhich providedthe basis for the proposed Project. UNICEFhas




                                                       2

taken the leadin developingthe Communication Plan to be implementedby this Project (see Annex 9 for
list o fparticipants).

B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION

1. Projectdevelopment objectiveand key indicators

The overall objectives o f the Project are to minimize the threatposed by HPAI to humans in Nepal by
controlling such infections among birds, especially domesticpoultly, andpreparingfor, controlling, and
responding topossible human infections, especially an influenza epidemic and related emergencies.
Though the objectives are specific to HPAI, the interventions are expected to contribute to the control o f
other zoonotic diseases and other types o finfectious diseases, interms o f buildingoverall response
capacity. These objectives will be achieved through three types o f interventions: (i) prevention; (ii)
preparedness and planning; and (iii)  response and containment. Ifthese types o f interventions achieve
their goals, the proposed project will reduce the burdeno f disease inanimal and the consequent economic
losses. Itwill also lower the risk o fhuman infection and the loss o fproductivity attributable to human
infectionsinNepal. Finally, it would limit the nsk o f HPAIinother countnes.

Key outcome indicators for the development objective will be: (i)    Positivebehawour change among
poultry farmers, health workers, and general population interms o fkey aspects o f howledge, attitudes
and practices (assessed through sample surveys); (ii)  continued absence o f HPAIinpoultry and effective
containment o fHPAIinfection inpoultry incase o f outbreaks. A key output indicator is a national
integratedpreparedness, control and response plan prepared and operationalized inaccordance with the
Global Framework for Avian Influenza, which i s developed by WHO, OIE, and FAO.Key output
indicators for the animal health component will include: (i)  percent coverage o fbackyard and commercial
poultry farms under surveillance; (ii) number o f functional check-posts and active border patrol teams;
(iii)percentage o fNepal laboratoryresults consistent with internationalreference laboratoryresults; (iv)
percent o f avian influenza outbreaks (ifany) which are controlled, contained, and stamped out; and (v)
percentage o f farmers receiving the promised compensation fund on a timely basis. For the human health
component, key indicators are: (i)  percentage increase insurveillance sites submittingperiodic reports;
(ii)percentage coverage inquality control tests to diagnose and investigate possible avian influenza
outbreaks; (iii) improvement incapacity o fhealth system to prevent occurrence o fHPAIamong human
population; and (iv) health care system strengthened and readiedto cope with increased demand for
critical services and contingency plans for an epidemic. For the communications program, the key
indicators are: (i)comprehensive communicationprogram launched; and (ii)       evidence o fhighlevel
awareness o fprogram messages among target groups. Performance o f the project coordination component
will be measuredby: (i) percentage o fplanned activities which take place on schedule; and (ii)
                         the                                                                         the
timely submission o f accurate reporting. (See Annex 2 for details).

2. Financinginstrument

The Project i s proposed to be financed under the GPAI's Adaptable ProgramLoan, which i s available to
countries demonstrating that they have: (i)  a national strategic plan; (ii)
                                                                          national commitment; (iii) an
implementation strategy through concerted action among ministries, donor community, and civil society;
and (iv) a clearly definedmonitonng and evaluation system. The preparation team considers that these
critena have been satisfied (see Annex 1).




                                                      3

The proposed project will be financed with $18.2 million o f IDA grant. The project implementation
period is four and a halfyears. The grant i s beingprocessedas an emergency investment operation using
procedures under OP 8.50 -Emergency Recovery Loan procedures. Incontrast to several avian influenza
projects elsewhere, this Project i s not proposed to be financed from existing IDA credits, such as the
ongoing Health Sector Program, but will involve new IDA financing. The grant meets all applicable Bank
policies, practices, and standards as discussed below.

3. Project components

(a)     Animal Health: This component will support nationalprevention and control strategies and will
finance activities for: (i)
                          enhancing avian influenza prevention and preparedness; (ii)     strengthening
veterinary services, disease surveillance, and diagnostic capacity; and (iii)  strengthening vetennary
services and avian influenzacontrol programs and outbreak containment plans, including improving bio-
secunty inpoultry production and trade. This component will also provide resources for a Compensation
Fundto cover poultry owners for loss o fassetscausedbymandatory culling o ftheir birds.The
component would be implemented by the Departmento f Livestock (DoLS) inM o A C and, where
appropriate, through implementingpartners such as FAO.

(b)      Human Health: This component aims to prevent a human influenza epidemic caused by HPAI,
and incase this cannot be prevented, reduce its impact, through: (i)  year-round, multifaceted surveillance
linked to prompt investigation; (ii) buildinglaboratory capacity to enable effective and accurate diagnosis
/case-detection as part o fthe overall public health system response; (iii) prevention and containment
activities including social distancing measures, the use o f vaccines and antivlrals where appropriate, and
an effective quarantine system; and (iv) health care systempreparedness should human disease occur,
including patient triage, adequate facilities, and standardized case management. It will support activities
for training health workers inthe public and private sector on diagnosing and treating potential cases o f
HPAI.Itwouldhelp improve public healthprogramplanning and coordinating, strengthenthe national
public health surveillance system, and enhance the health system capacity to deal with the threat o f H P A I
and related emergencies ina prompt and effective manner. This component will be implementedinclose
coordination with the Nepal Health Sector Program, which includes strong donor harmonization, specific
sector reforms and results-based programming. The component would primarily be implementedby the
Departmento f Health Services (DoHS) inMoHP (withinwhich different units are responsible for
different sub-components) and, where appropriate, through implementingpartners such as WHO.

(c)      Communication: This programme i s cross-cutting and underpins both the Animal Health and
HumanHealth components o f the Project. Within the communication activities, a clear identification o f
responsibilities was agreed upon dmng the mission as follows: (i)     activities related to animal health, to be
implementedby the DoLS; (ii)     activities related to human health, to be implementedby DoHS; and (iii)
cross-cutting activities such as macro-level inter-sectoral advocacy and coordination, and the
conceptualization and development o f communication campaigns and the development o f communication
training package, to be implementedthrough UNICEF.The technical and implementation support o f UN
Agencies would be sought by GoN as a last resort, incase GoN capacity i s constrained and the
emergency nature o f the program does not permitthe approach o f buildingcapacity first. There i s also a
National Avian Influenza/Human Influenza CommunicationsWorking Group to ensure coordination
among the three parts o fthis component. This component i s designed to safeguardhuman health, in
particular for extension staff, animal health workers, poultry producers and their families, by improving
public awareness and information on avian influenza issues. Information and communication activities
are aimed at increasing the attention and commitment o f Government, the private sector and civil society




                                                        4

organizations and to raise awareness, and understanding among the general population about the nsk and
potential impact o f a pandemic, methods o f self-protection against infection, and sources o f treatment.
Communication efforts would also be targeted to poultry farmers on ways o frecognizing the signs and
symptoms o f avian influenza, safe methods o f disposing o f infectedbirds, and steps to protect themselves
and their families. This component will bejointly implementedby DoLS and DoHS, and in some cases
byUNICEF, butwill adhere to a single communicationstrategy and will be coordinated bythe Project's
steenng committee (see next paragraph).

(d)      Project Management: This component will support the strengthening o fpublic agencies for the
coordinationand management o fthe Project. There will be no formal Project Implementation Unit,but
staff within DoLS and DoHS would be assigned (and trained) to a Core Coordination Team (CCT) to
handle key functions including financial management, procurement, and monitoring and evaluation o f
Project activities, as well as compliance with agreed environmental management frameworks. The overall
coordinationwill be carned out by the Technical Sub-committee on Avian Influenza (TSCAI), o f the
Central Natural Disaster ReliefCommittee, constituted by the Council o f Ministers. This Technical Sub-
committee will serve as the steering committee for the Project.

C. IMPLEMENTATION
1. Partnershiparrangements

The NAIIPPRPand this Project have been preparedby GoN with the support o f several development
partners, i.e., the EuropeanUnion, UNDP, UNICEF, WHO, FAO,USAID, and the World Bank (see
Annex 9). There i s an External Development Partners (EDP) group, focusing solely on avian influenza
issues, which meetsregularly and shares information with a view to coordinatingthe various donor-
supported actiwties. While a similar group meets to discuss sector-wide health matters, a separate group
with a focus on avian influenzawas considerednecessary inview o fthe inter-sectoral natureo fthis
problem. This group intends to continue to meet throughout the period o f Project implementation.

2. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

Coordination: The Project would fall under the umbrella o fthe CentralNatural Disaster Relief
Committee (CNDRC) which i s chaired by the Secretary o f the Ministry o f Home Affairs (MoHA). The
CNDRC activates only inthe case o f outbreak o f disaster. Duringnon-outbreak periods, an TSCAI,
chairedjointly by the Secretaries for MoHP and MoAC, has been created. The Project mustensure inter-
component and inter-sectoral coordination. The TSCAI would play an integral role to ensure coordination
between two components, and amongst various development partners that would avail their assistance to
implement the National Plan. The TSCAI, through special workmg teams, shall ensure regular monitoring
o f the program actiwties, effective coordinationbetween the sectors involved, among the EDPs, and with
civil society partners. GoN proposed that the Secretariat for the TSCAI would be locatedinthe Animal
Health Directorate under M o A C and relatedcosts for managingthe TSCAI coordination will be budgeted
under the Animal Health component; incase o f a pandemic, when the focus might shift more towards
human health, GoN would revisit this arrangement inclose consultation with the development partners.
Dunngimplementation, coordinationefforts and operational modalitiesdescribedbelow willbereviewed
and where necessary, appropriate adjustments would be made, to ensure that implementation i s effective
even ifan epidemic occurs. See Annex 5 for further details.

Implementation: There will be two main implementing agencies -the Department o f Livestock Services




                                                     5

(DoLS) and the Department o f Health Services (DoHS). Operational modalities for project
implementationare as follows:

0   The Animal Health component (implemented by DoLS) and Human Health component (implemented
    byDoHS) would be treated as two separate sub-projects for the purpose o fadministrative and
    financial management requirements. Eachwill implement the components on communication and
    implementation/M&E. Two designated accounts would be created, two project progress reports
    would berequired, and two separate audit reports would be required. However, they are part o f one
    integratedplan and the activities and work plans o f the two components will be closely coordinated
    bythe TSCAI.

0   Any resources for activities to be implementedthrough another ministry,i.e. MoHA which is
    responsible for disaster management or the Ministryof Local Development (MOLD)which i s
    responsible for disaster preparedness at the district levels, would be included within the DoLS-
    implemented component. DoLS would be accountable to coordinate with other line ministnes for
    implementationo f activities through such rninistnes. For program implementationby other ministnes
    incaseofdisaster or outbreaks, DoLSwould channelrequiredresourcesto those ministnes. DoLS
    would ensure that programs to be implementedby those ministries are integrated inits work program
    and budget. DoLS would also ensure that they submit their progresses and statement o f accounts to
    DoLS so that overall progress managed by DoLS would be appropriately reportedand accounted.

The following chart illustrates the overall coordinationarrangements for the implementation o fthe
program:



                                  Central Natural Disaster Relief C o m t t e e



                               Technical Sub-Cemttee for Avian Influenza
                              (Jointly chared by MOAC + MOW Secretanes)




                          MOAC actinties        I                                     M O W actwities




            epament-level Coordination Comnntte                               ament-level C ordination C o m t e
                (Animal HealthComponent)                              I                 & !
                                                                                       DOHS
                                                                                       ~    ~~~~

                                                                         De?Human   Health Eomponent)



                                                                                                         ReportingiCoordination
                                                                                                         AdministrativeLinkage
        Activities to be                Activities to be
       implementedby                   implemented by




FundFlow andDisbursementArrangements: DoLS and DoHS will prepare their Annual Work Program
and Budgets(AWPBs) for the respective Project components. Followingthe approval of the AWPBs by
the NationalPlanning Commission (NPC), the Ministryo f Finance (MoF) will release the budget.




                                                                              6

Approved Project budgets for the animal health component and the human health components have
already been indicatedinthe public sector Estimates o f Expenditures (Red Book) under separate budget
headings. The IDA Grant will flow through two separate Designated Accounts, one for the animal health
component and the other for the humanhealth component. An effective monitonng and oversight system
including ex-ante and ex-post revlew will be put inplace to monitor the use of the compensahon fund to
ensure use o f funds for intended purpose. Disbursements will be made for: (i)  civil works, (ii) various
goods, including laboratory equipment, computers and vehicles; (iii)    consulting services; (iv) various
training, workshops, and study tours; and (v) incremental operating costs for project coordination.

Financial Management: A Financial Management (FM) capacity assessment o fthe implementing
agencies (the DoLS and the DoHS) was carried out. The overall FMrisk is "substantial" as there are a
few cntical actions such as, staffing, preparation o f Operational Guidelines for use o f Compensation
Fund, computerization o fproject andfinancial information, andtraining of staff, that needs to be
implemented. Subject to satisfactory implementation o f these actions and review thereafter, the fiduciary
nskwillbereassessed. Ofthe two implementingagencies, DoHSisbetterpositionedwith slulledstaff
and experience inimplementing donor-financed programs. DoLS, on the other hand, would require
substantial efforts informing a strong team for project management which should include trained
financial management and procurement staff. Overall, there will be strong efforts incapacity building
both intechnical areas as well as overall project management which includes procurement and financial
management. Since the Project heavily depends on procurement tasks, it is important to ensure that both
Departments have sufficient capacity to carry out envisaged procurement o f works, goods and services.
T o address certain gaps that have been identified during the assessment, riskmitigation action plans have
been agreed. The existence o f the government's NAIIPPRPwhich was preparedjointly by M o A C and
MoHP, with strong support from development partners such as WHO and FAO, the formation o f an
Avian Influenza Technical Sub-Committee jointly chaired by two Secretaries o f M o A C and MoHP, and
the highprionty o f the government to implement this program are some factors that will also mitigate the
risks. The Project will fully align to the government's financial management system which includes
planning, budgeting, fund flow, accounting, reportingand auditing. Two sets o f annual project accounts
for DoLS and DoHS (including Statement o f Expenditures and the Designated Accounts) will be required
to be submitted, with audit reports due within six months ofthe end o f each fiscal year. DoHS will ensure
that project accounts o f the Component as per budget assigned to the specified project code. Project
progress reports will also be submitted separately for the two components on a tnmester basis.

Procurement Arrangements: The summary o f the procurement capacity assessment o f the implementing
agencies i s presented inAnnex 7.Overall, the procurement risk i s rated as "medium"     -- the riskwillbe
reassessedas the implementing agencies implement agreed action plan for improvements on procurement
management. DoLS has very little capacity to undertake procurement as per Bankprocedures due to lack
o f trained and expenenced manpower. Even though DoHS i s currently involved inassisting in
implementation o fthe Nepal Health Sector Program, its performance has not been satisfactory due to a
similar paucity o f trained and experienced personnel. This, combined with the inherent overall weak
implementation capacity at boththe departments would require extensive capacity enhancement
measures. These include designating departmental staff as procurement officers who have been
specifically selected on the basis o fprevlous exposure to procurement; and ensuring that these officials
are trained inthe applicable procurement procedures. Inaddition to the procurement officer, each CCT
would hire a procurement consultant for the first year o f the project to prepare a procurement manual and
model documents and assist inconductingbiddingand bids evaluation and prepanngthe evaluation
reports, administenng contracts, monitoring procurement activities, maintaining a database o f ongoing
procurement actions and preparingup-to-date procurement status reports. Ifabsolutely necessary, the




                                                       7

services o f a procurement agent (e.g. specialized UNAgency or pnvate firm) may also be utilized to
assist both CCTs intheir procurement.

Though a draft o f the country's own Procurement Law and relatedRegulations have been prepared, these
are yet to be enacted. Therefore, all ICB procurement shall be conducted as per the Bank's procedures
and usingthe Bank's applicable StandardBidDocuments. Procurement under NCB shall be undertaken
inaccordance withthe proceduresas described inthe Government's FinancialAdministration
Regulations with caveats on certain clauses to make these procedures acceptable to the Association, using
the model biddocuments developed by the Government for use inBank-fundedprojects.

3. Monitoringand evaluation of outcomes/results

Monitoring will take place on several levels o fmonitoring, i.e., overall program level (inter-sectoral) to
be done by the TSCAI, at the operational central level -by DoLS/DoHS, and at regional, district and
local levels -by the respective implementing arms o f the respective departments. The Project will use
information already produced by these levels and not create additionalreporting systems. The monitonng
system would measure the project progress based on the indicators includedinAnnex 2. The TSCAI will
review and monitor the overall program at least twice a year. Each line ministrywill monitor its
respective activities, and feed reports to the TSCAI. Similarly, regional, distnct and local-level
committees will monitor progress at their respective levels and feed the information upwards to the
TSCAI inaggregated formats to be designed and agreed upon. Findingsdenved fi-om overall program
monitoringby the TSCAI will be fed back to the other levels, thus ensuring a two-way flow o f
information and accountability. Monitoringreports will be shared with the external development partners
including the Bank, and biannualjoint review missions will be carried out to review these reports, and
agree on actions to be taken, including mid-course corrections, ifnecessary.

Evaluationwould be done after two years (Mid-Term) and at the end o fthe project (after four and a half
years) usingngorous methods and independent evaluators. Sufficient resources for this are provlded for
inthe Project. Forthe evaluation to be meaningful, baselinedata onkeyindicators willneedto be
collectedbefore project activlties commence. However, certain emergency actions may become necessary
ifanoutbreak occurs andhence not allprojectactivities canwait for baseline data collection. The
evaluation o f emergency actions will essentially be interms o fpreventing or containing outbreaks - for
which the baseline would be zero (e.g. number o f cases, number o f outbreaks).




                                                      8

 Outbreaks are not recognlzed           Activities to strengthen surveillance and reportmg, including: (i)
 and reported quickly enough            imtiation of year-round influenza surveillance inammals and
 to initiate control measures.          humans; (ii)  training o f fiont-line animal and human health workers
                                        inidentificationandreporting; (iii)    improved communications
                                        infrastructure; and (iv) establishment o f BSL-3 laboratories.
 Interventions are ineffective     S    Activities to strengthenresponse capacity inpnonty areas inthe
 incontainingthe spread of              short and mediumterm and to lay the foundation for a broadly based
 avianinfluenza from birds to           strategy, including: (i) comprehensive awareness and commumcation
 the humanpopulation.                   campaigns; (ii)  choosing well designed, cost-effective interventions;
                                        and (iii)good M&E to flag emerging issues.
 GoNis unable to react             S    Procurement plan, training plan, M&E system, and cntical staffing to
 quickly to outbreaks.                  be inplace at negotiations. Tramed RapidResponse Teams inevery
                                        district and Stockpile o f equipment and vaccines. Appropriate
                                        communications and transportation support to ensure rapid response.
 Misuse o f the Compensation       S    Implementation arrangements for the Compensation Fundmust
 Fundfacility.                          incorporate principles o f transparency, community involvement, and

                                I       ex-antelex-post checks.




2L=low; M=moderate; S=substantial; H=high.




                                                    9

FromComponentsto Outputs

Project mplementing               S      Vigorous advocacy efforts and capacity-building to be launched
agencies lack sufficient                 duringpreparatory phase to raise necessary awareness and
authority and capacity to                commitment among the leaders and policy-makers inthe government,
take leading role inavian                so that sufficient authority and capacity i s vested 111 appropriate
                                                                                                the
influenza prevention and                 quarters to enable effecbve and prompt implementation.
control.
Inadequacy or lack o f mulb-      M     Avian InfluenzaTechnical Sub-committee to ensure coordination
sectoral participation.                  and linkages across stakeholders. ExternalDevelopment Partner
                                         group as the counterpart team to work with IDA and other donors.
Controlling spread o f            M      Project to support advocacy and coalitionbuilding to sensitize key
pandemc may expose GoN                   groups including policy-makers andthe media. a         s will be
to criticism concerning                  complemented by carefully designed mass communicationcampaigns
curtailment o f civil rights             to buildsupport for the project among the population.
due to adoption o f
quarantines and related
measures.
Lack o f laboratory capacity       S     Laboratory capacity buildingfor rapid diagnosis inNepal i s a key
for prompt diagnosis and                 element o f boththe anmal health and human health components.
surveillance and lack o f               Project activities to be coordinated with efforts undertakenby WHO
sufficient quantities o f drugs          and others who have establishedan mternational anti-viral stockpile.
and other medical inputs                Project activities to be dovetailed withthe general health sector
neededto address needs o f               development activities under the NHSP, which is supported through a
population during pandemc.               sector-wide approach.
Inadequate institutional          S     Capacity building and institutionaldevelopment is one o f the
capacity to manage the                  project's key objectives and substantialresources dedicated to these
project.                                efforts.
Lack o f timely and               M     Project activities designed with assistance from leading multilateral
predictable access to expert            agencies such as FA0 and WHO. Such assistance would continue
advice and technical support.           throughout the life o f the Project.
L o w priority given to public    M     Publicationo f audit results and achevements; transparency in
accountability and                      decision and resource allocation.
transparency.
Inadequate capacity for           M     Training and technical assistance for nation-wide surveillance and
planned surveillance, surveys           epidemological investigabons; partnership between local and
and momtonng &                          international instituhons to be provided. M&Eplan to include
evaluation.                             selection o f valid, realistic and measurable indicators, establishment
                                        o f mformation systems to yield data on such indicators, development
                                        o f instruments for data collection, identification o f agencies
                                        responsible and ensuring a mechanism for the analysis and use o f
                                        M&Edata, witha detailed time table for review and action.
OverallRiskRating:                S


Other than the nsks described above, no controversial aspects are foreseen.




                                                     10

5. Grant conditions and covenants

Standardrequirements covering organization and staffing, management arrangements, provisions for
procurement and financial management will suffice. However, preparation o f approved Standard
Operating Procedures for expenditure under the Compensation Fundwould be a Disbursement Condition
for this activity.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY
1. Economic andfinancial analyses

Economic losses have already been significant inearly 2006, due to a precipitous fall inpoultry and egg
prices associated with reportedoutbreaks o f avian influenza inneighbouring India and concerns over
consumingpoultry meat and products inNepal. Prices for broilers decreased inMay 2006 by
approximately 50 percent from N R s . 120 to 60 per lulogram. Inthe case o f commercial broiler
production, the national stock o f commercial broilers i s estimated to be 32 million. Assuming an 8 week
productioncycle there would be 5.3 million broilers beingproduced at any one time. Assuming each
broiler weighs 1.5 lulograms, an outbreak o f avian influenza that caused a 50 percent reductioninprice
per kilogram, would result inas much as a N R s . o f477 million or US$6.8 million production cycle loss.
Inaddition, thelosstothebackyardpoultryproductionsystemownedbythemarginalfarmersand
landless who markets some 30 million indigenous table birds (valued higher inthe markets than broilers)
would threaten their livelihoods immensely. Inthe event o f an avian influenza outbreak within Nepal's
borders, the economic losses can be expected to be even more significant. Similarly, inthe event o f
human infection turninginto an epidemic, there would be significant loss o fhuman lives, including
productive labour, and economic impact o f human illness due to health care costs, lost days at work, and
indirect costs to the households concerned. Longterm benefits o f the Project, interms avoiding economic
losses, are expected to far outweigh the short term costs o f implementingthe Project.

2. Technical

The proposed Project involves a large set of technical issues involvingcapacity o fveterinary semces,
laboratory facilities, bio-security measures, epidemiological expertise, and emergency response to avian
influenza outbreaks and a possible pandemic. These technical issues are elaborated inAnnex 1(sector
issues) and Annex 3 (detailed project description).

3. Fiduciary

The decision to align with the government's systems and procedures for implementing both components
will contribute to enhancing institutional capacity. While the overall fiduciary nsk associated with the
Project i s rated as "substantial" for financial management and procurement, the proposed risk mitigation
action plans are deemed to be adequate (see Annex 6 and 7 for details). Efforts will be made for capacity
buildinginproject coordinationthat includes procurement and financial management.

4. Social

N o specific social safeguard i s triggered by the Project. However, incase o f outbreaks, the impact o f the
mandatory culling o f poultry and the consequent threat to livelihoods must be mitigated. InNepal, non-
commercial or backyardpoultry accounts for more than half o f the total poultry stock and it i s women and




                                                       11

often children who are primarily involved inhusbandry related tasks such as collecting eggs and raising
and selling chicks. Inthe event o f an avian influenza outbreak inbackyardpoultry it i s women who will
be most likely affected by a loss o f income fkom the sale o f eggs and chicks inthe case o f culling, or more
senously, by contracting influenza inthe event o f transmission from poultry to humans. Women inrural
savings and credit groups, and such other income generating activities are involved inpoultry farming and
therefore special consideration for these women needs to be given for protection from the impact o f avian
influenza outbreaks. These social and gender issues will be dealt with inthe Project intwo specific ways:
byinvolving women invenfication o fculled poultry and compensation paymentmeetings; and through
ensuring careful targeting o f women and school children inthe communicationprogramme.

5. Environmental

The Avian Influenza Control Project i s assessedas a B-category project. Boththe Animal Health and
Human Health components have implications that trigger environmental safeguardpolicies. The disposal
o f culledpoultry, the clean up o f infected areas and control o f surrounding areas inthe case o f Animal
Health, and disposal o f laboratory and health care wastes inthe case o f HumanHealth, tngger the World
Bank SafeguardPolicy on Environmental Assessment. Measures will be taken to mitigate these
environmental impacts by requiring an EnwronmentalManagement Plan (EMP) be prepared for boththe
Animal Health and Human Health components. Inthe case o f the Human Health a Health Care Waste
Management Plan already exists under the Health Sector Program(June 2006) and this will form the basis
o f environment management for avian influenza activities as well (no separate EMPwill therefore be
prepared for the human health side). The Animal Heath EMP was finalized prior to appraisal and
submitted to the World Bank on June 26,2006. This EMPwas disclosed inNepal on August 1,2006 and
sent to the Infoshop on August 23,2006. Other than Environmental Assessment there are no safeguard
policies triggered.

6. Safeguard policies

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                   Yes                 N o
  Environmental Assessment (OPBP 4.01)                                          [XI                 [I
  Natural Habitats (OPBP 4.04)                                                   [ I                [XI
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                      [ I                [XI
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                        [ I                [XI
  Involuntary Resettlement (OPBP 4.12)                                           [ I                [XI
  Indigenous Peoples (OPBP 4.10)                                                 [ I                [XI
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                           [ I                [XI
  Safety o f Dams (OPBP 4.37)                                                    [I                 [XI
  Projects inDisputed Areas (OPBP 7.60)                                          [I                 [XI
  Projects on International Waterways (OPBP 7.50)                                [ I                [XI

7. Policy exceptions and readiness

N o policy exceptions are sought.




                                                      12

                               Annex 1: Countryand Sector Background
                                NEPAL:Avian InfluenzaControlProject

Ths sectionreviewsNepal's animal healthand humanhealth sectors as they relate to avian influenza and
the nationalpreparedness andresponse plan for avian influenza.

A. AnimalHealthSector

Structure ofthe PoultrySector

The agnculture sector generates 40 percent o fNepal's gross domestic product and the poultry sector
contributes 10per cent o f agriculture's share. Estimates for 2004 indicatethat there are more than 23
million chickens and 400,000 ducks inNepal.

(i) Production systems: Poultry farming inNepal takes place intwo distinct systems: (i) organized
                                                                                               an
commercialpoultry industrywith highyielding hybridlayers and broilers confinedmostly to large peri-
urban areas (45 percent o f all poultry), and (ii) backyardunits o f indigenous fowl and ducks inmillions o f
rural households across the country (55 per cent o f all poultry). Commercial poultry farming has been
developing fast over the last decade. These farms are concentrated around urban areas: most o f them (40
percent) inChitwan, Kathmandu, Pokhara and Biratnagar. The improved commercial birds (10.4 million)
are found exclusively inthe organized farms. Nepal imports parental stock o fpoultry primarily fi-om India
(447,000 broilers and 30,000 layers per year). Layers are o f Lehman and Hyline breeds and broilers,
Vencob, CoblOO, Cob500 and Marshall Breeds. Over 75 registered hatcheries operate inthe country. The
Department o f Livestock Services (DoLS) operates three farms inNepalgunj, Pokhara and Birgunj.
Astrolop and New Hampshirebreeds o fpoultry reared inGovernment farms are mostly for distribution
among farmers inthe hilly areas. Incontrast, backyardunits comprise fi-ee-ranging, foraging indigenous
birds (Sahni breed) which contribute to the livelihoods o fmillions o fpoor farmers. The holding size on
average i s five birds,but varies from two to twenty birds. Roughly half o frural households inNepal keep
indigenous fowl intheir backyards (12.65 million birds insome 3 millionhouseholds) spread over the 75
districts. Localbirdsare sturdy, resistant to most diseases, and survive mostly on foraging inback yards.

(ii) Marketing system: Meat markets ingeneral and poultry markets inparticular are traditional and
unorganized inNepal. Traders visit organized farms and purchase birds at negotiated prices. Birdsare
thentransportedbyvans, motorbikes, andbicyclesto urbanareasand soldto consumers as dressed
chicken. InKathmandu, three pnvate agencies deal infrozen chicken but demand i s limited. Traders also
buy indigenous chicken from backyardpoultry unitsand sell them intowns andcities live or dressed.
Prices o f chickenvary from NR 80kg for live weight and NR 120kg for dressed chicken. Local breeds
fetch higher prices: up to NR 200kg live weight. Farmers also sell local chicken in some 1,450 village
haats (bazaars) and a small number in65 niche markets inurban areas, often inthe open air. There are no
organized markets for meat or live birds.There i s great demand for local chicken inurban areas where it
i s transported live and sold live or dressed. The practice o f transportation and sale o f live chickens i s one
o f the factors responsible for spread o f infectious diseases.

(iii) Value chain in poultry sector: The poultry industryinNepal comprises organized poultry farms (256
o f varying flock size), hatcheries, and feed mills.Organised poultry farmers buy day-old chicks from
local hatcheries (35 million broilers and 2.5 million layers) as well as hatcheries inIndia for flock
replacement. Indigenous fowl inback yard unitsare self-generating and enable flock replacement through




                                                        13

home hatches. Feedmanufacturers supply feed, chicks, veterinary medicines and vaccines to farmers,
mostly on credit. Farmersreturn the loan out o f sale proceeds. 85 feed mills (small, all private) are located
in 16distncts andmanufacture about 600,000 MT ofpoultry feed annually. While maize, ncepolish, and
mustard cake are available locally, soybean extract and sunflower cake worth about NR 450 million are
imported from India. Poultry feed ispriced at about NR 18,000 per MT.There i s no organized pricing
mechanism for fixing prices o fbirds and eggs; pnces are determined between seller and buyer through
mutual negotiation. Nepal imports veterinary drugs and vaccines for poultry worth NR 725 million
annually.

(iv) Slaughter houses; There are three slaughter houses inNepal locatedat Kathmanduand Hetauda.
None o fthese are functional for various reasons and thus slaughter o f chickens and other animals
continues to be carried out inthe traditional way: inthe open or inmake-shift shelters by over 600
butchers across Kathmandu. There i s no disposal mechanism for waste material inany o f the locations,
thus causing senous healthhazards. Inthe villages the slaughter o fbirdstakes place inhouseholds or in
village haats, invariably inthe open air.

Capacity Assessment of LivestockInstitutions and Veterinary Services

(i) Veterinarians: The Departmento f Livestock Services has inits Directorate o fAnimal Health a well-
knit veterinary infrastructure geared to undertake all activities contemplated inthe National Avian
Influenza and Influenza Pandemic Preparedness and Response Plan (NAIIPPRP), bothinterms o fhuman
resources and equipment. The Directorate has a country-wide network o f vetennary institutions; one
central vetennary hospital, 75 district livestock service centres and 999 Livestock Service Centres and
Sub-centres provide animal health care, both curative and prophylactic. Inaddition, there are three other
Directorates handlingAnimal Production, Livestock Market Promotion, and Training & Extension. All
four Directorates are grouped under the Director General inDoLS. There i s a CentralTraining Centre in
Kathmandu and five Regional Training Centres. Training programmes are regularly conducted for
officers, technicians and farmers. Five Regional Directors function under the Director General, DoLS:
one each inEastern, Central, Western, Mid-Western and Far-West Regions. Ineach district, there i s a
District Livestock Office supported by veterinary and livestock staff, livestock semce centres / sub-
centres, village animal health workers and farmers' groups. There are 178 veterinary officers, 1,000 para-
vetennary staff and 6,000 village animal health workers. Farmer groups are voluntary bodies, each having
about 20 farmers. Inaddition to the public sector's veterinary institutions, there are 160 pnvate
vetennarians and some 50 new veterinary graduates. There are also 46 retired veterinarians who canjoin
indungemergencies. Together, these groups shouldbe able to adequately contain outbreaks ofdisease.

(ii) Professional associations and NGOs: Approximately 14associations o fpoultry farmers, hatcheries,
manufacturers o f feed, vetennary medicine and vaccines exist and are operating primarily to safeguard
their interests, but do provide semces to farmers to some extent. There are many NGOso fwhich fifteen
are active.

(iii) Accreditation; Rinderpest and Owne Foot Rot have been eradicated and the programmes undertaken
inthis regardhave beenaccredited bythe WorldOrganisation for Animal Health(OIE). Expenence
gained inthose eradication programmes will be o f immense use inthe prevention and control o f avian
influenza. Compliance with fundamental principles o f quality o f the national vetennary service, as
defined by OIE, has yet to be carriedout.




                                                     14

(iv) Research infrastructure: All researchprogrammes relatedto agriculture and livestock fall under the
mandate o fthe Nepal Agncultural ResearchCouncil (NARC) which has research laboratories dealing
with vanous subjects under it.Departments under the MoAC identify projects for researchandrefer them
to NARC. Epidemiological investigationo f avian influenza i s being carried out by the Vetennary
Epidemiology Centre under the Animal Health Directorate. Samples from poultry from free-range
backyard farms around large water bodies and periphenes o f forests are tested periodically. Whenever
there i s death o f a bird, a thorough investigationi s carried out. Samples from commercial poultry farms
are routinely screened. So far, 1,800 samples from farms and field have been tested and all the samples
have been declared negative for avian influenza.

Policy and Regulatory Framework in the Livestock Sector

There are three Acts relevant to aman influenza: the Animal Health and Livestock Services Act 1998, the
Slaughter House and Meat InspectionAct 1998, and the Nepal Veterinary Council Act 1999. The
Vetennary Council Act deals mainly with registrationo f veterinarians and ethical conduct o f vetennary
practice. The Slaughter House and Meat InspectionAct regulate the slaughter o f animals and sale of meat
as well as inspection o f animals before and after slaughter. Provisions inthis act are seldom enforced. The
Animal Health and Livestock Act deals mainly with quarantine o f imported animals and animal products.
The Act lacks adequate provisions for empoweringvetennarians with suitable powers for control o f
contagious and infectious diseases. Inview o f the threat o f avian influenza, urgent action i s to be initiated
to amend the Act, and to establish effective enforcement mechanisms.

M o A C has been implementingthe National Contingency Plan for Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza
since 20043,which details coordinationmechanisms and responsibilities. The contingency plan objectives
are: (i) to preventthe entrance o f HPAIinto the country; (ii) control avian influenza at the point o f
                                                                   to
entry inany possible case o f entry; and (iii)  to free the country from avian influenza.

Most o f the commercial poultry farms have good bio-security arrangements. Some o f the steps adopted
are: isolation, traffic control, sanitation / hygiene, treatment / disposal, bio-containment and bio-
exclusion. Bio-security measures are moderate inlarge production units (>I         ,000 birds),but seldom
practiced in smaller units and market places. National standards for breeding farmshatchenes have been
introducedby the Department o f Livestock Services. However, because o f the highinvestment cost in
establishingpoultry breeding farmshatcheries and highcost o f landrequired for appropriate bio-security,
these standards are not being followed stnctly.

For non-commercial farms (free-range back yard units),these measures are difficult to enforce because o f
the widely scattered holdings across the country. A model for compartmentalization and zoning, incase
o f an outbreak, has been developed. Chechng o f trans-boundary movements o f animals i s a challenging
task because o f geographical location, free movement o f animals and people and lack o f adequate check
posts. This i s an area o f concern requinngurgent attention and will be addressed inthe proposed Project.

Systems for reporting o f disease, communication andpublic information are inposition and worlung well.
A website on epidemiologicalreports (www.epivet.aov.np andwww.ahd.gov.np) has been opened.
Radio/TV programmes on livestock activities (two days a week), distribution o f brochures, posters and
calendars have started. Seminars and workshops are being held for departmental staff. Government has


 The contingency plani s the forerunner o f the National Avian Influenza and Influenza Pandemc Preparedness and
Response Plan (NAIIPPRP).




                                                         15

issued directives that all livestock training programmes conducted inthe country shouldhave at least one
class on avian influenza. These have all resulted ina highdegree o f awareness among the professionals
and the general public. Long- term plans for restructuringo f the poultry industryhave not been attempted.

B.HumanHealthSector

Publichealthservice system

The public health service delivery system o f MoHP is integrated and well established. It consists o f the
central ministry(DoHS) and five regional health directorates with a total o f 11regional and zonal
hospitals. There are also 75 distnct health offices and 68 district hospitals with an outreach network o f
188 primary health centers at the level o f the ilaka constituency, 698 healthposts at the village level, and
3,219 sub-health posts. Supporting this network are five central hospitals and a number o f private health
facilities including 10 private medical colleges. The total number o f inpatient beds inthe public health
care system i s 16,000. The humanresources o fthe medical colleges could be harnessed inthe event o f an
influenza pandemic.

The laboratory infrastructure for diagnosis o f diseases o fpublic health significance i s limited. Peripheral
facilities can do basic microbiologic diagnostics (smears, grams stains, rapid kits for hepatitis and HIV).
The central laboratory National Public Health Laboratory (NPHL) does routine clinical tests
(haematology and chemistry), serologies for a variety o f diseases, and conventional Polymerase Chain
Reaction(PCR) as a researchtool. It cannot perform virologic tissue cultures. The Walter Reed Research
UnitNepal(WARUN), anaffiliate ofthe US.Armed ForcesResearchInstituteofMedicalSciences
(AFRMIS) inBangkok, has done specimen collection and testingfor influenza viruses, and does offer
referral support for Nepal. WARUN intends to expand its current capacity for influenza diagnostics by
developingrealtime PCR (RT PCR) testing. Inearly 2006, NPHLand WARUN developed a pilot project
for use o f rapid diagnostic h t s for influenza diagnosis inhospitals inKathmanduand Bharatpur, with
samples forwardedto AFRMIS for comparative testing with RT-PCR. This pilot system will serve as a
model for future project activities.

For disease surveillance, several systems are currently operating inNepal. A basic data collection system
known as the Health Management Information System (HMIS) collects information on health care
utilization and diagnosis. It operates throughout the country, but HMIS data are o f limitedutilityfor
influenza surveillance due to a number o f factors. First, most diagnoses are clinical and are not supported
by standardized case definitions or laboratorydiagnostics. Second, information flow is sluggish, and data
are not analyzed or disseminated intimely fashion. Due to these limitations inspecificity and timeliness,
while HMIS data may be useful for monitoring long term trends, they are not for rapid detection o f cases
o f possible human illness due to avian influenza or outbreaks o f influenza-like illness.

Several surveillance systems are inplace for diseases with specific control programs. These disease-
specific surveillance efforts are usually referredto as vertical programs. Examples include surveillance
programs for tuberculosis, leprosy, HIV/AIDS, malaria, and kala-azar. Inaddition to these vertical
surveillance systems, two integrated surveillance systems are inoperation. One i s the World Health
Organization (WHO) Programfor Immunization Preventable Diseases (IPD), which conducts
surveillance of acute flaccid paralysis (AFP)/poliomyelitis, measles, neonatal tetanus, and Japanese
Encephalitis (E).Surveillance o fHaemophilus influenzae type B (HiB) was recently added to the IPD
system. IPDhas 10 field offices throughout the country funded by donor resources. It has several
attributes that make it particularly attractive for awan influenza. For one, IPDruns an active weekly




                                                       16

reporting system that covers 115 hospitals includingbothpnvate and public sector facilities. It also
receives passive reports from 465 public health system facilities. Overall, the IPD system covers 72% o f
primary health centers andjust under 5% o f healthposts and sub-health posts. Secondly, there i s an active
diagnostic specimen collection and transport system for any suspected case o f the diseases under
surveillance.


The technical and implementation support o fUNAgencies would be sought as a last resort, incase GoN
capacity is constrained and the emergency nature o f the program does not permitthe approach ofbuilding
capacity first. Apart from the suggested role for UNICEF in the Communications component, WHO and
FA0are potentialpossibilitiesfor such support. Specifically, the surveillance activities to be supported
bythe IPDunit wouldbe a naturalcandidate for WHO assistance, as it is already being implementedwith
WHO support.

The other national integrated surveillance system i s the Early Warning and Reporting System (EWARS).
Thishas beeninoperation since 1996and is runbythe Epidemiology and Disease Control Divisiono f
the Department o f Health Services (DoHS). It receives reports o f disease outbreaks or other unusual
health events from the 75 district public health offices, and receives weekly passive reports on AFP,
measles, Japanese encephalitis, malaria, and kala azar. EWARS operates in28 public hospitals. In2004,
the EWARS system reportednine outbreaks o f influenza-like illness comprising 5,065 cases and 57
deaths.

Actions against avian influenzataken to date by Ministry of Health and Population

In2004, MoHPestablishedajoint agriculturalandhealthNationalInfluenzaTaskForceunderthe
chairmanship o f the Director General o fDoHS; this task force includes participation by private
organizations such as the Hatchery Association and the Consumer Forum. Under this task force the line
sectors o f MoHP and M o A Cjoined forces with FA0to develop the NAIIPPRP for strengthening
surveillance and control o f influenza. The NAIIPPRP aims at buildingpreparedness to contain AIrapidly
and mitigate its health and socioeconomic impacts inthe event o fhuman-to-human transmission o f H5N1
or other influenza sub-types which may cause a pandemic affectingNepal. To accomplish this goal, the
Plan calls for : (a) detecting and characterizing human influenza virus outbreaks promptly through the
MoHP outbreak surveillance system; (b) implementing an effective public healthresponse when an
influenzapandemic affects Nepal; (c) preparingthe health care delivery system to diagnose and treat
large numbers o fpeople with influenza and its complications; (d) implementing a timely communication
strategy that will inform the public on the status o f the pandemic inNepal and how to mitigate its impact,
and; (e) ensuring inter-sectoral and inter-governmental coordinationinpreparing and respondingto the
threat o f avian influenza and human infections.

Health systemresponse

The NAIIPPRPand Operational Plan describe key strategic activities required to ensure that the public
health and medical care network are well prepared to respond to the challenges o f avian and pandemic
influenza. They use WHO'Ssix global influenza pandemic phases along with the three broader WHO
pandemic penods (inter-pandemic, pandemic alert and pandemic). Five areas are defined for preparation
and response. Detailed strategic actions with time frames, responsible agencies, cost estimates and
indicators to measure the performance by these agencies are presented for each o f the three pandemic




                                                        17

periods. The Plan indicates that as the pandemic progresses it i s essential to review the scope and role of
vanous sectors, including health and those involved innational disaster response.

A timely and sensitive surveillance systemi s crucial to meetingthe public health challenges posedby
avian influenza. Recognizingthis, the GoNproposes covering two essential aspects: laboratory capacity
and epidemiologic monitonng. This i s underscored by the needto buildon the existing surveillance
infrastructure and adapting it to achieve systematic identification and reporting o f suspected avian
influenza and Influenza-like Illness (ILI)outbreaks, quality data analysis, interpretation, and
dissemination, and quality laboratory diagnostic support. The Operational Plan outlines key activities
required for strengtheningepidemiological and laboratory surveillance, including training needs at all
levels o f the health care system.

(i) Laboratory strengthening: The Plancalls for strengthening the NPHLcentrallaboratory inthree
stages. Inthe first, short-term stage, laboratories will performrapid screening tests for influenza and any
positive samples will be collected, stored and transported to a pre-determined laboratory outside Nepal for
confirmatory testing. Inthe second, intermediate stage the focus will be on developing advanced testing
capacity especially Real Time   - Polymerase  Chain Reaction(RT-PCR) at NPHL.Inthe long-term third
stage, NPHLwill achieve Biosafety level 3 standards so that it will have the capacity for influenza virus
isolation. This three-staged laboratoryupgrading approach will not only enhance preparedness for awan
and pandemic influenza, but will buildoverall laboratory capacity for other priority emerging infectious
diseases inNepal.

(ii) Casediagnosis and reporting: A fully integrated surveillance system i s the ultimate goal o fthe
MoHP, including influenza monitoring. The national plan calls for accomplishingthis by buildingon the
existing EWARS system for national influenza surveillance, training surveillance personnel indisease
surveillance for avian influenza, improving information technology, and enhancing the capacity o f district
and nationalrapidresponse teams to conduct investigations related to influenza.

(iii) Information, education and communication: The option exists to tap into the existing national
communication strategy, which has been uses successfully for other emergent public health
circumstances, such as polio vaccination campaigns. This strategy i s designed to buildpartnerships with
the media, involve communities inpreparedness planning and response, and improve capacity and
procedures for risk communication. InNepal, there are four TV stations, two public and several pnvate
radio stations, six daily newspapers, and thirty-six weeklies with estimated 70% combined geographic
coverage. Strengthening partnerships with the media can further enhance communication for nsk
mitigation.

C. The NationalStrategic and OperationalPlansfor AddressingAvianInfluenzainNepal

Strategic Plan: The National Avian Influenza and Influenza Pandemic Preparedness and Response Plan
(NAIIPPRP) was preparedjointly by MoHP and MoAC, with support from WHO and FAO, and was
cleared by GONinDecember 2005.

Ittakes account o fthe six phases o fthe awan influenzapandemic related periods, and outlines five
strategic areas for preparation and response to pandemic influenza, within which specific activities will be
undertaken. These are: planning and coordination, surveillance, prevention and control, health system
response and communication. The NAIIPPRParticulates common short-term and long-term objectives
across both the animal and human health sectors for responding to the threat o f avian influenza.




                                                      18

Communication strategies have been developed for providing essential messages to key actors involved
as well as the general population on the nature o fthe threat and how the country plans to respond. A bnef
work plan and budget estimate (of approximately US$ 15 million) was also presented.

Followingrelease o fthe NAIIPPRP, several activities took place inearly 2006. As a result, a great deal o f
awareness has been created at all levels, among policy-makers, professionals and general public.
Protective materials (PPE) for professionals were purchased out o f government and USAID funds. All
legislation systems relatedto the livestock sector have been reviewed and areas requinng immediate
acbon have been listed. Donor agencies expressed interest in supportingNepal inthe avlan influenza
programs. FAO/OIE sponsoredM o A C staff to attend internationalworkshops on AI inVietnam and
Bangkok. The M o A C has intensified the veterinary inspection system and seized illegally imported ducks
and destroyed them. The quarantine system was restructured.

Operationalplan: Becausethe NAIIPPRPi s strategic innature, an Operational Planhas been developed
bythe GoNto translate the strategic concepts into measurable activities. This Operational Planforms the
basis for activlties to be conducted under the World Bank funded project, althoughthe Bank will not
necessarily finance 100percent o fthe Operational Plan's activities. Furthermore, the Operational Plan i s
considered to be a "living document" which will be reviewed and revised periodically by the TSCAIas
required.

For the animal health section, the Operational Plan is divided into seven components. These include: (i)
strengthening the disease surveillance systemfor influenza; (ii)  strengthening quarantine services; (iii)
upgradinglaboratory capacity; (iv) field veterinary services; (v) a compensation fund; (vi)
communications; and (vii) management. Each o f the components is described inmore detail inAnnex 3.
For the human health section, the Operational Plan i s divided into five components. These include: (i)
strengthening the disease surveillance system and laboratory capacity for influenza; (ii)prevention and
containment measures (iii)   health care delivery systempreparedness and response; (d) communications;
and (e) management. Eacho f the components i s described inmore detail inAnnex 3.




                                                      19

                               Annex 2: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring
                               NEPAL:AvianInfluenzaControlProject




byHighlyPathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI)            health workers, and general populationinterms o f key
infection by controlling such infections among       aspects o f knowledge, attitudes and practices (assessed
birdsand to prepare for, control, andrespond to      through sample surveys)
possible human infections, especially an            0Continued absence o f HPAIinpoultry and effective
influenza epidemic and related emergencies           containment o f HPAIinfection inpoultry incase o f




                                       ComponentI:ANIMAL HEALTH

Sub-component1.1:Surveillance                      0 Complete national monitoring o f domestic poultry
                                                      (backyard and commercial farms) through statistically
Animal disease surveillance system strengthened       sound sampling methods
to rapidly detect cases o f avlan influenza in
backyard farms and commercial farms
Sub-component1.2: Prevention and                      24 functional check posts and 8 patrolling teams
Containment                                           active across Nepal-India border

Prevention o f ingress o fpathogens into Nepal
from outside the countrv
Sub-component1.3: Laboratory Capacity              0  90 percent o f BSL-3laboratory results fully consistent
                                                      with OIEReference laboratory results
Achievement o f capacity to accurately diagnose
HPAI(H5N1) and other zoonotic diseaseson a
timely basis
Sub-component1.4: Field Veterinaly Services        0  100percent o f avian influenza outbreaks (ifany) are
                                                      controlled, contained, and stamped out
Veterinary system trained andequipped in
surveillance. wevention. and containment
Sub-component1.5: CompensationFund                 0  100 percent o f farmers receivingthe promised
                                                      compensation amount within two days from the
Farmers received fair compensation for culled         culling (for backyard flocks) and within 35 days (for
birds on timelv basis                                 commercial farms)




Sub-component2.1: Surveillance and                 0  80 percent o f surveillance sites submit reports to
Laboratoly Strengthening                             EDCDDoHS when required (immediate, weekly, or
                                                     monthly)
Capacity to identify, report, laboratory diagnose,   At least 90 percent o fquality control tests at NPHL
and investigate possible human avian influenza




                                                   20

anywhere inNepal                                    are correct
Sub-component2.2: Prevention and                  0Personal protective equipment, anti-virals, and
Containment                                         seasonal vaccines available to 80 percent o f targeted
                                                   high-nskoccupational groups
Improved system capacity to preventthe            0Kathmanduinternationalairport and five border entry
occurrence and spread o f HPAIamong human          points (land routes) have functional minimum
population                                          acceptable quarantine facilities
Sub-component2.3: Health CareDelivery             0At least 80percent o fhealthcare workers inall
System Preparedness and Response                   publicly-financed health care facilities have adequate
                                                   knowledge (as indicatedby passing test scores in
Health care systems strengthened and readied to     identifying, counselling, managing, and appropriately
cope with increased demand for services            referringHPAIcases)
(including triage and referral) and contingency   0At least 80percent o fIlaka constituencies have
plans for an epidemic                               endemic plans completed

                                   Component 111:COMMUNICATIONS

Sub-component 3.1:Avian influenza                 0 Comprehensive communication program launched
Communications.                                   0 Evidence o fhighlevel awareness o fprogram
                                                    messages among target groups
Public information on the recommended
practices for control and eradication o f HPAI
amongkey target groups developed, tested, and
disseminated
Sub-component3.2: Pandemic Communications         0 Comprehensive communicatlon program launched
                                                  0 Evidence o f highlevel awareness o fprogram
Public information on the recommended              messages among target groups
practices for control and eradication o f HPAI
among key target groups developed, tested, and
disseminated

                                ComponentIV: PROJECTMANAGEMENT

Sub-component4.1:Project Management              I0Timely conduct o f plannedactivities (measured by %
                                                    activities delayed beyond one month from the planned
Project structure fully functional and has well    completion date)
defined administrative, financial management,
and procurement system inplace
Sub-component4.2: Monitoring and Evaluation       0Tnmester implementationprogress reports (financial
                                                   monitoring, procurement monitoring and physical
Monitoring and informationmanagement system        progress output monitonng) prepared and submitted
inplace                                            inatimely manner; andannual financial auditreports




                                                  21

                                                       g    g
                                             e:
                                             8         3     3
 *                                              2*     &    d
      3       3   +    *    *     *          *         *    *
  e,   e,      o
               a,   a,
                   0    0 W   e,    W
                                  0          e,
                                             0   oe,
            l g                                         e,
                                                       0     e,
                                                            0
 '-               '7   '7   '7    '7         '7 '7    '7    '7
 ae  '7

     a e               ae   ae    a
                                  e          a
                                             e  ae    ae    a
                                                            e




 g    ul                                     0       0    0
 W    !?,                                    00      m    m



 s                                                               N
 0    ul
 r-   !?,                                    52      0
                                                     m    0
                                                          m      N



 g     v)                                            0    0
 kl   !?,                                    52      m    m
                                                    ~




 g     v)

 N    !?,                                   0        0    0
                                             10      m    m

 g                         .
      0     1 s       s    0    .6    .cd
              r 4     0    0                0        0    0


    h       I                        M




B

 E     2VI




   Ge     G3           g   g     g&   g3
   d      d            &    &
                       a?  d    d    d
   Y      Y            *
    8     e,
          0            0   *     Y    *
                           .?
                            al   u
                                 0     W
                                      0
   '7     '7                     i?
                               -7    '7

                           ai?
                       '7

   a2     a
          E            a
                       E       a     a2




                               0E:   0E:



                                     0      m
                                0           N
                                 W    E:



                                0    0
                                 W   z




3 ' 0
   0         .   cd
      0     0          5   0    0    0

                                 Annex 3: Detailed Project Description
                               NEPAL:Avian Influenza ControlProject


COMPONENT 1:Animal Health

Sub-component 1.1:Surveillance

(a) Surveillanceand epidemiologicalinvestigationof domestic poultry: This is the mechanism for
early warning and diagnosis o f HPAIincidence inNepal. Caged birds inorganised poultry farms are not
inany direct threat ofinfectionfrom the migratorybirds,unless contaminatedpeople, material or infected
birdscome into contact with the farm flocks inadvertently. Onthe other hand, fowl and ducks inback
yards are free-ranging birdsunrestrained duringthe day and are constantly exposed to possible fecal
infection from migratory birds contaminating the land corridors under their fly ways, particularly during
migration seasons (end September-December and April-May).

The project proposes surveillance o f backyardpoultry with the Regions as the basic unit and sampling
frames randomly drawn from within each Region. The sample frame and size will be determined by the
Epidemiological Centre and the sample frame changed each month. The total number o f samples
proposed for national random sero-sampling programme o f backyardpoultry for a year is 4,000 dunngall
four years o f Project implementation. There are about 250 organisedpoultry farms inNepal with widely
diffenng flock size, but mostly concentrated ina few selected distncts. The Epidemiological Centre will
randomly choose the farms and the sampling frame within farms and also determine the number o f
samples or specimens to be collected. The total number o f samples for farm flocks will be 6,000 per year.

Surveillance o f migratory birds intheir natural habitats is impractical: dead wildbirds are ideal for H5N1
virus confirmationbut inrealtime situations, it is rare to find dead birds,even intheir habitats or
sanctuaries. Collection o f samples from live migratory birds i s technically difficult and undesirable as it
would disturbthe entire migratory birdpopulation.
The frequency o f samplinginall cases will be once every two months dmng the months o f June to
September and January to March; and once a month during September - January and April - M a y (the
migration seasons). The actual sample collection will be carned out in all casesby the technicianin
charge o f the Livestock Services Development Centres (LSDCs) under the direction and technical
guidance o f the DLSO chief or the wild life technicians (incase o f sentinels) personally once ina month
or once every two months, as the case may be, from the sampling frame falling within hisjurisdiction and
on the same day for all samples allotted to him.The samples or specimen collected would include blood
(serum) samples as well as tracheal and cloacal swabs. The samplingtechnician will pack the samples and
specimens inbio-safety packages with gel packs for cold chain and the Surveillance SupervisionTeam o f
the regional directorate, for the area, will despatch the packages to the designatedRegional Veterinary
Laboratory through special messengers.

Timeframefor surveillance & epidemiological investigations: February 2007 - July 2011

@) Participatory diseaseintelligence:Many Nepalese villages are difficult to reach except from the sky:
H5N1 infectivematerial may reachthemthrough the migratory birds flying overhead. These villages are
used to regular birdmortality, sometimes invery large numbersbecause o fthe recumngravages o f
Newcastle Disease. IfH5N1 infection erupts and ifbirds start dying inthese villages they may be
construed as deaths due to NewcastleDisease. Cases o f human H5N1 influenza in such villages may
therefore never be recognised as such or attributed to diseases o fpoultry. With a captive constituency o f




                                                       24

village Animal Health Workers and farmer members o f the farmer groups DoLS can effectively use them
as the communication channel both ways, establishing "Disease Intelligence".

Nepal has some 6,000 village animal health workers attached to the LSDCs and also several commodity
(affinity) farmer groups attachedto these institutions. The village Animal Health Workers and Farmer
Affinity Groups constitute the participatorydisease intelligencegroups and wouldbe vigorously
encouraged to report on birdmortality, sickness amongbackyard fowl and ducks to LSDCs and districts.
Some 6,000 Animal Healthworkers and 10,000 farmer members o f the commodity (affinity) groups
attached to the LSDCs will be exposed to one-day Village Based Training (VBT) carried out inthe
villages (inone village for a cluster o f five nearby villages) by trained technicians inthe LSDCs intheir
respective areas: the VBTs will for 4,000 participants annually (one per village development committee)
and repeated every year duringthe four year project period.

Timeframefor completing VBTs: February 2007 June 2007 for batch 1and every year thereafter.
                                                     -

(c) Capacity-buildingof veterinary professionals, poultry entrepreneursandwildlife professionals
for surveillanceand bio-safety: To monitor and manage the massive national random sero-surveillance
o f domestic poultry and migratory birds; and to enforce the bio-safety regulations (to be set up) by the
GoN, the Project proposes to train, in2-day district level workshops, all veterinary professionals and
para-professionals inthe country along with wild life technicians involved with migratory birdhabitats.
These training workshops will cover 500 veterinary professionals, 2500 para-vets, 500 poultry
entrepreneurs and some 100 wildlife technicians (4,100 inall). Course contents will include: general
awareness about HPAI, need for personal bio-secunty safeguards for professionals dealing with the
disease, random sero-surveillance, samples and specimens to be collected, hand-onpractice in
samplehpecimen collection, bio-secunty and safety regulations for poultry farms and certification o f
poultry farms annually on bio-security levels pracbsed, prevention, control, and containment of HPAI,
equipment required for surveillance and containment including Personal Protective Equipment (PPE).

Timeframe for workshops: One 2-day workshop will be organised ineach o f the 75 districts by
December 2007.

(d) Developmentof GIs-based animal disease surveillanceand information system: DoLS currently
has a disease information system electronically enabled, but it i s confined to the Epidemiological Centre
o fthe Animal Health Directorate. Inorder for the massive random sero-surveillance programme under the
Project to work effectively it is essential to establish a nation- wide, dynamic information system and
network electronically enabled, GIs-based and GPS-centnc. The DoLS therefore must structure a disease
surveillance and containment programme usingsatellite imagery and GIS Data Systems. The network
should link the Nodal Animal Health Group responsible for HPAIControl and Containment inthe
DoLS's Directorate o f Animal Health, the laboratory system, the animal quarantine system; the
Departmento fNational Parks and Wildlife Conservation, and inparticular the newly proposedB S L 3
Laboratory. The hub o f the network would be inthe Epidemiological Centre. The proposal for a system
involvingsatellite imagery o f water bodies and wet lands, mapping o fthe land corridors beneath the
major fly ways, a GIs-based, GPS-enabled, animal disease intelligence/ information system including
equipping the system and training and runninginthe system over a three-year period will be designed by
a competent consultant.

The Regional Directors will be fully responsible for the implementation, supermion and control o f the
national random sero-surveillance o f domestic poultry and migratory birds; the Regional Directorates will
set up Mobile Surveillance Supervision Teams: one ineach Region. The Project for this purpose provides
for strengthening o f the Regional Directorates. The LSDCs, quarantine check-posts, and wildlife
technicians will continue sero-surveillance without interruption, under the supervision o f the Surveillance


                                                       25

Supervision Teams. The laboratory system, suitably upgraded under the Project, will receive the serum
samples from the sero-surveillance programme and analyse them usingagreed protocols. Suspected
samples and specimens will immediately be sent to the dedicated HPAILaboratory (BSL 3) for diagnosis
and possible confirmation o f H5N1 or other HPAIvirus strains. The Epidemiology Centre will design the
sample frame and sample size for the sero-surveillance and will be intouch with the Regional and Central
Veterinary Laboratories for monitonng the sero-surveillance programme. The Epidemiology Centre with
suitable consultancy assistance will structure a GIS / GPS based Animal Disease Information System with
nodes inall eight laboratories, the Animal Health Directorate and with the Epicentre inthe
Epidemiological Centre.

Timeframefor establishing and making the system operational: February 2007 February 2008
                                                                                    -

Sub-component 1.2: Preventionand Containment

The quarantine border check-posts and the quarantine patrol teams will seal the borders incase outbreaks
o f HPAIoccur inthe neighbouring districts inIndia and China. These posts will seize all intruding
materials like feed, food grains, live birds, poultry or other animal products. They will draw samples and
specimens from the seized flocks or carcases as the case may be and send them inbio-safety packs with
cold chain to the laboratories. They will also disinfect or fumigate the infected premises and materials.

The Project therefore includes strengthening o f the animal quarantine infrastructure inNepal: including
expanding physical facilities inthe four existing check-posts: cold roodfumigationroom, incinerators;
spraying and fogging equipment and communication equipment for all 24 check posts, four wheel drive
pick-up vans for the eight Quarantine Patrol Teams, and 75 motor-cycles for the.24 check-posts. Finally,
the project will finance four years o f operational costs (quarantine consumable, maintenance and
propulsion costs o f vehicles, and travel allowances o f the teams) for the eight teams.

Timeframe for strengthening checkposts and QuarantinePatrol Teams: July 2006 - July 2007

Sub-component 1.3: LaboratoryCapacity

Nepal has eight animal disease diagnostic laboratories inthe country: the Central Veterinary Laboratory
(CVL) ,five RegionalVeterinary Laboratories (RVLs), NationalAvian Disease InvestigationLaboratory
(NADL)1,andtheFMD/TADsLaboratory. The scientific manpoweravailable inthe laboratorysystem
i s meagre, except inthe CVL. Regional laboratones do not have the needed equipment. Procedures
followed are satisfactory but financial constraints do not allow staff to implement all bio-safety
procedures. The laboratory buildingsneed some repairs or additions to suit the changingneeds. There i s
no HPAIdedicated laboratory inNepal. The Veterinary Epidemiology Centre under the Animal Health
Directorate i s carrying out epidemiological investigationo f avian influenza. G o N has proposed
strengthening disease intelligence and surveillance by enhancement and upgrading o f one existing animal
diagnostic investigation laboratory to B S L 3 and the seven laboratories (CVL, five RVLs,and NADIL)to
BSL 2 for facilitating surveillance under the NAIIPPRF'. The BSL 3 laboratory will be established as an
adjunct to the FMD/ TAD laboratory as the objectives of the BSL 3 lab overlap with those o f TAD lab
with a stand alone services block. The CVL, NADLand the five RVLswill be suitably strengthenedfor
shanng the work load o fthe B S L 3 Lab. Several basic concepts inbiological safety and security; and
guidelines to develop codes o fpractice are described inthe WHO Laboratory Safety Manual 2004 and
similar manual(s) by OIE, for the safe handling o fhighlypathogenic micro-organisms inlaboratones.
Strict adherence to these guidelines will be followed to establish a safer work environment for laboratory
staff and the surrounding community.




                                                      26

A well-organized network o fdiagnostic laboratories forms the basis for the successful surveillance o f
avian influenza virus and other infectious diseases. To overcome the shortcomings and to improve the
laboratory testing system, it i s necessary to utilize all the above laboratories by networking them and
decentralizing the activities related to diagnosis o fHPAI.This national laboratory network will follow
guidelines andrecommendations o fthe OIE/FAOnetwork (OFFLU). While networkmg the laboratories
the responsibilities o fthe national laboratory network for diagnosis and active surveillance will be revised
to share the work load and to reduce turn-around time. The eight district labs locatedinthe areas o fthe
eight refurbished quarantine check posts would also be modestly updated to share the network tasks. For
the setting up o fthe B S L 3 Laboratory and to streamline the networkmg o f the other labs, technical
assistance and consultancy services will be necessary. The costs for the laboratory capacity-building
include such costs as well (see below).

The Project Coordinator DoLS will be responsible for initiating and coordinating the strengthening and
capacity buildingo f the veterinary laboratories, including the establishment of the B S L 3 Laboratory. H e
or she will structure the networking o f the eight laboratones that are upgraded (discussed above) and re-
equipped under the Project.

Timeframe for completion:February 2007 December 2008
                                              -

Sub-component 1.4: FieldVeterinary Services

Nepal's containment and control strategies for HPAIoutbreaks indomestic poultry follow OIE/ FA0
Guidelines and were formulated with the active participation o fthe WHO and FA0FieldOffices in
Kathmandu. DoLS has issued guidelines to the Regional Directorates and Distnct Livestock Offices for
micro-planning and getting ready their own control and containment set up. DOLS currently oversees the
operations and coordinates the containment activities, while the DistnctNatural Disaster Relief
Committees working with the District Administration and the Distnct Livestock Officer executes the
containment programme. All through the containment operations district Public Health Teams are to be
present inthe infected zones and take care o f house-to-house surveillance for identifying human
infections/ suspected infections ifany.

The Planprovides for Rapid Response Teams (RRT) o f veterinary professionals supported by para-vets in
the DoLS, shlled workers for culling o fbirds, workers for disinfection, sanitation, buryingkilledbirds/
burningin-contact birdfeed, stock pileso feggs andother materials, disposal o faccumulatedbirdlitter

cases o f outbreaks some 10 -15 days untilthe all clear i s sounded. The Operational Planproposes training
and scores o f other tasks that accompany a control and containment operation which lasts inordinary

and equipping one RRT for each distnct inthe country: there are 75 districts together inall the districts
and so 75 RRTs. The RRTs will undergo a one day full dress rehearsal simulation exercise at their
respective district head quarters and all training will be completedby end 2007. The training o f RRTs will
involve some 1,200 persons together for all the 75 distncts. The Projectwill also support strategic
reserves o f essential equipment for stock piling: PPE, fogging machines and vaccination equipment
constitute the list o f equipment: and quantities are based on the assumption o f 30 outbreaks ina year. In
the second and thirdyear the requirement will only be PPEs, as they plan repeat use o f fogging machines
and vaccination equipment.

Project implementationenvisages the Regional Director o f Livestock Semces to be fully responsible for
the implementation, supervision and control o f the National Random Sero-surveillance o f domestic
poultry, the free rangingbackyard birds as well as organised farm flocks and the migratory birds intheir
wet land/ water body habitats. The Project for this purpose provides for strengthening the Regional
Directorates and enabling the Directorateto set up Mobile Surveillance SupervisionTeams: one in each
Region.


                                                        27

The Distnct Livestock Offices, suitably strengthened under the Project, will arrange for the distnct level
training workshops (one ineach district) for orienting all professional staff o f the DoLS / Wild Life
Technicians on HPAI/ Random Sero-surveillance and complete their training duringthe current year:
2006. The DLSO will also proceed on war footing to train and equip the Rapid Response Teams (RRT)
for disease control and containment, one each for all distncts, with teams kept incombat readiness before
the end o f 2006 inall districts.

The DLSO will be the prime mover for launching the control and containment campaign, once an
outbreak o f HPAIH5N1 i s announced by the Central Vetennary Laboratory and/ GoN. The DLSO will
mobilise the RRTs, alert local authorities, the district administrationand the national HPAIcoordination
set up.H e will coordinate with the help o fthe district administrationthe inspection, culling and
destruction o f infected or possible infected flocks, feed, and eggs stock pile. H e will enforce all zoo-
sanitary measures (restriction inmovement o f humans, material, live poultry, birdlitter, manure, feed and
poultry products) and fumigate infectedpremises. H e will cordon o f fthe areas inthe infectedzone 0-3
kmradius andthe surveillance zone (bufferzone) o f3-10kmradius untilthe outbreak hasbeen stamped
out. The DLSO will also arrange for compensation for birds, feed stocks and eggs stocks actually
destroyed.

Timeframe for completepreparedness: February 2007 -July 2007

Sub-component1.5: CompensationFund

DoLS had two rounds o f discussions with a cross section o f backyardpoultry farmers and representatives
o f the poultry industryon issues related to compensation and rehabilitation incase culling and destruction
o fpoultry becomes necessary inthe face o f an HPAIoutbreak. The consensus arrived at deals with the
scope and quantum o f compensation for birds, egg stocks, and feed stocks destroyed dunng containment
and control campaigns, as well as possible support for rehabilitation.

While compensation would be essential to encourage farmers to report suspicious birdsand ensure that
they can recover their flock, there may not be a case for rehabilitation.Backyard poultry farmers incur no
investments on their flock except for the value o f the birds (often home bred), nor do they have any
recurring expenses on their flocks as they are free-ranging birds foraging and fending for themselves.
Backyardbirds seldomreceive hand feeding, except for a fistful o f lutchen waste. Farmers invariably
shelter them inlarge bamboo baskets or make-shift coops duringthe night. Ifthe backyardpoultry
farmers are paid a fair compensation to cover the value o f the birds destroyed, that would be more than
adequate to make up for their losses, actual as well as potential. They seldom stock eggs or feed. Inthe
case o f organised poultry farms, the farmer loses only the current flocks incase o f a mandatory culling
programme. The current flock value ina poultry farm, layer or broiler, seldom exceeds 20 per cent o f the
total investments for the farm. Therefore there i s little need for rehabilitation inthe case o f organised
poultry farmers. Compensating for loss o f flocks, egg stocks, and feed stocks at prevailing market prices
should be adequate to cover their losses.

It is importantto determine a fair and effective value for culledbird.The marketprice o f an indigenous
(backyard) birdi s higher than the market price o fbroilers and currently the price for an indigenous bird
for meat i s NRs.150 200. Farmers, however, would probably accept a compensation rate at a flat rate
                      -
equal to halfthe marketprice of an adult indigenous bird, say NRs.100 per bird, as they would invariably
bringina mixed flock o fbirdsmade upo f all age groups for culling (adults amongthembeing about a
third). So the birds destroyed valued at Rs.100per birdand for all birds culled from his flock, is
considered a fair rate o f compensation.



                                                       28

DoLS has not yet amved at a sound basis for calculating the compensation fund for budgetingpurposes.
A practical and sound basis would be the poultry population density inthe infecteddistnct (calculated on
the basis o fthe district poultry census and its area). Usingthe density inthe district, the DoLS can
calculate the birdpopulation within the 10 kmradius o f infected and surveillance zones. As there is
considerable vanation between districts inthe density o fpoultry population, the population density o f the
infected district i s the most appropriate basis for calculation.

Inthe case ofthe organisedpoultry farms compensation isbasedonactual numbers culled. The market
price for broilers inNepal i s N R s . 80 per kg live weight or N R s . 120 per bird.It i s therefore appropriate to
assume average compensation for farm flocks at NRs.100 per bird, regardless o f weight, age, or breed.
The only exception to this rule would be culled parental stock which wouldbe compensated at NRs. 500
per birdas they are expensive and cost over N R s . 1,200 per headto procure.

For purposes o fbudget estimates the assumptions used are: 30 possible outbreaks per year, each outbreak
needingculling o f some 50,000 adult equivalents o fbirds and valued at N R s . 100per bird, works out to
NRs.0.62 millionover 3 years. The cost o f egg stocks and feed stocks may be another NRs.0.42 million.
Together, the total estimated budget for compensation i s estimated at U S $ 1.04 million. This figure,
however, is a very rough estimate that cannot possibly accurately predict the likely number o f birds to be
culled. It will therefore have to be adjusted duringProject implementation.

On the basis o fthe regulatorymeasures proposed inthis Project it seems appropriate to bnnginan
element of moralhazard incompensation payments to organisedpoultry farms. Farms have to comply
withthe GoN's mandatory bio-securitynorms andbe certified for the bio-security level maintained
annually, by industryinspectors, and based on the government prescribed norms. Ifthe farms being culled
do not have a certificate o f the standard of bio-security it follows at prescribed levels, it would not be
eligible for any compensation.

Another aspect to be examined i s the registrationo f all larger farms as mandated by the governments. It
should be possible to include inthe registrationfee a small contribution to an industry-driven (permanent)
Compensation Fund.This will make the industrymore open to disease reporting and will enable them to
cooperate with the authorities inmatters pertaining to the public good.

COMPONENT2: HumanHealth

Sub-component 2.1: Surveillance and Laboratory Strengthening

The main goal o f this component i s to develop the surveillance capacity withinNepal to detect: (i)       the
presence o f human avian influenza cases as they occur; (ii)    and to monitor and investigate the
epidemiology o f influenza and influenza-like illnesses to identify changes intransmission patterns o f
avian or other novel influenzaviruses; (iii)   and be able to track the impact o f an influenza pandemic
should it occur. The ultimate goal s to inform decision-making by Nepali and internationalhealth
authorities duringthe different pandemic phases and to guide the prompt and long-term interventions
needed to contain or delay the spread o fthe disease.

The actions inthis sub-component will strengthen the existing disease surveillance capacity o f the public
health system o fNepal at the district, regional, and national level so that i s able to runa functional
influenza surveillance system, set up such surveillance buildingon existing mechanisms, and design and
prepare the surveillance tools and methods required to monitor the occurrence o f this disease over the
different phases o f the pandemic. This requires strengthening and expanding current capacities indata
collection, case investigation, and laboratory diagnostics. Successful implementation of activities to



                                                       29

strengthen influenza surveillance will benefit the overall surveillance and control infrastructure inthe
country for priority diseases and for known and emerging health threats.

Enhance capacity of district and regional rapid response teams

InNepal, epidemiologc investigationsareconductedthroughanetworkofrapidresponseteams (RRTs)
based at the district level. Each o f the 75 distncts has the ability to field one or more (RRTs), whose
number varies based on the circumstances and needs o f eachparticular investigation. RRT members at the
district level are healthproviders (e.g. physicians, nurses) or allied healthprofessionals (e.g. sanitanans)
usually engaged inroutine clinical or public health activities. Their skills and training to conduct
epidemiologic investigations and analyze and report their findings are variable. When necessary, the
distnct level RRTs are backed up by teams from the regional or national level. These teams generally
have better capacity and training, and when not involved ininvestigations they engage incollecting,
analyzing, and reporting routine surveillance data. The regional teams also include personnel who can
assist wth collection o f clinical specimens for laboratory analysis. At present there are five regional
RRTs.The Project will support strengthening o fthe existing RRTnetwork through training andbetter
equippingthese teams. It will also expand the regional RRT network by adding three additional teams for
backup support. To do this, teams and surveillance cells will be established at BPK Institute o f Health
Science inthe eastern region; Nepalgunj Medical College inthe western region, and at the national
surveillance node (Epidemiology and Communicable Disease Control (EDCD)unidNationa1Public
Health Laboratory (NPHL) for the central region. Any time a human case o f avian influenza i s suspected
or confirmed one or more o f the regional response teams will take over the investigation. The regional
RRTswill also conduct field investigations any time avian influenzai s detectedinpoultry. The purpose
o f these investigations will be to survey humanpopulations inthe area o f the poultry outbreak and to
assess the potential for disease among those engaged inculling and other outbreak control measures.

Guidelines for the conduct o f case and outbreak investigations related to avian influenza and influenza-
like illness will be developed. Once the guidelines are available, the district and regional RRTs will be
trained on how to utilize these guidelines. Periodic refresher training will also be conducted as
membership on the teams i s likely to change over time and new information concerning avian influenza
becomes available. As the surveillance system matures and more possible cases and outbreaks are
identified, it i s expectedthat eachteam will have to conduct more investigations. The project will support
these investigations, including expenses to travel to the field and specimen collection and transport, and
proper protective measures (personal protective equipment, vaccination, and antivirals) for the regional
teams. RRTswill have rapid diagnostic kits available to establish a preliminary diagnosis inthe field. The
costs for the luts are included inthe laboratory component. For costing purposes, it i s expectedthat each
district team will conduct three investigations inthe first 12-month period o f the project, four inthe
second, and five inthe next two 12-month periods. They will require back-up support from regional teams
on average 40 times per year (when all five teams are fully functional, eight investigations per year per
team).

Influenza-like illness reporting with an embedded laboratory algorithm through the Early WarningAlert
and ResponseSurveillance (E WARS) network

The current EWARS network consists o f 28 sentinel sites, mostly located inthe Tarai region o f southern
Nepal. This network can be harnessed to conduct surveillance o f influenza-like illness (LLI), allowing the
country to establish systematic baseline rates o f the occurrence o f LIand the seasonal and epidemiologic
patterns. This would allow rapid recognition o f aberrations inthe normal occurrence o f disease which
would thenbe investigatedby the rapid response teams. T o be most beneficial, this ILIsurveillance will
be coupledto an embedded algorithm for collection of specimens for laboratory testing, providing data on
the types o f influenza strains circulating inthe country and the seasonal patterns. It will also allow the


                                                       30

laboratory network to remain proficient ininfluenza identification and strain sub-typing.To be maximally
useful, the EWARS sentinel sites must be nationally representative. Because at present the mountain
regions are under-represented, the Project will support expansion o f the network to include eight
additional sites inthis area, for a total o f 36 sites. EachEWARS site should collect a minimumo f five
samples per month from patients meeting the case definition for ILI.This would generate a minimumo f
180 specimens per month, or 2,160 specimens annually. As the laboratory capacity at NPHLmatures, the
numbero fmonthly specimens maybe increased. The project will support technical assistance to develop
ILIsurveillance guidelines, includingcase definitions, for the EWARSnetwork, training ofEWARS
personnel on these guidelines and penodic re-training, provision o frapid diagnostic kits (costed
separately inthe lab component) to the sites, shipment o f specimens, and data collection and transfer.

Human avian influenza and viralpneumonia surveillance through the WEO/ImmunizationPreventable
Diseases (IPD) system

The WHO/IPD system has built an extensive network o f sites that conduct active and passive surveillance
for a number o f vaccine-preventable conditions, reporting this information on a weekly basis
(immediately when a case of AFP i s identified). This network also has an infrastructure for specimen
collection and shipment. As such, it i s probably the system which produces the highest quality data inthe
country. Within six months o f project initiation, this system will incorporate surveillance for cases o f
severe Acute Respiratory Infection (ARI)and likely viral pneumonia as a means to identify possible
human cases o f avian influenza. Information will be collected from all identified cases to determine if
they have risk factors for avian influenza disease (contact with someone with the disease, travel to an area
withknown avianinfluenza, or contact with sick and dyingpoultry).For any person meeting the
establishedcase definition, specimens will be immediately collected, tested using rapid diagnostic hts,
and shipped to NPHL.The appropriate rapid response team will also be alerted. The project will support
costs associated with surveillance guideline development, training o f IPDpersonnel with periodic
refresher training, specimen collection and shipment, and data collection and management. It i s difficult
to know how many potential cases may be identifiedby this system, but as the system matures and if
avian influenza occurs inpoultry inNepal, this number would be expected to go up over the course o fthe
project. For the purposes o f costing, the project estimates that as many as 2,000 cases will be investigated
and that 50 o fthese will meet the case definition for suspected avian influenza inthe first 12months o f
the surveillance. These numbers could increase by 25 percent per year. Inadditional to its value for avian
influenza, this system will also provide information on the baseline occurrence o f severe ARI and
pneumonia inthe country, identify clusters o f such cases for investigation, and should enhance studies o f
the etiology o f these cases.

Improving surveillance system data collection, transfer, analysis, and dissemination

Itis importantthat information collected throughthe vanous systems beingdeveloped for avian and
pandemic influenzabe integrated, analyzed, disseminated, and reportedin systematic fashion. It i s also
important that mechanisms be developed to collect data on the progress o f the epidemic should an
influenza pandemic develop. Such data will allow the health care system to gauge the extent and seventy
o f the epidemic inNepal and its temporal course. Such information will allow policy-makers to make
informed decisions about allocation o fpreventive and health care resourcesto those areas in greatest
need. The project will support development o f surveillance mechanisms for the pandemic phase and
distribution and training usingthese guidelines throughout the surveillance system. The project will also
support enhancement o fthe current surveillance unitsat the regional and national level for data collection
and transfer to the Surveillance Unito f EDCD, and the development o f a web site and bulletins for
dissemination o f information regarding avian influenza and other surveillance data.

Influenza rapid diagnostic kitsfor surveillancesites and rapid responseteams


                                                         31

Although they do not provide a definitive diagnosis o fthe presence o f human avian influenza, rapid
diagnostic kitshave an important role to play inthe surveillance and investigationof this disease. These
luts can provide an important early clue to the presence o f avian influenza in someone with a compatible
illness, thereby allowing early interventions to be initiated. They also encourage health care providers to
participate insurveillance efforts and allow them to better care for persons with regular seasonal
influenza. However, studies have shown that these I t s lack sensitivity, particularly for avian influenza
sub-types, and are also associated with false positive findings. Therefore specimens must still be tested
usingmore reliablemethods such as PCR and virus isolation.These kits are also costly. Giventhese
factors, the project will support distribution o fthese luts to the EWARS sites conductinginfluenza
surveillance and to the eight regional RRTs.For most RRT investigations, it would be usual to conduct
more than ten rapid tests per investigation. The project will also support training inthe proper use o frapid
diagnostic kits and the interpretation o f the results. The project will also support replenishment o f these
luts over the duration o f the project.

Development of conventional and real timepolymerase chain reaction (PCR) testing and ELISA-based
serologic diagnosis at the National Public Health Laboratory

PCR has been shown to be a reliable method to diagnose avian influenza. Studies have shown that real
time PCR i s more sensitive and rapid than conventional PCR testing. However, even this assay has
problems for the diagnosis o f avian influenza inhumans, because at present persons with this disease do
not have large quantities o fvirus inthe upper respiratory tract. Serology i s an alternative method to
diagnose influenza, including that caused by avian sub-types. But serology i s o f limited utility in
diagnosing this disease, as acute and convalescent specimens must be obtained. As a result, it i s useful for
epidemiologic purposes but i s not timely enough to guide patient care. It is also useful for special
epidemiologic investigations, such as serosurveys o f culling workers, health care workers, or in
communities with outbreaks. Given the limited laboratory infrastructure inNepal, the project does not
support developing PCR and serology capacity throughout the country. Instead, development o f such
capacities inthe NPHL is supported. NPHL already has the ability to perform conventional PCR. The
project will support the acquisition o fprimer, reagents and supplies for conventional PCR untilRT-PCR
can be put inplace. For RT-PCR,the project will support acquisition o f equipment, reagents, and supplies
for this test at NPHL.The project will also support acquisition o f ELISA luts for influenza serologic
testing. For the purposes o f costing, the project anticipates that 5,000 PCR assays would be conducted
annually, and that not more than 500 serologic assays would be performed annually. The project will
support laboratory infrastructure to support PCR and serology, including training, staffing, equipment,
and renovation for the laboratory. This capacity will not only be utilized for influenza, but for other
diseases o fpublic health significance inNepal that can be diagnosed by RT-PCR.

Virus isolation/BSL3 capacity at NPHL

Several viral diseases present inNepal require biosafety level 3 capacity. At present, there i s no
laboratory inNepal that has the capacity to conduct virus isolation or handling o f specimens at the BSL3
level, and all samples must be shipped outside o fthe country for diagnosis. This i s costly, involves proper
shipment o f specimens usinginternational specifications, and most importantly, impedes definitive
diagnosis. Taking advantage o f this Project, the laboratory capacity inNepal would be upgraded to
provide BSL3 capacity. This feature i s common to animal health and human health components, and
therefore close collaborationbetween the two CCTs would be essential. BSL3 work i s costly and requires
a level o f capacity far above that which currently exists inNepal. The project will support efforts to
develop virus isolation and BSL3 capacity at NPHL, recognizing that this will take considerable time to
develop and will require a commitment on the part o f the Ministryo f Health and Populationto sustain
after the project ends. Inaddition, there i s no expertise inNepal to design or construct a BSL3 facility.


                                                        32

Therefore, the project will also support an international technical consultant or firm to support NPHLin
assessing the ability o f current facilities to support a BSL3 lab, help design the facility, and support
construction efforts. The project will also support reagents and supplies for virus isolation, training o f
personnel inthe operation o f the facility and invirus isolation, development o fbiosafety protocols,
supplies for biosafety and waste disposal (including an incinerator), equipment, and maintenance. Any
renovation efforts should include those necessary for the PCR space, even though it i s recognizedthat
PCR does not requireBSL3 and should notbe conducted inthe same physical area as virus isolation.It is
unlikely that virus isolation capacity will exist at NPHLuntilat least the secondyear o fthe project.
Duringthe interimperiod, the project will support costs for shipment o fspecimens to an international
partner for the purposes o fvirus isolation and definitive diagnosis. The project will also support NPHL
participation ina quality assurance program for both PCR and virus isolation.

GONhas agreedto; (i) sufficientbudgetary allocations fkom its ownresources for the adequate
                          provide
maintenance, supplies, and other recurrent costs for the satisfactory operation o f the BSL-3 laboratories
beyond the life o f the project as long as necessary; (ii) ensure the recruitment, appointment, or assignment
o f adequate number o ftrained personnel to operate the two laboratories at BSL-3 level as long as
necessary; and (iii) take all necessary actions to obtain and maintain the necessary BSL-3 certification
from appropriate organizations.

Laboratory Information Management System at NPHL

The laboratory improvements listed above, and the volume o f samples expected to be processedbyNPHL
require that the laboratory has an information system to manage the data generated as a result. At present
NPHLhas minimalcomputerization and electronic data management. The projectwill support the
development and implementationo f such a system, including the necessary hardware, software, and
networkmg. For the Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS) to be most useful, it must have
seamless linkage to the epidemiologic systems developed inEDCD, so that laboratory information can be
integrated into the databaseson cases. Therefore NPHLmust work closely with EDCD inthe design and
development o f the system. Since both are located on the same campus, NPHLshould share the data
managerhnformationspecialist that will be hired to work on avian andpandemic influenza-related issues.
The LIMS should benefit not only work relatedto avian influenza, but should also benefit information
management inthe laboratory ingeneral.

Sub-component2.2: Preventionand Containment

Prevention of avian and seasonal influenza in high risk occupationalsettings

There are certain occupational settings where the risko f exposure to avian influenza i s higher than inthe
general population. These settings include persons engaged inculling actiwties ifavian influenza is
discovered inpoultry inNepal, persons engaged inpoultry reanng activities, health care workers canng
for persons with avian influenza, laboratory workers who will be handling specimens containing this virus
or working with live virus, and those who will be conducting field investigations as part o f the RRTs.
Measures should be taken to reduce riskamong such persons. These measures include education and
training, barrier precautions to reduce exposure to the virus, disinfection and hygienic measures to reduce
surface contamination, and inspecific circumstances, antiwral prophylaxis. At present there i s no human
vaccine for avian influenza strains that have producedhuman disease, and such vaccines may not be
available untilwell into an influenza pandemic. With the exception o f antiviral prophylaxis, measures to
protect workers engaged inculling activities and those working inthe commercial poultry sector are part
o f the animal health component o f this Project. The project will support measures to protect health care
workers likely to care for patients with avian influenza (e.g. those workers at referral facilities established
as part o fthis project), including personal protective equipment, hygienic supplies, and antiviral


                                                        33

prophylaxis. The same applies to workers at NPHLand members o f the eight RRTs that will conduct
investigations o f suspected or confirmed avian influenza, including specimen collection. For the purposes
o f costing and estimating needs, this would include 200 persons engaged inhealth care activities at
referral centers, 1,500 persons engaged inculling activities (district-level animal health core teams), 80
members o f the regional rapid response teams (two teams of five per site), and 20 persons working in
NPHL.Becausepatients with avianinfluenzamaybe seenor hospitalizedat facilities at levelsofthe
health care system below the referral center, it i s also appropriate for these facilities to have access to
personal protective equipment and antiviral prophylaxis. Therefore the project will support a small cache
o f PPE and antivirals ineach o f the five regions that can be distributed on an as-needed basis, along with
a reserve maintained at the central level inKathmandu. The project will support training o f persons in
highnskoccupational groups onmeasures to reduce exposure nsk,including use o f supplies and
equipment.

Seasonal influenza vaccine i s not protective against avian influenza. However, it i s important to reduce
the potential for co-infection with avian and seasonal influenza viruses. Co-infection could result invirus
reassortment and acquisition by avian subtypes o f genetic segments from human subtypes. Ifthis
occurred, the virus could more readily be passed from person-to-person, resulting ina pandemic sub-type.
To mitigate this possibility, it is recommended that highrisk groups be vaccinated against seasonal
influenza with trivalent influenza vaccine (TIV). Therefore, the Project will support use o f TIV inhigh
riskoccupational groups, includinghealthcare workers inreferral facilities, laboratoryworkers, andRRT
members. Ifa group o f individuals who will definitely be engaged inculling activities can be identified,
the Project will also support vaccinatingthis group.

Prevention of transmission in high risk contacts ofpersons diagnosed with avian influenza

Duringthe pre-pandemic phase, ringantiviralprophylaxis (also knownas contactprophylaxis) o fclose
contacts (usually household members) o fpersons diagnosed with avian influenza i s considered an
important measure to limit disease spread. Community prophylaxis is also considered important in
circumstances where chains o f person-to-person transmission are evident (when WHO pandemic phase 4
i s recognized) to reduce the risk o f spread beyond the affected community. However, inthis situation,
WHO has indicatedthat its stockpile o f antiviral drugswill be deployed to cover such use. Therefore, the
Project will support acquisition o f a limited stockpile o f antivlral drugs to cover contact prophylaxis
duringpandemic stage 3 (the current phase). This stockpile canbe maintainedinthe five regional centers
and at the central level, since they will most likely be distributed by the rapid response teams as part o f
the case or outbreak investigation. Replenishment o f this stockpile will also be supported. For the
purposes o f cosbng, a 25 percent annual replacement will be supported. Ifthe drugs are not used, the
additional matenal can be used to build the stockpile for use dunngthe pandemic phase. The antiviral
medication stockpile will also be used for treatment o fpersons with suspected or confirmed disease due to
avian influenza.

Planningfor acquisition and use ofpandemic influenza vaccine

At present, there are no human vaccines for avian influenza sub-types that are knownto haveproduced
human disease. Efforts are underway in several countries to develop and produce such vaccines.
However, untila pandemic strain actually develops, it i s unknown how effective any o f these vaccines
will be against the specific pandemic strain. However, if apandemic vaccine was available, its likely
protective efficacy would be high.Most current planning efforts assume a pandemic vaccine will not be
available duringthe early phases o f a pandemic. However, these planningefforts also assume that not all
areas will be immediately impacted by a pandemic, and that there are likely to be multiple waves to a
pandemic as there have been inprevious pandemics. Therefore, there a pandemic vaccine that i s not
available dunngthe initial wave may still be beneficial. Because o f these many unknowns, including


                                                       34

when a pandemic may occur, the Project cannot support large scale acquisibon o fvaccines against avian
influenza duringthe pre-pandemic phase. However, the Project does support efforts to develop plans for
vaccine acquisition and distribution, including defining pnority groups for use o f vaccine (groups
supporting critical infrastructure, persons at risk o f severe disease, etc.).

Development of a quarantine networkfor Nepal

At present, Nepal does not have an organized quarantine systemto prevent importation o fhumandisease
from outside the country, either by air or land ports o fentry. For many emerging infectious diseases,
including avian influenza, this i s an important gap. Inaddition, the revised International Health
Regulations (IHRs), passedby the World Health Assembly in2005, mandate that quarantine facilities
exist at major ports o f entry by 2007, including the ability to identify and care for persons who may be
carrying communicable diseases covered under the regulations. Inthe event o f avian influenza exhibiting
limited person-to-person transmissibility, whether within or external to Nepal, authorities may be called
upon to screen exiting or entenngtravelers, or at the very least to distribute information to travelers.
Therefore the project will support activities to develop a modem quarantine system for the country.

The Ministryo f Health has identified eight locations that represent major air and land ports o f entry. One
is at Tribhuvan International Airport. The others are at seven major internationalland crossings inNepal,
one with China and six with India. The Project will support incrementaldevelopment o f quarantine
facilities at each o f these locations, so that all are complete by the thirdyear. At each o f these locations,
the Project will support identification o f a facility that can serve as a quarantine office and can be used to
examine travelers, equipment for these facilities, and staffing and other operational costs. The Project wil
also support development o f guidelines andprocedures for the quarantine system, along with training o f
personnel. Technical assistance will be supported to develop guidelines and procedures. As per the IHRs:
each facility must identify a mechanismfor care o fpersons with suspected disease requiring quarantine,
but suchhealthcare facilities maybe off-site. Many locations contract for such servicesrather than
provlde them directly.

Legal and regulatory review

Successful containment andprevention o f avian and pandemic influenza may require the use o ftools not
often employedby public health authonties, such as quarantine measures, other social distancing
measures, use o f expenmental vaccines and therapeutics, and use o f unlicensed health care practitioners.
There needs to be a sound legal basis for such measures. The foundation o f such measures for Nepal i s the
Communicable Disease Control Act o f 1964. While this law exists, the regulatory framework for its
implementationwas never written. Inaddition, it i s now more than 40 years old and likely needs to be
updated to reflect the current public health situation. The Project will support a review o f current laws and
regulations that mightbe applicable to avian and pandemic influenza surveillance, prevention, and control
measures. The purpose o f the review i s to identify problems and gaps, and propose measures to address
them. At a minimum,the review should include the basis for current surveillance activities, quarantine
and isolation, use o f unlicensed products, conduct o f other types o f research, use o f a volunteer
workforce, and liability issues. The Project will support a technical consultant to conduct this review and
propose remedies.

Planningfor non-pharmacologic interventions (including social distancing) to contain human avian and
pandemic influenza

A variety o fnon-pharmacological interventions are available for the preventionand containment o favian
and pandemic influenza. Limited studies and some modeling studies suggest that some o f these
interventions may substantially impact the occurrence o f disease. These measures include social


                                                         35

distancing (community quarantine, school closures, suspension o f activities such as social and sporting
events, business closures, etc.), use o f masks and other bamer precautions outside o f health care facilities,
and community hygienic and disinfectionmeasures. An assessment o f these measures i s required for their
appropriateness inNepal and their relative pnority based on scientific information. After this i s done,
plans should then be developed for their application and use during the various pandemic phases. The
project will support such an assessment, including technical consultation, and will support development
o fplans for their implementation inNepal. Since these measures require considerable cooperation from
other parts o f the government, from NGOs, from the private sector and from the business and religious
community, the assessment and planningprocess should include participation o f these groups.

Sub-component 2.3: Health care delivery systempreparednessand response

The health care system mustbe prepared to care for persons with suspected or confirmed avian influenza
duringany o fthe three major WHO phases (the pre-pandemic phase, the pandemic alert phase, and the
pandemic phase). The needs, requirements, and constraints o f the health care system inNepal differ
within these phases. Duringthe pre-pandemic and pandemic alertphase, few cases o f disease will be
identified. These can be handledat designated health care facilities that have trainedpersonnel and are
outfitted for patient isolation. Ifthe pandemic phase i s reached, the health care system will be stretched
and the priority i s to care for large numbers o f illindividuals efficiently and ina manor appropnate for the
health care context o fNepal. Itwill be especially important to support the lowest levels o f the health care
system, since there are insufficient medical facilities, especially inpatient facilities (the country has only
16,000 hospital beds) to meet all o fthe potentialneeds. Inmany instances, the diagnosis o f avian
influenzamay not be made immediately, even with anticipated enhancements to the surveillance and
laboratory infrastructure. Some o fthese cases may not be able to be confirmed. Therefore any efforts to
support and upgrade the health care delivery system shouldbenefit more general public healthneeds. In
the case o f the health care system, this includes acute respiratory illness and other diseases that might
benefit from patient isolation. The Project will support efforts to develop an acute respiratorydisease
tnage andreferral system, and to provide planning tools and resourcesto the pnmary health care system
for the pandemic phase.

Development of an acute respiratory disease ( A D ) triage and referral system

To develop and implement ARD triage and referral, a number o f activities must be undertaken. These
include development o f standardized guidelines for evaluation, diagnosis, care, and referral o fpatients
withrespiratory disease that mightbe due to avlan influenza; training o fhealth care personnel at all levels
o f the health care system; designation o f referral facilities at the regional and national level and upgrading
of these facilities to care for persons with avian influenza within the context o f the Nepalihealth care
system; development o fplans for acquisition o f supplies and medications neededto care for large
numbers o f patients duringthe pandemic phase; and limited acquisition o f these supplies and medications.
These activities will also improve care o fpatients with non-influenza respiratory disease, a major cause o f
morbidity and mortality inNepal.


0    Guidelines: For guideline development and dissemination, the Project will support technical
     assistance. Such guidelines exist elsewhere, but their relevance to the Nepali health care system must
     be assessedand they mustbe adapted appropnately. It i s important that these guidelines be developed
     inthe early phases o fthe Project, since training efforts for healthcare providerswill be extensive, and
     cannot commence without the guidelines that form the basis o fthe training. Guidelinesmust also be
     developed for each level o fthe health care system, since the level o f care, including diagnostic
     capacity and slulls, increases from the local to district to regional to national level. Once developed,
     these guidelines must be periodically re-examined and updated as the scientific knowledge regarding
     the clinical aspects o f avian influenza increases.


                                                        36

      Training:When the guidelines are available, training should commence usinga tiered `train the
     trainer' approach. Standardized training materials will be developed, approved by the Ministryo f
     Health; and then disseminated throughout the system. Training at all levels should be accomplished
     duringthe first year, and then repeatedannually inabbreviated fashion. The project will support
     outside assistance to accomplish training goals. Bothguideline development and training materials
     may benefit from a collaborative relationshipwith a Nepali academic partner.

     Facilities upgrades: To support acute respiratory disease triage activities, referral facilities mustbe
     designated and upgraded. The Project will support designation o f one facility ineachregion to serve
     as a referral center with an isolation ward o f at least ten beds. The isolation ward i s most useful
     duringthe pre-pandemic andpandemic alert phase, when there are small numbers o fpatients with
      avian influenza, but can also help support severely illpatients dmng the pandemic phase. When there
     are no patients with avian influenza hospitalizedinthese isolationwards, they should be usedfor
     other patients with severe acute respiratory disease or for patients with non-respiratory diseases where
      isolation i s indicated. The project will support facility renovations, staffing support with infection
     control measures (as outlined inthe prevention and containment section), basic equipment (e.g.
     oxygen generators, suction devices, pulse oximeters), and appropnate waste disposal. The Project will
      also support designation o f one facility as a national reference hospital (NRH) inKathmandu. The
     designated facility should have appropriate staffing and infrastructure (laboratory, radiology,
     pharmacy, waste disposal) to care for severely illpatients. This facility must also designate a location
     which can support a ten-bed isolation ward. As with the regional facilities, the Project will support
     renovations, staff support, infection control, basic equipment, and waste disposal. Technical support
     can be requested for facilities renovations. The facility chosen by the GoN for this purpose i s
      Shukraraj Tropical InfectiousDiseases Hospital (STIDH); however this hospital does not yet have the
     minimumrequiredinfrastructure to be aNRH,andthe GoNhas agreed to upgrade it to provide such
     infrastructure, withinthe next two years usingits own resources. It has been decided that the
     Tribhuvan University Teaching Hospital (TUTH)will serve as an interim NRHuntil STIDH is ready
     to take this function on.

     Planning and limited acquisition of medications and supplies: Dunngthe pandemic stage, there will
     be a need for additional supplies and medications to treat large numbers o f illpersons, including the
     secondary complications o f influenza. Among the additional medications are antimicrobial agents to
     cover the organisms which produce secondary pneumonias, antipyretic drugs, and cough
     suppressants. However, because the timingo f an influenza pandemic i s unpredictable, it i sunwise to
     procure large quantities o fthese medications which may then notbe used. The project will support
     limited acquisition o f these medications to support the isolationwards o f the referral centers listed
     above, and will support a planningprocess to assure access to these medications when needed during
     a pandemic phase (such as assmng a stockpile bubble among the suppliers and distributors which can
     be accessed by the government as needed).

Plans and capacitiesfor theprimary care system (ilaka and below) to meet health care needs during an
influenza pandemic

Duringan influenzapandemic, healthcare services will be severely stretchedto meet the needs o flarge
numbers o f illindividuals. Given the limited capacity o f in-patient health care facilities, the burden o f this
care will fall disproportionately to the primary health care system at the ilaka level and below. Therefore
it is important to develop contingency plans for how care will be deliveredbythis level o fthe healthcare
system. The project will support a planningprocess for each ilaka headedby the primary health care
center that will address what will be done and how it will be done. These plans should address surge
capacity, including use o f volunteers, and home health care provision. The plans should also consider that


                                                         37

a proportion o fthe illindividuals will be the health care workers themselves. Therefore it i s especially
important for the plans to focus on a back-up work force. It i s possible that inNepal not all regions will be
affected by the pandemic at the same time. It may therefore be possible to shift health workers and other
resources to and from areas o f greater and lesser needs. Each PHCwill be expected to plan the response
applying national assumptions o f impact o f an influenza pandemic to the local level. Since the issues and
needs are likely to be the same among most o f the ilakas, consideration should be given to developing
model guidelines and having each ilaka adapt these to local circumstances and capacities. This planning
activity should not only be relevant to an influenza pandemic, but should strengthen overall preparedness
for any public health emergency.

Sub-component 3: Communications

The communications subcomponent aims to reduce the negative social impact and threat to human health
posed by the occurrence o fpoultry outbreaks o f avian influenza, and in doing so minimize the social
disruption and impact o f an influenza epidemic. This will be done through advocacy, behavioural change
communication, and social mobilization. A Communications Plan, drafted by UNICEFand WHO, and
forms the basis for this component, which will be implementedjointly through DoLS and DoHS.

OverallGoal

The overall goal o f the Communication Plan is to prevent and reduce the negative social impact and threat
to human health from the occurrence o f poultry outbreaks o f avian influenza (AI)and minimize the social
disruption and impact o f an influenza epidemic through advocacy, behaviour change communication, and
social mobilization. The specific purpose o fthe plan is to provide a framework and the roadmap to the
implementation o f the communications component o fthe NAIIPPRP.

Specific Objectives

To achieve the goal o fthe Communication Plan, three main objectives have been identified. Objective
number 1corresponds to the WHO pandemic phases 1to 3, which i s applicable to Nepal at present. The
specific activities to meet this objective are already known and will require immediate implementation.
However, the dissemination o fthe behavioural change communication messages related to this objective
will not happenautomatically butrather accompany the information requirements set by the epidemic
developments. Objective number two corresponds to the WHO pandemic phases 4 to 6, which may be
less likely to affect Nepal inthe very near future. Nonetheless, the current proposal outlines a series o f
capacity buildingand preparedness activities to ensure government officials, health workers and other key
stakeholders are fully prepared for an effective communication response should a human outbreak strike
Nepal or neighbounng countnes. Objective number three i s applicable and relevant to all the WHO
pandemic phases. Activities to meet this objective will be implementedthroughout the life o f the project
inNepal though special attention will be givento it immediately inorder to set the foundations for a
suitable avian influenza communication environment.

Objectivenumber 1will influencebehaviours and attitudes oftargeted and general audiences that lead
to action to reduce the risk o f avian influenza outbreaks inpoultry and human avian influenza infections.
The sub-objectives are as follows:

    Gain commitment from key political, social and industnal players to improve quality control o f
    poultry farming and market chains and reduce the risk o f importation o fthe virus.


0   Buildthe avian influenzacommunication capacity o fkey groups at the community level including,
    inter alia, teachers, female community health volunteers, village agriculture extension workers,


                                                       38

    NGO/CBOsandUNsocial mobilizers that will support the mass media communication component
    with strategic and targeted interpersonal communicationactivities.

    Develop and disseminate behaviour change communication messages andproducts targeting avian
    influenza vulnerable groups including, inter alia, women, children, butchers, vetennaries andpoultry
    farmers that will ensure: (i)understanding o f avian influenza risks, critical hygiene, coolung and
    poultry handlingpractices; (ii) knowledge and understanding o f compensation packages for culling o f
    poultry; and (iii)early reportingo f animal deaths.

    Develop and disseminatebehaviour change communication messages andproducts targeting groups
    such as families, health workers, health volunteers, traditional healers and traditional birthattendants
    that will: (i)
                 ensure understanding o f the risk o f human influenza infection and selflfamily protection
    mechanisms; (ii)  identification and early reporting o f symptoms; and (iii) understanding and
    cooperation wth surveillance and tracing activities andprocedures.

Objective number 2 will buildthe capacity and establishthe mechanisms for a targeted, timely and
effective communicationresponse aimed at reducing the number o f persons getting infected and dying in
a human influenza pandemic. The sub-objectives are as follows:

    Design a targeted communication strategy that will ensure: (i) populationunderstands the need for
                                                                     the
    surveillance and tracing actimties; (ii)the populationreports cases o f illpersons; (iii) the
                                                                                             ensure
    population i s aware and able to implement self-protection mechanisms; (iv) ensure knowledge and
    compliance o f quarantine periods, health seelung practices and home care practices; and (v)
    knowledge and compliance of directives regarding safe management o f dead bodies.


0   Develop related behawour change communication messages and products ready for immediate
    release and dissemination should a human influenza outbreak hit Nepal.

    Develop training on communication guidelines and protocols for health workers, traditional healers,
    traditional birthattendants and community health volunteers inorder to facilitate their communication
    with the community duringan outbreak enhancing trust and cooperation.

Objective number 3 is to create apublic information environment conducive to behaviour change and
reduced public panic and mistrustthrough a consistent, timely and accurate flow o f information on avian
influenza. The sub-objectives are as follows:


0   Develop and implement training and materials that will strengthen healthjournalists and ensure
    informed and responsible media reporting on avian influenza.


0   Buildthe capacity o fthe public sector at national andlocal levels to implement a coordinated,
    transparent and proactive public information strategy relatedto avian influenza and other epidemics.


0   Establish a forum for regular communication with stakeholders - including the media, private sector
    and representatives from the civil society.

Coordinationand CommunicationPlanImplementation

The GoNhas developed both a multi-sectoral coordination committee to guide the Project, and facilitate
implementationo f the activities to be camed out by the health and agricultural line ministries. This
committee will coordinate all communication components o f the plan. Other stakeholders will be



                                                      39

incorporated to the committee as deemed necessary as and when the epidemic evolves. It will be
responsible for the coordinationand follow-up o fthe implementation o f the communication response. It
will also oversee the key messages and materials development done by each stakeholder inorder to avoid
confusion and duplication within the nationalresponse. MoHP and M o A C with support from the UN
communicationteam will be responsible for dissemination o f the IEC materials and messages to each o f
the target groups. The ministries will be responsible for mobilizing their staff and volunteers for the
dissemination o fmessages through their respective networks.

COMPONENT4: ProjectCoordination4

Sub-component4.1: AnimalHealthSupport

The Core CoordinationTeam (CCT) will be directly responsible for the implementation o f the entire
Animal Health Component o f the Project, including being accountable for all information related to the
progress, implementation, reporting, monitonng and evaluation. The Director (AH)will orchestrate the
Random Sero-surveillance Programme nation wide through the Regional Directors and the Containment
Programme through the District LivestockOfficers. Monitoring and Evaluation o f the Project will be
hisher direct responsibility, and he/she will identify a competent and independent external agency to set
upthe M&Esystem andwill produce periodic M&EReports at agreed intervalswhich will be shared
with the WorldBank and other development partners. The Project Director will ensure that all
traininghlull development / capacity buildingprogrammes under the Project will be implementedon time
and inthe sequence required for unhindered implementationo f the different time bound activities. The
Animal Health Directorate inthe DoLS i s being strengthened with the addition o f a National HPAI
Control and Coordination Cell inthe Directorate to help the Director Animal Health who also happens to
be the Project Director for the Animal Health Component o f the Strategic Plan. Monitoringand
evaluation will be the task o f the Epidemiology centre of the directorate o f Animal Health.

Sub-component4.2: HumanHealthSupport

A high-level committee that for the humanhealthcomponent o fthe Projectwill be established at MoHP
level to provide overall guidance for: specific policy related matters; strategic guidance; human resource
related approvals; delineation o froles and responsibilities; capacity building; donors harmonization;
getting approvals incondition o f epidemic breakout for resource mobilization including humanresources
from community and other sectors; keepingan oversight on programplanning; coordination
(intersectoral, intrasectoral and with EDPs), monitonng o f the epidemics; periodicalreportingto EDPs
and internal reporting, and financial management. This Steermg Committee will be chaired by the
Ministero fHealthand Population, or, inhis absence, by Secretaryo fMoHP. The committeemembers
will be the Specialist secretanes o fMoHP, Director Curative Division, ChiefPlanningDivision, Chief
Financing Unit o fMoHP the member secretary will be the Director General o f Departmento f Health
Services (DoHS) who i s overall in-charge for implementation.

The Project ImplementationCommitteewill be ledby Director General o fDoHS, with the Director o f
Epidemiology and Disease Control Division (EDCD) as Member-Secretary and will include: Directors o f
Management Division, National Public Health Laboratory, National Health Training Center, National
HealthInformation ,Educationand Communication Center, Logistics ManagementDivision and
InfectiousDiseases Hospital, ChiefAccount Section o f DoHS and one representative o f Animal Health
Directorate (DoLS, MoAC) to ensure liaison with the animal health component. The Directors
responsible for respective sub-components (including for procurement o f works, goods and services and
the regional directors, regional medical stores and regional training centers including the designated focal

4 See Annex 5 for more details on coordination and implementation arrangements.


                                                       40

points for curative service structures) will be co-opted by the committee as and when necessary. A few
public central hospitals, regional and zonal hospitals, DHOsDPHOs and specified distinct hospitals and
some private sector hospitals will be involved duringall the phases o f pandemics for necessary
preparation and response inepidemic situation. Coordination issues at the district level and information
flows will be responsibility o f the DPHOsand Management division o f DoHS and Monitoringand
Evaluation and Public Health Administration divlsion o f MoHP. A small project support coordination
team will be designated at DoHS with a core staff and required office support under the oversight o fDGI
DoHS to coordinate inputs, monitor activities carried out by vanous related divisions under DoHS and to
produce timely reports including financial management and procurement and track actions at the district
and sub-distncts level inaddition to community participation and public private partnership and project
related research, studies and assessment. While this team will consist o f full-time personnel dedicated to
the avian influenza program, it will not be a separate Project ImplementationUnit;rather it will be part o f
the regular structure o f DoHS.




                                                      41

                         Annex 4: Project Costs
              NEPAL: Avian InfluenzaControlProject



Project Cost By Component and Activity                     Total
                                                        U S $million
1.Animal Health                                             6.12
     1.1, Surveillance                                      0.74
     1.2. Prevention and Containment                        0.76
     1.3. Laboratory Capacity                               3.37
     1.4. Vetennary Services                                1.15
     1.5. Compensation Fund                                 0.10

2. HumanHealth                                              6.34
     2.1. Surveillance and Laboratory                       3.30
     2.2. Prevention and Containment                        0.98
     2.3. Health Care Delivery System                       2.06

3. Communications                                           1.65
     3.1. Animal Health Communications                      0.62
     3.2. HumanHealth Communications                        0.67
     3.3 Cross-cutting Issues                               0.36

4. ProjectManagement                                        1.72
     4.1. Animal Health Support                             1.21
     4.2. HumanHealth Support                               0.5 1

Total Baseline Cost                                        15.83
 PhysicalContingencies (5%)                                 0.79
 Pnce Contingencies (10%)                                   1.58
                                    TotalProject Costs     18.20
                             Interest dunngconstruction     0.00
                                          Front-endFee      0.00
                             Total FinancingRequired      18.20




                                  42

                    Annex 5: CoordinationandImplementationArrangements
                               NEPAL:Avian InfluenzaControlProject

1.       CoordinationStructure

(I,At thecentraZlevel, overall coordinationwill bebythe CentralNaturalDisasterReliefCommittee
(CNDRC), chaired by the Minister o f Home Affairs as establishedby the Natural Calamity Act 2039.
However, this committee will function at the time o f epidemic outbreak and has established an Technical
Sub-committee on Avian Influenza (TSCAI) which i s (co-chaired by the Secretary, M o A C and the
Secretary, MoHP) to advise on both animal and humanhealth influenza issues. This TSCAI will be
responsible for the overall coordinationand policy decisions regarding avian influenza and all related
issues (human as well as animal health issues, law enforcement, etc.) as per the TSCAI recommendations.
The TSCAI would meet at least quarterly, with the specific agenda o f avian influenza and/or pandemic
preparedness and response. The TSCAI will:

a) Bear responsibility for the formulation o fnational policies and implementation o f action plan;
b) Collaborate withnationaland internationalorganizations;
c) Approve Annual Work Plans for financial and technical resources (including manpower) required to
     implement the Operational Plan;
d) Give technical directives regardingavian influenzato the district reliefcommittee and other
     concerned agencies to mobilize the resources for the implementation of the Plan.

(ii) At the Regional, District and Local levels natural disaster relief committees, meet as required. The
TSCAI would be responsible for coordinatingacross the concerned agencies required.

2.       ImplementationbyMinistryofAgriculture and Cooperatives

Department of Livestock Services

a) Coordinate with Ministry o f Agnculture and Cooperative inpolicy formulation, resource
     management and Plan implementation;
b) Coordinationand collaborationwithnational and international concerned agencies;
c) Once avian influenza i s detectedinpoultry or other birds inNepal, the Department o f Livestock
     Services will serve as a focal point incharge o f compiling information from the reporting units and
     releasing periodic reports. It will produce periodic (weekly/daily) reports to be disseminated to all
     relevant stakeholders at the national and international level. This will be the sole source o f
     information on poultry aman influenza;
d) To establish a logisticsand supply unitthat will support this component for the adequate
     implementationo fthe plan.

Directorate of Animal Health

a) Plan and Implement HPAIPrevention and Control Strategies;
b) Technical back step of the DLSO inthe control the surveillance andcontrol o fHPAI;
c) Reporting o f the situation o f the HPAIto M o A C and internationalorganization;
d) Monitonng and evaluation o fthe surveillance control plan;
e) Regulatoryenforcement;
f )  Coordinate surveillance;
g) Mass communicationand public awareness program;
h) Informationsharingwith specialized Organizations and stakeholders;


                                                      43

i) Preparecompensationrehabilitationschemeofstampingoutisopted.

Animal Quarantine Section

a) Develop Standard Operating Procedures for quarantine, inspection, certification, testing and
   disinfection;
b) Develop standards far eachimportedcommodity;
c) Provide technical back stoppage to Quarantine Offices and check-posts;
d) Enforcement o fexisting laws and regulations and amend as per requirement;
e) Arrange training and slull development program for quarantine personnel;
f) Supervise, monitor and evaluate the quarantine activities;
g) Develop an awareness program for the exporter/importers and other stakeholders.

Veterinary Epidemiology Center

a) Design surveillance with samplingprocedure;
b) Carry out epidemiologicalinvestigationo fdisease outbreak;
c) Carry out risk assessment and importriskanalysis;
d) Maintain databank andprovide technical informationto DAH;
e) Maintain linkwith EDCDto assess potentialnskto humans;
f) International reporting and communication throughDAH.

Animal Quarantine Ofices and Check-posts

a) Active involvement indisease surveillance and reporting;
b) Adopt strict import andmovement control;
c) Increasevigilance and mobile patrolling inthe intenor and landborder;
d) Collectionand dispatch o f suspected sample to the nearest veterinary laboratory;
e) Report outbreak without any delay;
f) Coordinate with other stake holders for the implementationo fthe existing Acts.

Central Veterinary Laboratory

a) To support national disease control and surveillance Programme;
b) To collaborate withnationalresearchandinternational reference laboratory for the diagnosis,
   investigation and research;
c) To acquire, adopt, update a different diagnostic tests for HPAI;
d) To assist and advise on control o fdisease, epizootics;
e) To organize training on laboratory technology for veterinanans and JT/JTAs;
f) Provide technical back stopping to regional and avian disease investigationlaboratories.

Veterinary Public Health Office

a) Conduct awareness campaigns;
b) Interhtra sectoral andinter professional cooperation, collaborationand coordination;
c) Conduct training and orientation to vetennary health workers at all levels.

Regional Directorates of Livestock Sewices

a) Facilitatingthe regional implementation o f Plan;



                                                   44

b) Coordinate the Avian Influenza Search Team falling underits circumscnption and composedofthe
     regional vetennary laboratory, concerned DLSO and warden o f the wild life;
c) Providing logistic support includingmanpower;
d) Programmonitoring.

District Livestock Service qffices

a) Participate actively inDistnct Natural Disaster ReliefCommittee on avian influenza relatedmatters;
b) Actively mobilization available resources andnetwork;
c) Coordination and implementation o f Contingency Plan as per the guidance of TSCAI;
d) Reportingprogress to the Regional Directorate.

3.       ImplementationbyMinistryof HealthandPopulation

Division of Public Health Administration and Monitoring and Evaluation

This divisionwill ensure that the plani s adopted and disseminated amongst key stakeholders including
the M o A C and external development partners. Itwill ensure that the requiredresources within the
government and other sources are mobilized and allocated according to the priorities set by the Plan. It
guides decisions regardingthe appropnate interventions at the various phases o fthe pandemic as it relates
to humanhealth, including security issues, coordination with law enforcement agencies, releasing
information to the press, review o frelevant policies and regulations needed for the adequate response in
the face o f an influenza pandemic. Once avian influenza is detected inNepal, this Division will activate
the defined command and control structure, including a focal point incharge o f compiling information
from the M o A C and releasing periodic reports. It will also liaise with EDCDto follow on suspected cases
investigationand confirmation. It will produce penodic (weekly/daily) reports to be disseminated to all
relevant stakeholders at the national and international level, including WHO. This will be the sole source
o f information on human avian influenza.

Division of Policy Planning and International Afairs

Incharge ofcoordinationoftheimplementationoftheplanwithinternationalorganizationsandof
releasing periodic reports to the Ministryo f ForeignAffairs and travel advisories.

Department of Health Sewices

The Secretaries o fMOHP and MOAC will co-chair the National Task Force on InfluenzaPreparedness
duringthe inter-pandemic periodandpandemic alert period. Duringthe pandemic, the responsibility will
fall under the Office o fthe Prime Minister or equivalent as proposed by the plan. Duringthe
interpandemic and pandemic alert periods the DGwill ensure that the membership and scope o f work o f
the task force i s reviewed as appropnate for the coordination. Itwill also act as secretanat for command
and control duringthe different phases o f the pandemic, ensunng that the relevant institutions are actively
involved as the pandemic evolves and o f the national coordination o fresponse operation.

Epidemiology and Disease Control Division




                                                     45

This Divlsionwill be responsible for initiating viral pneumonia and influenza like illness, laboratory
supported surveillance system integrated to the present EWARS system. The systemwill aim at detecting
human infection with influenzaM 5 N l virus at the earliest possible time. The rapid response teams at
the distncts will be trained inILIoutbreak investigation so that all outbreaks are investigated and that
samples are duly collected and transported to the NPHL.It will keep a database with all cases reportedto
the system and will follow-up cases through the healthnetwork until confirmed or discarded.

IntheeventofconfirmedcasesofhumanAI,thoroughepidemiologicalfieldinvestigationwillbe
coordinatedby EDCD, the regional directorates and DPHO. It will also be responsible for coordinating
the response, including defining close contacts as per guidelines and ensure adherence to national
chemoprophylaxis guidelines. It will be providing daily reports (including zero reports) to the responsible
information cell at the MoHP. Inthe event o f the influenza pandemic, EDCD will continue to track the
epidemic, identifyingthe geographical spread, case fatality, and compiling and generating reports to the
information cell. Responsibility o fthe response coordination will be transferred to the Management
Division.

National Public Health Laboratory (NPHL)

The NPHLwill develop the capacity for specimen collection, storage, transport and screening for
influenzaAA3 typing. NPHLwill establish a link with a WHO collaborative centre for referral o f samples
confirmedto be influenza. Itwill develop and disseminate standard lab operating procedures, provide the
necessary training and ensure that supplies are available at the local and district levels. Establisha
laboratory surveillance database for influenza and ensure the linkage with the influenza surveillance
system at EDCD.

Logistic Management Division (LMD)

Based on the specifications both inquality and quantity as defined by Department o f DrugAdministration
and Management Division, the LMDwill develop the administrative procedures for acquisition and the
supply management chain.

Management Division

The Division will perform a rapid assessment o f the hospital network capacity for case management o f
influenza like illness or ifconfirmation o f avian influenza as per the Plan. According to the assessment, a
referral and counter-referral system for ILIwill be developed and implemented. A special referral center
with appropnate infection control practices will be incharge o f suspectedhuman caseso favian influenza.
The necessary equipment and training o f human resources will be done incoordination with EDCD and
National health Training Center. Clinical Management training leadership will be under the Management
Division.

The management division will also coordinate the development/adaptation o fprotocols for biosafety
measures for health staff dealing with case investigationand case management.

Health Management Information System (HMIS)

HMIS will support the central information unit at the Division o f Public HealthAdministration that will
be created ad-hoc as soon as Avian Influenza i s identified inNepal.

National Health Education Communication and Information Center




                                                       46

The Center will develop/adapt a communication strategy for the event o f an influenza pandemic,
coordinate training and onentation o f technical expertise, spokespersons and media personnel. It will
develop appropnate public health messages and disseminate through the relevant channels.

Department of DrugAdministration (DDA)

The DDAwill provide specifications o f antivirals, antibiotics, diagnostic tools, PPE and other supplies as
defined inthe case management o f this Plan. Such information will be the basis on which the procurement
shall be done. DDAwill also develop guidelines for quality control o f the different pharmaceuticals and
others, including storage and distribution requirements.

Regional Directorates: Regional, Sub-regional and Zonal Hospitals

Public HealthResponse: Support the surveillance network at the district level; strengthen the capacity o f
the regional and zonal hospitals according to the standards andguidelines set for eachhospitalbythe
management divlsion. At the pandemic phase, regional stockpiling o f cntical supplies will be ensured.
The regional Directorates will be responsible for appropriate storage and distribution incollaboration with
regional medical stores.

Hospital Preparedness: Oversee the implementation o fthe different processes at the hospital level such as
training, infection control practices, and other public health measures. They will implement mock drills
exercises for an influenzapandemic situation, both at regional zonal and district hospitals.

District Public Health Ofices: District Hospitals and PHC

Public HealthResponse: Rapid Response Teams will be responsible for field investigation o f ILI
cases/rumors reported by SHP, HP, PHC and Hospitals. Any outbreak o f ILIshould be investigated with
the appropnate laboratory support and influenza will be confirmed or discarded with rapid diagnostic tests
at the district level. A second sample will be kept and inpositive influenza cases it will be sent to NPHL
for confirmation and further charactmzation. Field investigationwill include association o f cases with
poultry disease suspected or confirmed. Rapid response teams will follow guidelines for personal
protection. They will coordinate with the District Livestock Office for continuous interchange o f
information on suspected avian influenza cases. Once avian influenza i s reportedinNepal, daily reports
should be submitted to EDCD, including zero reporting.

HealthNetwork Preparedness: The DPHOwill oversee that the PHC, HP, SHP and FCHV are trained on
the influenza case detection and management guidelines, infection control practices, and other public
health measures. They will implement mock drills exercises for an influenza pandemic situation.

4.       Implementationby MinistryofHomeAffairs

Through the coordinatingbody o f the Central Natural Disaster Relief Committee (CNDRC), M o H A will
coordinate disaster response duringan event o f avian influenza introductioninpoultry or other birdsinto
the country, or inthe event o f an influenza pandemic among human population. It will be the lead agency
to ensure mobilization o frequiredresources, including social mobilization, both for the containment and
rehabilitation phases. M o H A will also chair the CNDRC.

5.       ImplementationbyMinistryofLocalDevelopment

At the district level, the District Disaster ReliefCommittee ispresent isresponsible for reliefand
coordinating all agencies inthe event o f emergencies such as earthquakes, floods, and -now - avian


                                                      47

influenza. Local Bodies are responsible for disaster management at local level. Currently M o L D has
designated disaster focal points inDDCs and Municipalities. Given that institutional capacity i s very
weak at local level, it i s urgently needed to strengthen the capacity o f the focal points. The proposed
project may therefore: (i)   strengthen the efficiency and enhance the capacity o f local bodies to address the
problem o fnatural and man-made disaster at the local level; (ii)   conduct public awareness activities
through social mobilization at grass root level; and (iii) support for making disaster management plan at
district level.

Inthisregardthe following activities areproposed. Activities to be conductedat centrallevelinclude: (i)
designing of training course regarding concerned training activities; (ii) (training for trainers) for
                                                                             TOTS
D D C Focal person about preconceptions o f avian influenza and District Disaster ManagementPlan
Formulation; (iii)follow up meeting o f worlung committee; (iii)     enhance the capacity of focal desk and
concerned division inMoLD; (iv) monitoring and evaluation o fprogram. Activities to be conducted at
distnct level may include (i)   stakeholder orientation on avian influenza; (ii) orientation to DDC staff,
social Mobilizers and NGO people on avian influenza; (iii)     public Awareness activities through social
mobilization regardingdisaster management; (iv) malung o f DDMPo f selected districts; and (iv) other
capacity buildingtrainings to focal points at local level.

These activities may be implementedindifferent geographical and administrative regions as pilot project
and expand later inall local bodies (LBs) depending upon the fund available. MOLD'S          Municipality
Management Divisionwill be the focal division at the central level. The project will be implemented
through the LBs decided by the MoLD, LBs concerned and the donor agency.

6.        Implementationby CivilAviationAuthorityand Departmentof Customs

These agencies will reinforce policy directives to prevent the importation and spread o f avian influenza,
including quarantine and inspection on live poultry and ducks as guidelines provided by the MoAC.




                                                       48

               Annex 6: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements

                              NEPAL: Avian InfluenzaControlProject

Country FinancialManagement Environment

The Nepal Country FinancialAccountability Assessment (CFAA), jointly conducted by G o N and IDA,
was completed in2002. The assessment concluded that the failure to comply with the impressive legal
and regulatory fiduciary framework makes the fiduciary risk inNepal "High", but the risk i s similar to
that inmost developingcountries. An update o f the CFAA was jointly carried out by GoN, DFIDand
IDA inMay 2005 to assess: (i)   progress achieved by GONinimplementing the Development Action Plan
(DAP)o fthe 2002 CFAA; and (ii) institutionalenvironment andrisk for financial accountabilityin
                                    the
the current political development context. The assessmentrevealed that the fiduciary risk continues to be
"High" at the country level, and a revisedDAPhas been agreedto continue to improve financial
management.

GoNhas computerized an Integrated Financial Management Information System which connects 64 (of
which 57 are currently functional) out o f 75 districts and includes receiving o f on-line expenditure
reports. Since 2002, the development budget has beenpnoritized as part of a three-year Medium-Term
Expenditure Framework (MTEF), and the number o fprojects/programs was significantly reduced.
Priority projects are requiredto prepare trimester work plans with detailed output/physical achievement
targets and expected results. For these projects, expenditure reporting and fundrelease procedures are
now linked to performance and the system will be extended to all other projects/activities. Information on
budget allocations, expenditures and outputs are now published, and made available to the public. A web
portal for GONhas been created, with links to public sector departments which contain information on
programs and activities.

The Accounting Standards Board and Auditing Standards Board were created inMarch 2003 and since
then these Boards have respectively released 13 Accounting Standards and 30 Auditing Standards.
Starting from FY2004/05, GON classified its budget into Capital and Recurrent categories, and further
plans to gradually move towards the IMF's Government Financial Statistics.

Significantreforms were undertaken inpublic audit under the Public Audit ReformProject supported by
an IDA Institutional Development FundGrant. The Office o f the Auditor General (OAG) has revised
General Audit Guidelines inline with the International Organization o f Supreme Audit Institutions
(INTOSAI) standards, and i s gradually changing its focus on audit based on outputs. Increasingly,
emphasis has beenplaced on performance auditing. OAGnow has its own HumanResource
DevelopmentPlan, and has been training its staff based on a new set o f guidelines. The recent political
transition inApril has made possible to reinstate the Parliament, and the Public Accounts Committee has
been reconstituted and has begun to play the active role that they played approximately four years ago.

Adequacy of Financial Management Arrangements

Department ofLivestock Services. DoLS i s implementing a Bank-financed project for the first time. It i s
under the Ministry o f Agriculture and Cooperatives (MoAC) and functions under the overall supervision
and control o f the Director General. Under DoLS, there are four Technical Directorates and five Regional
Directorates. DoLS has one ChiefFinancial Controller under whom there are two Accounts Officers and
approximately eight Accountants / Sub-Accountants. DoLS does not have experience inprocurement
management; however, has assigned one o f the technical staffto function as the Procurement Specialist.
DoLS follows the government's financial management system, that includes planning budgeting,



                                                      49

accounting, internal controls, internal audit, reporting and external audit. Due to simplification inthe
Bank's disbursement procedure that includes agreement on country financing parameters, accounting
ledgers will be maintainedas per the country system. For specific purpose o f monitoring the expenses
against components and activities, the Department will maintain the Program Ledgers as requiredby the
system. Although this i s a requirement under the system, these ledgers are mostly not complied with, and
hence this i s an area which will require close monitonng to ensure compliance. Another challenge that
DoLS has i s the needto coordinate the program and activities of other two line ministnes that may be
involved inthe program-the Ministryo f Local Development (MOLD)and the Ministry o f Home Affairs
(MOHA).Further, inconsideration o fthe GON's proposal to place the Secretariat ofthe CDNRC's
Technical Sub-committee on Avian Influenza inthe Animal Health Directorateunder the Ministryo f
Agriculture and Cooperatives (MoAC), its related costs for managingthe sub-committee coordination
will be budgeted under the Animal Health component. DoLS will also needto coordinate withthe
Technical Sub-committee.

Besides implementing the activities under the animal health component, DoLS has a challenge to be
accountable to ensure the coordinationandreporting o f activities to be implementedby other two line
ministnes and the Technical Sub-committee. To address these needs, DoLS has agreed to designate one
fulltime Accounts Officer and one Accountant to manage and administer the sub-component project
accounts under the overall oversight o f the Chief Financial Controller. For the purpose o f procurement
management, DoLS has agreed to deploy one o f full time Procurement Officer either by designating one
o f its technical staffs or outsourcing the function to a national consultant. To manage the animal health
component, DoLS will form a core implementationteam with full time staff representing at least five
members    - the Project Coordinator, Deputy Coordinator (also responsible for overall component
monitoring), one AccountsEinance Officer, One Procurement Officer and one Communications
Specialist. DoLS will provide suitable training to its core staff who would be involved inproject
management, and this includes financial management and procurement staff. For the management o f
Compensation Fund, DoLS will prepare guidelines which lay out the process and operational modality for
accessing the compensation fund. The Bank will review these guidelines and finalization o f these
guidelines satisfactory to IDA will be the disbursement condition for disbursements against compensation
fund.

Department of Health Services. The DoHS has experience o f implementing a number o f
projects/programs supported by various development partners, and gained adequate institutional capacity
as a result. Currently, the DoHS i s implementing a health sector sector-wide program (SWAp) financed
jointly by IDA and DFIDunder pooled funding. Overall, DoHS i s performing well insector-wide
operations. There are some inherent issues inthe area o f timely reporting inHealth SWAp, and this i s
primarily due to staffing issues at the Ministry o fHealth and Population (MoHP), which coordinates the
program. DoHS i s under the Ministryo fHealth andPopulation (MoHP) and functions under the overall
supervision and control o f the Director General. Under DoHS, there are five Regional Health
Directorates. DoHS have one Chief Financial Controller under whom there are four Accounts Officers,
four Accountants, four Sub-Accountants, and two computer operators. DoHS have a few trained
procurement staff that have undergone intensive procurement training program inthe Nepal
Administrative Staff College (NASC). DoHS have agreed to designate one Accounts Officer and one
Accountant to manage and administer the sub-component project accounts under the overall oversight o f
the ChiefFinancial Controller. For the purpose o fprocurement management, DoHS has agreed to deploy
one trainedtechnical staff. For implementing the sub-component activities and to ensure that component
activities are closely monitored, DoHS will form a core implementation team with full time staff
representing at least five members    - theProject Coordinator, Deputy Coordinator (also responsible for
overall component monitonng), one AccountsRinance Officer, one Procurement Officer and one
Communications Specialist. DoHS will provide suitable training to its core staff who would be involved
inprojectmanagement, andthis include financialmanagement andprocurement staff. DoHS follow the


                                                       50

government's financial management system -this includes planning budgeting, accounting, internal
controls, internal audit, reporting and external audit. Due to simplification inthe Bank's disbursement
procedure that includes agreement on country financing parameters, accounting ledgers will be
maintainedas per the country system. For specific purpose o f monitoring the expenses against
components and activities, the Department will maintain the Program Ledgers as required by the system.
Although this i s a requirement under the system, these ledgers are mostly not complied with, and hence
this is an area whichwillrequire close monitonng to ensure compliance. Overall, the systems and
procedures satisfy the Bank's minimumfinancial management requirements; the FMarrangements for the
sub-component will be adequate for project implementation.

RiskAnalysis

From the financial management perspective, the overall risk i s "Substantial" as there are a few critical
actions such as, staffing, preparation o f Operational Guidelines for use o f Compensation Fund,
computenzationo fproject and financial information, and training o f staff, that needs to be implemented.
Subject to satisfactory implementationo f these actions and review thereafter, the fiduciary riskwill be
reassessed dunngimplementation. Of the two implementing agencies, DoHS comparatively i s better
positionedwith skilled staff and experience inimplementing donor-financed programs. DoLS, on the
other hand, would require substantial efforts informing a strong team for project management which
should include trained financial management and procurement staff. Overall, there will be strong efforts
incapacitybuildingbothintechnical areas as well as overallprojectmanagementwhich include
procurement and financial management. Since the Project heavily constitutes o fprocurement tasks, it i s
important to ensure that boththe Departments have sufficient capacity to carry out envisaged procurement
o f works, goods and services. T o address certain gaps that have been identified dunng the assessment,
nskmitigationActionPlanshavebeenagreed. The existence ofthe government's National Strategic Plan
for Addressing Avian Influenza which was preparedjointly by M o A C and MoHP, with strong support
from development partners such as WHO and FAO, the formation o f an Avian Influenza Technical Sub-
committeejointly chaired by two Secretaries o f M o A C and MoHP, and the highpriority o f the
government to implement this program are some factors that will also mitigate the risks. Because this i s a
new interventioninNepal, strong emphasis has beenplaceduponcapacity buildingthat includes:
exposure visits, cross country expenence sharing, capacity buildingboth intechnical and overall project
management, and close supervision o f the operations by the Bank. These measures will reduce the
possible nsks. Adequate internal control, monitonng, and safeguard measures have been included.

Strengths

The proposed operation will have the following strengths inthe area o f financial management: (i)   high-
level government commitment to prevent the outbreak o f avian influenza, (ii) support and
                                                                                 strong
collaboration from various development partners such as WHO and FA0 which have the technical
expertise to assist their respective line departments, and IDA which has a comparative advantage in
working with the Ministry o f Finance and the National Planning Commission; (iii) government's
                                                                                     the
National Strategic Plan for Addressing Avian Influenza; (iv) the formation o f an Avian Influenza
Technical Sub-committee to oversee and monitor implementation of the Plan; (v) sufficient funds
allocated towards capacity buildinginDoLS and DoHS; and (vi) relevant staff to be exposed to
management o f avian influenza programs inother countries to learn from best practices.

WeaknessesandResolutions

Both the Departments are requiredto put inplace a strong core project support team with competent and
qualified individuals, and to be supplemented by specialists/consultants to be outsourced for specific
assignments inprocurement, financial management and monitoring, as may be required. Capacity


                                                      51

buildingandtraining is apnority for overall programimplementation. Boththe Departments will also
equip their offices with modem technology and facilitate the use o f computers for information analysis
and dissemination to monitor bothtechnical and financial progress. For the purpose o f disbursements
under Compensation Fund,the Operational Guidelines (clearly describing criteria for disbursement and
internal controls to ensure that funds are disbursed for the intended purpose) duly reviewed and approved
by IDAandthe Technical Sub-committee, will bethe conditiono f disbursement under this category.
These funds are accessedonly at the time o f epidemic outbreak - so the process must be inplace before
any disaster occurs. Overall, internal audit system i s weak and special review arrangements will have to
be put inplace.

ProjectBudgeting

Itis the responsibilityofboththe Departments to prepare their Annual Work Program andBudget
(AWPB)for respective components, andwill submit them to MOF andNPC through their respective line
ministnes. Following the approval o frespective AWPBs, budget authorization will be provided to
respective Departments with a copy to the relevant Distnct Treasury and Comptroller's Offices (DTCOs)
by the respective line ministries. DTCOswill release budget to respective Departments. Subsequently,
respective Departments will issue spending authorization to respective cost centers. Incase o f activities to
be implementedby other line ministries (this usually happens only at the time o f epidemic outbreak) such
as, Ministry o f Home Affairs and Ministryo f Local Development, DoLS will include their activities and
budget within DoLS work programand budget, and will ensure to authorize payments on their behalf.
Some contingency arrangements will be made by DoLS to disburse funds to these two line ministries in
case o f outbreaks. Further, DoLS will also include inits budget request from Technical Sub-committee
for overall coordination activities. GONhas already assigned a separate budget code inthe Government's
Budget (Red Book) for both DoLS and DoHS to enable reporting o f expenditures and accounts under
respective components. The Project will fully align with the government's financial management system.
Programmingand budgeting will follow GON's budgeting system. Both the Departments will operate
withinthe financial management framework o fthe public sector. DoLS will be requiredto finalize the
Operational Guidelines to disburse funds against the compensation fund, which i s a Disbursement
Condition.

FundFlow Arrangements

GONreleases the budgetto the respective Departments as per the approved work program andbudget in
three tranches as per the fund release procedure o f GON. The budget approved by GON for each
component i s indicated inthe government's budget (Red Book) under two separate budget heads -one
under the Ministryo f Health and Populationfor Human Health Component, and the other under the
Ministryo fAgriculture andCooperative for Animal HealthComponent. Use o fIDAresources for
respective components i s through two Designated Accounts. These Accounts will facilitate quick
payments inthe f o m o f reimbursements to government's treasury on account o f actual IDA eligible
expenditures made for incremental operating costs and compensation fund, and for malung payments to
contractors, suppliers and consultants.

FinancialManagement Staffing

Department of Livestock Services: The DoLS Financial Administration Section i s headedby a Chief
Accounts Officer supportedby two accounts officers, and eight accountants / sub-accountants. Each o f
these staff has the responsibility o f maintaining the accounts o f specific budget headings. Inorder to meet
the minimumFMrequirements, DoLS needto form and confirm inwriting a core implementation team
with full time staffrepresenting at least five members - the Project Coordinator, Deputy Coordinator (also
responsible for overall component monitoring), one AccountsRinance Officer, One Procurement Officer


                                                       52

and one Communications Specialist. Other support staffs as required also need to be added inthe core
team.

Department of Health Services: The DoHS Financial Administration Section is headedby a Chief
Financial Controller supported by four Accounts Officers, four Accountants, four Sub-Accountants, and
two computer operators. Each o fthese staffhas the responsibility ofmaintaining the accounts o f specific
budget headings. Inorder to meet the minimumFMrequirements, DoHS needs to form and confirm in
writing a core implementationteam with full time staffrepresenting at least five members - the Project
Coordinator, Deputy Coordinator (also responsible for overall component monitonng), one
Accounts/Finance Officer, One Procurement Officer and one Communications Specialist. Other support
staffs as requiredalso needto be added inthe core team.

ProjectFinancialAccounting, ReportingandInternalControls

The financial accounting policies and procedures inplace are sufficient to ensure that both the
components comply with minimumfinancial management requirements. These include the establishment
o f internal controls and proper accounting procedures described inthe Financial Administration
Regulations (FAR). DoLS and DoHS are responsible for maintainingtheir respective accounts o f project
components. Both Departments will forward monthly expenditure statements for respective component
accounts to the respective line minisines and Disctrict Treasury Control Offices. The accounting systems
contain the following features: (i) application o f consistent cash accounting principles for documenting,
recording, and reporting its financial transactions; (ii) a well-defined chart o f accounts that allows
meaningful summanzation o f financial transactions for financial reportingpurposes; (iii)     maintenance o f
withdrawal monitonng register, the record o f Statement o f Expenditures (SOEs), and Designated
Accounts register; (iv) the use o f an asset register; (v) monthly closing and reconciliation o f accounts and
statements; and (vi) the production o f annual financial statements acceptable to IDA. Since the project
accounts would be monitored against component and activities, both the Departments would maintain
Program Ledgers as per applicable government system. Although maintainingProgram Ledgers i s a
requirement under the system, these ledgers are mostly not complied with. Inorder to ensure that this i s
complied with, IDA will require to closely monitoring. For the purpose o f disbursements under
Compensation Fund, the Operational Guidelines (clearly describing criteria for disbursement and internal
controls to ensure that funds are disbursed for the intended purpose) duly reviewed and approved by IDA
and the Technical Sub-committee, will be the condition of disbursement under this category.

InternalAudit

DoLS and DoHS follow the government system for internal audits. Respective DTCOs are responsible to
cany out internal audits o f all accounts o fvanous cost centers under respective Departments. Since the
government's internal audit system i s not so effective, boththe Departments will also carry out their own
review process by outsourcing this arrangement starting from the secondyear. Inclose consultation with
IDA, Departmentswill prepare appropriate TORSfor this purpose.

ProjectReportsfrombothComponents

Each implementing agency-DoLS         and DoHS-will      produce from the outset Project Reports to report on
implementationprogress, showing the sources and uses o f funds, output monitonngreport, procurement
management report and narrative progress report in formats to be agreed upon duringnegotiations. To
match the public sector planning and reporting cycle, these reports will be produced on a trimester basis
and submitted within 45 days from the end o f the preceding tnmester.

ExternalAudit


                                                        53

The following are the audit requirements under two components:

Part A (DoLSfor Animal Health Component): Annual project financial statements, statements o f
expenditure schedule, and Designated Accounts statements will be audited by OAG, which i s considered
acceptable by IDA for this purpose, and submitted to IDA within six months after the end o fthe fiscal
year -January 15. Terms o freference acceptable to IDA have been discussed and agreed with OAG.

Part B (DoHSfor Human Health Component): Annual project financial statements, SOE schedules, and
DesignatedAccounts statements will be audited by'OAG, which i s considered acceptable by IDA for this
purpose, and submitted to IDA within six months after the end o f the fiscal year -January 15. Terms o f
reference acceptable to IDA have been discussed and agreed with OAG.

For both components, arrangement for performance audit will also be put inplace. Such audits will be: (i)
carned out by OAG inclose consultation with DoLS and DoHS and inthe time frame that will be
mutually agreed between the auditees and OAG; and (ii)    at the discretiono fthe Auditor General. GON
will ensure adequate budget to OAGto cany out these performance audits that will examine the
challenges encountered and tasks accomplished duringthe course o f project implementation.

The following audit reports would be monitored inthe Audit Report Compliance system (ARCS):




  DoLS                    Project Financial Statements,           OAG          6 months after the end o f
                          (includes Statement o f Expenditures,                fiscal year (January 15')
                          Designated Accounts)
  DoHS                    Project Financial Statements,           OAG          6 months after the end o f
                          (includes Statement o fExpenditures,                 fiscal year (January 15')
                          Designated Accounts)

FinancialManagementActionPlan

Action plans to strengthenthe financial management capacity o fthe implementingagencies were agreed
between the Recipient and IDA and are summarized below:

                         TableA: FinancialManagemc itAction P1 ns for DoLS
                          Action                           Respons        Completion         Conditions
                                                            -ibility         Date
 1.Finalize StandardOperating Procedures for                 DoLS        April 30, 2007    Disbursement
    accessing Compensation Fund, satisfactory to IDA
 2. Provide orientation and training to DoLS staff and       DoLS        DuringProject
    newrecruits.                                                           Launch
 3. Implement Management Information System                  DoLS        June 30,2007
    (MIS) to monitor expenses against component and
    activities, and to track component expenditures.
    This needs to be supported with adequate interim
    accounting and reporting arrangements.
    Disbursements can take place provided the intenm
    arrangements, including staffing, are adequate to
    support the early release o f funds.



                                                     54

                         TableB: FinancialManagementAction Plansfor DoHS
                         Action                              Respons-          Completion         Conditions
                                                               ibility            Date
 I.Provideorientation andtrainingto DoHS staffand              DoHS           DunngProject
     newrecruits.                                                                Launch
 !.ImplementManagementInformation System                       DoHS           June 30,2007
     (MIS) to monitor expenses against component
     and activities, and to track component
     expenditures. This needs to be supported with
     adequate interim accounting and reporting
     arrangements. Disbursements can take place
     provided the intenm arrangements, including
     staffing, are adequate to support the early release
     o f funds.

SupervisionPlan

Project implementationprogress will be closely monitoredby DoLS, DoHS, the National Avian Influenza
Technical Sub-committee, and IDA.IDA will supervise project implementation from the Nepal Country
Office for the purposes o f supervision on fiduciary aspects (both procurement and financial management).
Boththe Departments will separately report on project implementation progress through a trimester
Project Report. The agreed action plans will be closely monitored to ensure appropriate actions are being
implemented. Key financial management (FM) fiduciary work includes: (i)           penodic visits to cost centers
for ex-post reviews, and ifany ineligible expenditures are noted, (ii)   reviews of implementation progress
reports and audit reports and preparing summaries o f such reports; and (c) participating insupervision
missions and keeping the team informed o f financial management issues or improvements.

Disbursement

Allocation ofProjectFinancingProceeds(Table C)

Disbursement under proposed Grant will be made as indicated inTable C, which indicates the percentage
of financing for different categories o f expenditures o f the Project. It i s expected that the IDA funds will
be disbursed over a period o f four years. The ClosingDate o f the Credit i s July 31, 2011.

                   Table C:Allocation of GrantProceeds(inmillionUS Grant Dollars)
                                                                                             Percentageof
                          Category                                Amount ofthe
                                                                 Grant Allocated          Expendituresto
                                                                                              beFinanced

  (1) Animal Health Component                                            8.24                     100%
  (works, goods, consulting services, training,
  workshop, study tours, incremental operating costs)
  (2) Human Health Component                                            7.49                      100%
  (works, goods, consulting services, training,
  workshop, study tours, incremental operating costs)
  (4) Compensation Fund                                                 0.10                      100%

  (4) Unallocated                                                       2.37



                                                      55

                        Category




FundsFlow andDisbursementArrangements

For both components, disbursements from IDA will initially be made inaccordance with traditional
disbursement procedures, including full documentation for contracts above the Prior Review threshold.
To facilitate disbursements, two Designated Accounts will be established, one for DoLS (Animal Health
Component) and the other for DoHS (Human Health Component), managedby the Department o f
Livestock Services and the Department o f Health Services, respectively. For large payments, exceeding
the 20 percent minimumapplicationsize threshold ofthe authorized ceiling, direct payments may be
claimed from IDA, as needed. For all other payments, including incrementaloperating costs,
disbursements from IDA will be made via replenishments o f the Designated Account. Duringthe project
mid-termreview, the desirability and feasibility o f switching to report-based disbursement will be
assessed.Untilthat time, transaction-based disbursement will be used for both components.

GONprefinances incremental operating costs and compensation funds. The guideline, which i s yet to be
developed, will have procedures explained to calculate the funds for compensation. Finalization o fthe
guidelines that should be acceptable to IDA will be the condition for disbursements under compensation
fund. Such funds will be utilized only incase o favian flu outbreaks to compensate against animals
destroyed. All prefinanced expenditures after reconciliation will be reimbursed from respective
Designated Accounts to the GON's Treasury. For other payments to contractors, contractors and
suppliers, the Departments will pay directly from their Designated Accounts. The followng funds flow
chart describes the fimds flow arrangements:




                                                     56

                                                Avian Influenza Control Project
                                                  1. Animal Health Component                                  -
                                                                                                               World
                                     .....                                               L""-"   .-....-.."...
                                                       " "
                                                        ....                                  .I...._"




Technical Sub-committee

                                                                                           j                        e?
                          ......
                                 DOLS     ......   ....        ......                                           +
                                                              "..I "           "."........*;
                                                                                           :         Designated Account in

                                   4I                                                                          NRB
                                  + I
                         4

               Activities to be           Activities to b e
              implemented b y            implemented by

                                                                       (for transfer o f pre-financed                 ContractorsiConsultants

                                                                     expenditures and Compensation




                                                                                                                      -     FundFlowi
                                                                                                                            Administrative Linkage




                                                Avian Influenza Control Project
                                                  2. Human Health Component




                                 MOHP                        I       I                  i

                                                              DTCO      ]               Iii                     -E
Technical Sub-committee                                              4                                          .-%E
      Secretariat                                                    [                  I                       B
           j                                                         I
          T".......                                                                     I




                                                                                                                       Direct Payment to
                                                                      (for transfer o f pre-financed




                                                                                                                    -     FundFlowi
                                                                                                                          Administrative Linkage




                                                                 57

Use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs)

For both components, SOEs will be used for the following expenditures: (i) expenditures made under
                                                                               all
the Compensation Fund; (ii)   all training, workshop, and study tours; (iii) incremental operating costs;
                                                                            all
(iv) contracts for civil works, costing less than US$lOO,OOO; (v) contracts for equipment and vehicles,
costing less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract; (vi) contracts for services o f consulting firms
costing less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract; and (vii) contracts for services o f individual
consultants costing less thanUS$50,000 equivalent per contract. Duringthe IDA initial supervision, the
mission will closely review the SOE claims to ensure that the funds are utilized for the intended purposes.
Any ineligible expenditure identified dunngsuchreviews will needto be refundedto IDA.

DesignatedAccounts

To facilitate project implementation and reduce the volume o f withdrawal applications, two Designated
Accounts inU S Dollars will be establishedunder the Grant, on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA
for each Part o f IDA financing. The authorized ceilings will be US$l,OOO,OOO,    respectively for designated
Accounts A for DoLS (Part 1) and designated account B for DoHS (Part 2). The respective allocations
will cover about six months o f eligible expenditures.

For the utilization o f IDA'Sshare o fproject expenditures, DoLS and DoHS may respectively open and
maintain the Designated Accounts inU S dollars at the Nepal Rastra Bank or a commercial bank under
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.For DoLS (Part l), Designated Accounts A will be managed
                                                              the
under thejoint signatures o f the Director General and the Chief Finance Controller. Similarly, for DoHS,
the DesignatedAccount (Part 2) willbe managedunderthejoint signatures o fthe Director General and
the ChiefFinance Controller.

Both implementing agencies will ensure that the bankkash books are reconciled with bank statements
every month. They will separately submit replenishment applications for their respective Designated
Accounts on a monthly basis. Replenishment applications will be accompanied by a reconciliation
statement and a Statement from the Bank, inwhich the account i s maintained, showing all Designated
Account transactions. Supporting documentation will be maintainedby the respective cost centers for at
least one year after the Association has receivedthe audit report for the fiscal year inwhich the last
withdrawal from the credit account was made. The documentation will be made available for review by
IDA supermionmissions and independent auditors.

A list ofbeneficianes receivingCompensation Fundwill be submitted on a Statement o fExpenditures for
IDA'Sreimbursement to the Designated Account.

RetroactiveFinancing

Retroactive financing o f up to US$l.O million will be available from the Project for covering eligible
expenditures under all Categories incurred before the date o f signing but after July 17, 2006. In order to
ensure that only eligible expenses are claimed, it i s important to mitigate key nsks at project outset before
the funds can begin to flow.




                                                       58

I R
:::x      .........................    I..........._.-""                         .I..I l . ~ l l "                                                                I_."............................
                                                                                                                                                                        ibf

                                                                                                      ofCFAA, CPAR

                                                                                                       sector ti.ork and




                                                                                                                                                                        .1I




                                                                                    S




    -
    xx                                 I                                            S                I                                                                  N


                                                                                                                                                                        M
                                                                                                                                                                       M
          ""                       ......."...............".........................S
                                                                                       ""ll.." --... I
                                                                                                    t.'-I".................ll.II  ......""............" ..........I" "_M

                                  Annex 7: ProcurementArrangements


                               NEPAL:Avian InfluenzaControlProject

A. General

Procurement for the proposedProject would be camed out inaccordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement under IBRDLoans and IDA Credits" dated M a y 2004; Guidelines: Selection
and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated M a y 2004, and the provisions
stipulated inthe Legal Agreement. The various items under different expenditure categones are described
ingeneralbelow. For eachcontract to be financed bythe Grant, the differentprocurement methods or
consultant selection methods, the need for pre-qualification, estimated costs, prior review requirements,
and time frame are agreed between the Recipient and the Bank inthe Procurement Plan. The Procurement
Plan will be updated at least annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementationneeds and
improvements ininstitutional capacity.

For the activities that will be financed by the Association, guidelines on the procurement procedures,
applicable SBDs to be used for eachprocurement method are presented inAnnexure 1o f the Operation
Plan. This Annexure shall also contain information on the World Bank website where the SBDs and
relevant model contracts for works and goods can be accessed.

ProcurementofWorks:Under thisproject, works procurement would be limited to the
constructiodrenovationo frooms to house the BSL3 labs, upgradingo fregional and distnct labs under
both DoHS and DoLS, small works constructionhenovation, and some staff accommodation facilities.
Thelatter are o f small value and shall be procuredthrough quotations or through N C B usingthe National
SBD agreed with or satisfactory to the Association.

Procurementof Goods: Goods procuredunder this project would include: specialized fixtures and
equipment for the establishment o f BSL3 laboratories such as air handling equipment, reagents and
testing accessones, specialized vaccines, medicines and other consumables. The procurement will be
done usingthe Bank's SBD for all ICB and the National SBD agreed with or satisfactory to the
Association. While a summary list o f the expected works contracts, and goods to be procured for the
HumanHealth and Animal Health components o fthe project is provided at the end o f this section, the
detailed list shall be included inthe final version o f the Operational Plan.

Selection of Consultants:Assignments that require the services o ffirms or individual consultants
include: developing and propagating the awareness and communication campaigns, studies and training
etc. Short lists o f consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may
be composed entirely o f national consultants inaccordance with the provisions o fparagraph 2.7 o f the
Consultant Guidelines.

IncrementalOperating Costs: The Project would finance costs o fcontracting personnel additionally and
specifically appointed under the Project, and costs of transportation, fuel, information technology,
utilities, and telecommunications.

B. Assessment of the agency's capacityto implementprocurement

ImplementationArrangements: There will be two main implementing agencies -(a) the Departmentof
Livestock Services (DoLS) under the Ministryo f Agnculture and Cooperatives (MoAC) and (b) the


                                                       60

Department o f Health Services (DoHS) under the Ministryo f Health and Population (MoHP) and hence
procurement activities will be carned out by the designated Core Coordination Teams (CCT) ineach o f
these agencies. Each CCT shall be headedby a Coordinator and shall include a procurement officer.

An assessment o fthe capacity o fthe DoLS andDoHS to implement procurement actions under their
respective project components (i.e. Animal Health for DoLS and Human Health for DoHS) has been
carried out. This assessmentreviewed the organizational structure for implementing the project and the
interactionbetween the project's staff responsible for procurement and the Ministry's relevant central unit
for administration and finance.

The key issues and risks concerning procurement for implementation of the project and the corresponding
agreed corrective measures are provided inthe table below:




                                                    61

   h s k s               MitigationMeasure                                          Responsible   Deadline
                                                                                    Agency        date if
                                                                                                  applicable
1 BothDoHSand            The CCTs to mclude procurement officers with hand on       MOAC          Staff in
  DoLS do not have       experience o fprocurement using external donor hnded       NOHP          place
   any designated        procedures, and who would receive procurement training
  procurement            early inProject implementation.                                          Traimng
   officer or staff with                                                                          before
   adequate                                                                                       February
   experience o f                                                                                 28,2007
  procurement as per
   World Bank
  procedures
2 As a majority o f      Incases where GONandthe Association determine that                       January
   goods and             existing GONcapacity i s insufficient to undertake         World Bank    31,2007
   equipment requlred    certam Project activities, then UNagencies may be          task team to
   for this emergency    employedto provide specialized services. These may         apply for
  project have to be     include t e c h c a l assistance, training, workshops,     waiver
   procured wthin        communicahonactivibes, and procurement of
   one year o f project  specialized drugs, personal protective equipment, and
   start, but the CCT    vaccines. Such employment o fUNagencies would be
   do not have           subject to thelr acceptance o f Bank standard provisions
   sufficient skills to  relatmg to fraud and corruption, refund o f unused f h d s
   organize and          mcluding any interest accrued, and the Bank's right to
   implement such a      audit thelr accounts for the concernedprocurement,
   large volume o f      unless these provisions are waived by Bank
  procurement in         Management. Incase these provisions are not acceptable
   such a short time.    to the UNagencies concerned or no waiver i s provided
                         bythe Bank Management, GONwould use other
                         mechamsms for these activities. For procurement issues
                         including capacity building, GON may decide to employ
                         a specialized Procurement Agent acceptable to the
                         Associahon.
3  Excessive tiers for   Adequate authority ceilings agreed for and delegated to    Project       Jan31,
  makmg                  the mdividual Project Coordinator to evaluate and award    Coordinator   2007
  procurement            contracts.                                                 s,Dlrectors-
   decisions leading     For contracts whose value exceeds the agreed threshold,    General o f
   to overall delay in   the concerned Project Coordinator shall present the bid    D O L S D O H
  procurement            evaluation and awardrecommendation to the the              S
  progress.              concerned Director-General withm 25 days o f
                         submission.
                         The concerned Dlrector-General shall complete its
                         review and make its decision within 7 days o f
                         submission o f the evaluation report and award
                         recommendation
                         For contracts that require prior review, the final
                         evaluation report and award recommendation shall be
                         submitted to the Bank within 45 days from the date o f
                        bidsubmssion.
4 L o w bidder interest  Each Department shall establish a project website and      CCTs          (a) Jan 31,
  and confidence in      place therein the detailed list o fprocurement packages to               2007
  procurement in         be invited under the project.                                            (b) Jan 31,
  Nepal leading to       The General Procurement Notice to be published in                        2007
  lack o f competition  UNDBinforming the general biddingopportunities in
  and receipt o f        the project. Ths GPN shall contain mformation o n the
  unresponsive bids      address of the Project website.



                                                          62

      etc. resulting in    Subsequent Specific Procurement Notices shall be as
      need for re-bidding  widely advertised as possible, mcluding through
      and delays inthe     information to foreign embassies and consulates
      procurement          currently inNepal. Results o f all bidevaluations and
      process.             award recommendations to be publishedinthe Project
                           website and disclosed inthe notice boards o f the
                           concerned Department and Ministryo f GON.

Withthe specified mitigation measures inplace, the overall project risk for procurement i s assessedas
MEDIUM.

C.ProcurementPlan

The Recipienthas prepared a detailed procurement plan for project implementationbased on the detailed
list o f goods, equipment and services provided. This plan provides details o f the contract packages, the
procurement methods and review requirements for eachprocurement package. This plan has been agreed
between the Recipient and the Bank by project negotiations and shall be made available at the offices o f
the respective CCTs. It will also be available inthe project's website and inthe Bank's external website.
The Procurement Plan will be updated inagreement with the Bank annually or as requiredto reflect the
actual project implementationneeds and improvements ininstitutional capacity.

Role of UNAgenciesinimplementation: Three UNagencies, i.e., FAO, UNICEF, and WHO have been
closely involved inthe preparation o fthe national program as well as the Bank-financedproject and the
Recipienthas proposed their continuedinvolvement duringthe implementation o fthis project, in areas
where they have specific expertise, for the followingreasons:

(a) the need for providing technical and operational continuity;
(b) the importance ofinternational expenence and expertise that they bnng, especially as Avian Influenza
     is not an issue that Nepal has dealt with inthe past;
(c) the value added interms o f synergies with other activities being carried out by these agencies inthe
     area of avian influenzaprevention and control -independent o f the project;
(d) the requirement o fthe programto follow internationalnorms and guidelines, which are generally
     prepared under the leadership o f these organizations
(e) capacity constraints within the Government system, and;
(0 the emergencynature oftheproblemwhichwarrants arapidreactionandresponse time, difficult to
     envision under the existingGovernment rules andprocedures. For instance, FA0would support the
     implementation o f the training activities and the provision o f selected TA under the animal health
     component (Surveillance, Prevention and Containment, Strengthening Laboratory Capacity and Field
     Vetennary Service, Communications).

UNICEFwould be responsible for cross-cutting communication activities, which do not neatly fall into
human health or animal health, thus warranting an institutional home other than MoHP or MoAC; and
possibly the procurement o f certain vaccines and drugs.

WHO would support the implementationo f surveillance strengthening under the human health
component -through the existing surveillance network o f Immunization Preventable Diseases (a WHO-
implementedproject), which i s proposed to be developed as an integrated surveillance system. WHO
would also help carry out the needs assessment for the Referral Hospital, and the technical assistance for
the designand supervision o f BSL-3 laboratories, and the procurement o f certain vaccines and specialized
drugs.


                                                       63

D.FrequencyofProcurementSupervision

Inadditionto the priorreview supervision to becamed out fromBankoffices, the capacity assessmentof
the ImplementingAgency has recommended three procurement supervision missions duringthe first year
and two missions a year thereafter to visit the field and to carry out post review o fprocurement actions.

E. SummaryDetailsofProcurementPackagesandArrangements

a) All contracts estimated to cost over US$500,000 shall be procuredthrough ICB. All contracts
estimated to cost over US$300,000 equivalent per contract and all direct contractingwill be subject to
prior revlew by the Bank.

(b) Consultancy semces estimated to cost above US$250,000 equivalent per contract and single source
selection o f consultants (firms) for assignments estimated to cost above US$ 100,000 equivalent per
contract, contracts with specialisedUNagencies and contracts with individual consultants estimated to
cost above US$25,000 equivalent will be subject to prior review by the Bank.

(c) Short lists composed entirely o f national consultants: Short lists o f consultants for services estimated
to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract may be composed entirely o fnational consultants in
accordance with the provisions o fparagraph 2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines.




Pkg'                                                                                                          Prior Review
 No.     Descnption o f Services                                                               procurement


 A       ICB Procurement (2 Schedules - one for PPE, one for Chemcal and
         Reagents)                                                                 $303,000       N C B             Y

 B       Antivirals (Total estimated cost = $ 300,000)                             $300,000      ICBRJN             Y

         NCB Procurement 3 schedules (One each for Consumables, Drugs &
         Medicines, Hygienic Supplies)                                             $168,000       NCB               N

 D       Direct Purchase                                                            $1,000    ShoppingDirect        N



Pkg'                                                                               Estimated    Method o f    Prior Review
 No.     Description o f Services                                                              procurement

         Renovation ofkonstruction at NPHL annex lab for BSL-I11 facility
         development including negative pressure and A C M V etc.                  $550,000       ICB
                                                                                                                    Y
 2       a) Renovation for qurantine room at Kathmandu airport                      $25,000       NCB               N
         b) Renovation at National Referral center (TekuHospital)

         Renovation for quarentine romm at 1 land crossing point                    $5,000      Quotation           N
 4       Designand Renovation ofregional referral centers (5 Nos.)                 $25,000      Quotation           N

 5       Development o f IsolationUnit Annex at TUTH                               $41,000        N C B             N

 6       Waste disposal - installation o f locally made incinerators at 5 centres  $10,000      Shopping           N


HH Vehicles, CommunicationlotherEquipment,InstrumentsandAccessories
  -                                                                                                            $998,629



                                                                64

         a) Vehicle x 3 No. (NPHL, EDCD and ProjectManagement)              II  $100,000I             I
                                                                                        I     NCB            Y

         Provide adequate and appropriate communication equipment:
         Telephone sets (80), fax machines (80), for remote distncts (cell      $225,000      NCB            Y
         phonesiradios- 40 sets)

         Surveillance data management and data transfer          at EDCD:
         Laptop Computers, pnnters, software, GIS positioning (40 units per     $240,000      NCB            Y
         year for two years)
         OFFICEEQUIPMENT AND APPLIANCES (2 slices - computersetc.;               $27,000     Shopping        N
         smallappliances)
         Miscellaneous (generator, waste disposal)                               $44,000     Shopping        N

  8-12   Equipment: (5 lotsinone package)                                       $362,629      NCB            Y

I                                                                            1           1             I             I
   1   I1to installation
         BSL 3 Lab - Air Handlingandfixturesincluding all civil worksrelated   $613,940       ICB            Y

   7     Eauiument for 1no. BSL 3 and7 nos. BSL2 Labs (6 schedules',         I$978.750  I     ICB            Y
1  3   I Computersandpenpherals, TVs, Office Equipment                       I$109,542   I    NCB      I     N       I
   4     Kits andThermocolPacks for Surveillance                              $335,720        NCB            N
   5     PersonalProtectionEquipment                                          $134,000        NCB            N
   6     Refrigeratorsanddeer, freezers                                       $109,000        NCB            N
   7    IStockpile of Equipment for AI controlandcontainmentprogramme        I $73,500        NCB            N
   R   I Avian influenzavaccine (InactivatedVaccine) Doses                  I  $45.000   II  ICBAJN          Y




   6     Miscellaneous Equipment                                                5000         Shopping        N
   7     Technical CommunicationConsultant to support NFP                       4000          CQ/SS     As appropnate
   C      Communication:Animal Health
         Pnntinganddistributionof guidelinesto conduct Orientation/ meetings
         isemmars/trainings- 2000NO.                                           $17,000       Shopping        N

         Productionand insertionof AI preventionrelated messages on NTV
1  2     Apculture programme(lumpsum)                                                          ss            Y

         Wall paintingon mainmeatmarkets andmunicipalities
1  3     (5 places/distnctfor 10districts)
         . _                                                                   $6,750       Shopping         N

   4   I Video editingset - 1No.                                               $5,000       Shopping         N




                                                          65

                                   Annex 8: SafeguardPolicyIssues
                              NEPAL:Avian InfluenzaControlProject


1.       Environmental Analysis

(i) anenvironmentalanalysisbeendone`?Yes[]No[XI.
   Has

Both the Animal Health and Human Health components have implications that tngger environmental
safeguard policies. The disposal o f culledpoultry, the clean up o f infected areas and control o f
surrounding areas inthe case o fAnimal Health, and disposal o f laboratory and health care wastes inthe
case o f Human Health, trigger the WorldBank Safeguard Policy on Environmental Assessment. The
Avian Influenza Control Project i s assessedas a B-category project. Measures will be taken to mitigate
these enmronmental impacts by requiring an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) be prepared for
boththe Animal Health and Human Health components. Inthe case o f the Human Health a Health Care
Waste Management Plan already exists under the Health Sector Program and this will incorporated pnor
to commencingoperation. The Animal Heath EMPwas finalized prior to appraisal. Other than
EnvironmentalAssessment there are no Safeguard Policiestriggered.

(ii)Doestheprojectaffectnaturalhabitatsofrarefaunaandfloraspecies`?Yes[]orNo[XI.

(iii) theprojectinvolveanincreaseintheuseofpesticides?Yes[]orNo[XI.
     Does

(iv) Does the project encroach upon forests? Yes [ ] or No [XI.

(v) Does the project affect other environmentallysensitive areas (beaches, coastal
 wetlands, other)? Yes [ ] or No [XI.

2.       SocialAnalysis

(i)      The mainbeneficiaries ofthe project. Who are they? How many?

The main beneficiaries o f the Avian Influenza Control Project are commercial or industnal poultry
producers and backyard poultry producers. The industrial poultry producers include 76 hatcheries, 101
registered feed mills, 150 organised integrated layer farms, 30 integrated boiler farms, eight meat
processing industries, six poultry medicine producers and more than 10,000 small-scale (i.e. less than 500
birds) producers and associated industries. While accurate data on the number o f backyard poultry
producers are not readily available it i s estimated that there are in the region o f two million producers
with some five to ten birds per producer. The majonty o f these producers mightbe considered "poor" in
as far as they rely on poultry production for subsistence or for sale for small amounts o f cash income. As
such, an outbreak o f avian influenza would have disproportionately negative impacts upon the poor.

(ii)     Have the beneficiaries been consulted on the project?Please describe.

Yes, representatives o f the industrial poultry producers have been consulted on the Project. DuringWorld
Bank preparations in April 2006, a meeting was held with international and national NGOs and industry
poultry representatives, to provide information and receive feed back on issues on preparation o f the
Project. While it was not feasible to consult backyard poultry producers during preparation it i s noted
below that they will be consulted and involved inthe implementation o f the Project.


                                                     66

(iii)    Has the civil society Concerned with the project been consulted? Please describe.

Yes, the civil society concerned with the Project was consulted, in the aforementioned meeting that was
held with relevant international and national NGOs. A number of issues and perspective were raised
including the importance o f involving civil society in preparation and implementation o f the Project,
providing compensation for culled poultry, involving the media in ensuring accurate and timely
information, focusing on backyard poultry producers and women and children in particular, and
developingan appropriate communications programme.

(iv)     Will the beneficiaries and NGObe consulted or involved inthe implementation of
 the project'?Please explain.

Yes, the beneficiaries including industrial and backyard poultry producers, and NGOs, will be consulted
and involved in the implementation o f the Project. The Project will consult with industrial poultry
producers, and backyard poultry producers, particularly women and children, by requiring then-
involvement in the verification o f culled poultry and compensation payment meetings, and by ensuring
the careful targeting o f producers and direct involvement o f NGOs in implementation o f the
communication programme.

(v)      Does the project require that people have to be resettled to other areas or is their
 livelihood affected negatively by the project? Yes [ ] or No [XI.

(vi)     Does the project affect the livelihoods o f indigenous peoples? Yes [ ] or No [XI.

3.       Other Safeguards

(i)      Does the project have a negative impact on cultural property? Yes [ ] or N o [XI.

(ii)     Does the project affect the safety o f dams? Yes [ ] or No [XI.

(iii)    Does the project affect international waterways? Yes [ ] or No [XI.

(iv)     I s the project carried out in DisputedAreas? Yes [ ] or No [XI.


ExecutiveSummary ofHealthSector Environmental ManagementPlan
BriefProjectDescription

The Government o fNepal i s committed to bnngingabout tangible changes inthe health-sector
development process. The aim i s to provide an equitable, highquality health care system for the Nepalese
people. The SecondLong-Term Health Plan 1997-201 7 seeks equitable access to quality health care for
all people. Nepal's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), the TenthPlan 2002/3-2006/7, addresses
social inclusion- aiming to bnngthe poor and marginalized groups into the mainstream o f development,
and stresses strategic cross-cutting approaches to: (a) redefiningthe role o f the State, and limitingpublic
interventions; (b) enlisting the private sector to play a leadingrole together with NGOs incomplementing
government efforts in service delivery; (c) promoting community participation inand management o f
activities at the local levels; and (d) accelerating the decentralization process. The MediumTerm
ExpenditureFramework (MTEF) accords highest pnority to Essential Health Care Services (EHCS). It
proposes a redirectiono fpublic spending towards EHCS and away from tertiary care and lower pnority
services.


                                                       67

A senes o f stakeholder consultations andnumerous studies were commissionedto develop a sector-wide
approach to health development. The process culminated inthe Health Sector Strategy -An Agenda for
Change and the drafting o f the Nepal Health Sector Program    - Implementation  Plan (NHSP-IP) 2003 -
07, which reinforce the above nationalpolicies and apply them to the sector. These policies are consistent
intheir emphasis on(i)   pnoritization o f the EHCS and redirection o fpublic resources to primary care; (ii)
strengthened sector management and service delivery; (iii)   targeted attempts to reach the poorest and
marginal groups; (iv) decentralization to local bodies; and (v) public-private partnerships.

The NHSP-IP envisions the improvement o f the health status o fthe entire Nepalese populationby
ensunng equal opportunity to quality health care services through an effective health system. It i s
consistent with the HSS, and Nepal's Poverty Reduction Strategy as reflected inthe Tenth Five Year
Plan. Other documents that have guided the development o fNHSP-Ip are the National Health Policy,
1991and the Second LongTerm Health Plan (1997-2017). The main reform actions identified under
NHSP-IP are (a) prioritized allocation o fresources and efforts to ensuring access to EHCS, especially for
the poor and vulnerable; (b) decentralization o fthe management o f health services delivery to the local
bodies; and (c) promoting Public-Pnvate Partnerships (PPP) to increase access to and quality o f services.
NHSP-IP also identifies specific results from the reform measures: such as better value for clients from
their out-of-pocket health care expenditures; assured access to EHCS for the poor and vulnerable; greater
efficiency o fpublic health services; and more effective monitoring and evaluation o f sector performance.
NHSP-IP i s pragmatic inits expectations for the EHCS: it recognizes the greater influence o f the ncher
population groups on public policy and their increasing demand for the higher cost services outside
EHCS. Thus the plan also addresses how services "beyond EHCS" will be delivered. NHP-IP seeks to
support the program o f activities plannedby the Ministry o f Health (MOH) for the period July 2004 to
June 2009 by financing a proportiono fthe MOHbudget, and through related technical support. More
description o f the program components are described in Section-2 o f this document.


EnvironmentalAssessment

As perthe environmental regulationo fthe country, the proposedhealthprogramas such does not require
any EIA to be undertaken. However, as the programenvisages large number o f activities, which can
either directly or indirectly lead to environmental impacts, an environmental assessment o f the entire
program has been undertaken. The summary o f findings o fthe Environmental Assessment i s provided in
the following sections.


EnvironmentalImpacts

Environmental impacts associated with the health sector program have been identified by examining the
ways the activities associated with different components o f the program interact with the environment and
its different components. Out o fthe two components o f the program, component 2 exclusively deals with
capacity buildingand management aspects. Therefore, no environmental issues are anticipated from such
activities. Component-1 however has several activities which can either directly or indirectly interact with
different components o f the environment leadingto environmental issues. The following three key
environmental impacts have been identified to be associated with the program.


         H C W Management
    0    Use o f hazardous insecticides/pesticides
         Construction related environmental issues




                                                     68

Expansion o f healthcare service delivery is expected to increase the generation of HCW. Improper
handling and disposal o f HCW has several issues associated with it.Itposes significant nsks to both
people and environment as they contain infectiousmatenals and other hazardous substances. The
environmental issues range from increasing the risk o f spreading infections to increasing exposure to
toxic emissions from poor treatment and disposal practices. Therefore, H C W management i s identified as
an important environmental issue inthe context o f the program requiring further assessment.

Use o f different types o f insecticides for prevention o fvector borne diseases i s the common practice in
many countries. While use o f such insecticides do assist inprotecting people from vector borne diseases,
improper handling and use o f such substances does pose health riskto both general public and persons
handling such substances. The range o f healthcare services to be strengthened and expanded also includes
control o f vector borne diseases requiring use o f insecticides/pesticides. Health nsks arising from
improper use o f such substances i s therefore identified as an issue requiring further assessment.
The program envisages expanding the health care service network, which i s expected to involve
construction o f new facilities o f different levels at different locations inthe country. Construction
activities, ifnot managedproperly, often leadto environmental impacts such as air, water, noise and land
pollution as well as ecological degradation. The extent o f such impacts largely depends upon the location
o f such facilities as well as the construction practices followed. Therefore, environmentalissues arising
from construction activities are identified as an issuerequiring further assessment.

Assessment of Impacts

The three impacts identified were subjected to qualitative analysis and assessment. The impactswere
analysed against broadparameters such as scale, seventy and duration. The analysis concluded healthcare
waste management to be the significant environmental problem o f the sector.

H C W M i s an issue associated with all kindso f healthcare facilities including healthcare related
laboratones, academic andresearch institutionsetc. Such facilities are spread all over the country. The
impacts associated with improper management o f HCW can damage the environment and affect the
health o f people both directly or/and indirectly. The stakeholders that get impacted due to improper HCW
management are many, which include, hospital staff including the workers who handle such wastes; the
patients and attendants due to improper handling and storage o f wastes within the healthcare facilities; the
municipal workers due to improper containerization o f HCW; the general public due to improper
transport, treatment & disposal o f HCW; and the environment, as its quality deteriorates due to improper
treatment & disposal.

The present practice o fHCW management inalmost all the healthcare facilities inthe country is very
poor barring few piecemeal efforts to improve the situation. The problems range from lack o f awareness
to technical and financial constraints. Developing and implementing a strategy and action plan i s
therefore considered as the mitigation measure for this critical issue. The EA has therefore recommended
a larger study as part o f the EA, to develop a strategy and Action Plan to achieve gradual improvement in
HCWM.

Mitigation Measures: Based on the recommendation o f the EA study a detailed review o fthe HCWM
across HCFs inthe country was undertaken. As part o f the study a review o f all earlier relevant studies
were undertaken and visits were undertaken to several HCFs. The study found that none o fthe HCFs have
fullproofHCWMsysteminplace andrecommended a strategic approachto improve the situation.
Salient features o f the recommended strategy and Action Plan are provided below.

The HCWM Strategy andAction Plan



                                                         69

Based on the recommendations o f the H C W Mreview study, a strategy and action plan has been
developed inconsultation with other MOH, DOHS and its various divisions, MOPE, NHRC ,the private
agencies, donor agencies, NGOs and general civil societies. Key elements o fthe strategy for improving
H C W M are the as:

         Formulation o f a vision & policy
         Creationo f appropriate institutional framework
         Buildingawareness andcapacity at vanous levels
         Creatingappropriate legalh-egulatory framework
         Targetingphasedimplementationo f HCWMprograms inhealthcare facilities
         Encouraging private sector participation inHCWM
         Makingbudgetary provisions for H C W M


Improving HCWMrequires significant efforts at various levels rangingfrom creating awareness at grass
root level to formulating policy/regulation to improve HCWM. Accordingly a time bound action plan has
been developed inline with the recommended strategy. The key activities included inthe actionplan are
the following:

         Establishment o f a HCWMco-ordinating agency at the centre
         Making specific budgetary allocation for H C W M inthe overall healthbudget
         EnactingHCWMlegislation
         Developing o f H C W MPolicy and guidelines
         Disseminationo f HCWM Policy and guidelines to all stake holders
         Detailed feasibility study o f various technical options
         Establishment o f a fundingmechanism for H C W M activities
         Establishing a H C W Information Management System
         ImplementingHCWMprogram
         Monitoring and evaluating the HCWMprogram.

Cost associated with implementationo f the Action Plan has been estimated. The implementation o f the
Action Plan and actual improvement inHCW management and its progress will be monitored and
analyzed. Detailedmonitoring plan inthis regardhas been developed.

Consultation

Findingso fthe H C W Mreview study were discussed with several Govt. departments, largenumber o f
private organizations and NGOs. The inputs and comments receivedduring such discussions were
incorporated while developingthe strategy and an Action Plan for improving H C W M inthe country. The
draft strategy and Action Plan was then discussed with several stakeholders ina public workshop
conducted at Kathmandu duringMarch2003. Relevant suggestionshomments received duringthe
workshop have been incorporated into the final document on strategy and actionplan.




                                                      70

                               Annex 9: ProjectPreparationand Supervision
                                NEPAL:AvianInfluenzaControlProject


                                                                                        Planned                    Actual
  PCNreview                                                                                d a                       d a
  InitialPIDto PIC                                                           March27, 2006                     March28, 2006
  Initial ISDS to PIC                                                        March 27,2006                      M a y 18,2006
  Appraisal                                                                            July 3,2006            November 27,2006
 Negotiations                                                                     July 12,2006                December 19,2006
  RVPapproval                                                                August 1,2006
  Planned date o f effectiveness                                             October 1,2006
  Planned date o f mid-term review                                           October 1,2008
  Planned closing date                                                            July31,2011

  Key institutionsresponsiblefor preparationof the project:

  Ministryo fAgnculture &Cooperatives, Singha Durbar, Kathmandu, Nepal
  Department o f Livestock Services, Harihar Bhawan, Lalitpur, Nepal (977-1-5522056)
  Ministryo fHealth& Population, RamShahPath, Kathmandu, Nepal
  Department o fHealth Services, Epidemiology and Disease Control Division, Singha Durbar, Kathmandu,
 Nepal (977-1-4255796)

  Thosewho workedonthe projectincluded:




  MPGKurup                             Vetennanan                                                                       Consultant
  Mandava Subba Rao                    Veterinary Epidemiologist                                                        Consultant
I E.Madhavan                         I Veterinarian                                                                   I Consultant  I
  Dan Vadnjal                         Agricultural Economist                                                          I FAfVPP
                                                                                                                        -.--, ---
  LakshmanGautam                      Assistant FA0representative                                                       FA0
  Sharad Raniit                        Communications smcialist                                      ~~-                UNICEF
                                        ~    ~   ~~~~~~~    ~~~    ~   ~   ~~    ~  ~~~  -r ~   ~  ~~    ~


 Birthe Locatelli-Ross1                Chief o fHealth                                                                  UNICEF
 Marganta Ronderos                    Epidemiologist                                                                    WHO
 Prakash Ghimire                      Microbiologist                                                                    WHO
 JohnQuinley                          Health & Child Survival Advisor                                                   USAID
 Chstian Touwaide                     Attach6                                                                           EU



                                                                             71

Rahul Sengupta       Programme Officer                              UNDP
Mohinder Oberoi      SAARC Regional Coordinator for avian influenza FA0
                     (peer reviewer)
Michael St. Louis    Epidemiologist (peer revlewer)                 CDC
Charles Bevan        Sr. Agriculturalist (peer reviewer)            FA0
Midori Sat0          Project Officer                                UNICEF
Drona Ghimire        Environmental Specialist                       Consultant
PGGore               Procurement SDecialist                         Consultant




                                   72

                         Annex 10: Documentsin the ProjectFile
                        NEPAL:Avian InfluenzaControlProject



GON, National Avian Influenza and Influenza Pandemic Preparedness and ResponsePlan,
Kathmandu,February2006

GON, Avian Influenza Control Project: Operational Planfor Ministry of Agriculture, July 2006.

GON, Environmental Impact Assessment of Nepal Health Sector Program, Implementation Plan,
2004 - 2009 June 2006.

GON, Health Care WasteManagement in Nepal, Assessment and Action Plan, June 2006

UNICEF, Communication Strategyfor Avian Influenza Control Project, June 2006

World Bank, Avian Influenza -Rapid Assessment, Nepal, January2006

World Bank, Global Programfor Avian Influenza and Pandemic Preparedness, 2006




                                            73




