                                 Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                    Report No.: 78317




             PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                                   NEPAL

                  AVIAN INFLUENZA CONTROL PROJECT
                              (IDA-H2680)


                                 June 17, 2013




IEG Public Sector Evaluation
Independent Evaluation Group
                                                  ii


Currency Equivalents (annual averages)

Currency Unit =Nepalese Rupee (NPR)

2006                     US$1.00                   NPR 72
2011                     US$1.00                   NPR 71
2013                     US$1.00                   NPR 86


Abbreviations and Acronyms
BSL     Biosecurity Level
FAO     Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
GPAI    Global Program on Avian Influenza
HPAI    Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza
ICR     Implementation Completion and Results report
IEG     Independent Evaluation Group
IEGPS   IEG Public Sector Evaluation
OIE     World Organization for Animal Health
PPAR    Project Performance Assessment Report
WHO     World Health Organization




Fiscal Year

Government:              July 15 - July 14




Director-General, Independent Evaluation                   :      Ms. Caroline Heider
Director, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                     :      Mr. Emmanuel Jimenez
Manager, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                      :      Ms. Marie Gaarder
Task Manager                                               :      Mr. Stephen Hutton
                                                                  iii



Contents
1. Background and Context................................................................................................. 1
   Country Background ....................................................................................................... 1
   Disease and Project Context ........................................................................................... 2
2. Objectives, Design, and their Relevance ........................................................................ 4
   Objectives ....................................................................................................................... 4
   Relevance of Objectives ................................................................................................. 4
   Design ............................................................................................................................. 6
   Relevance of Design ....................................................................................................... 9
3. Implementation ............................................................................................................. 10
   Planned vs. Actual Expenditure by Component ........................................................... 11
   Implementation Experience .......................................................................................... 11
4. Achievement of the Objectives ..................................................................................... 15
   Minimize the threat in Nepal posed to humans by Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza
   infection by controlling such infections among birds, especially domestic poultry ..... 15
   Prepare for, control and respond to possible human infections, especially an influenza
   epidemic and related emergencies ................................................................................ 21
5. Efficiency ...................................................................................................................... 25
6. Ratings .......................................................................................................................... 26
   Outcome ........................................................................................................................ 26
   Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................................... 27
   Bank Performance ......................................................................................................... 29
   Borrower Performance .................................................................................................. 31
   Monitoring and Evaluation ........................................................................................... 32
7. Lessons .......................................................................................................................... 32
References ......................................................................................................................... 35
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet ............................................................................................... 37
Annex B. Other data annexes............................................................................................ 40
   Annex B1: Avian influenza .......................................................................................... 40
   Annex B2: International donors and the World Bank and Avian Influenza ................. 41
   Annex B3: Surveillance and diagnosis of avian influenza in animals in Nepal ........... 42
   Annex B4: Establishing Biosecurity Level 3 Laboratories in Nepal ............................ 43

This report was prepared by Stephen Hutton, who assessed the project in February 2013. The report was
peer reviewed by Guy Freeland and panel reviewed by John Heath. Marie Charles provided administrative
support.
                                                                 iv


   Annex B5: Avian influenza outbreak sites in Nepal during the project ....................... 45
   Annex B6: Photographic evidence................................................................................ 46
Annex C. List of Persons Met ........................................................................................... 51
Annex D. Borrower Comments ........................................................................................ 53


Boxes
Box 1: Strengths and weaknesses of the compensation mechanism in Nepal .................. 18

Tables
Table 1: Major Recent World Bank Financed Projects in the Agriculture and Health
Sectors in Nepal .................................................................................................................. 2
Table 2: Project cost by component .................................................................................. 11

Figures
Figure 1: Avian Influenza Risk Districts as of 2008........................................................... 8
Figure 2: Number of Birds Culled and Project Timeline .................................................. 12
                                                               v


Principal Ratings
                                        ICR*                         ICR Review*                            PPAR
Outcome                     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to                              Moderate                          Moderate                          Significant
Development
Outcome
Bank Performance            Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower                    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory
Performance
* The Implementation Completion and Results (ICR) report is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The ICR
Review is an intermediate IEG product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.



Key Staff Responsible
                                                                Division Chief/
Project                Task Manager/Leader                      Sector Director                    Country Director
Appraisal                  Daniel Sellen,                     Constance Bernard,                     Kenichi Ohashi
                        Sundararajan Gopalan                   Julian Schweitzer
Completion            Normal Bentley Piccioni                Simeon Kacou Ehui,                    Ellen A. Goldstein
                                                              Julie McLaughlin
                                                           vi


            IEG Mission: Improving World Bank Group development results through excellence in
                                         independent evaluation.


About this Report
       The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank’s self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank’s work is producing the
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEG annually assesses 20-25 percent of the
Bank’s lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that
are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
       To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEG staff examine project files and other
documents, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government, and other in-country
stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and in local offices as
appropriate.
      Each PPAR is subject to internal IEG peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. The PPAR is also sent to the borrower
for review. IEG incorporates both Bank and borrower comments as appropriate, and the borrowers' comments are
attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has
been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


About the IEG Rating System for Public Sector Evaluations
     IEG’s use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to ad apt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive
at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (additional
information is available on the IEG website: http://ieg.worldbankgroup.org).
     Outcome: The extent to which the operation’s major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project’s
objectives are consistent with the country’s current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project’s design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project’s objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High,
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
                                           vii


Preface
This is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the Nepal Avian
Influenza Control Project (IDA-H2680) under the Global Program for Avian Influenza.

The project was approved on January 19, 2007 and became effective on March 27, 2007.
A total of US$18.2 million was committed for the project. At project closure, $15.64
million had been disbursed. The project was not extended and closed as scheduled on
July 31, 2011.

The report presents findings based on a review of the project’s Implementation
Completion and Results Report, appraisal report, legal documents, and other relevant
material. An IEG mission to Nepal in February 2013 held discussions with World Bank
country office staff, government officials and agencies, project staff, partner agencies,
poultry farmers and other project stakeholders (see Annex C). The mission visited the
Central Veterinary Laboratory, the National Public Health Laboratory (including the
National Influenza Center), the Shukraraj Infectious Disease Hospital, the National Avian
Diseases Diagnostic Laboratory in Bharatpur, the Western Regional Hospital in Pokhara,
and the Regional Veterinary Laboratory in Pokhara. IEG did not visit a number of other
sites supported by the project, including four regional veterinary laboratories, the BP
Koirala Health Institute in Dharan, Tribhuvan Teaching University Hospital in
Kathmandu, and Nepalgunj Medical College.

The contributions of all stakeholders, including World Bank staff in Washington DC and
Kathmandu, are gratefully acknowledged. Administrative and logistical support from
Tara Shrestha in the Kathmandu Country Office was greatly appreciated.

Following standard IEG procedures, copies of the draft PPAR were shared with relevant
Government officials and agencies for their review and comment. All comments
received are included in Annex D of the report.
                                             ix


Summary
Nepal is a low income country that is experiencing political and economic uncertainty
following the end of a civil conflict. It faces a number of challenges including budgetary
difficulties and severe power shortages.

Since outbreaks of highly pathogenic avian influenza in Vietnam in 2003, there has been
global concern about the risk of avian influenza. The disease poses a threat to poultry, a
risk of human infection, and a risk that the virus could mutate into a strain that could be
transmitted between humans, triggering a potentially catastrophic pandemic. Following
these global concerns and outbreaks of avian influenza in India in 2006, the World Bank
responded to requests from the Government of Nepal to assist in increasing capacity to
respond to avian influenza and a potential influenza pandemic. Technical and financial
support was also provided by other donors, including the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations, the World Health Organization, the United Nations
Children’s Fund, and the United States Agency for International Development.

The objectives of the US$18.2 million Nepal Avian Influenza Control Project were to
minimize the threat in Nepal posed to humans by Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza
infection by controlling such infections among birds, especially domestic poultry, and to
prepare for, control and respond to possible human infections, especially an influenza
epidemic and related emergencies. The goals were relevant to Nepal given the overall
global threat of avian influenza, and became more relevant following the first outbreaks
in Nepal in January 2009. The project design followed the general template of the Global
Program on Avian Influenza. The main elements of the project included support for
improving avian influenza surveillance through training and sample collection; increasing
diagnostic capacity by providing equipment and training to veterinary laboratories;
improving outbreak response capacity through training and equipment; creating a
compensation mechanism for birds slaughtered in culling operations; improving
surveillance of influenza in humans through expanded active and passive surveillance;
improving human influenza diagnostic capacity through laboratory upgrades; improving
influenza outbreak preparedness through planning, training, antiviral drugs, intensive care
units, and isolation wards; and improving awareness and changing behavior through a
communication campaign.

The project was slow to start, especially for an emergency project, taking 8 months
before any procurement was completed and nearly a year to fully staff the project
management unit and to finalize a working agreement between the government, the Bank
and the United Nations agencies. But implementation eventually improved, particularly
after the 2009 avian influenza outbreaks.

The project established an effective system for identifying and controlling outbreaks of
avian influenza in birds. Ten outbreaks were identified and controlled during the project,
and an additional 46 outbreaks have been identified and controlled since project closure
as of May 2013. Containment efforts were successful because of a substantial increase in
capacity in the Department of Livestock Services attributable to the project. No cases of
avian influenza have been detected in humans. The project’s human health component
                                             x


had less impact, with only a modest impact on preparedness for human influenza
epidemics and pandemics.

After midterm review the planned establishment of two biosecurity level 3 laboratories
was dropped. These laboratories were arguably not justified on a cost benefit basis, were
likely to impose significant maintenance costs, and would likely be difficult to complete
prior to project closure. The project still supported construction of a BSL 2+ laboratory
on the human health side (which is almost BSL 3), but this facility is not operational.
Other changes included the decision not to support poultry vaccination, and to reorient
support for quarantine services away from border control towards internal checkposts.

Though the economic benefits of the project are likely to have been high, there were a
number of examples of inefficient use of resources. The project invested in laboratory
equipment that did not directly contribute to project objectives (because it was not used
for influenza diagnostics) or could not be used due to a lack of staff capacity. The full
gains from investments in equipment for intensive care units and isolation wards have not
been realized because some of the facilities and equipment are not operational.

The overall project outcome is rated Moderately Satisfactory reflecting substantial
relevance of objectives and design, substantial achievement of the objective to minimize
the threat in Nepal posed to humans and poultry by highly pathogenic avian influenza,
but modest achievement of the objective to prepare for, control and respond to possible
human infections especially an influenza epidemic and related emergencies, and modest
efficiency.

While capacity gains have been made, it is unclear if these gains will be sustained
because of a lack of funding, reflecting the difficult budgetary circumstances faced by the
government. In the short term, most gains are being sustained despite a budgetary crisis
though a follow up World Bank financed project, the Zoonoses Control Project (2012-
14). But many operational activities are heavily reliant on donor funding, and
surveillance systems are already declining since the project closed. The project would
benefit from sustainable funding sources for surveillance programs, refresher training,
laboratory consumables, and power supply. Project gains are also at risk because of high
rates of staff transfer. Many staff trained under the project have departed, meaning that
there is insufficient technical capacity to operate laboratory equipment. Compensation
rates have been increased but not commensurately with inflation and poultry price
increases, so the proportion of economic losses to farmers covered by compensation has
declined over time, potentially inhibiting outbreak reporting by farmers. The risk to
development outcome is rated Significant.

The project was rapidly prepared and included a number of good practice measures
including establishment of a compensation fund and support for both urgent emergency
response and longer term capacity building needs. However, there were moderate
weaknesses in project design, including in monitoring and evaluation design, and so
quality at entry is rated moderately satisfactory. Many of these weaknesses were
corrected through supervision, and the Bank provided intensive support to the project
management unit, so supervision is rated satisfactory. These lead to a Bank performance
rating of Moderately Satisfactory. Government commitment was generally high,
                                             xi


particularly once avian influenza outbreaks had occurred, so government performance
was rated moderately satisfactory. Project ownership and commitment was high from the
Department of Livestock Services, but consistently weak financial management and
procurement capacity (due in part to high staff turnover) and weaker performance by the
Department of Health Services led to significant implementation delays, so implementing
agency performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory. These lead to a Borrower
performance rating of Moderately Satisfactory. Collection of monitoring and evaluation
data was weak, and there is no evidence of utilization of this data, so monitoring and
evaluation is rated negligible.

Building on the project experience, this assessment identifies several lessons, including:

      Investments in laboratory equipment and civil works may be inefficient if they
       outstrip the financial and technical capacity of staff to operate and maintain them.

      Failure to adjust compensation rates for inflation and other price increases can
       reduce the real value of compensation payments, reducing incentives for farmers
       to report disease outbreaks.

      Attempts to control spread of HPAI among poultry at the border may have limited
       effectiveness in countries with long, porous borders.

      Containing an influenza epidemic or pandemic among humans is likely to be
       extremely difficult in countries like Nepal with modest public health
       infrastructure.

      Collaboration with United Nations agencies can provide technical expertise that
       the World Bank lacks, but there can be delays in implementation if there is
       insufficient engagement of these agencies at a headquarters level.




                                                                     Richard Scobey
                                                                 Acting Director-General
                                                                       Evaluation
                                                   1


1. Background and Context
Country Background
1.1     Nepal is a landlocked country with roughly 24 million people, bordering India
and China. Gross national income per capita was roughly US$540 in 2011. Growth in
recent years has averaged roughly 4.5 percent per year, lower than for other countries in
South Asia. Agriculture is a major source of income, contributing on average 35 percent
of GDP over 2001-12. Almost one quarter of GDP comes from remittances, mostly from
Nepali workers in India (IMF 2012). The national poverty rate is 25 percent, rising to 37
percent in districts in rural hilly areas in the far west and midwest regions (Central
Bureau of Statistics 2011).

1.2     Nepal is experiencing political and economic uncertainty following the end of a
10 year conflict in 2007. The monarchy was abolished and elections were held in 2008.
But the constituent assembly was dissolved in June 2012 after failing to meet a May
deadline for new elections. The absence of the assembly means that no budget has been
passed for the 2012/13 fiscal year, which has limited the ability of many government
agencies to operate. Shortages in electric power (with up to 14 hours of load shedding
per day), the high cost of diesel fuel, delays in payment of civil service salaries, and other
factors pose significant challenges to implementation for all projects in Nepal.

1.3      Though the Bank has had significant involvement in the agriculture and rural
development and health sectors, these projects have had relatively little overlap with
activities supported under the avian influenza control project. Agriculture and rural
development projects have focused on irrigation, water supply, and nutrition while health
projects have focused on expanding access to health services, particularly for underserved
populations (Table 1). But prior to the project there had been no engagement by the
Bank in the livestock sector, veterinary services, animal health, zoonotic diseases, or
pandemic preparedness. The Zoonoses Control Project was approved in 2012 as a
follow-up project to the Avian Influenza project, and continues support for similar
activities while widening the scope to focus on priority zoonotic diseases beyond avian
influenza, and to include climate change adaptation concerns under a One Health
approach.1 Other donors had been involved in the agriculture and health sectors, but with
small exceptions this support was not related to avian influenza.




1
  The One Health concept is to approach animal health, human health, and environmental health issues
together in a coordinated manner, emphasizing interdisciplinary collaboration.
                                              2


Table 1: Major Recent World Bank Financed Projects in the Agriculture and
Health Sectors in Nepal
                                           Bank
                             Years      commitments
     Project Name            active:   amount (US$m)          Activities supported
Nepal Health Sector           2004-         100        Expanding access to health services
Program Project, and          2010                     for underserved populations.
Additional Financing
Second Rural Water            2004-         52.3       Improving rural water supply and
Supply & Sanitation           2012                     sanitation through local user groups.
Project, and Additional
Financing
Irrigation & Water           2007-13        64.3       Improve productivity of irrigated
Resources Management                                   agriculture through irrigation
Project, and Supplemental                              construction and improved/integrated
                                                       crop and water management.
Poverty Alleviation Fund     2007-14        126        Improving living conditions of rural
II, and Additional                                     poor through village and community
Financing                                              infrastructure and income-generating
                                                       subprojects.
Social Safety Nets           2008-13        69.5       Improve access to food through
Project, and Additional                                safety nets and create opportunities
Financing                                              for agricultural production
                                                       improvements through seed and
                                                       fertilizer.
Project for Agriculture       2009-         20         Increase value added in commodity
Commercialization and         2012                     chains by supporting farmer
Trade (PACT)                                           commercialization, industry linkages,
                                                       and food quality management.
Second HNP and                2010-        129.15      Expanding access to health services
HIV/AIDS Project              2015                     for underserved populations,
                                                       increasing nutrition of pregnant
                                                       women and children, expanding
                                                       coverage for response to HIV/AIDS.
Modernization of Rani        2011-16        43         Improve irrigated water delivery
Jamara Kulariya Irrigation                             through irrigation works, water user
Scheme - Phase 1                                       groups and agricultural production
                                                       support.
Zoonoses Control Project      2012-         10         Improve capacity to prevent and
                              2014                     control zoonoses through enhanced
                                                       preparedness, surveillance,
                                                       diagnostic capacity, and response
                                                       capacity.



Disease and Project Context
1.4     The influenza A virus can cause influenza in birds and some mammals. A form
of the virus adapted to birds known as Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A (H5N1),
referred to as HPAI or simply avian influenza, has led to high mortality in poultry and
some deaths in humans (Annex B1). Since 2003, there has been significant global
concern about the risks posed by avian influenza, and cases have been detected in 61
countries. Avian influenza is primarily a disease of birds, but can potentially infect
                                                     3


humans if they come into contact with infected birds. The virus has killed tens of
millions of birds, and at least 400 million birds have been slaughtered to limit the spread
of the virus (FAO 2012). As of March 2013, 622 cases had been confirmed among
humans by the World Health Organization (WHO), including 371 fatalities.2 There is
also the possibility that a mutated form of the virus could be transmissible between
humans, which could trigger a global pandemic.

1.5     The World Bank responded to this global emergency through two mechanisms,
the Global Program for Avian Influenza Control and Human Pandemic Preparedness and
Response (GPAI) and the multi-donor Avian and Human Influenza Facility (Annex B2).
The GPAI set up a template for avian influenza control projects, which focused on
supporting capacity improvements for controlling and containing outbreaks, disease
surveillance among animals and humans, diagnostic capacity, treatment capacity,
awareness raising and behavioral change.

1.6       Nepal faces four broad threats from avian influenza:

         Avian influenza outbreaks among poultry lead to deaths among birds, and
          associated economic costs for poultry producers, traders, and consumers. This
          risk can be managed by improving biosecurity among birds, and by identifying
          and controlling outbreaks among birds.
         The disease could be transmitted to humans from infected birds in Nepal, leading
          to human morbidity and mortality. This risk can be managed through the same
          steps that mitigate the risk among birds, and further through improving
          biosecurity and animal handling among humans, and by improving treatment
          capacity for humans.
         Outbreaks of avian influenza among birds and/or other animals in Nepal could
          lead to the gradual evolution of a strain of influenza that is directly transmissible
          between humans, which could trigger a pandemic, with human mortality and
          morbidity throughout the world. The chance of this occurring is very low, but
          preventing it would offer enormous benefits for both Nepal and the rest of the
          world. This risk can be reduced through the measures above that manage the risk
          among birds, as well as through improved biosecurity among humans; improved
          surveillance, diagnosis, isolation and treatment capacity among humans; and
          epidemic and pandemic preparedness.
         A strain of avian influenza transmissible between humans could emerge in
          another country, causing a pandemic that then spreads to Nepal through
          movement of infected people. This could cause significant mortality and
          morbidity in Nepal. This risk can be managed through improved surveillance,
          diagnosis, isolation and treatment capacity among humans; and by pandemic
          preparedness.

1.7    Avian influenza can be controlled most effectively at the source (FAO 2010,
WHO 2009). Once outbreaks among poultry or humans have begun to spread,
containment becomes more difficult and the costs of the disease are much higher. Thus,
2
  These figures should not be used to imply that the virus has a 60 percent fatality rate among humans,
since there are likely many more non-fatal human cases that have not been diagnosed.
                                              4


identifying and controlling outbreaks among birds contributes to addressing the most
likely threat (losses to the poultry sector) and to other more severe threats (infections
among humans).

1.8     Following growing global concerns about avian influenza and the first outbreaks
in India in February 2006, the World Bank responded to Nepali requests to assist in
building capacity to respond to risks from avian influenza, preparing the Avian Influenza
Control Project. The project concept note was produced in March 2006, with project
approval in January 2007 and project effectiveness in March 2007.

1.9     The Government of Nepal formed an inter-sector task force and prepared and
endorsed a National Avian Influenza and Influenza Pandemic Preparedness and Response
Plan in early 2006, with assistance from the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO)
and the World Health Organization (WHO). The plan provided a strategic framework for
response, with pillars on planning and coordination, surveillance and laboratory
strengthening, prevention and containment, health systems response, and risk
communication. An operational version of the plan for 2007-11 was published and
endorsed in December 2006, outlining major actions that needed to be taken and
assigning responsibilities, primarily to the Ministry of Health and Population and the
Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives. The activities of the operational plan were to
be carried out under the World Bank-financed Avian Influenza Control Project.



2. Objectives, Design, and their Relevance
Objectives
2.1     The project development objectives stated on page 12 of the Technical Annex to
the Financing Proposal (the equivalent of the Project Appraisal Document) were to
―minimize the threat in Nepal posed to humans by Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza
(HPAI) infection by controlling such infections among birds, especially domestic poultry,
and to prepare for, control and respond to possible human infections, especially an
influenza epidemic and related emergencies‖. The objectives in the Financing
Agreement were identical. The objectives were not revised during implementation.

Relevance of Objectives
2.2      Poultry is an important subsector in Nepal, and domestic production and
consumption has expanded significantly over recent decades, particularly in Chitwan
district and in the Kathmandu and Pokhara valleys. In 2006, there were an estimated 22
million chickens and 408,000 ducks in Nepal. The poultry sector employed
approximately 400,000 people, and provided livelihoods to millions of rural households
(World Bank 2011). Poultry production provides roughly 4-5 percent of GDP. Roughly
45 percent of poultry were in large commercial farms, while 55 percent were on small
backyard units. Roughly half of rural households kept some poultry. In 2012, the Nepal
government announced a Poultry Policy aimed at improving food security and nutrition
by tripling per capita consumption of poultry and production of chicken and eggs over a
                                               5


15 year period. Chicken is the main source of protein, and the most economically
significant part of the livestock sector.

2.3       Nepal faced particular risks from avian influenza because:

         It shares a long, porous border with India, where outbreaks were first reported in
          2006.
         It is on major migratory pathways for wild birds, which travel across the
          Himalayas. Outbreaks of avian influenza had been reported in wild birds in
          China.
         Biosecurity was weak, especially for small commercial and backyard farms
          (annex B6 a).

2.4      There were significant weaknesses in the capacity of the animal health and human
health sectors. The Department of Livestock Services had a veterinary service
infrastructure, but one that was insufficiently prepared for avian influenza. Animal health
monitoring and surveillance capacity was low – and nonexistent for backyard farms – and
little capacity existed to respond to contain disease outbreaks among animals. No
domestic diagnostic capacity for avian influenza existed.

2.5     The human health sector was functional, but quality of care and access was weak
in many areas. The system lacked sufficient equipment and training to respond to a
major crisis. Surveillance and diagnostic capacity were weak; there was no active
surveillance for influenza, and passive surveillance was minimal.

2.6     While no avian influenza outbreaks had occurred in Nepal at the time of appraisal,
they had occurred in neighboring India and China and there was a legitimate fear of
outbreaks in Nepal. These fears turned out to be justified following outbreaks in Nepal in
2009 and subsequent outbreaks that continue. A human influenza pandemic (of a non-
avian influenza strain) occurred in 2009-10, before many of the human health
improvements financed by the project were operational.

2.7     The project objectives were consistent with the Bank practice of responding to
emergencies and with the goals of the Global Program on Avian Influenza. The project
was not specifically relevant to the Country Assistance Strategy for 2004-7, but avian
influenza had not yet become a global concern at the time the strategy was conceived.
No full Country Strategy has been devised since this 2004-7 strategy, though there have
been interim strategy notes. The goals of the project were broadly relevant to the Nepal
Interim Strategy Note for FY08-11 (World Bank 2007), supporting ―promoting access to
better quality services‖ by improving public health service delivery. The project closed
before the commencement of the FY12-13 Interim Strategy note, but remains broadly
relevant to the pillars on promoting access to better quality services and on reducing
vulnerabilities.

2.8     The project objective focused solely on avian influenza, and did not mention other
diseases. While some avian influenza projects in other countries broadened their
objective (particularly in countries where no avian influenza outbreaks had occurred), the
                                                    6


Nepal project objectives retained a focus on avian influenza. 3 This was understandable
given the ongoing avian influenza outbreaks, but a wider focus might have made the
project more relevant given the threats posed by other diseases, though these other
diseases were not emergencies. There is a high incidence of zoonotic diseases in Nepal,
including foot and mouth disease, pestes des petits ruminants, bluetongue, brucellosis,
tuberculosis, rabies, Newcastle disease, and porcine reproductive and respiratory
syndrome, which combined with avian influenza contribute to estimated annual losses of
US$230 million (World Bank 2012b). There would be a number of synergies in tackling
other zoonoses in concert with avian influenza. A follow up project, the Zoonoses
Control Project, was approved in 2012 and continues to support many of the goals of the
avian influenza control project while also expanding the scope to cover other zoonotic
diseases.

2.9     The objectives refer to influenza epidemics, but pandemics originating in other
countries and spreading to Nepal were likely a more serious risk than an epidemic
originating in Nepal.

2.10    The relevance of objectives is rated Substantial.

Design
COMPONENTS

2.11    The project had four components.

2.12 Animal Health (US$6.12 million at appraisal, $5.78 million at closing). This
was to support national prevention and control strategies for avian influenza through:

       Strengthening surveillance of HPAI among animals by training veterinary
        professionals, villagers and surveyors in disease surveillance, collecting samples
        from commercial and backyard poultry farms, and establishing a nationwide GIS-
        based surveillance system.
       Strengthening prevention and containment capacity by training veterinary
        professionals in prevention, control, and biosecurity, and strengthening quarantine
        services through vehicles and equipment.
       Increasing diagnostic capacity by upgrading veterinary laboratories (one to
        Biosecurity Level (BSL) 3 and seven to BSL 2), including equipment purchase
        and training.
       Improving field veterinary services, including setup of rapid response teams,
        provision of equipment, and creation of a vaccine bank.
       Creating a compensation fund for birds culled during control operations.


3
 Though the project objectives were never formally changed, the Project Paper for the 2011 (World Bank
2011) restructuring and the project’s co mpletion report describe the project development objective as to
―minimize the threat in Nepal posed to humans by highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) infection and
other zoonotic diseases by controlling such infections among domestic poultry and to prepare for, control,
and respond to an influenza epidemic and other related infectious disease emergencies in humans‖.
                                           7


2.13 Human Health (US$6.34 million at appraisal, $5.93 million at closing). This was
to support:

      Improving surveillance of influenza and other influenza-like-illnesses by
       expanding the network of sentinel sites, improving data collection and handling,
       providing diagnostic supplies and training for rapid response teams, and
       supplying equipment, training and upgrades to existing human health laboratories
       and establishment of a BSL 3 laboratory.
      Improving influenza prevention and containment capacity by providing training,
       protective supplies and vaccines to high risk workers, by acquiring antivirus and
       vaccine for use in an outbreak, by improving capacity to quarantine patients, by
       reviewing and updating quarantine regulations, and by devising pandemic
       response plans.

2.14 Public awareness and Information (US$1.65 million at appraisal, $2.26 million
at closing). This was to support:

      Improving public awareness and information on avian influenza issues, including
       raising attention among government, the private sector and civil society.
      Raising general public attention understanding of pandemic risks.
      Improving poultry farmer ability to recognize influenza symptoms and to
       undertake safe disposal and protection.

2.15 Implementation Support and Monitoring and Evaluation (US$1.72 million at
appraisal, $1.95 million at closing). This was to support the strengthening of public
agencies for the coordination and management of the Project.

2.16 The BSL 3 laboratories were canceled during project restructuring in March 2010,
and funds were reallocated to support field veterinary services and additional
enhancement of laboratory capacity in BSL 2 labs. Public awareness expenses were
higher than planned because of additional awareness activities carried out during the
2009 influenza pandemic.

IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS

2.17 The strategic and operational plans were to be carried out by the Ministry of
Agriculture and Cooperatives (later renamed the Ministry of Agriculture Development)
and the Ministry of Health and Population. A coordination function was shifted to a
Technical Subcommittee on Avian Influenza, operating under the Central National
Disaster Relief Committee and jointly chaired by the Secretaries of the two ministries.
Further technical committees were established at the regional and district levels, also
operating under the regional and district level disaster relief committees. These
committees included a wide range of stakeholders, including the directors of animal and
human health, private sector representatives, media, and other stakeholders.

2.18 The project was to be implemented by the Department of Livestock Services (and
particularly the Directorate of Animal Health) under the Ministry of Agriculture and
Cooperatives and the Department of Health Services under the Ministry of Health and
                                             8


Population. A project management unit was set up, with an overall coordinator and
separate component coordinators for animal health and human health. The staff for each
component were located in separate sites some distance apart, which may have inhibited
cooperation. Avian influenza technical committees were established at the national,
regional and district level. District technical committees would meet once or twice per
quarter and whenever an outbreak occurred. Regional committees would meet once
every four months.

2.19 Several activities were to be implemented by or heavily supported by United
Nations agencies (FAO, WHO, UNICEF) using project funds. FAO was to provide
technical assistance for hiring international experts, design of a BSL 3 laboratory,
technical backstopping, procurement of some equipment, training of laboratory staff,
establishing the compensation fund, establishing the vaccine bank, and providing other
advice. WHO was to undertake a range of tasks for the human health component,
including design of the BSL 3 laboratory, procurement of equipment and antivirus,
development of surveillance programs, training of laboratory staff, and providing a range
of advice and technical assistance. UNICEF was to support the communication
component, including designing communication materials, overseeing surveys to assess
impact, and carrying out the school education program. The Japan International
Cooperation Agency provided funds for the first communication survey.

Figure 1: Avian Influenza Risk Districts as of 2008




Source: Directorate of Animal Health

2.20 The project covered all of Nepal, and was implemented at the national, regional
and district level, though it concentrated on districts where avian influenza risk was
higher. Districts were classified by risk, based on proximity to the main source of likely
                                                  9


infection along the border with India and the number of poultry present, originally with
26 high risk districts, 18 medium risk districts, 31 low risk districts, and 6 wild bird zones
(Figure 1), and then redefined in 2011 to 20, 21, 34 and 8, respectively. Project resources
were allocated in part based on district risk profiles, particularly for surveillance.

MONITORING AND EVALUATION DESIGN

2.21 The M&E system was based heavily on the Global Program on Avian Influenza
blueprint. The nature of the project posed a number of inherent challenges for designing
and implementing an effective M&E system. The desired project outcomes (reduction in
risk from avian influenza outbreaks among poultry and level of preparedness for
pandemics) were largely unobservable, and the goal was an absence of harmful events
occurring. The project was complicated, with many different activities and outputs and a
complex results chain.

2.22 The framework in the original design suffered from a number of weaknesses. The
indicators focused primarily on achievement of outputs, rather than on intermediate or
final outcomes. The only outcome indicators were the absence of HPAI in poultry and
containment of outbreaks, and an indicator on behavioral change which was not specified
clearly.4 Consequently, there were no clear outcome targets. Output indicators recorded
completion of activities, but did little to capture the impact of those activities. Baselines
were provided, but were zero in nearly all cases. In many cases annual targets were
unrealistic, with 100% of the final target to be achieved in the first year of the project,
including the quality of laboratory results for BSL 3 laboratories that were unlikely to be
able to be completed until near the end of the project.

2.23 The framework assigned duties for collection to the Health and Livestock
Departments. While the project tracked the percent of surveillance sites that submitted
reports to the Epidemiology and Disease Control Division, the Epidemiology and Disease
Control Division of the Department of Health Services was not otherwise involved in the
M&E system. The epidemiological results of the surveillance system were not fed back
to the project management unit or used to influence project decision-making.

Relevance of Design
2.24 The project followed the broad design of the Global Program on Avian Influenza
template, combining animal health, human health and awareness raising components, and
addressing capacity weaknesses in Nepal. The design addressed several important
aspects of reducing the threat to humans from avian influenza, including surveillance,
diagnosis, quarantine, outbreak control, compensation, and pandemic preparedness. The
design recognized that the most effective means of reducing the risk of avian influenza to
humans is by controlling outbreaks in birds.

2.25 The project activities generally supported a logical causal chain for desired
outcomes. Animal health surveillance systems would identify any potential cases of

4
 The outcome indicator was ―Positive behavior change among poultry farmers, health workers, and general
population in terms of key aspects of knowledge, attitudes, and practices‖ (World Bank 2006).
                                                      10


avian influenza among birds, veterinary diagnostic laboratories would confirm the result,
and rapid response teams would conduct culling operations, which would prevent the
spread of disease and minimize the risk of human infection. Communication activities
would make people aware of the disease and would encourage people to change their
behavior, assisting in reporting of outbreaks and in reducing the risk of infection between
birds and from birds to humans. Human health surveillance and diagnostic activities
would improve the ability to detect cases of influenza among humans, either from direct
infection from poultry or for an influenza epidemic or pandemic. Training, supplies,
vaccine, antivirus, isolation wards, intensive care units, and pandemic planning would
help to respond to any outbreaks among humans and to mitigate the effects of the
outbreak.

2.26 However, there were some minor weaknesses in the project design. The design of
the animal health component was focused largely on identifying and containing
outbreaks, rather than on improving biosecurity measures which might reduce the
probability of an outbreak occurring. 5 Filling this gap in the design would have been an
important factor in achieving the objective to "minimize the threat posed to humans" by
avian influenza, but may have been difficult to achieve within the timeline of an
emergency project.

2.27 The project design included laboratory upgrades at regional veterinary
laboratories and a BSL 3 laboratory at the central veterinary laboratory that may not have
been needed to achieve the specific objective of avian influenza risk minimization. The
design of the quarantine support activities for border control were unlikely to contribute
to achieving the objective, given Nepal’s long and porous border.

2.28     The Relevance of Design is rated Substantial.


3. Implementation
3.1     Responding to the perceived global emergency of avian influenza, the project was
prepared under the Bank’s emergency guidelines (OP/BP 8.50). However, project
preparation was not particularly rapid, with the concept review in March 2006 and project
approval in January 2007. The project was quick to reach official effectiveness in March
2007, but progress was slow until after the midterm review in July 2009. Though the
project was restructured twice (in March 2010 and in January 2011) to cancel the BSL 3
laboratories and to shift resources from the human health component to the animal health
component following avian influenza outbreaks in 2010, the project closed on time in
July 2011. The project was financed entirely by an IDA grant of Special Drawing Rights

5
 Biosecurity could have been improved by encouraging the poultry sector to improve farm structures to
make it difficult for birds to enter or exit and by changing on-farm behavior, such as by increasing use of
disinfectant and by limiting access to poultry operations. Industry groups reported that poor biosecurity in
Nepal also contributes to chronic poultry production fatality rates in that are high relative to other countries.
Improving biosecurity through farmer training and education and successful piloting and demonstration of
better poultry structures and practices might pay for itself in improved poultry yields alone, even without
wider epidemiological benefits. Registering farms might also help as part of improving biosecurity.
                                                          11


SDR 12.10 million (US$18.2 million), of which SDR 10.14 million (US$ 15.92 million)
was disbursed by project closure and the remainder was cancelled. The government
provided some additional resources to fund compensation payments to farmers, but this
was not formally included as a borrower contribution. No other borrower contribution
was planned or received.

Planned vs. Actual Expenditure by Component
3.2     At project closure, total expenditure stood at US$15.6 million, about 14 percent
less than the appraisal estimate of $18.2 million. The main reason for this is from the
partial cancellation of the BSL 3 laboratories.

Table 2: Project cost by component
       Component                 Appraisal Estimate            Actual Expenditure   Percentage of
                                   (US$ million)                 (US$ million)      Appraisal (%)
 Animal Health                          6.12                          5.78               94.4
 Human Health                           6.34                          5.93               93.5
 Public Awareness                       1.65                          2.26              136.9
 and Information
 Implementation                            1.72                       1.95             113.3
 Support and M&E
 Physical                                  0.79                        0                  -
 Contingencies
 Price Contingencies                       1.58                        0                 -
 Total Project Cost                        18.2                      15.92              87.4
Source: World Bank operations portal accessed June 2011


Implementation Experience
3.3     Project implementation was very slow early on. The full set of core project staff
positions were not filled and little progress was made on acquiring basic outbreak
response supplies until early 2008, roughly a year after project effectiveness.
No procurement was completed until more than 8 months after project effectiveness.
Only 34 percent of the grant had been disbursed by midterm review in July 2009, and
only 50 percent had been disbursed by May 2010, 14 months prior to closure.

3.4    Another reason for delay was the difficulty in reaching a working implementation
agreement with the United Nations agencies (WHO, FAO, UNICEF). An agreement
between the parties was not signed until November 2007, and operational support was not
fully mobilized until mid 2008.

3.5      Outbreaks of avian influenza were detected in Nepal in January 2009 in Jhapa
district. Additional outbreaks of avian influenza occurred in 2010-2013, for a total of 56
                                                      12


recorded outbreaks across 81 sites as of May 2013 (Figure 2). Outbreaks show a highly
seasonal pattern, with nearly all outbreaks occurring in January and February.6

3.6      At the midterm review in July 2009 and in consultation with the Government and
with FAO and WHO, the BSL 3 laboratories were dropped due to concerns about cost
(the two labs had been budgeted at US$1.85 million, but after a design was created the
cost estimates had been revised to $3.4 million), cost effectiveness, capacity utilization,
maintenance costs, power supply, and ability to complete works before project closure
(Annex B4). Following this, the project was restructured, and funds originally intended
for the BSL 3 laboratories were reallocated to additional upgrades at BSL 2 laboratories.
In total, 87.4 percent of the loan was disbursed.

    Figure 2: Number of Birds Culled and Project Timeline




Source: Directorate of Animal Health, February 2013

3.7     Another change in the project was the decision to not undertake vaccination of
poultry as had been originally planned. The change was based on evidence from
Indonesia - where vaccination had not been effective - and because of a shifting
consensus in international expert opinion. This decision had widespread support from
veterinarians and animal health experts including from FAO. Experts worried that once
vaccination was started it would be difficult to stop, that vaccination could hide reservoirs

6
  Government officials and private sector groups reported that poultry farmers have responded to this
pattern, with chicken prices rising during these months due to a reduction in supply as farmers reduce their
stock during winter so as to reduce their vulnerability.
                                              13


of the virus and make it more difficult to eradicate (World Organization for Animal
Health 2007), and that Nepal did not have the veterinary health infrastructure to be able
to distribute vaccine effectively even if they had wanted to do so. Vaccination can have
limited effectiveness in reducing the risk of disease outbreaks because there are a number
of strains of HPAI present that are changing, so investments in strain specific vaccines
may become obsolete. The cost of vaccination would also be very high, and only large
commercial farmers would have been able to afford to vaccinate. The project also
adjusted the support for the animal quarantine service, to focus on internal offices rather
than border checkpoints.

IMPLEMENTATION OF MONITORING AND EVALUATION

3.8     The implementing agencies faced significant capacity constraints in implementing
M&E, particularly on the animal health side, where the agencies were unfamiliar with
World Bank requirements and had little experience in implementing M&E systems.
There was no M&E specialist in the project management unit. Data collection and
reporting was weak - neither the animal health nor human health agencies reported on
outcome or intermediate output indicators until after the mid-term review. At
restructuring, 15 of the 18 intermediate output indictors were revised, clarified or
dropped. After this, reporting improved, but there was no systematic tracking of outcome
indicators or outputs until the end of the project.

3.9     The impact of the Communications campaign was assessed through two
knowledge, attitude and practice surveys of district managers, farmers and children
conducted by UNICEF in 2007 and 2010/11. The surveys assessed awareness and
behavioral knowledge in target districts where the communication campaign was carried
out and in control districts. The survey reports were somewhat difficult to interpret as
they did not report differential results across different target groups, limiting the ability to
use the responses to inform targeting strategies. The surveys also focused on the avian
influenza communication messages, and not on the influenza pandemic messages
disseminated in 2010.

SAFEGUARDS COMPLIANCE

3.10 The project was assigned environmental category B under OP 4.01 Environmental
Assessment, mainly due to the need for safe disposal of carcasses from culling operations
and for management of medical and veterinary laboratory wastes. No other safeguards
were triggered. The Department of Livestock Services prepared an Environmental
Management Plan and standard operating procedures, covering waste management and
safe handling of chemicals. The plan called for bird carcasses from culling operations to
be wrapped in plastic bags and then buried in disposal pits, along with eggs, meat and
feed from the affected farms. Lime and antiseptic would be used to treat the pits, the
killing zone and the surrounding area. The operating procedures included guidelines for
keeping disposal pits away from surface water used for drinking, and for a 3 month delay
in use for affected areas (for example poultry houses where potentially infected birds had
lived were to be kept unused for 3 months). The Department of Health Services used a
waste management plan developed for a separate Bank health sector project.
                                             14


3.11 While there are no reports of breaches of the plans, little evidence is available on
the extent to which the plan was followed. The Animal Health Directorate in the
Department of Livestock Services reported that the environmental plans were realistic
and that good practice was followed. Groundwater quality tests were discussed, but have
not been undertaken. During the outbreak in Pokhara in 2010, the district avian influenza
technical committee promised a community near the disposal pit that their main access
road would be rehabilitated, but this has not occurred.

3.12 The IEG mission visited five farm sites in Kathmandu valley and near Pokhara
where culling had taken place. At each site, pits had been dug and carcasses, eggs, and
feed had been buried with lime. Where possible, pit sites were kept away from water
sources but the pits were usually placed on the farmer’s land or land nearby, which meant
there was little ability to select appropriate sites. In some cases it appeared there could be
some risk of water contamination, and there was some risk that farmers would grow
crops on land where carcasses has been buried. However, avoiding these risks would
have been difficult without transporting carcasses elsewhere, which would have posed an
additional biosafety hazard. The Central Veterinary Laboratory is equipped with an
incinerator, but does not have sufficient funds for fuel to run the incinerator, and so often
uses a biological disposal pit instead.

3.13 Although there was no formal trigger of social safeguards, many farmers were
adversely affected by culling. Security services accompanied animal health staff on
culling operations, and there were some reports of protests and opposition by farmers to
having their birds culled.

FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND PROCUREMENT

3.14 Both financial management and procurement were weak, leading to significant
delays in project implementation. Bank supervision reports regularly noted weaknesses
in these areas and assigned unsatisfactory or moderately unsatisfactory ratings. A
mismatch developed between expenditure and disbursements because of delays in
reconciliation at the central level. Financial statements were regularly delayed (only 40
percent of annual and trimester reports were prepared and submitted on time), and audits
were qualified and noted accountability issues. In 2009, disbursement had to be
temporarily suspended due to delayed submissions of audited accounts.

3.15 Weaknesses in financial management and procurement were driven largely by
limited staff capacity in the project management unit and high staff turnover. Some
additional complications came from working with United Nations agencies, as UN
agencies in Nepal had not previously worked on Bank projects and so were unfamiliar
with Bank procedures. The project management unit also had difficulties with
incorporating UN agency activities into their reporting.

3.16 The Bank made repeated efforts to train financial management staff, but high staff
turnover limited the impact of these efforts. A paperless accounting system was
introduced, but this was difficult to manage in a country where power supply and internet
access are very unreliable. Many staff in implementing agencies were used to paper
accounting systems and lacked the skills to use electronic systems.
                                             15


3.17 Procurement capacity was weak, particularly on the human health side, leading to
significant disbursement lags. The emergency response nature of the project design
meant that the procurement plan was front-loaded, which exacerbated weak procurement
capacities. Procurement experts reported that engaging a procurement specialist early in
the project may have assisted in getting procurement underway earlier in the project.

3.18 Procurement for laboratory equipment had overly specific requirements for
particular models, which shut out potential bidders and lead to only a single supplier
qualifying. Complaints from bidders led to investigations by the Bank’s Department of
Institutional Integrity as well as Nepal's Commission for the Investigation of Abuse of
Authority. The case was cleared, but a new tender was issued with less detailed
specifications, and this led to delays in commissioning veterinary laboratories.


4. Achievement of the Objectives
Minimize the threat in Nepal posed to humans by Highly Pathogenic
Avian Influenza infection by controlling such infections among birds,
especially domestic poultry
4.1     A number of avian influenza planning steps were carried out by the government
prior to project approval. Avian influenza preparedness plans were developed and
endorsed, in consultation with the Bank and other stakeholders. Some programs were
also carried out with support from other donors: a USAID program improving logistics
and supply including of some medical equipment, and WHO and FAO provided some
laboratory equipment and technical assistance outside of the project which was
peripherally related to project objectives. But in most cases, the level of capacity prior to
the project was very low, and improvements that occurred were largely attributable to the
project.

OUTPUTS

4.2     Surveillance. The project established surveillance systems for avian influenza
(Annex B3), conducting both active surveillance (samples collected proactively by
veterinary service staff from commercial and backyard poultry farms and live bird
markets) and passive surveillance (samples collected based on reports from farmers,
communities, CSOs and others). A training program for identifying and reporting avian
influenza outbreaks covered both professional surveyors employed by the district
livestock offices for the active surveillance (332 surveyors were trained across high risk
and medium risk districts) and poultry, associations, community organizations, wildlife
officials, NGO participatory groups, and volunteer village animal health workers for
passive surveillance (18,805 were trained). Six regional mobile surveillance supervision
teams were trained, as were 30 people across six emergency surveillance and disease
diagnostic teams, attached to the regional veterinary laboratories. During the course of
the project, 50,000 samples were collected and tested.
                                             16


4.3     The project also supported establishment of an animal disease information system
sharing data between the Directorate of Animal Health, the Livestock Service Training
and Extension Directorate, the Veterinary Epidemiology Center, and five regional
directorates. An electronic Transboundary Animal Disease system was established to
support epidemiological capacity, but the system is not yet well integrated into regular
operations due to some difficulties in adopting the software.

4.4    Diagnosis. The project supported significant upgrades to the diagnostic system by
providing training, equipment and civil works to the Central Veterinary Laboratory, the
National Avian Disease Investigation Laboratory, and the 6 Regional Veterinary
Laboratories (Annex B3).

4.5     New laboratory structures were constructed at several laboratories, and civil
works were done to expand laboratory space and to improve biosecurity by adding
laboratory partitions and constructing improved autopsy facilities. All laboratories were
operational as of project closure, but some of the civil works had not been completed or
were not being used (Annex B6 c, e, g). 15 veterinary laboratory scientists and 17
technicians were trained in use of equipment and diagnostic techniques, but many had
been transferred by the time of the IEG mission in February 2013 and were no longer
conducting laboratory work. Under the procedures of the diagnostic policies, only the
Central Veterinary Laboratory was conducting laboratory tests for avian influenza (using
conventional polymerase chain reaction technology) - other laboratories were only using
simple rapid test kits, which did not require the equipment or facilities supplied by the
project. In some cases these equipment or facilities were being used to assist in diagnosis
for animal diseases other than avian influenza.

4.6     The laboratories also face erratic power supply, and are affected by load shedding
policies which can cut off power for 12-14 hours a day. Laboratories all have on-site
diesel generators, but these generators are very expensive for the laboratories to run (and
budgets for fuel are often not sufficient), and in some cases generators do not have
sufficient capacity to allow full operation of the laboratory. There are ongoing issues
with maintenance, and the laboratories lack the expertise or funds to maintain equipment.

4.7     Outbreak containment and compensation. The project supported development
of standard operating procedures on containment of diagnosed outbreaks through culling
of infected and potentially exposed poultry. A Bird Flu Control Order (under powers
established by the National Disaster Management Act) was established and the order was
endorsed by the cabinet in 2007. The order requires international confirmation of highly
pathogenic avian influenza and cabinet level approval before culling occurs for the first
outbreak. Once an outbreak is identified (Annex B3), rapid response teams would
immediately proceed to the infected farm and secure the poultry premises. The following
day all birds on the farm (and sometimes other farms nearby) would be culled and eggs,
feed and any meat on the premises would be destroyed and buried in disposal pits.

4.8     The project supported training to build capacity to implement containment
policies: a total of 5,137 veterinarians, para-vets, poultry owners and technicians in all 26
                                                  17


high risk districts were trained in avian influenza control and biosecurity measures.7
Seventy five rapid response teams (one per district) were established by the end of 2008,
and an additional 150 rapid response teams in high risk districts were trained by project
closure. The number of people trained significantly exceeded project targets. The
project also supplied personal protective equipment, and the training programs covered
use of this equipment. Response teams conducted both tabletop and field simulation
exercises. Animal health staff interviewed by IEG reported that these exercises were a
useful means familiarizing staff with protective equipment and operating procedures.
They also reported that exercises conducted by people who had participated in culling
operations were a useful way of transferring knowledge to those who had not.

4.9     Farmers received compensation for birds culled by government officials (Box 1).
The established compensation rules appear to have been implemented as designed, and
nearly all farmers received compensation within the target period (one week for backyard
farms and 35 days for commercial farmers). However, aggregate documentation is not
available on the amount of compensation paid to each farmer. The main problem with
the compensation system is that the compensation rate has not increased commensurately
with the rising market price of poultry, so the effective rate of compensation is very low -
farmers interviewed by IEG reported receiving compensation equal to roughly 20 percent
of their input costs. Government officials and veterinary experts interviewed by IEG
reported that the low rate of compensation inhibits disease reporting, which could
potentially increase the risk of disease spread.

4.10 The IEG mission received mixed reports across districts on the level of
cooperation between animal health and human health officials during outbreaks. Human
health officials usually accompanied rapid respond teams during culling operations. In
the week after an outbreak, human health officials would visit people who could have
come into contact with infected birds. Samples were taken from people at sites who
reported influenza symptoms and were tested at the national public health laboratory.
Only 20 samples were collected since 2009, and none were positive for avian influenza.

4.11 Communications and awareness. The communication program was launched in
March 2008, and aimed to increase awareness of avian influenza and to change behavior
so as to reduce the risk of disease transmission from animals to humans or between
humans. This was the first communications program in Nepal conducted jointly between
Agriculture and Health ministries. The program produced 400,000 posters and
pamphlets, 1,600 toolkits, radio messages in all 26 high-risk districts and television
messages. It also worked indirectly by conducting training programs for 3,300 poultry
farmers, and members of CSOs and NGOs in 8 districts, who then conducted community-
based communication programs with messages on poultry (such as on not touching dead
birds, and not importing birds during outbreaks). The project also conducted media
training with 750 spokespeople. Government officials interviewed by IEG reported that
they believed that conducting media contact through trained spokespeople as much as
possible helped to ensure that accurate messages were disseminated and reduced the risk

7
 The training included nearly all of the roughly 200 government employed veterinarians, and many private
veterinarians. There are roughly 700 veterinarians registered in Nepal, but many of those work in other
countries and no longer practice in Nepal.
                                                            18


of panic. The training programs surpassed their targets for the number of people trained
across nearly all categories.

Box 1: Strengths and weaknesses of the compensation mechanism in Nepal
The project established a mechanism for compensating farmers whose birds were culled by government officials during
culling operations to encourage reporting of avian influenza outbreaks. The project provided US$100,000 for
compensation payments. After this was used, the Government provided an additional 5.1 million Rupees in FY
2011/12 and 5 million Rupees in FY 2012/13, or roughly $60,000 per year.

Despite the project’s appraisal document calling for ―principles of transparency, community involvement, an d ex ante /
ex post checks‖ in the design of the compensation system (World Bank 2006), the mechanism as implemented did not
incorporate these features. The rules for compensation were published, but the individual compensation payments were
not.

The main problem with the mechanism is the low rate of compensation. The initial rate paid was 100 Nepali Rupees
per bird, which covered roughly half the average market value of a chicken in 2007.a However, the mechanism did not
establish a system for regularly revising the rate (changes in the compensation rate had to be approved by the Cabinet),
and Nepal has experienced both high inflation and rising real poultry prices. The rate was adjusted twice in an ad hoc
fashion to a total of 130 Rupees by 2012, but this still led to payments of less than half of market value. The effective
rate could be even lower, as no compensation was paid for birds that died after a report was made but before culling
was conducted.

The IEG mission found widespread agreement from government officials, partner agencies, poultry farmers and other
stakeholders that the rate was insufficient to encourage disease reporting. Farmers had incentives to delay or avoid
reporting bird deaths - and to try to sell their birds immediately, risking disease spread- rather than to report and risk
having their entire stock culled. Consequently, most reporting comes from government officials or from community
level surveillance, with relatively little self-reporting by farmers (and then usually when the number of bird deaths is
severe and so the outbreak is advanced). At affected farms visited by IEG, 5-7 days elapsed between outbreak
reporting and culling. Farmers interviewed by IEG reported that compensation payments represented roughly 20
percent of their total cost of inputs. Many farmers reported that they would be unable to restock.

Another potential weakness is that the system does not distinguish between birds by age or species. The market price
of ducks is at least five times the value of chickens, and so reportedly this led to farmers selling ducks quickly rather
than reporting outbreaks.b

Given the budget crisis, there is unlikely to be a significant rate increase in the short term. The sums involved at
present are not large (roughly $60,000 per year), but government expressed concerns about increasing the rate and
establishing an expectation of higher payouts which might not be met if outbreaks turned out to be worse than feared.
If government were unable to pay promised payments, this could undermine confidence in the system. The IEG
mission heard some suggestions for making it possible to increase the rate. c

a. Some compensation was also paid out for eggs and feed destroyed during culling operations, and a higher rate was
available for imported parent stock if the import documentation could be provided.
b. However, a system where compensation rates varied by age of bird might require more complicated auditing and
might be slower to pay out compensation.
c. One suggestion was to create an industry levy, where poultry farmers would contribute to a compensation fund based
on the number of birds they owned. Small farmers interviewed thought this could help, but worried that influential
large commercial farmers would avoid the fee. A second possibility was to capitalize a fund from donor support. A
third possibility was to establish an in-kind compensation mechanism, where farmers whose birds were culled would
receive a free chick for each bird killed, provided three months later once the biohazard risk had declined.
Source: IEG, World Bank (2006), World Bank (2012), Department of Livestock Services

4.12 UNICEF assisted (using project funds) in designing the communications plan and
in producing prototype materials, working closely with the National Health Education
Information Communication Center under the Ministry of Health. The baseline survey
for assessing avian influenza awareness was funded by the Japan International
Cooperation Agency in 2007, which was important in allowing the survey to be carried
                                                     19


out early on.8 Later Knowledge, Attitude and Practice surveys were conducted in 2010-
11 using project funds.

4.13 As the communications program was being implemented, designers realized that
their campaign was lacking the ability to reach backyard farmers and rural communities.
There were not sufficient resources for an intensive community-based program, and so
instead the project supported a community based school education program from 2008-
11. The program was implemented by UNICEF, and focused on improving hand
washing in eight high risk districts. It trained 180,000 students at 3,000 schools in these
districts. It also trained 800 people across 64 civil society organizations in hand washing,
avian influenza prevention, and risk communication. No avian influenza outbreaks have
been reported in these districts to date.

4.14 Quarantine services. Following World Organization for Animal Health
guidance, the Animal Quarantine Office bans importation of poultry and poultry products
from countries following outbreaks, including from India. It also conducts inspection of
imported poultry at border and internal checkposts. The project aimed to reduce the risk
of importing diseased poultry by increasing the capacity of the office. Prior to the
project, quarantine checkposts had no vehicles and so were very limited in their ability to
operate and had no ability to take, store or transport samples. The project provided 22
motorbikes, fuel, rapid diagnostic test kits, training, some civil works, and refrigeration
units for storing samples. The Quarantine Office also conducted an awareness raising
program with villages along the border, raising awareness of avian influenza,
communicating risks, and encouraging community surveillance and reporting of animal
deaths or breaches of the importation ban. But this was done out of their own budgets,
with little project support. However, the project did support training of 278 traders and
farmers by quarantine officers.

OUTCOMES

4.15 The project established a system for identifying and containing outbreaks, and so
likely reducing the spread of the disease. Baseline levels of capacity were extremely low.
Given government budget constraints, it is plausible that many project activities would
not have been carried out without the project, or would not have commenced until after
avian influenza outbreaks had begun.

4.16 During the project, 10 avian influenza outbreaks were detected, diagnosed and
controlled through culling operations. Since project closure, an additional 46 outbreaks
have similarly been identified and contained as of May 2013.9 Outbreaks have occurred
on all types of farms, including small backyard operations and large commercial farms.

8
  The project would have had difficulty in conducting the baseline survey with UNICEF support in 2007
due to the difficulties in reaching a coordinating agreement between the Government, the World Bank and
the United Nations agencies.
9
  Note that the definition of an outbreak changed after the project. Initially, multiple infected farms in a
district were identified as separate outbreaks, but the definition was changed in 2012 to follow international
best practice and identify multiple infected farms near each other as a single outbreak. The 56 outbreaks
identified and controlled as of May 2013 represent 81 separate sites.
                                                    20


Controlling the disease among poultry also serves to reduce the risk of human infection.
No human cases of avian influenza have been observed. The fact that outbreaks have
recurred (and that the pace of outbreaks has increased) does not necessarily indicate that
control efforts were ineffective. It may well have been impossible to prevent some new
outbreaks from occurring, given disease reservoirs present in wild birds and in
neighboring countries.

4.17 An FAO assessment of the project noted that the inputs of the project have clearly
enhanced capacity to minimize threats posed by highly pathogenic avian influenza and to
detect, diagnose and respond effectively and in a timely fashion to outbreaks when they
occur (Williams 2011). Following successful control of the Jhapa outbreaks, the crisis
management center of the FAO assessed the performance at the request of the department
of livestock services, and found that international standards had been followed.

4.18 The surveillance system is functioning, though reporting rates from commercial
farmers are low – much of the reporting is from the community surveillance network.

4.19 Diagnostic tests from the Central Veterinary Laboratory for samples retested in
World Organization for Animal Health laboratories have been 99 percent accurate.
Regional veterinary laboratories have not been evaluated, but the rapid test kit technology
used in the laboratories is known to sometimes give false readings. Regional veterinary
laboratories are not conducting diagnostic testing beyond the use of simple test kits.
They do not have a formal mandate to conduct such tests – the established doctrine has
the Central Veterinary Laboratory do all laboratory tests for highly pathogenic avian
influenza. Even were it not for this policy, in many cases the regional laboratories have
the equipment but lack the staff capacity to conduct diagnostic tests because staff who
were trained have been transferred.

4.20 Culling operations were generally carried out promptly, but there were some
delays because of the time taken for international confirmation and because of the need
for cabinet level approval for new outbreaks. In some cases it could take up to two weeks
between reporting and culling operations, by which time the virus could easily have
spread. Some experts reported that this delay could be reduced if the authority to cull
was delegated to a sub-cabinet level, possibly to the Secretary of the Ministry of
Agriculture.

4.21 The communications campaign was assessed though a baseline survey conducted
in early 2008, and final surveys conducted between late 2010 and early 2011. Increases
in awareness and in reported behavior were considerably higher in districts where
communications programs were carried out than where they were not and considerably
higher than baseline levels.10



10
  For example, in the areas with the communication intervention, 93.5 percent of schoolchildren reported
washing their hands after sneezing compared to 16.2 percent at baseline. Equivalent figures of 94.2 percent
relative to 55.4 percent were reported for washing hands after touching birds. Household members
reported washing their hands after touching birds 90 percent of the time in intervention districts, as
compared to 44 percent in control districts.
                                                   21


4.22 Neupane and others (2012) report the results of a questionnaire and interviews
conducted with 96 poultry workers in April 2009, after the project's communication
activities had started and after the first outbreaks had occurred in Nepal. They report that
97 percent of poultry workers were aware that avian influenza outbreaks had occurred in
Nepal, 100 percent reported that they washed their hands with soap and water, but only a
modest proportion reported they took other precautions such as using face masks, gloves,
or washing and disinfecting surfaces and utensils (27 percent to 41 percent).

4.23 Poultry farmers interviewed by IEG reported that they had heard about avian
influenza, but did not know how to identify it, or of safety measures they could take to
reduce risks. But they were aware of the risk and supported culling operations to control
the spread of disease.11

4.24 Though there was a dramatic drop in poultry prices in Nepal after the first avian
influenza outbreak in India, there were no major price drops after outbreaks in Nepal.
There is no evidence on whether the communication campaign contributed to this.

4.25 There is also no evidence that support for quarantine services had any impact on
disease spread. The long and porous borders of Nepal make interdiction of infected
poultry imports very difficult.12 The Animal Quarantine Office has few resources, and
the contribution of the project was too small to make much difference. An FAO
evaluation (Williams 2011) noted that the support for border control was based on
unproven assumptions, and that no impact has been demonstrated. No samples collected
by quarantine officers tested positive for avian influenza. In IEG interviews it was
reported that importation bans may have the effect of encouraging poultry importers to
avoid quarantine checkpoints during periods when a ban is in place, and thus miss the
possibility of visual inspection. The awareness program might have had some impact on
improving surveillance from villages along the border, but the program was not assessed.

4.26 Overall, the efficacy of the project in contributing to achievement of this objective
is rated Substantial.

Prepare for, control and respond to possible human infections,
especially an influenza epidemic and related emergencies
4.27 Prior to the project, there was very little in the way of pandemic planning or
preparedness. There was no active surveillance program for influenza, and passive
surveillance was minimal and intermittent. There was no capacity to identify strains of
influenza, and samples were sent to Hong Kong for testing. There were other sources of
investment in the Nepali health sector, including for laboratory equipment and protective
equipment, but the project was the main contributor specifically for influenza in recent
years.


11
  The IEG mission picked up some anecdotal evidence of awareness: in areas where there had been an
outbreak, locals on the street were able to provide directions to ―the farm that had the bird flu‖.
12
  Technical experts interviewed by IEG reported that a more efficient approach would be to focus on
providing visual inspection of birds at a handful of highway bottlenecks.
                                                    22


OUTPUTS

4.28 Preparedness and response capacity. The project produced operational
guidance on laboratory practice, clinical case management, surveillance, risk
communication, infection control and community/home-based case management. Health
experts reported that sample collection and outbreak response policies are followed, but
infection prevention and risk communication policies are not widely followed.

4.29 Pandemic preparedness plans were established at the national, regional and
district level. The plans identified the responsibilities of the various parties (including
which hospitals would receive patients in an emergency), and outlined plans for how to
handle massive numbers of cases (such as identifying schools and other public buildings
as emergency wards). However, these plans have not yet been formally updated after the
experience of the 2009-10 pandemic. 2,500 sets of personal protective equipment were
purchased and distributed (and an additional 2,250 per provided by a separate USAID
project). 377 health workers were trained on influenza case management and infection
control.

4.30 A total of 4,300 doses of antiviral pharmaceuticals (Tamiflu) were provided by
July 2010, and an additional 2,000 doses were procured in 2011 to replace doses
consumed. These doses were administered as a preventative measure to some public
health care workers during the 2009-10 influenza pandemic and to rapid response teams
during culling operations, as well as for treatment of people exhibiting symptoms of
influenza-like-illnesses near avian influenza outbreak sites and for some patients at
regional hospitals who developed pneumonia during the pandemic. Antivirals were not
available to district health offices during the pandemic.

4.31 Simple isolation wards were established at nine medical facilities. Equipment and
some civil works for four more sophisticated facilities with ventilators and other
equipment were established at the Shukraraj Tropical Infectious Disease Hospital in
Kathmandu and three other referral hospitals in Dharan, Bharatpur and Nepalganj. Nine
sets of ventilators were supplied by the project, which was not enough to fully outfit any
of these facilities.13 The isolation ward at the Shukraraj hospital is not operational
(Annex B6 h). Not only does it not have enough equipment or staff, but there is
insufficient power supply to operate the facility and there is no ramp or elevator to allow
patient access to the ward, located upstairs.14 The Bharatpur and Nepalganj facilities are
reportedly operational, but lack reliable power supply and have staff shortages (World
Bank 2012).

4.32 Five intensive care units were established at designated response hospitals.
Though these units were not in place in time for the 2009-10 pandemic, at least some of



13
 For example, a 6 bed facility in Nepalganj received two sets of equipment, and the 20 bed facility in
Kathmandu received 3 sets of equipment.
14
  An additional 5 sets of equipment are to be provided under the Zoonoses Control Project, but even after
this effort the facility will not be operational because of the power supply and access issues.
                                                     23


the units are in use for patients with a variety of medical problems. However, some of
the equipment provided remains non-functional.15

4.33 During the 2009-10 pandemic, incoming passengers at the international airport in
Kathmandu were screened, and 30-35 cases were identified. These patients were treated
at a very basic pre-existing isolation ward at the Shukraraj Tropical Infectious Disease
Hospital.

4.34 Influenza Surveillance. 423 medical professionals were trained in influenza
surveillance techniques and formed into rapid response teams.

4.35 The pre-existing Early Warning and Response System for surveillance of a range
of infectious diseases was expanded from 28 sites to 35 sites, of which 32 submit
surveillance reports. An operating procedure was established: if 5 or more people report
influenza-like-illness symptoms in a cluster, then results are reported to the Epidemiology
and Disease Control Division of the Department of Health Services and an investigation
is triggered. But according to the National Public Health Laboratory, reporting from this
system is still very intermittent, and most clinicians do not report data.

4.36 An active surveillance system of 10 sentinel sites for influenza was established.
These sites take samples from individuals presenting symptoms of influenza-like illnesses
and transport them to laboratories for testing. Six sites sent samples to the National
Public Health Laboratory, while four sent samples to the (non-project-supported) Walter
Reed Research Unit Nepal. However, a lack of staff capacity means that only a modest
amount of epidemiological analysis can be conducted using data generated by the
surveillance program.

4.37 Diagnostic capacity. The BSL 2 National Influenza Center at the National
Public Health Laboratory in Kathmandu was established under support from the WHO
and the government of Nepal, and was strengthened through support from the project.
The project provided some equipment and consumable supplies to enhance diagnostic
capacity. The laboratory can conduct influenza diagnostic tests using real time
polymerase chain reaction technology due to this equipment and support from other
donors including WHO (Annex B6 f). 16 The project planned to support training of
technicians, but this was not carried out during the project. The system takes 3-7 days for
samples to reach Kathmandu depending on the origin, for a total of 7-10 days for a
diagnosis to be received national public health laboratory. International retesting of
samples takes up to 15 days, including sample transport.

4.38 Though the full upgrade to BSL 3 was cancelled, the project also funded
construction of a BSL 2+ laboratory at an adjacent building at the National Public Health
Laboratory (Annex B4, Annex B6 g). This facility is of a much higher standard than

15
  A WHO audit of equipment supplied to the Western Regional Hospital in Pokhara in 2011 indicated that
most equipment supplied was not operational. IEG could not confirm the status of equipment for other
facilities, but the project staff reported they were operational.
16
  The project support also assisted in increasing diagnostic capacity for other diseases including rubella,
cholera, and salmonella.
                                                     24


other laboratories in Nepal, and the structure itself could be upgraded to BSL 3,
reportedly at a cost of roughly US$100,000.17 However, equipping the laboratory and
upgrading the power supply would require significant investment, and there would be
expensive maintenance and staffing costs.

OUTCOMES

4.39 No human infections of highly pathogenic avian influenza have been identified in
Nepal to date. It is not possible to assess whether there would have been human cases in
the absence of the project.

4.40 The quality of the diagnostic tests at the National Public Health Laboratory was
assessed by the WHO in Hong Kong. WHO sends 10 samples to the lab twice a year for
testing; the most recent assessment had 100 percent accuracy.

4.41 The 2009-10 H1N1 influenza pandemic (of a non-avian influenza strain) spread to
Nepal, and preventing its entry into the country through border controls and travel
restrictions would have been difficult.18 The passive surveillance system did not detect
early cases but it did detect the upswing in influenza as the pandemic strain became
established in Nepal. The BSL 2 laboratory at the National Influenza Center at the
National Public Health Laboratory is operational and was used extensively during the
pandemic for diagnostic testing, though much of this is due to WHO support. However,
the project-supported isolation wards, intensive care units, and active surveillance system
were not in place by the time of the pandemic.

4.42 The Ministry of Health estimated that airport screening of international arrivals
and isolation of people who tested positive for pandemic influenza delayed the course of
pandemic in Nepal by one month. But the public health benefits from this delay were
modest. They allowed time for additional preparations to be taken, particularly an
adjustment of the communications program to do social mobilization and public
education about pandemic influenza. But there was no vaccination campaign19, and so
delaying the outbreak likely had little impact on the overall number of people infected.
Even if vaccine had been available in time, the health system infrastructure would have
struggled to vaccinate the population quickly.

4.43 During the pandemic, three deaths were attributed to the H1N1 influenza strain, of
200 people who were diagnosed and hospitalized. Given that more than 10 percent of the



17
  A 2012 WHO evaluation of the physical structure of the newly constructed facility (Mourya 2012)
reported that the facility met and in general exceeded BSL-2 standards, and are close to the requirements
for a BSL 3 facility. It also outlined the necessary steps needed to make the facility BSL 3.
18
  The epidemiological literature on pandemics demonstrates that it is extremely difficult to prevent a
pandemic from spreading to a country through travel restrictions or other border controls (see for example
Epstein and others 2007).
19
  Vaccine was not made available to Nepal until it was arguably too late to make much difference, and
public health officials reported that the vaccine donation was declined in part because the vaccine offered
was an early version that European countries had decided not to use.
                                             25


population was infected in most countries, the identified cases represent only a very small
proportion of the likely number of people infected.

4.44   Overall, the project’s contribution to this objective is rated Modest.


5. Efficiency
5.1     It is extremely difficult to calculate a meaningful economic rate of return for a
project such as this. Prospectively, it is hard to estimate the actual chance of outbreaks
occurring or their severity. Retrospectively, it is hard to put forward a credible
counterfactual. And little is known about the quantitative efficacy of avian influenza
response measures.

5.2     At closure, the project conducted an ex-post economic analysis that estimates
economic losses to the poultry industry if outbreaks had not been contained. The analysis
notes that 0.3 percent of the poultry population died from disease or culling during the
project period. It assumes that 17 percent of the poultry population would have been lost
had outbreaks not been contained (based on experience from Vietnam), and that
outbreaks would not have been contained had the project not been implemented. This
leads to an economic rate of return of 311 percent in the base scenario. The analysis also
notes unquantified benefits from prevented human cases of avian influenza. While it is
plausible that the project did indeed provide significant economic benefits, the
assumptions required to generate quantitative outcomes are highly speculative and are
impossible to verify.

5.3      In terms of efficient use of resources in project implementation, the project made
a number of decisions that improved efficiency over the course of the project. The
project improved efficiency of surveillance by dropping active surveillance of chickens,
as it is extremely unlikely that apparently healthy chickens be infected with HPAI
(Annex B3). The project improved the efficiency of culling policies in February 2010 by
moving from a rigid policy that required all poultry within 3.5 km of an outbreak site to
be culled to a more flexible policy, which required culling only at the site of the outbreak
and at other sites nearby based on the discretion of veterinary experts. This policy
revision had support from animal health experts, including FAO. The costs of culling
would have been severe had the original policy been left in place once outbreaks started
occurring in urban areas (Annex B6 b). The project dropped the original support for
vaccination of poultry, reckoning that vaccination would be too expensive, infeasible to
implement, and might increase the long term risk of disease by hampering surveillance.
The decision to shift support for the quarantine office away from the border improved
efficiency, since the border is highly porous and there is greater potential for an impact at
major transport hubs.

5.4     However, there were also a number of examples of inefficient use of project
resources. Arguably the project overinvested in equipment and civil works for
laboratories, outstripping the staffing capacity to use them and the demand for testing. At
several laboratories, there are newly constructed buildings or rooms that have no
equipment and are not in use. At others, there is equipment that is not used because of a
                                                  26


lack of staff capacity. Often this occurs because staff who were trained under the project
have since been transferred to non-laboratory positions. In some cases, facilities are of
little use due to relatively minor issues: expensive rooms and equipment are not used
because a poorly functioning air conditioner makes facilities too hot for laboratory work
in summer; equipment supplied can’t be used because of a lack of budget for generator
fuel, or because generators are in need of repair. A lack of reliable power supply limits
the kind of analysis that can be conducted because it means samples can’t be stored
appropriately at very low temperatures.

5.5     The decision to supply sophisticated equipment and civil works to Regional
Veterinary Laboratories was an inefficient way of contributing to the project objective of
avian influenza control because under the diagnostic policies in place, these labs use only
rapid diagnostic test kits for avian influenza – laboratory diagnostic tests are conducted
only at the Central Veterinary Laboratory (Annex B3, Annex B6 d).20

5.6      On the human health side, considerable expenditures were made but many
facilities supported by the project were not fully operational. Isolation wards were under-
equipped, under-staffed, or were never completed. Some equipment for intensive care
units remains non operational or took years to become operational. An expensive BSL2+
laboratory (almost BSL 3) remains unused, and lacks staff, equipment, and sufficient
power supply.

5.7     The low compensation rate paid to farmers whose birds are culled potentially
inhibits or delays disease reporting and so could contribute to the risk of the spread of
disease. The expenditure on compensation is not large – roughly US$60,000 per year –
and so could be increased if this were a priority (Box 1).

5.8    Despite the emergency nature of the project, there were significant
implementation delays particularly in the first two years of the project. This was driven
by delays in staffing the project management unit, by difficulties in establishing an
agreement with technical partner agencies, and by weaknesses in financial management
and procurement. It is fortunate that avian influenza outbreaks did not occur until 2009,
as capacity improvements may not have been in place in time to identify or assist had
outbreaks occurred earlier.

5.9     The efficiency of the project is rated Modest.


6. Ratings
Outcome
6.1     The Relevance of Objectives was Substantial, as avian influenza posed a
significant risk to Nepal at the time of appraisal, and outbreaks have occurred regularly
since 2009. The Relevance of Design was Substantial because it covered the main

20
  However, in some cases the equipment supplied to Regional Veterinary Laboratories is used for
diagnosing other animal diseases.
                                            27


principles needed for avian influenza control, as outlined by the Global Program on
Avian Influenza. However, the project design did little to address weak biosecurity on
poultry farms to prevent outbreaks.

6.2      The project made substantial improvements to the surveillance, diagnostic, and
outbreak response capacity for avian influenza, starting from a very low base. Outbreaks
are being successfully identified and contained. Achievement of minimizing the threat in
Nepal posed to humans and poultry by Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza infection is
rated Substantial. While the project made some improvements to surveillance and
diagnostic systems for influenza in humans and improved pandemic planning, many
facilities remain incomplete and compliance is variable. Achievement of preparing for,
controlling and responding to possible human infections, especially an influenza
epidemic and related emergencies, is rated Modest.

6.3      While the project is likely to have had significant economic benefits, economic
rate of return estimates are highly speculative because of the inherent difficulty in
identifying a counterfactual. Much of the project expenditure did not contribute to
achievement of objectives because of unused or incomplete equipment or facilities, and
there were significant project delays. Consequently, project efficiency is rated Modest.

6.4    Together, these lead to an overall outcome rating of Moderately Satisfactory.

Risk to Development Outcome
6.5     Outbreaks of avian influenza among poultry have continued after project closure,
and the Department of Livestock Services has continued to identify, diagnose, and
control these outbreaks. There is high commitment to this system in the Department of
Livestock Services and its Directorate of Animal Health and it is likely that this system
will continue to operate as long as sufficient resources are made available.

6.6     However, sustainability of many project achievements is in question primarily
due to a lack of budget and trained staff. In the near term, Nepal faces a budgetary crisis
because of the dissolution of the constituent assembly in June 2012. No budget was
passed for the current fiscal year, so expenditure in many departments has been limited to
one third of their normal budgets, which can cover basic salaries but with almost no
funding for operations. Political instability and uncertainty in Nepal threatens
sustainability. But these are systematic challenges to development in Nepal, and are not
specific to this project. Interviews with Bank staff indicate that the project has received
better government and budget support than most others in Nepal.

6.7     The government has continued to fund salaries for the project management unit to
support the follow-up Zoonoses Control Project. But many staff were transferred after
the project closed, making lines of responsibility for completing and maintaining project-
supported programs unclear. There is good ownership of the project by the Department
of Livestock Services and the Animal Health Directorate at the National, Regional and
District levels, but they face significant budget constraints. Relatively limited
involvement of the private sector in the project means that there is little ownership of the
project by commercial poultry farmers.
                                                        28


6.8     Maintenance of project achievements is heavily reliant on support from donor
projects. Many activities are being sustained in the short term by the Bank financed
Zoonoses Control Project, but this short project is due to close in March 2014, and
sustainability beyond that is at risk. In the period between closure of the Avian Influenza
Control Project and commencement of the Zoonoses Control Project, funding for
training, surveillance, consumable goods and other expenses declined. For example, the
number of surveillance sites visited by the Department of Livestock Services was halved
after the project closed (and was restored under the Zoonoses Control Project). There are
no budgets for reagents for diagnostic tests on the animal health side, so the system is
very reliant on donations from the World Organization for Animal Health and the FAO.
Rapid diagnostic test kits supplied under the project are about to expire and there is no
budget for replacement.

6.9     The sustainability of many capacity improvements made under the project is
undermined by a system of rapid staff transfer, with many people changing jobs within 1-
2 years. Experts on Nepal report that this is common practice throughout the Nepali civil
service. Rapid staff transfer is particularly problematic with technical laboratory staff,
where transfers mean that those staff who trained under the project are moved (often to
non-laboratory positions), leaving no one who knows how to use, calibrate or maintain
the equipment.21 A lack of budget for regular staff training further contributes to staffing
problems. However, there has been some informal knowledge transfer from continued
operations conducted jointly between experienced staff and new staff, so institutional
knowledge is retained.

6.10 On the human health side, the 10 active surveillance sentinel sites for influenza
provided samples at some point after being established, but surveillance declined after the
project closed, with only four of the ten sites still submitting samples by the time of the
IEG mission in February 2013. The passive surveillance system is not submitting any
samples because clinicians do not collect them. Health experts reported that this is driven
in part by a lack of budget for continued training, by on a lack of incentives (as no
payment is made for sample collection), and by clinicians being overwhelmed by the
volume of patients in influenza season. WHO reports that human health reporting for a
range of infectious diseases improved during the project, but has since declined.

6.11 Without increases in the rate of compensation for culled birds (Box 1), self-
reporting may remain weak (particularly for commercial farmers).

6.12 Communications activities stopped at the end of the project, as there were no
additional funds to continue the program. Based on the perceived success of the project
communications program, a broader initiative focused on encouraging hand-washing
among children commenced in late 2011, as a public-private partnership funded by the
Ministry of Health, UNICEF, and private companies. But other communications
activities such as public service announcements have not been continued since project

21
  This is a particular problem on the animal health side, because there are no separate career tracks for
laboratory and field veterinary staff. Field positions are more prestigious, offer better opportunities for
additional income from private practice, and better access to scholarships and training, so capable
laboratory staff face strong incentives to transfer out of laboratory positions and retaining staff is difficult.
                                             29


closure. The community network of CSOs/NGOs is reportedly still functioning, but has
not been expanded beyond the 8 districts.

6.13 Coordination efforts have been difficult to sustain, and the level of priority
appears to be linked to the existence of a donor project. Regional and district technical
committees are still meeting in some areas, especially those that have had outbreaks, but
not in others. Coordination reportedly weakened after project closure, but improved after
commencement of the Zoonoses Control Project. The IEG mission received mixed
reports on whether interministerial cooperation at the national level had been sustained,
and whether the national technical committee continued to meet.

6.14   The Risk to Development Outcome is rated Significant.

Bank Performance
QUALITY AT ENTRY

6.15 The project followed the design of the Global Program on Avian Influenza. The
project activities would reduce the threat from avian influenza by improving the ability to
identify, contain and respond to outbreaks. It combined short-term emergency response
measures with investments in long term institutional capacity building. It included good
practice measures such as establishment of a compensation fund. But the project design
did little to address weaknesses in biosecurity, and so the probability of outbreaks
occurring. The project may have been more effective in supporting wider health sector
goals if the project had been designed to also support disease control beyond avian
influenza.

6.16 There was a tension between the use of the emergency response instrument and
the complicated procurement and civil works activities included in the project design that
might be difficult to complete within the short duration of an emergency project. These
complications led to implementation delays and difficulty in completing activities prior to
project closure.

6.17 There were a number of weaknesses in project design, but some of these would
not have been reasonably foreseeable given available information at the time. Expert
opinion on vaccination policy, design of active surveillance programs, and quarantine
systems has evolved, so the original design of these elements does not represent poor
quality at entry. But arguably it was foreseeable that the BSL 3 laboratories were not a
good choice for the project, and that BSL 2 labs would be a sufficient start for a country
with little baseline capacity. The Bank teams raised concerns during preparation about
the feasibility, costs, and staffing constraints for establishing these laboratories, but
acquiesced to stakeholders who argued that the laboratories were justified to strengthen
capacity beyond avian influenza and to provide in-country diagnostic confirmation
capacity.

6.18 The project appraisal considered a number of significant risks, and most of these
risks were reasonably mitigated by the overall design of project activities. A lack of
capacity was identified as a factor across several risks, but mitigation efforts focused on
                                             30


building capacity rather than retaining capacity by limiting staff transfer. More
preparatory coordination could have been done with technical partner agencies to ensure
a smooth rollout once the project became effective.

6.19 Arguably the project design could have supported more collaboration with the
private sector, and worked more to get commercial farms into the surveillance system.
Large commercial farms in particular interact with private sector veterinarians rather than
the government system, and so can be left out of the loop by a public-sector oriented
intervention. But as this was an emergency operation, it would have been hard to do the
stakeholder consultation needed in the brief period of project preparation. There was
some private sector representation on technical committees.

6.20 There were a number of weaknesses in the design of the monitoring and
evaluation system. Overall, the system did a weak job of providing sufficient evidence to
assess the impact of the project on its objectives, or of providing indicators that could
assist in improving project implementation.

6.21   Quality at entry is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

QUALITY OF SUPERVISION

6.22 The Bank conducted frequent supervision missions, which were well staffed with
relevant technical experts.

6.23 When it became obvious that the BSL 3 laboratories could not be justified within
the project, the Bank successfully restructured the project to proceed with BSL 2
laboratories instead. Most of the funds originally intended for the BSL 3 were
successfully rechanneled to other activities. But negotiating this partial cancellation took
a great deal of Bank time, and this may have led to neglect of other responsibilities, such
as supporting adequate policy dialogue in development of long-term disease prevention
and control mechanisms (World Bank 2012a, page 15-16).

6.24 The Bank worked intensively to try to improve financial management and
procurement capacity. It conducted specific missions focusing on financial management
and procurement, and organized training sessions and financial management clinics. But
the impact of these sessions was undermined by high staff turnover in the project
management unit and implementing agencies.

6.25 Not much was done to mitigate the implementation problems caused by staff
transfer. This is a civil-service wide problem in Nepal, but it may have been possible to
encourage the government to limit or delay transfers for staff trained under the project,
particularly once it became clear that high turnover was a significant problem.

6.26 Technical partner agencies reported that Bank had consulted them as appropriate
once UN agreement had been reached. A joint approach to supervision with these
agencies also helped to facilitate project restructuring. Project staff and senior
government officials reported that Bank support was satisfactory and enthusiastic.
                                             31


6.27 The quality of Bank Supervision is rated Satisfactory. Together, these lead to an
overall rating of Bank performance of Moderately Satisfactory.

Borrower Performance
GOVERNMENT PERFORMANCE

6.28 Government support for developing and endorsing pandemic plans was good, but
little action was taken in 2007 and the project management units were not fully staffed
until early 2008. However, once outbreaks in Nepal began in 2009, the government
displayed substantial commitment to project objectives and ownership of the project, as
demonstrated by specific budget allocations for avian influenza prevention and control.
The Ministry of Agricultural Development remains highly committed to project
objectives.

6.29 The government insisted on including BSL 3 laboratories in the project design,
and initially resisted efforts to cancel these facilities, but later concurred that the labs
would be infeasible to construct within this project. But enthusiasm for building BSL 3
laboratories under a later project remains high.

6.30 The government did little to ensure that the necessary staff were in place and were
consistent through the project. Though there were some cases where government
declined to approve transfers, overall staff turnover remained high, which weakened
project implementation. Financial resources for compensation have not been sufficient to
support compensation rates at a level high enough to allow for farmers to restock and to
encourage self-reporting.

6.31   Government performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

IMPLEMENTING AGENCY PERFORMANCE

6.32 The animal health and human health components were implemented by the
Department of Livestock Services and the Department of Health Services, respectively, at
the national and local level. The Department of Livestock Services offered consistent
leadership and demonstrated high commitment and ownership of the project throughout
implementation. There was effective and consistent overall leadership of the project.

6.33 Project implementation suffered from significant delays throughout
implementation due to high staff turnover in human health component personnel and
weaknesses in procurement and financial management. There were four different
coordinators for the human health component through the project (as compared to two
coordinators for the animal health side) and handover periods were not handled well.
Initial levels of staff capacity in project management, financial management and
procurement were low, particularly in the Department of Livestock Services, which had
not previously worked with the World Bank. Investments in capacity in these areas were
undermined when staff who had been trained then transferred to a new job, without
training their successor or providing adequate handover documentation or information.
Exiting staff would sometimes take the necessary documentation with them, making it
                                            32


extremely difficult for their successor to maintain adequate records. However, despite
these delays the project still closed on time and disbursed 87.4 percent of the IDA grant.

6.34 The IEG mission heard mixed reports on the level of cooperation and
coordination between agencies and with the private sector. One factor which may have
contributed to coordination difficulties between implementing agencies was the decision
to locate the animal health and human health components at separate sites, with the
animal health office (and project coordinator) a considerable distance away from the
central city offices of other government agencies. Communication messages were well
coordinated, with discussions on the message to be promoted and a clear division of
responsibilities as to who would speak on which topics. Coordination at the local level
varied across districts. Private sector representatives felt that the project had a strong
government orientation, and that communication with private veterinarians and the
poultry sector was not always sufficient. But there was some effort to include private
sector stakeholders through membership on district and regional technical committees.
There was adequate coordination with United Nations agencies, which were included on
national level technical committees.

6.35 Implementation of monitoring and evaluation was weak, with little data collected,
and no effective utilization.

6.36 Implementing agency performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. These
lead to an overall borrower performance rating of Moderately Satisfactory.

Monitoring and Evaluation
6.37 Design. As noted in the Monitoring and Evaluation Design section above, the
M&E design was based on the Global Program on Avian Influenza blueprint. The design
had several weaknesses including a focus on achievement of outputs rather than
outcomes and on monitoring awareness rather than behaviors. Most of the selected
indicators were also unable to track progress over time.

6.38 Implementation. As noted in the section above on Implementation of Monitoring
and Evaluation, implementing agencies had little capacity to conduct M&E, and reporting
was weak, particularly prior to midterm review.

6.39 Utilization. While some M&E data were collected, this was done purely for
project reporting purposes and data were not used to improve project management.

6.40   Overall, project M&E is rated Negligible.


7. Lessons
7.1     The project offers a broad range of lessons, both for animal health/human health
projects and for broader operations in countries like Nepal. The main lessons include:
                                          33


   Investments in laboratory equipment and civil works may be inefficient if
    they outstrip the financial and technical capacity of staff to operate and
    maintain them. Including training programs for technical staff is not sufficient
    without an ability to retain these staff (Para 5.4, 6.9). In particular, Biosecurity
    Level 3 laboratories are expensive and have significant maintenance costs and
    capacity requirements. Experience with and solid capacity for operation and
    maintenance of Biosecurity Level 2 laboratories would seem to be an important
    prerequisite before advancing to level 3. (Annex B4)

   Failure to adjust compensation rates for inflation and other price increases
    can reduce the real value of compensation payments. If compensation rates
    fall relative to the market value of birds, then farmers may be unable to restock
    even if compensated, and may have weak incentives to report disease outbreaks
    early. Flat rate compensation mechanisms may be simple, but can cause problems
    when they do a poor job of tracking the value of what is compensated (for
    example, ducks may be worth much more than chickens). (Box 1)

   Attempts to control spread of HPAI in poultry at the border may have
    limited effectiveness countries with long, porous borders. Quarantine
    resources might be more effectively used to build capacity to conduct visual
    inspection and rapid diagnostic tests at internal transport bottlenecks such as
    major highway junctions and international airports. (Para 4.25)

   Containing an influenza epidemic or pandemic among humans is likely to be
    extremely difficult in countries with modest public health infrastructure.
    Influenza containment in humans may require an ability to rapidly implement
    pharmaceutical interventions (ring vaccination and use of antivirus) and non-
    pharmaceutical interventions (physical distancing policies such as quarantine and
    school or workplace closures). Resources might be used more efficiently on
    pandemic mitigation, such as through improving vaccine distribution systems,
    rather than by attempting a containment strategy. In Nepal, screening incoming
    passengers at the sole international airport may have delayed the 2009-10
    pandemic by one month, but it was not possible to prevent the spread of the
    pandemic to Nepal through ground transport. (Para 4.41-42)

   Collaboration with United Nations agencies can provide technical expertise
    that the World Bank lacks, but there can be delays in implementation if there
    is insufficient engagement of these agencies at a headquarters level. The
    World Bank has only moderate capacity on animal health or pandemic
    preparedness, and so projects can benefit from advice and assistance from FAO
    and WHO. But in Nepal a working agreement with UN agency partners was not
    negotiated until after project approval, which took roughly a year and delayed
    project implementation. (Para 2.18, 3.4)

   Emergency projects require significant procurement capacity early on. The
    lack of dedicated procurement expert can contribute to delays in implementation
    and an inability to meet emergency goals. Procurement capacity needs to be
                                            34


       frontloaded to get good procurement plans finished early on, to hasten rollout of
       emergency projects. (Para 3.17)

7.2     The experience in Nepal also confirms a number of technical findings specific to
avian influenza:

      Serological testing of apparently healthy chickens may be of limited use in
       detecting highly pathogenic avian influenza. The virus sickens and kills chickens
       so quickly that the likelihood that apparently healthy birds are infected is
       extremely low. In ducks and some wild birds, the disease has a longer incubation
       period and there are often asymptomatic carriers, so active surveillance may still
       be useful. In Nepal, active surveillance of healthy chickens failed to detect many
       cases and was discontinued. (Annex B3)

      Outbreak containment need not require mass culling. Culling birds at the source
       of an outbreak and nearby farms can be sufficient if done quickly enough.
       Culling in a full 3.5 kilometer radius can be much more expensive, can anger
       farmers, and may strain compensation budgets. In Nepal, no adverse
       consequences were observed from adjusting the culling policy to reduce the area
       where culling was required. (Para 5.3)

      Vaccination of poultry may be the wrong strategy to use for reducing disease risk
       in low capacity countries. In Nepal, planned use vaccination was abandoned.
       (Para 3.7)

      Conventional polymerase chain reaction technology – rather than real-time PCR
       technology – is easier to maintain and operate (though is slightly less accurate and
       is slower), and may be a better technological choice for countries with weak staff
       capacity. In Nepal, some laboratories were equipped with real time PCR
       technology but were unable to operate and maintain it, but still conducted
       diagnoses using the conventional technology. (Annex B3)
                                                     35


References
Burns Andrew, Dominique van der Mensbrugghe, Hans Timmer. 2006. Evaluating the Economic
       Consequences of Avian Influenza Global Development Finance , Washington DC: World Bank.
Central Bureau of Statistics, 2011. ―Nepal Living Standards Survey 2010-2011‖, Government of Nepal
Ellis, T.M., Sims, L.D., Wong, H.K.H., Bissett, L.A., Dyrting, K.C., Chow, K.W., and C.W. Wong. 2005.
         ―Evaluation of vaccination to support control of H5N1 avian influenza in Hong Kong‖, in Avian
         Influenza, eds. R.S. Schrijver and G. Koch, Netherlands, pp. 75-84.
Epstein, Joshua M., Goedecke, D. Michael, Yu, Feng, Morris, Robert J., Wagener, Diane K. and Georgiy
         V. Bobashev. 2007. ―Controlling Pandemic Flu: The Value of International Air Travel
         Restrictions.‖ PLoS ONE 2(5): e401
FAO 2006. Strengthening Veterinary and Public Health Surveillance Systems Mission Report.
FAO, 2012. H5N1 HPAI Global Overview: April-June 2012, Rome: FAO
FAO-OIE-WHO. 2010. Sharing responsibilities and coordinating global activities to address health risks
      at the animal-human-ecosystems interfaces: A Tripartite Concept Note.
IFPRI 2008. Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza. Multi-Disciplinary and Collaborative Research to
        Minimize the Impacts on the Poor. DFID, IFPRI, FAO, ILRI, University of California Berkeley,
        Royal Veterinary College University of London.
IMF, 2012. ―Nepal: Staff Report for the 2012 Article IV Consultation‖, Country Report No. 12/326,
        Washington DC
Killian, Mary Lea. 2008. ―Avian Influenza Virus Sample Types, Collection and Handling‖, Methods in
         Molecular Biology, Vol. 436: Avian Influenza virus, pp. 7-12.
Lazzari, Stefano, and Klaus Stohr. 2004. ―Avian influenza and influenza pandemics editorials,‖ Bulletin of
         the World Health Organization 82 (4).
Mourya, D. T. 2012. ―Assignment report [2 -6 April, 2012]‖, WHO Country Office, Kathmandu, Nepal
Neupane, D., Khanal, V., Ghimire, K., Aro, A.R., and A. Leppin, 2012. "Knowledge, attitudes and
       practices related to avian influenza among poultry workers in Nepal: a cross sectional study",
       BMC Infectious Disease, 12: 76
Williams, H.A., 2011. ―Provision of technical assistance to the avian influ enza control project: Final
        report‖, FAO
World Bank, 2003. ―Nepal: Country Assistance Strategy 2004 -2007‖, World Bank, Washington DC
——. 2006. ―Technical Annex on a Proposed Grant in the Initial Amount of SDR 12.1 million (US$ 18.2
      million equivalent) a Restructured Amount of SDR 10.6 million (US$ 17.0 million equivalent) to
      Nepal for an Avian Influenza Control Project Under the Global Program For Avian Influenza and
      Human Pandemic Preparedness and Response‖, Washington DC.
——. 2007. ―Interim Strategy Note for Nepal: July 2009 to June 2011‖, World Bank, Washington DC.
——. 2011, ―Nepal - Avian Influenza Control Project : restructuring (Vol. 2 of 2) : Data sheet‖, World
      Bank, Washington DC
——. 2012a. ―Implementation Completion and Results Report (IDA-H2680) on a Grant in the Initial
      Amount of SDR 12.1 million (US$ 18.2 million equivalent) a Restructured Amount of SDR 10.6
      million (US$ 17.0 million equivalent) to Nepal for an Avian Influenza Control Project Under the
      Global Program For Avian Influenza and Human Pandemic Preparedness and Response‖,
      Washington DC.
——. 2012b. ―Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Grant From the European Commission Avian
      and Human Influenza Trust Fund (EC-AHI) for East and South in the Amount of US$10 million
      for a Zoonoses Control Project‖, Washington DC.
                                                  36

World Health Organization, 2006. The control of neglected zoonotic diseases: a route to poverty
       alleviation. Report of a joint WHO/DFID-AHP meeting with the participation of FAO and OIE,
       Geneva, 20 and 21 September 2005. Geneva: WHO
World Health Organization, 2009. Pandemic Influenza Preparedness and Response: A WHO Guidance
       Document. Geneva: World Health Organization.
World Organization for Animal Health, 2007. ―Avia n influenza vaccination: OIE information document –
       Verona Recommendations
                                       37                                         ANNEX A


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
AVIAN INFLUENZA CONTROL PROJECT (IDA-H2680)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                      Appraisal           Actual or            Actual as % of
                                      estimate         current estimate       appraisal estimate
Total project costs                    18.20                 15.92                  87.4
Loan amount                            18.20                 15.92                  87.4
Cofinancing                                 0                     0                     0
Cancellation                                0                 2.28


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                              FY07     FY08                FY09       FY10       FY11        FY12
Appraisal estimate            1.00     3.00                8.50       16.20      18.20       18.20
(US$M)
Actual (US$M)                 2.0      2.09                6.32       10.43      13.92       15.92
Actual as % of appraisal      200      69.6                74.3       64.4       76.5        87.4
Date of final disbursement:                                                                 January
                                                                                             2012


Project Dates
                                                Original                        Actual
Initiating memorandum                    March 27, 2006                    March 28, 2006
Negotiations                                July 12, 2006                 December 19, 2006
Board approval                              August 1, 2006                 January 19, 2007
Effectiveness                           October 1, 2006                    March 27, 2007
Closing date                                July 31, 2011                    July 31, 2011
ANNEX A                                  38


Staff Time and Cost

                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank budget only)
       Stage of Project Cycle                                US$ 000s (including travel
                                    Staff Weeks (number)
                                                               and consultant costs)
Lending
FY06                                          11.77                     59.02
FY07                                          17.43                    115.21
Total:                                        29.20                    174.23
Supervision/ICR
FY07                                            4.4                     29.03
FY08                                          21.62                     96.42
FY09                                          16.98                     41.49
FY10                                          20.01                     59.53
FY11                                          21.18                     88.27
FY12                                           5.92                     46.74
                           Total:             90.11                    631.48
Source: World Bank 2012a




Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency: Department of Livestock Services, Department of Health
Services, Nepal Agricultural Research Council
Follow-on Operations
Operation                                 Credit no.   Amount          Board date
                                                       (US$ million)
Zoonoses Control Project                  TF-12273     10.0            July 5, 2012
                                                          39                                 ANNEX A


 Task Team members

                Name                         Title (at time of appraisal       Unit    Responsibility
                                             and closure, respectively)                 /Specialty
 Lending
 Sundararajan Gopalan                      Senior PHN Specialist               SASHD   Co-TTL
 Daniel Sellen                             Senior Agriculture Specialist       SASSD   Co-TTL
 Bigyan Pradhan                            Senior Financial Mgmt/Operations    SARFM   Team member
                                           Specialist
 Kiran Ranjan Baral                        Senior Procurement Officer          SARPS   Team member
 Tirtha Rana                               Senior Health Specialist            SASHD   Team member
 Philip Beauregard                         Senior Counsel                      LEGMS   Team member
 Bill Rahil                                Lead Environmental Specialist       SASSD   Team member
 Hiroko Imamura                            Senior Counsel                      LEGMS   Team member
 Sushila Rai                               Program Assistant                   SASHD   Team member
 Mario Bravo                               Senior Communications Officer        EXTC   Peer reviewer
 Supervision/ICR
 Norman Bentley Piccioni                   Lead Rural Development Specialist   SASDA   TTL
 Purna Bahadur Chhetri                     Senior Rural Development            SASDA   Safeguards
                                           Specialist
 Kiran R. Baral                            Senior Procurement Officer          SARPS   Procurement
 Philip Beauregard                         Senior Counsel                      LEGAF   Legal
 Drona Raj Ghimire                         Environmental Specialist            SASDI   Safeguards
 Sundararajan Srinivasa Gopalan            Senior PHN Specialist               SASHN   Health
 Albertus Voetberg                         Lead Health Specialist              SASHN   Health
 Manav Bhattarai                           Extended Term Consultant            SASHN   Public health
 Bigyan B. Pradhan                         Senior Financial management         SARFM   Financial
                                           specialist                                  management
 Sushila Rai                               Program assistant                   SASHD
 Tirtha Rana                               Consultant                          SASHD   Public Health
 Shyam Sundar Ranjitkar                    Consultant                          SASDA   Animal Health
 Nastu Prasad Sharma                       Public Health Specialist            SASHN   Co-TTL
 Tara Shrestha                             Program Assistant                   SASDO
 Miki Terasawa                             Social Development Specialist       SASDS
 Lilac Thomas                              Program Assistant                   SASDO
 Nadia Islam                               Program Assistant                   SASDO
 Mohinder Mudahar                          Economist (consultant)              SASDA   ICR
Source: World Bank 2006 (appraisal), World Bank 2012a (closure)
ANNEX B                                      40


Annex B. Other data annexes
Annex B1: Avian influenza
Avian Influenza (AI) is generally a disease of birds, but can also occur in humans (and other
animals) if they come in contact with infected birds. Usually this will not lead to widespread
human infections as the known existing AI virus types do not readily replicate and transmit
between humans. However, the AI viruses are not stable and have the potential to change to
produce a new strain that is able to replicate in humans and spread easily among them. If this
happens a pandemic could occur. On average, three influenza pandemics per century have
been documented since the 16th century, occurring at intervals of 10-50 years. In the 20th
century pandemics occurred in 1918, 1957 and 1968. The 1918 pandemic was particularly
severe and caused millions of deaths. In the 21st century another influenza virus (H1N1 type)
emerged in April 2009 and caused a pandemic that rapidly spread to over 120 countries
within 6 weeks. Fortunately, this time the disease was not severe in most cases.

Anticipating the actual timing of an AI pandemic and its severity is difficult because it
depends on whether and when a virus circulating among birds would mutate or re-assort and
become capable of spreading easily from human to human. The recent concern with the
disease has arisen because of the virulent nature of the H5N1 virus circulating in poultry and
the high death rate among infected humans. One of the biggest worries is that conditions for
mutation and re-assortment of the genetic make-up of the virus abound with birds living in
close contact with humans particularly in ―backyard‖ poultry production systems that are
common in developing countries, including in East and South Asia and also Europe and
Central Asia. In these poultry production systems farmers rear several animals such as
chickens, ducks, pigs, and cows in their backyards, and in close proximity with human
populations. Intensive agricultural practices, easy communication and trade across the globe
and natural reservoirs for the virus in migratory birds have also made it easier for the virus to
spread from wild birds to poultry and from infected poultry to humans. Resistance in current
virus strains to one of the two classes of available antiviral drugs as demonstrated in vitro has
added to anxiety about controlling a pandemic if it does occur.

Since 2003, 63 countries reported the highly pathogenic H5N1 form of AI in their domestic
poultry (FAO 2012). The first outbreak was recorded in Korea in December 2003 (World
Bank 2008). By 2004 the virus had spread to several East Asian countries and by 2006 had
reached several Asian, European and Middle Eastern and African countries. Unchecked trade
and movement of infected poultry was one of the main triggers behind the spread of the
lethal virus (FAO 2006). In the first three months of 2011, Bangladesh, Cambodia, Hong
Kong, India, Japan, Korea, Myanmar, and Vietnam reported outbreaks. The WHO reports a
confirmed total of 622 cases and 371 fatalities as of March 2013, but the reported human
instances of the disease from contact with infected birds understate the true number of
infected people. Although disease awareness has increased, cases of H5N1 are still likely to
be underreported.

Forecasting models envisage a major disease burden if a pandemic occurs, with 25-30
percent of the population falling ill and potentially enormous economic costs worldwide,
                                           41                                    ANNEX B


especially in the poorest countries, where resources for surveillance and health care are
limited and population health and nutritional status are poor (Lazzari and Stohr 2004). The
potential impact on GDP across countries and the human deaths arising from various forms
(mild, moderate and severe) of the disease would be severe (Burns and others 2006). WHO
estimates have suggested that, looking at the number of deaths from influenza pandemics in
the last century, a relatively conservative estimate of deaths from a H5N1 pandemic would
be between 2.0 and 7.4 million.

Annex B2: International donors and the World Bank and Avian Influenza
The threat of a severe global human pandemic arising from mutation of the H5N1 virus has
been an issue of great concern to the international community. Billions of dollars have been
pledged and often diverted from other uses for efforts to control AI. Several international
institutions such as the International Food Policy Research Institute, the International
Livestock Research Institute, and the FAO and universities such as University of California,
Berkley and Royal Veterinary College, University of London have been undertaking research
associated with avian influenza. There has been considerable concern with control and
prevention strategies that have significant costs associated with them-including the direct
costs of disease control measures such as vaccination, eradication, bio-security and the
indirect costs of building institutions and mechanisms to support those measures (IFPRI
2008). The FAO, WHO and World Organization for Animal Health (OIE) have committed to
work together in this area (FAO-OIE-WHO 2010). There is a realization in the international
community of the importance of building partnerships among international donors and
governments.

The World Bank has provided assistance to more than 50 countries for dealing with AI. The
Bank has two main mechanisms to support client countries in this area: the Global Program
for Avian Influenza Control and Human Pandemic Preparedness and Response (GPAI) and
the multi-donor Avian and Human Influenza Facility (AHIF). The Bank's Board of Executive
Directors endorsed the GPAI in January 2006, and extended it in June 2009. The GPAI is a
global horizontal Adaptable Program Loan that allows for the use of up to US$ 1 billion
(extended from the original amount of US$500 million) under which individual countries can
obtain separate loans/credits/grants (depending on country case) to finance their own national
projects.

The GPAI adaptable loan program draws on an integrated approach developed in conjunction
with FAO, OIE, and WHO. Countries can access funding to strengthen their veterinary and
health services to deal with outbreaks among animals, minimize the threat to people, and
prepare for and respond to any potential human flu pandemic. GPAI operations are processed
using emergency procedures, which allow quick preparation and approval. A country
qualifies for support for an emergency project under the Program when it demonstrates its
commitment and readiness to implement early detection and rapid response measures
appropriate to the specific country conditions. The AHIF was created to assist developing
countries in meeting financing gaps in their integrated country programs to minimize the risk
and socioeconomic impact of avian and possible human pandemic influenza. In many cases,
the facility co-finances projects under GPAI.
ANNEX B                                                 42


Annex B3: Surveillance and diagnosis of avian influenza in animals in
Nepal
The project supported establishment of surveillance and diagnostic systems for avian
influenza in Nepal. Prior to the project, no significant capacity existed.

There are both active and passive surveillance systems. The active surveillance system is run
by veterinary officers, who conduct surveys primarily at established sites – 8 sites per district
in high risk zones, 4 sites per district in medium risk zones - and issue weekly reports.
Officers collect samples from birds that appear sick, but also from apparently healthy birds.
Initially the active surveillance system also tested apparently healthy chickens, but this was
discontinued as it was seen as inefficient and of modest value, since chickens become sick
and die very quickly after being infected by avian influenza and so the chance of finding an
infected but healthy chicken is very low.22 Some active surveillance was continued for ducks
and wild birds, which are not as vulnerable and may have an incubation period of 1-2 weeks
before symptoms emerge. There is no animal active surveillance system in Nepal other than
this system for poultry.

The passive surveillance system relies on samples taken from sick or dead birds that are
reported to the district livestock offices by farmers, by community surveillance programs, or
in some cases by animal quarantine offices. An investigation can be triggered if there are
reports of high poultry mortality, reductions in feed consumption or reductions in egg
production. The majority of samples tested come from dead birds. Farmers can also bring
dead birds directly to regional veterinary laboratories.

Samples are taken to the regional veterinary laboratories (and the National Avian Disease
Investigation Laboratory in Chitwan), where laboratory staff conduct an initial diagnostic test
for highly pathogenic avian influenza using simple rapid test kits. If the test kit is negative,
then the laboratory staff can then proceed to autopsy a dead bird as part of searching for
other, less serious diseases such as Newcastle disease.23 If the test is positive, then the bird is
not opened for autopsy, and samples are taken and are transported to the Central Veterinary
Laboratory in Kathmandu by livestock service officers. At the BSL2 Central Veterinary
Laboratory, samples are then tested using conventional polymerase chain reaction (PCR)
techniques.24 The Central Veterinary Laboratory was provided with real time PCR

22
  This was observed in outbreaks of highly pathogenic avian influenza in Hong Kong, with clinical signs of AI
H5N1 developing within 1-2 days of infection and death ensuing within 2.3 days of infection (Ellis and others
2005). Best practice for avian influenza surveillance now recommends targeting sick and dying birds (Killian
2008).
23
     10 percent of negative samples are also transported to the Central laboratory for testing.
24
  The duration of this process varies depending in part on the location of the district and regional laboratory,
and on the urgency of the tests. The National Avian Disease Investigation Laboratory in Chitwan, for example,
reported that it would take 1-3 days for them to conduct a rapid test and send samples to the Central Veterinary
Laboratory in Kathmandu, 3-10 days for the Central Lab to report results (results would be received faster if
there had been significant poultry deaths or if there were other known avian influenza outbreaks) and a further
7-10 days for international re-testing. Because sample transport is conducted by regular livestock officers, a
lack of vehicles and staff can delay transport. Further delays can occur because Veterinary Services are not
                                                    43                                           ANNEX B


equipment, but there is not sufficient staff capacity to use and maintain the equipment.

If the diagnostic test is positive and the sample is not from a district known to be
experiencing avian influenza outbreaks, then the sample is then sent to international BSL3
OIE laboratories (typically in the UK or Australia) for re-testing and confirmation.25 If the
confirmation test is positive, then culling operations are instituted after being approved by the
Cabinet of the Government of Nepal. If the sample is from a district where outbreaks are
known to be occurring, then a positive test result from the Central Veterinary Laboratory is
sufficient to mandate a culling operation, though sometimes samples are also sent
internationally for additional confirmation.

While diagnostic results are reported to animal health authorities, one weakness in the system
is that test results are not necessarily provided to the farmers who submitted samples. A
failure to provide results may risk discouraging farmer cooperation (Williams 2011).

Source: IEG mission interviews with government officials and technical experts.

Annex B4: Establishing Biosecurity Level 3 Laboratories in Nepal
The original project design included $1.85 million for construction of two BSL 3
laboratories, one for animal health at the Central Veterinary Laboratory and one for human
health at the National Public Health Laboratory.26 The advantage of BSL 3 laboratories is
that they would allow for cell cultures to be carried out, and could reduce or eliminate the
need for samples to be sent to international laboratories for confirmation tests. Experts
reported that separate laboratories would be needed for animal and human health, because of
the risk of cross contamination of samples.

The design of the animal health laboratory, conducted through FAO, took 6 months longer
than expected, in part because the necessary expert consultants were in short supply due to
global concerns about avian influenza and laboratory upgrade projects going on in other
countries.

The two laboratories were dropped at the project midterm review in consultation with the
government. This decision appears to be well justified. The expected cost of the laboratories
had almost doubled. There were concerns that there would not be enough work to keep the
laboratories busy, and so the expense would not be justified. The laboratories would have
extremely high maintenance costs (hundreds of thousands of dollars per year), particularly


deemed to be an essential service in Nepal, so laboratories can be closed on holidays, potentially causing work
to backup.
25
  The Central Veterinary Laboratory reports that the turnaround time for international confirmation (including
sample transport, testing and transmittal of results) was roughly 4 days in 2008, but had increased to 1-2 weeks
by 2013.
26
  The Bank team raised concerns during pre-appraisal about the feasibility, costs and staffing constrains for
establishing BSL 3 laboratories, but acquiesced to stakeholders who argued that the laboratories were justified
to strengthen capacity beyond avian influenza and to provide domestic diagnostic capacity.
ANNEX B                                              44


for power supply. There may not have been sufficient staff capacity to fully utilize the
laboratory, particularly given the difficulties in retaining staff and conducting training in the
current laboratories. And it was unlikely given the lack of progress on procurement that
procurement and construction could be completed before project closure two years later.

However, construction continued on a BSL 2+ facility for human health which was close to
BSL 3.27 This facility was completed, but is not operational.

It is beyond the scope of this evaluation to assess whether BSL 3 laboratories would be
feasible or desirable for Nepal. The IEG mission was informed that BSL 3 laboratories could
be feasible if there were top level support and guarantees of significant budget for
maintenance costs. The IEG mission found strong support for a BSL 3 animal health
laboratory from top levels of the Ministry of Agricultural Development, and the human
health laboratory constructed at the National Public Health Laboratory is already close to
BSL 3. But reducing the time taken to receive diagnostic confirmation might be addressed
more efficiently by tackling bottlenecks in international sample transport, and staffing,
capacity, maintenance and sustainability issues in existing BSL 2 laboratories could be
addressed before advancing to BSL 3.




27
  The human health laboratory includes controlled ventilation with filters for air supply and exhaust, air-tight
rooms and sample transfer chambers, directional air flow, climate control, and other features (Mourayo 2012).
                                                              45            ANNEX B



Annex B5: Avian influenza outbreak sites in Nepal during the project




Source: World Bank 2012a
Note that an additional 46 outbreaks have occurred after project closure.
ANNEX B                                                          46


Annex B6: Photographic evidence
a) Biosecurity is weak on small commercial poultry farms:




Source: Sitapaila, Kathmandu valley, IEG mission, February 2013

b) Some sites of avian influenza outbreaks are within urban areas




Poultry sheds affected by avian influenza outbreaks in center. Disposal pit covered in lime in foreground.
Source: Sitapaila, Kathmandu valley, IEG mission, February 2013
                                                              47                                                 ANNEX B


c) Some civil works for laboratory upgrades were not completed.




Source: National Avian Disease Investigation Laboratory, Chitwan District, IEG mission February 2013


d) Regional veterinary laboratories tested for highly pathogenic avian influenza only using simple rapid test kits.




Source: National Avian Disease Investigation Laboratory, Chitwan District, IEG mission February 2013
ANNEX B                                                     48

e) Newly constructed BSL 2 facilities at Regional Veterinary Laboratories were not in use in some cases




Source: Regional Veterinary Laboratory, Pokhara. IEG mission February 2013


f) Equipment supplied to the National Influenza Center at the National Public Health Laboratory was functional and in use,
increasing diagnostic capacity




Source: IEG mission, February 2013
                                                          49                                                ANNEX B


g) The almost complete but non-operational BSL 2+ laboratory at the National Public Health Laboratory has sophisticated
features including ventilation and pressure control




Source: IEG mission, February 2013
ANNEX B                                                     50

h) The new isolation ward at the Shukraraj Tropical Infectious Disease Hospital is not operational




Source: IEG field mission, February 2013
                                          51                                  ANNEX C


Annex C. List of Persons Met
Animal health component:

Mr. Nathu P. Chaudhary, Secretary, Public Service Commission
Mr. Jaya M. Khanal, Secretary, Ministry of Agricultural Development
Mr. Ram Prasad Pulami, Joint Secretary (Planning Division), Ministry of Agricultural
Development
Dr. Nar Bahadur Rajwar, Director General, Department of Livestock Services
Mr. Uday Chandra Thakur, Deputy Director General, Department of Livestock Services
Dr. Ram Krishna Khatiwada, Deputy Director General, Department of Livestock Services
Dr. Vijay Kant Jha, Programme Director, Directorate of Animal Health
Dr. Narayan Ghimire, Directorate of Animal Health
Dr. Indra Kant Jha, Project Coordinator, Avian Influenza Control Project, Department of
Livestock Services
Dr. Prurnima Manandar, Director, Central Veterinary Laboratory
Dr. Prakash Devkota, Veterinary Officer, Central Veterinary Laboratory
Dr. Bodh Prasad Parajuli, Chief Veterinary Officer, Central Animal Quarantine Office
Dr. Modnath Kautam, Central Animal Quarantine Office
Dr. Banshi Sharma, Regional Director, Regional Directorate of Livestock Services, Western
Development Region, Pokhara
Dr Man Bahadur Pun, Senior Veterinary Officer, Regional Directorate of Livestock Services,
Pokhara
Dr. Kedar Raj Pande, Sendior Veterinary Officer, Regional Veterinary Laboratory, Pokhara
Dr. Shiva Prasad Devkota, Regional Veterinary Laboratory, Pokhara
Dr. Prakash Raj Shrestra, Senior Veterinary Officer, District Livestock Services Office,
Kaski District
Dr. Bodha Nath Adikari, National Avian Diseases Diagnostic Lab, Bharatpur Chitwan

Human health component:

Dr. Mingmar Sherpa, Director General, Department of Health Services
Dr. G.D. Thakur, Director, Epidemiology and Disease Control Division, Department of
Health Services
Dr. Jeetendra M. Srestha, Deputy Component Coordinator: Human Health, Avian Influenza
Control Project
Dr. Geeta Shakya, Acting Director, National Public Health Laboratory
Dr. Arjun K. Pant, Senior Paediatrician, Sukraraj Infectious Disease Hospital
Dr. Buddhi Bahadur Thapa, Medical Superintendant, Western Regional Hospital
Ramesh Parsad Adhinasi, Senior Public Health Administrator, District Public Health office,
Kaski

Partner agencies:

Mr. Binoy Lama, Project Officer, UNICEF
Dr. Tony Williams, Country Team Leader, Emergency Centre for Transboundary Animal
Diseases, Food and Agriculture Organization
ANNEX C                                  52


Dr. Khadak Singh Bisht, Assistant Coordinator, Regional Support Unit and Emergency
Center for Transboundary Animal Diseases for SAARC Countries, Food and Agriculture
Organization
Dr. Nihal Singh, Epidemiologist and Medical Officer, Communicable Disease Surveillance
and Response, World Health Organization
Dr. Ravi Kiran Kafle, National Professional Officer, Communicable Disease Surveillance
and Response, World Health Organization
Ms. Linda Kentro, Environmental Health Team Leader, USAID

NGOs, private sector and other stakeholders:

Dr. Shubh N. Mahato, Country Director, Heifer International
Mr. Anand Bagaria, Managing Director, NIMBUS
Dr. Dinesh Gautam, Deputy Chief Executive Officer, NIMBUS
Dr. Sital Kaji Shrestha, Senior Manager (Training & Customer Service), NIMBUS
Mr. Prem Marantha, Poultry farmer, Sitapaila, Kathmandu
Mr. Dil Bahadur Tamsug, Poultry farmer, Pokhara
Ms. Manju Shreshtra, Poultry farmer, Pokhara

Bank staff:

Mr. Norman Bentley Piccioni, Lead Rural Development Specialist, Washington DC
Ms. Miki Terasawa, Rural Development Specialist, Washington DC
Mr. Purna Bahadur Chhetri, Senior Rural Development Specialist, Kathmandu
Mr. Shambhu Prasad Uprety, Procurement Specialist, Kathmandu
Mr. Yogesh Malla, Financial Management Specialist, Kathmandu
Mr. Drona Raj Ghimire, Environmental Specialist, Kathmandu
                                             53                                     ANNEX D


Annex D. Borrower Comments
Subject: Response to Performance Assessment ReportAICP Project Team

The Project start-up was delayed due to the late approval of program from the Planning
Commission and the Ministry of Finance, Government of Nepal (GON). With the approval
from the NPC and MoF the project picked up its speed, as also noted by the author in the
report. Although AICP was an emergency project it complied with the lengthy procedure of
the government of Nepal and WB procedures. The project suffered only one month delay not
eight months as noted in the report.

Reference is drawn to paragraph 4 under Summary it says that ―the project was less
successful on the human health side, with only a modest impact on preparedness for
human influenza outbreaks‖. We do not share this opinion. With the help of the project, the
facilities at BP Koirala Health Institute, Dharan, Tribhuvan University Teaching Hospital,
Nepalgunj Medical College have been equipped to deal with Avian Influenza. The
evaluation team was unable to visit these facilities due to practical difficulties (task division,
ravel and time) associated with a one-member team. In all the outbreaks, both health and
livestock team worked together to contain the spread and outbreaks. We are very happy to
inform you that there have been no cases of fatality associated with Avian Flu in Nepal. This
has also been noted by the report.

Paragraph 2, under Summary: The project spent all the money it was allocated with 98.8
per cent disbursement as indicated in Table 2 by the report. This, to us, is a very good
disbursement. If not for the cancellation of the BSL 3 laboratory (per recommendation of the
MTR) AICP would have achieved almost a hundred per cent disbursement. And, technically,
the comparison of BSL 2 to that of BSL 3 is unfair. We agree that BSL 2+ at the time of the
visit by IEG team was not functional. This is because the contractor had yet to hand it over
to the Government. The laboratory also received a sum of USD 420,000 from the
Government side for the construction.

Paragraph 8 under Summary: The statement ―While capacity gains have been made, it is
unclear if these gains will be sustained because of a lack of funding‖. We are happy to
inform you that the GoN has set aside close to USD 600,000 in order to sustain the operation
of surveillance system. Though small, this amount may be considered significant as this
allocation has been made when the country is undergoing budget crisis.

Paragraph 8 under Summary: We agree that the rate was low for compensation of culled
birds. The rate was not decided by the project, but by the Cabinet. Hence, government
decision. However, the rate has been revised upward from Rs 100 to Rs 130 (30 per cent
increase) per bird now. This amount may be lower than the recommendation of OIE but,
from sustainability point of view, this rate is within the capacity of the GoN to compensate.
Thus, there has been no DECLINE on compensation as noted in the report.

On staff transfer, raised in many areas in the report, allow us to explain. It is important to
differentiate staff transfer within and outside of the project. Staff transfer within the system
ANNEX D                                     54


but outside of the project is a decision of the Government of Nepal and therefore is outside
the control of the project. Such transfers are made generally when there is a promotion or
retirement. Within the project, since AICP began in 2007, there have been only two transfers
(Project Directors). The first Project Director, now Director General of the Department of
Livestock Services, was transferred after 2 years and the second Director has stayed on with
the project until its very end and today directing Nepal Zoonosis Control Project. Indeed,
almost of the staff from AICP are still working with Nepal Zoonosis Control Project.

We also believe that our monitoring system is working and functional manisfested by
reporting of ourtbreaks and suspicions on regular basis. Thanks to the system, the NZCP has
been able to quickly respond to and contain the spread of bird flu.

Paragraph 2.2.1. ―Most baseline data were zero‖. Note that this was an emergency project
and the epidemic new to Nepal. In such a scenario collection of baseline data can be difficult
to obtain. However, KAP survey captures changes in attitude, knowledge and the results
have been very encouraging.

Paragraph 3.3.1: ―culling sites not monitored‖. This is not true. Monitoring of these sites
are pursued by District Livestock Service Offices.

Finally, it may be noted that is one of the few projects that has been completed successfully
within the time frame allocated to it with over 95 per cent disbursement (despite the
cancellation of BSL 3 labs. Project outcome has been rated as excellent "KAP Survey"
report.

The project has developed the capacity required to respond to Avian Flu crisis in addition to
instituting coordinated and multi-sectoral approach to respond serious outbreaks such as
Avian Flu. Following this model, there are at least two multi-sectoral projects supported by
the WB in Nepal. We feel that we have been able to contribute substantially in this process
and would like to request the IEG to reconsider its rating of AICP.

Last not but least, many projects are operating in Nepal under a very difficult circumstances
which include – illegitimate and/or interim government, impasse in release of budget (partial
and not on time), 14 hours of load shedding in a day, high cost of diesel to fuel generators
and substantial delays in payment of salaries to staff due to budget constraints.

Thank you

Sincerely
Dr Indra Kant Jha
Nepal Zoonosis Control Project
Budanilkanta, Kathmandu, Nepal
                                            55                                   ANNEX D


Subject:       Our reaction on independent assessment report of AICP

Madam:
In respect to the above subject the Ministry is deeply concerned over the Project Performance
Assessment Report prepared and submitted by IEG on Avian Influenza Control
Project/Nepal, where the project is rated as "Moderately Unsatisfactory". In this respect, The
Ministry fully endorses and agrees with the response submitted by the Zoonosis Control
Project. In addition to what is being submitted by ZCP, the Ministry would like to make few
points clear so as to reconsider the rating of the project.
1. The project was taken as the most priority project of the Government of Nepal, Ministry
   of Agricultural Development and provided all kinds of logistic, resources, guidelines, and
   M&E services from beginning to the end of the project. This type of backstopping is still
   continuing until today.
2. The project is rated as successful project by Ministry of Agricultural Development, as it
   was successful to establish many implementation mechanism, standard operating
   procedures, capacity building and increased response capacity to the animal health
   emergencies in a broader prospective. The districts and regional implementation
   mechanism established is still continuing and has proved to be an effective ―means of
   coordination‖ and created a sense of collective responsibilities amongst various
   stakeholders.
3. The project is able to build up the concept of one health approach working together and
   jointly with Department of Health Services. Joint surveillance, joint response to the
   outbreaks and joint communication with different communication packages during
   various stages of disease incidence like pre outbreak, during the outbreak and post
   outbreak of Bird flu. This partnership is still continuing in Zoonosis Control Project. This
   has helped to track down the damage of the loss of property and human threat of the
   disease to the minimum level.

With best regards

Prabhakar

Dr Prabhakar Pathak
Joint Secretary
Gender Equity and Environment Division
Ministry of Agriculture Development
Sigha Darbar, Kathmandu, Nepal
Phone: Direct + 977 1 4211940
Phone: + 977 1 4211639 Ext: 317
Fax: +977 1 4211935
email personal: drppathak@yahoo.com
Web site: www.moac.gov.np
ANNEX D                                   56


             Avian Influenza Control Project (IDA Grant N. H2680-NEP):
                        Independent Evaluation Group Report
                              (Human Component)
Comments:
  1. Training of laboratory staff, procurement and supply of laboratory diagnostic
     equipments, laboratory diagnostic capacity upgrading activities were insufficient and
     unsatisfactory. But the campaign, awareness and communication activities were
     satisfactory.
  2. Conversion of establishment of BSL-III Lab into BSL-II Plus laboratory in Nepal is
     the strong evidence of un-productive outcome of the project and very poor
     mechanism of evaluation and monitoring system was observed.
  3. There were numbers of weakness in laboratory facility building (BSL-II plus
     Lab) including plan, design, equipment supply, supervision and monitoring; as a
     result BSL-II Plus lab is not ready to operate till date. This was because expert
     opinion of laboratory personnel was neglected. It is a very concerned and painful
     issue for NPHL as a huge space of NPHL is occupied without utility of the
     facility. The Secretary of the health is also very positive to refurbish the facility
     and make it functional as BSL3 lab which is the great need of the country in
     view of combating emerging and re-emerging infectious diseases in the country.
     NPHL will put up maximum efforts to make this facility functional. MOHP and
     WHO have been repeatedly requested for the financial support to refurbish this
     facility.
  4. Procurement of laboratory equipment including rapid diagnostics kits in addition to
     VTM was spported through the project. Some consumable items along with
     microscope, CO2 incubator, freezer and nucleic acid sequencer were utilized for
     National Influenza Center (NIC) use. However; NIC lab establishment, component
     was totally supported by WHO-HQ and Government of Nepal rather than the AICP
     (page-24, ist paragraph, IEGR report). Functioning of NIC is the great success of
     NPHL.
  5. Photo attached (Report page number-48, Annex B, Serial no. f) in the report
     document, is the property of NIC (RNA extraction room), national public health
     laboratory, Teku and NOT a picture of Central Veterinary Laboratory.
  6. Overall, the project was moderately successful on Human Health component
     and if laboratory component , BSL-2plus could be made functional it could be
     rated highly successful.

   Recommendation:
   7. In coming future, budget should be made available at NPHL for such kind of activity
      because NPHL is the national level authority for all aspects of laboratory diagnostic
      capacity building at national level.
                                          57                                   ANNEX D


   8. National public health laboratory is the end user in terms of facility expansion and
      laboratory diagnostic capacity building. Hence; facility design, plan, supervision and
      monitoring, budget mobilization should be under NPHL authority.

Dr. Geeta Shakya
Director
National Public Health Laboratory
Teku, Kathmandu
