Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H268 -NEP 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Avian Influenza Control Project) 
 
between 
 
NEPAL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated  March 9, 2007  
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H268-NEP 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated March 9, 2007, between NEPAL (
“Recipient”) and the 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”). The Recipient 
and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE II – FINANCING 
 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to 
twelve million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 12,100,000) 
(“Financing”) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
 
ARTICLE III 
–
PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project, which is 
part of the Association’s Global Program for Avian Influenza Control and 
Human Pandemic Preparedness and Response.  To this end, the Recipient shall 
carry out: (i) Parts 1, 3.A. and 4.A of the Project through DOLS; (ii) Parts 2, 3.B 
and 4.B of the Project through DOHS; and (iii) Part 3.C of the Project through 
Page  3
-
2
-
DOLS and DOHS jointly; all in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
–
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Secretary, Ministry of Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Government of Nepal 
Singha Durbar 
Kathmandu 
Nepal 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(977-1) 4259-891 
 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS  
248423 
(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  4
-
3
-
AGREED at Kathmandu, Nepal, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
NEPAL 
 
By/ s/ Vidyadhar Mallik 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By/ s / Kenichi Ohashi 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to minimize the threat in Nepal posed to 
humans by HPAI infection by controlling such infections among birds, especially 
domestic poultry, and (b) to prepare for, control, and respond to possible human 
infections, especially an influenza epidemic and related emergencies. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1
:
Animal Health
A. 
Implementation of national prevention and control strategies, including activities 
for: (i) enhancing avian influenza prevention and preparedness capability; 
(ii) strengthening veterinary services, disease surveillance, and diagnostic 
capacity; and (iii) strengthening avian influenza control programs and outbreak 
containment plans, and improving bio-security in poultry production and trade. 
 
B. 
Establishment and operation of a Compensation Fund for the provision of cash 
compensation to poultry owners for loss of assets caused by mandatory culling of 
their birds by order of the Recipient. 
 
Part 2
:
Human Health
Activities aimed at preventing human illness due to HPAI, and in case said 
illness cannot be prevented, reducing its impact through: (i) year-round surveillance; 
(ii) building laboratory capacity to enable effective and accurate methods of diagnosis 
and case detection as part of the overall public health system response; (iii) prevention 
and containment activities including social distancing interventions and the use of 
vaccines where appropriate; and (iv) curative interventions, including case management 
and antiviral drugs, in the event that human infections occur. 
 
Part 3
:
Communications
A. 
Information and communication activities related to Part 1 of the Project aimed at 
safeguarding human health and improving public awareness and information on 
avian influenza issues, including: (i) increasing the attention and commitment of 
the 
Recipient’s government, the private sector and civil society organizations to 
improve bio-security of poultry farming and reduce the risk of importation of the 
virus; (ii) raising awareness and understanding among the general population 
about the risk and potential impact of avian influenza, methods of self-protection 
against infection and sources of treatment; and (iii) increasing the knowledge and 
capacity of poultry owners on ways of recognizing the signs and symptoms of 
Page  6
-
5
-
avian influenza, safe methods of disposing infected birds and steps to protect 
themselves and their families. 
 
B. 
Information and communication activities related to Part 2 of the Project aimed at 
safeguarding human health and improving public awareness and information on 
avian influenza and possible pandemic and other epidemics, including: 
(i) increasing the attention and commitment of the 
Recipient’s government, the 
private sector and civil society organizations to ensure rapid implementation of a 
coordinated, transparent and proactive public information strategy; and 
 
(ii) raising awareness and understanding among the general population about the 
risk and potential impact of a pandemic, methods of self-protection against 
infection and sources of treatment. 
 
C. 
Cross-cutting activities such as macro-level inter-sectoral advocacy and 
coordination, and the conceptualization and development of communication 
campaigns and the development of communication training package. 
 
Part 4
:
Project Management
Support to DOLS, DOHS, and other public agencies for the coordination and 
management of the Project, and their capacity-building, including financial management, 
procurement, monitoring and evaluation of Project activities and compliance with 
applicable environmental management frameworks. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Operational Plan; Standard Operating Procedures for the Compensation 
Fund 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall: (i) implement the Project in accordance with the provisions 
of the Operational Plan; and (ii) not take any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such implementation. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall: (i) implement Part 1.B of the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of the Standard Operating Procedures for the Compensation Fund; and 
(ii) not take any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
implementation. 
 
B. 
Technical Sub-Committee on Avian Influenza; DOLS Core Coordination 
Team; DOHS Core Coordination Team 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain the Technical Sub-Committee on Avian Influenza 
with functions and composition satisfactory to the Association, including without 
limitation, representatives of MOHP and MOAC. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall maintain the DOLS Core Coordination Team with an 
adequate number of key full-time professionals with skills, qualifications, 
experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, including 
without limitation: (i) Project Coordinator; (ii) Deputy Coordinator; 
(iii) Accounts Officer; (iv) Procurement Specialist; and (v) Communications 
Specialist. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall maintain the DOHS Core Coordination Team with an 
adequate number of key full-time professionals with skills, qualifications, 
experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, including 
without limitation: (i) Project Coordinator; (ii) Deputy Coordinator; 
(iii) Accounts Officer; (iv) Procurement Specialist; and (v) Communications 
Specialist. 
 
C. 
Arrangements with MOHA and MOLD
 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that activities relating to disaster response under the 
Project are implemented by MOHA under arrangements between DOLS/MOAC 
and MOHA, satisfactory to the Association. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that activities relating to disaster preparedness under 
the Project are implemented by MOLD under arrangements between 
DOLS/MOAC and MOLD, satisfactory to the Association. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall, in a manner satisfactory to the Association; (i) provide 
sufficient budgetary allocations from its own resources for the adequate 
maintenance, supplies, and other recurrent costs for the satisfactory operation of 
the BSL-3 laboratories beyond the life of the project as long as necessary; 
(ii) ensure the recruitment, appointment, or assignment of adequate number of 
trained personnel to operate the two laboratories at BSL-3 level as long as 
necessary; and (iii) take all necessary actions to obtain and maintain the 
necessary BSL-3 certification from appropriate organizations. 
 
D. 
Environmental Management Plan; Land Acquisition/Resettlement
 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that in carrying out the Project: (i) the assessment, 
mitigation, management, monitoring and evaluation measures and all other 
actions set forth in the Environmental Management Plan are implemented in 
accordance with the objectives, policies, procedures, time schedules and other 
provisions set forth therein; and (ii) no action is taken which would prevent or 
interfere with such implementation. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that no civil works which may result in land 
acquisition or resettlement of people are undertaken under the Project. 
 
E.
 Mid-Term 
Review
 
1. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General Conditions, 
the Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
on or about March 2009, carry out jointly with the Association the Mid-
Term Review, which shall cover, 
inter alia
:
(i) progress 
ma
de
in meeting the Project’s objectives;  
 
(ii) 
overall Project performance against Project performance 
indicators and; 
 
(iii) 
review of Project objectives, design and content. 
 
(b) 
at least four (4) weeks prior to the Mid-Term Review, prepare and 
furnish to the Association a separate report describing the status of 
implementation of each part of the Project and a summary report of 
Project implementation generally; and 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
(c) 
not later than two (2) weeks after the Mid-Term Review, prepare and 
furnish to the Association an action program, satisfactory to the 
Association, for further implementation of the Project having regard to 
the findings of the Mid-Term Review and thereafter implement such 
action program. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Association. Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of a Fiscal Year trimester (four months), 
and shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after 
the end of the period covered by such report. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association as part of the Project Report not later than 
forty-five (45) days after the end of each Fiscal Year trimester, interim un-
audited financial reports for the Project covering the Fiscal Year trimester, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one Fiscal Year of the Recipient. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
 
1. 
Goods and Works.
 All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 A
ll consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
3.
 Definitions.
 The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2. 
National Competitive Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 3 
below, goods and works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National 
Competitive Bidding, following the Recipient’s financial acts and regulations 
acceptable to the Association, and subject to the following additional procedures: 
 
(i) 
bid opening at only one place and immediately after the deadline of bid 
submission shall be mandatory; 
 
(ii) 
local institutions where the Recipient has fifty percent (50%) or more of 
the capital shall not be exempt from submission of bid and performance 
securities; 
 
(iii) 
local bidders shall not be eligible for any preference when competing 
with foreign bidders; 
 
(iv) 
bidders’ qualification criteria shall be formulated in accordance with the 
Bank’s Standard Bidding Documents; and 
 
(v) 
there shall be no restrictions for foreign bidders to participate in National 
Competitive Bidding procedures. 
 
3. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. 
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding and National Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and 
works. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such 
methods may be used. 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  Shopping 
 
(b)  Direct Contracting 
 
(c)  Procedures set forth in paragraphs 3.9 and 3.10 of the Procurement 
Guidelines under Other Methods of Procurement 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph
 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for cons
ultants’ services. The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  
Quality-Based Selection 
 
(b)  
Selection under a Fixed Budget 
 
(c)  
Least-Cost Selection 
 
(d)  
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
 
(e)  
Single-Source Selection 
 
(f)  
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 3.15 and 3.17 of the Consultant 
Guidelines under Other Methods of Selection 
(g)  
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(h)  
Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association. 
Page  12
-
11
-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated 
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:   
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Financing Allocated 
(Expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to 
be Financed 
(1)   Civil works, goods, consultants’ 
services, training, workshops, study 
tours and Incremental Operating 
Costs under Parts 1.A, 3.A, 3.C, and 
4.A of the Project (DOLS) 
 5,480,000 
100% 
(2)   Civil works, goods, consultants’ 
services, training, workshops, study 
tours and Incremental Operating 
Costs under Parts 2, 3.B and 4.B of 
the Project (DOHS) 
 4,980,000 
 
100% 
(3)   Cash payments made from the 
Compensation Fund under Part 1.B 
of the Project (DOLS) 
 60,000 
100% 
(4)   Unallocated 
 
1,580,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
12,100,000 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for: 
 
(a) 
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
after July 17, 2006 for Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1) and  
(2); and
 
(b) 
payments for expenditures under Category (3) unless and until: (i) the 
Compensation Fund has been established in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association; and (ii) the Standard Operating Procedures for the 
Compensation Fund satisfactory to the Association have been prepared 
and adopted by the Recipient. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is July 31, 2011. 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
2. 
“Compensation Fund” means the fund to be established by the Recipient and to 
be utilized to pay cash compensation to poultry owners for poultry culled and 
loss of other assets caused by such culling. 
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
4. 
“DOHS” means the Department of Health Services under MOHP, or any 
successor thereto. 
 
5. 
“DOHS Core Coordination Team” means the team to be maintained within 
DOHS pursuant to Part B.3 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement for the 
purposes of, 
inter alia
,
planning, implementing and monitoring activities to be 
carried out under Parts 2, 3.B, 3.C and 4.B of the Project. 
 
6. 
“DOLS” means the Department of Livestock Services under MOAC, or any 
successor thereto. 
 
7. 
“DOLS Core Coordination Team” means the team to be maintained within 
DOLS pursuant to Part B.2 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement for the 
purposes of, 
inter alia
,
planning, implementing and monitoring activities to be 
carried out under Parts 1, 3.A, 3.C and 4.A of the Project. 
 
8. 
“Environmental Management Plan” or “EMP” means, collectively: (i) the 
Environmental Management Plan dated June 26, 2006 and approved by the 
Association, which shall be used for the implementation of Part 1 of the Project; 
and (ii) the Health Care Waste Management Plan prepared for the Health Sector 
Program described in the Development Financing Agreement for the Health 
Sector Program between the Recipient and the Association dated 
 
November 29, 2004 (Credit Number 3980-NEP; Grant Number H125-NEP), 
which shall be used for the implementation of Part 2 of the Project; in each case 
setting out, 
inter alia,
 environmental mitigation, management, monitoring and 
evaluation measures for the respective Parts of the Project, as the same may be 
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Association. 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
9. 
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the twelve (12)-month period corresponding to any 
of the Recipient’s fiscal years, which period commences and ends in mid-July of 
each calendar year. Each FY consists of three (3) four-month periods each of 
which is called a “fiscal year trimester”. 
 
10. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants” dated July 1, 2005. 
 
11. 
“HPAI” means highly pathogenic avian influenza. 
 
12. 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means: (i) expenditures incurred by DOLS or 
DOHS for the operation and maintenance of facilities, equipment and vehicles 
used for Project implementation, including, without limitation, office rental, 
vehicle rental, fuel, routine repair and maintenance of equipment, vehicles and 
office premises, communication costs, use of internet costs, stationeries and other 
office supplies, and costs of translation, printing, photocopying and advertising; 
(ii) transportation costs and subsistence allowances for DOLS or DOHS staff in 
travel status for Project implementation; and (iii) salaries and allowances of 
incremental staff assigned to DOLS or DOHS for Project implementation but 
excluding salaries of the Recipient’s civil servants. 
 
13. 
“Mid-Term Review” means the review of the progress made in carrying out the 
Project referred to in Part E of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
14. 
“MOAC” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, or 
any successor thereto. 
 
15. 
“MOHA” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Home Affairs, or any successor 
thereto. 
 
16. 
“MOHP” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Health and Population, or any 
successor thereto. 
 
17. 
“MOLD” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Local Development, or any 
successor thereto. 
 
18. 
“Operational Plan” means the Operational Plan for the Project dated December 
2006 and approved by the Recipient and the Association, setting out, 
inter alia,
 
details of all procedures, guidelines, timetables and criteria required for the 
carrying out of the Project, including the procurement, financial, administrative, 
operational, and monitoring, evaluation and reporting arrangements, as the same 
may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Association. 
 
19. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
Page  16
-
15
-
20. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
satisfactory to the Association, dated December 2006 and referred to in 
paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
21. 
“Standard Operating Procedures for the Compensation Fund” means the 
guidelines to be prepared by the Recipient pursuant to Part B.1 of Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, setting forth principles and procedures for 
operating the Compensation Fund. 
 
22. 
“Technical Sub-Committee on Avian Influenza” means the relevant Technical 
Sub-Committee established by the Council of Ministers of the Recipient and 
functioning under the Central Natural Disaster Relief Committee, to be 
maintained pursuant to Part B.1 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement for 
the purposes of, 
inter alia, 
overseeing and monitoring overall Project 
implementation, facilitating coordination among governmental agencies, 
institutions and other stakeholders, and making key policy decisions. 
 
