Docwment of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIL USE ONLY
Report No. 8420
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CAMEROON
NORTHERN PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1075-CM/LOAN 1919-CM)
FEBRUARY 28, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This doement has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
ther oMcia duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



CURRENCY DEFINITIONS
Currency Unit: CFA Franc (CFAF)
Fixed Parity: 50 CFAF - 1 French Franc
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
CCCE         Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Econoiique (France)
CFDT         Compagnie Fransaise pour le Ddveloppement des Fibres Textiles
CNCE         Centre National du Coanerce Ezt6rieur
CRF          Centre de Recherche Foresti&re
CTFT         Centre technique Forestier Tropical
FNFP         Ponds National Forestier et Piscicole
FONADER      Fonds National de Developpement Rural
FSAR         Fonds Special d*Actions Rurales
IRA-Nord     Institut de Recherches Agronomiques, Maroua
IRZ          Institut de Recherchps Zootechniques
MESRES       Ministere de l'Enseignement SupAricur, de l'Informatique et
de la Recherche Scientifique
MIDEVIV      Mission de Ddveloppement des Semences et des Cultures
Vivribres
MINAGRI      Ministire de l'Agriculture
MINDIC       Ministere du Developpement Industriel et Commercial
MINEL        Ministare de l'Elevage
MINEQ        Ministere de l'Equipement
MINEP        Ministere du Plan
MINEPIA      Ministere de l'Elevage, de la POche et des Industries
Animales
MINFIN       Ministare des Finances
NSMP         National Seed Multiplication Project
MINPAT       Ministere du Plan et de l'Am6nagement du Territoire
oC           Office Cdrealier
ONAREF       Office National de Regeneration des Forets
ONCPB        Office National de Commercialisation des Produits de Base
ONDAPB       Office National de D6veloppment Agricole et du Petit Betail
OPV          Office Pharmaceutique Vetdrinaire
PCC          Project Coordinating Committee
PMEU         Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
SEMRY        Soci6td d'Expansion et de Modernisation de la Riziculture a
Yagoua
SODECOTON    Societe de DAveloppement du Coton du Cameroun
USAID        United States Agency for International Development



FOR OMCUL usE ONLY
rHE WORLD SANKt
Washgton. D.C. 20433
U.S-A.
OU1. al Ovt4r-G.wMa
Opmtatom Ivahiasa
February 28, 1990
HEMORANDUM TO THE EXECVTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report - Cameroon Northern Province
Rural Development Proiect (Credit 1075-CM/Loan 1919-CM)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report - Cameroon Northern Province Rural Development
Project (Credit 1075-CM/Loan 1919-CM)", prepared by the Africa Regional
Office.   No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restficted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authofization.



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CAMEROON
NORTHERN PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1075-CM/LOAN 1919-CM
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
PREFACE .. *#so ...                     .     .     ................. i
BASIC DATA SHEET       .    ...............................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ............................. ....................V
I. INTRODUCTION      . ........................................ .. .    1
II.  PROJECT IDENTIFICATION AND PREPARATION .....................   2
III. IMPLEMENTATION ..................................   6
IV.  OPERATIONAL PE.FORMANCE AND PROJECT IPACT .................. 11
V.  FINANCIAI. AND ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE .     .................... *..  19
VI.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE.. ........           ........ 22
VII.  BANK PERFORMANCE ............................................  23
VIII.  CONCLUSION . ........................    ................. 25
ANNEXES
1.      Disbursements by Project Component and Disbursement Category
2.      Cameroon Northern Province Rural Development Projects
Selected Annual Production Indicators
3.      Seed Cotton Production, Acreage and Yields, Cameroon:
1970-1986 - Table 1 and Figure 1
4.      Cameroon Northern Rural Development Project - Economic Rate
of Return Worksheet - Base Case Analysis and Sensitivity
Analysis
HAP:    IBRD No 21508 Cameroon Regions and Main Crops
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CAMEROON
NORTHERN PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1075-CM/LOAN 1919-CM)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Northe n
Province Rural Development Project in Cameroon, for which Credit 1075-CM in
the amount of US$12.5 million and Loan 1919-CM for US$25.0 million were
approved on November 18, 1980. The credit and loan were closed on June 30,
1987, six months behind schedule. The credit was fully disbursed, and the
amount of Us$4.72 million of the loan was cancelled. The last disbursement
was on February 24, 1988.
The PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division of the
Occidental and Central Africa Department, Africa Regional Office, and is
based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan and Credit
Agreements; supervision re'3orts; correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower; and internal Bank -.zeinoranda.
The PCR was read by the Operations Evaluatic  Department (OED).
The draft report was sent to the Borrower on December 7, 1989 for comments,
but none were received.



- ii -
CAEOON
NOlTMEN RUIL DEVELORMENT SOJECT
KEY PROJECT DATA                -Appisgal             A eual or          AcWal as S of
Esti"mt         Estimatd Acual       Aceraisal Esltmate
Pro.ect Costs (USm)              74.7                     n.a.
Credit and Loan Amount (US$m)    87.6                     82.6                   67
Date %ord                     -  N.A.                   11/U
Date efetivenes                  N.A.                   66/61
Closing &ate .                   12/6S                  06167
Economic Rate of R"urn (X)       J2.4                   t1
Numbr of diect benetiiearlos   163, 11119.                                     67
CWUILATIE DIh11MEN
FY62  FP6    FVP64    FY6       FYN       FY6T  FP6
Appraisal Estimate (USImillten)                  5.0  18.2   19.8    26.6        8.6     87.6      -
Actual (UIStellIIOn)                             2.4   0.4   16.9    19.2    24.7        W.0    32.s
AcUal as*  Of Estimate                           40    64      72       72       76       *2       67
DatO  Ot final dlsUrsq.pmt        21241S     
Principal repaid (USS$m)            4.6
MISSLON DATA
No. Of       Mandays    Special liat in    Per?.                Typ   Of
Mission            Pat& (   P        -   In Field     m reet        I/ Retina V/ Leg e / ProblI es
Identification      /         -            -               -             -           -         -
Prepration        11/77       -            -               -             -           -          -
Appraisal         12/79       7
SUP.vieIO. I      1U/01       1            1 f                          1           2          b
Supervision 2     12/62       1             9              *             2           2          T,P
Supervision J     1/"8        2            1S                            2           2          T
Supervision 4      8/84       2             6               ,b           2           2          T
Supervisio S      12/64       1            19              a             1           1          T
SupervisionO 5      0/5       8            1S            s*,e,           1           2          T
Supervision 7     12/65       2            N.A.            N.A.          2           2         F,P
SupervioI1n 6      S/O6       2            N.A.            N.A.          2           8         F,P
Supervision 9      1/67       1            N.A.            N.A.          8           *         F,P
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borro r                ove rn nt of Cameroon
Executing Agency      Societe de     10el Oppsm s  O doa Cn du Cameroun (SODECOTON
Flil year             Jkly 1 - June SO
Nam of currecy (abbreviation) CFWA
Currency Excange Rat:
Appraisl Year Averag            UWIM * 219 CfAf
nte rv ning Yeare Averag         U0S1.11  a *75 CcAr
Completion Year Avera            US1.6 * 26 CPA?
Follow-up Project: Non
)/aagricvlterist; bagriculteral economist; tlinaU ial analys; I         gsonemlot; eururaI
enginer; #agronomist.
/lmproblem-rze or omnor problems; 2mederat  problems and Sneajor problems.
3/lnimproving; 2luttionary; an  udsterloratlia.
i/Winancalol Unesnagerial; Tutechnical; P1woliticl and Obotier.



- lli -
BASIC DATA SHEET
(Cont' d)
STAFF INPUT
11      n4       15      lb      U        nI      n9        o       t      02        I      U        os       b      61       UWIh
wm~  _    OEIII_IIE RIIIIiilt    v                       .       .        .       .    10.0      9.2     5s       1.0       .        .       .       .        .       .        .       . m.?
FM,l21.            .       .        .       .       .        .      .2    9.5        .3        .               .                .        .       .    9.0
IIIUIIS           .        .       .        .       .        .       .        .    It.?       .        .       .        .       .       .        .    89.1
O      I,         .        .       .        .       .        .       .        .     5.1 IS1         20.7    It.3    I.2    .L    IL9           2.9    I.
1O1n             .        .       .        .       .       .2       .       .2      .1        .       .       .        .       .        .       .      .5
'1TO   NUMC   XA 9                                      .0      .6      .0       .0       Q     99,4      5.1 202.    U5.         15.1 0..2    26.6 l..9                             2.9   332.9



- iv -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CAMEROON
'iORTHERN PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1075-CM/LOAN 1919-CM)
EVALUATION SOMMARY
Obiectives
1.      The project sought to provide the means for development of
profitable cash crops other than cotton in areas of Northern Cameroon,
notably groundnuts and maize, and to improve the productivity of staple
food crops production (mainly sorghum), while maintaining the momentum on
cotton intensification.
2.      The specific objectives of the project were to (i) improve rural
infrastructure, including roads, stores and marketing facilities; (ii)
provide effective services, including input delivery, supervised credit,
extension, marketing, adaptive research, and project monitoring and (iii)
support forestry development in the North; (iv) provide financial and
technical assistance to SODECOTON; and (vi) help existing administrative
structures at the provincial level.
Implementation Experience
3.      The project was approved in Noveuber i8C and became effective in
June 1981. After a five-year implementation period, the project was
extended for a six-month period and closed on June 30, 1987, about six and
a half years after Board Approval.
4.      Several events occurred during project implementation that had a
bearing on project implementation and impact:
-    the dollar appreciated sharply relative to the CFA franc from 1981
to 1985 and depreciated just as sharply in 1986-1987, with
substantial repercussions for project finances.
-    the North Province was subdivided in 1984 into three provinces
(Far North, North and Adamaoua).
-    the five growing seasons in project period were characterized by
well below normal precipitation levels,
-    the cotton price peaked in 1980 at a little over two dollars a
kilo and fell to just over a dollar in 1986. After 1985, further
decline in world cotton prices combined with a large decrease of
the value of the dollar in 1986-1987 led to a major financial
crisis for SODECOTON.
Results
5.      The project included over twenty separate activities and most were
implemented satisfactorily and on schedule. In particular, activities
focusing on extension agent training, seasonal credit and internal
SODECOTON management proceeded smoothly. Despite this, not all of the
project objectives were achieved, or are today sustainable.



6.      What was designed to be a rural development project with cotton as
the most important crop turned into a cotton project with few substantial
non-cottcn activities. The SAR overestimated the viability of expanding
food crop production, as well as the incentives to farmers to do so. Maize
cultivation turned out not to be practical under prevailing precipitation
levels, while sorghum and groundnuts production growth was constrained by
limited marketing possibilities. During implementation of the project
little was done to promote agricultural extension in the non-cotton growing
areas. The poorest area in the region, the Mandara Mountains. was excluded
because cotton is not produced there.
7.      The financial performance of SODECOTON, the main project
implementing agency, was overshadowed by the fluctuations in the price of
cotton. Financial returns to farmers throughout the project period were
satisfactory.  Economic performance of the project has been more favorable (10)
than is suggested by the lack of financial profitability of SODECOTON.
Sustainability
8.      The Bank paid insufficient attention to the sustainability of
project results. By 1986, it was clear that many of the project activities
would end with the end of Bank funding, as continued counterpart funding
was increasingly unlikely, and would undermine project results with
sizeable recurrent expenditure implications. It was foreseeable that the
project's end implied the slow decay of the feeder roads built or
rehabilitated by the project for example.
Findings and Lessons Learned
9.      The success of this project was undermined by a series of
exogenous events which could not have been predicted or controlled.
Drought, the wide swings in the value of cotton and of the CFAF, and the
growing government financial crisis undermined project implementation and
the sustainability of its achievements.
10.     The project aesign followed Bank and government policy in Cameroon
at that time of implementing the project through the existing relatively
efficient and experienced SODECOTON, rather than using the project for the
longer run objective of increasing implementation capacity in the central
administration.  SODECOTON expanded into a number of non-cotton activities,
such as extension, training, industrial training, village level
infrastructure, food crop marketing and road maintenance, often at the
behest of international donors like the Bank, because of the deficiencies
of the central administration. Unfortunately, it is unlikely that much of
the experience gained by SODECOTON in rural development with cotton growing
farmers can be readily utilized by the other Government implementing
agencies to benefit the majority of non-cotton growing farmers of the North
and Extreme-North Provinces. Financial consider. tions dictate that
SODECOTON will have to concentrate its efforts or, cotton and cotton farmers
for the foreseeable future, and separate plans will have to be made for
MINAGRI and associated Government institutions to assist the other two-
thirds of the region's farmers.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01         Despite the importance of oil in recent years, Cameroon's
economy is still fundamentally based on agriculture. Over the period 1971-
75 prior to the advent of oil in late 1970's, agriculture contributed about
302 to GDP and agricultural exports accounted for 821 of the total. In
1984-85, agriculture only accounted for 202 of GDP while agricultural
exports fell to 282 of total exports. However, the sector still provides
employment to about three-quarters of the population, and contributes about
15 to 202 of state revenues. Agricultural exports have regained their
importance in recent years however, and accounted for about half of total
exports in 1987188. More importantly, it produces almost all of Cameroon's
food and serves as the main source of raw materials for the agro-industrial
subsector, the potential of which has not yet been sufficiently developed.
1.02         Although the shares of various components of the agricultural
sector have varied over time, the food crop subsector has continued to
provide the main agricultural contribution to GDP, which accounted for
about 542 df value added in agriculture over the last 18 years, export
crops about 212, livestock and fisheries about 162, and forestry about 92.
1.03         The Northern Province Rural Development Project (NPRD) fell
within Govarnment's overall rural development strategy in the North, which
comprised four main types of actions (a) relieving pressure on land in the
Center North by providing infrastructure and services for settlement in the
Benoue Valley; (b) use of irrigation of the main water courses in the
region; (c) raising the productivity of rain-fed agriculture in
conjunction with efforts to improve rural infrastructure (particularly
water supplies) in the most densely populated areas and (d) exploiting the
unpopulated Guinea savannah grasslands of the Ademous Plateau for livestock
production. The NPRD was intended by Government to contribute an important
part in both the implementation and the direction of the above development
strategy.
1.04         The NPRD was the fourth Bank supported Rural Development
Project in the country. The other three projects, Rural Development Fund
(FY77), Plaine des M'Bo (FY78), and Western Highland (FY79) were still
being implemented at the time of appraisal. To-date, the Bank has financed
a total of 24 projects in agriculture amounting to USS 496.06 million over
the past 20 years (1967-1987).



- 2 -
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION AND PREPARATION
A. Identification. Preiaration and Appraisal
2.01         The NPRD originated from needs identified in the Bank's
agricultural sector survey in 1974. Following a formal Government request
for assistance in November 1978, a Bank identification mission isited
Cameroon in May-June 1977. The project was then prepared by FAO/CP which
visited Cameroon twice, in October/November 1977, and in March 1978, when
consultants from Compagnie Francaise pour le Developpement des Fibres
Textiles (CFDT), financed under Technical Assistance Credit 673-CM,
assisted in preparation of the Project. The Project was appraised by a
seven-man mission in November-December 1979. The Project was approved by
the Board in November 18, 1980.
B. Proiect Area
2.02         The project area covered 19,700 square kilometers of the
Center-North, a Sudano-Sahelian ecological zone of the then Northern
Province, and comprised of the departments of Margui-Vandala, Diamare and
Mayo-Danay (except the SEMRY area along the Logone River) 1/. In
addition, the project would include the arrondissement of Guider in the
Benoue Department. This area had an average population density of 61
persons per square kilometer, with a total population of 1.34 million
people estimated by the 1980 Census. Excluded from the project were the
mountainous areas of Mandara in Margui-Wandala department, in part because
the USAID was then con:emplating a rural development project in that area
and in part because SODECOTON was not active in the Mandara Hills where
there is little or no cotton potential. Since that area was the most
densely populated in the project zone, the project area had an estimated
population density of 58 persons per square km.
2.03         The Bank identification mission originally suggested the
project cover the entire Northern Province, but the Appraisal mission
agreed with the Government's view that the project should be limited to the
Central North region, in the middle of the Province. The focus on the
Center-North was justified by the fact that it contained two thirds of the
rural population of the then Northern Province, and that soil fertility was
declining with farmers having a hard time maintaining yields. Thus, the
Appraisal mission recognized the limited long term potential of the project
area and its environmental problems even if it did not address the issue of
declining precipitation levels.
1/ The Northern Province was subdivided into Far North, North and Adamaoua
Provinces by presidential decree in 1984, in the middle of project
execution. At the same time, the old Department of Margui-Wandala was sub-
divided into Mayo-Sanaga and Mayo-Louti Departments, and also the old
Diamare Department was divided into Diamare and Kaele Departments. Unless
otherwise noted, this report will designate Northern Province as the new,
smaller geographical area (see Map IBRD 21508).



3-
C. Proiect Approach and Justification
2.04         The Appraisal saw the need for a twin approach to rural
activities in the project area. Cotton intensification under the
direction of SODECOTON in Northern Province since 1975 had resulted in
rapid increases in cotton production and yields. Now the Government sought
to diversify cautiously away from cotton. As the SAR explained,
"the next phase in this strategy is, while
maintaining the momentum on cotton
intensification, to (a) provide the means for
developing other profitable cash crops in areas
where cotton is not suited, notably groundnuts
and maize; and (b) to improve the productivity
of staple food crops productions (notably of
sorghum), in line with expected increases in
demand' (SAR, p. 6).
This strategy provided the justification for the rural development
activities of the project. The decision to situate these activities in
SODECOTON, and not in MINAGRI, was based on the view that SODECOTON was the
most efficient development institution in the project area, on the one
hand, and the then prevalent view, on the other hand, that parastatals
outside the ministerial structures were the proper vehicles for development
efforts.
2.05         The SAR noted technical and institutional deficiencies in the
administrative structures in charge of rural development in the north and
the second set of activities was designed to address these shortcomings,
with assistance to strengthen extension, credit and agricultural research,
as well as regional planning and project monitoring and evaluation
capacity. As such, the project was strongly influenced by Bank integrated
rural development projects being implemented elsewhere in Africa, including
in Cameroon itself.
D. Objectives and Description
2.06         The specific objectives of the project were:
(a; to provide: (i) an improved rural infrastructure, including roads,
stores and marketing facilities; (ii) effective services,
including input delivery, supervised credit, extension, marketing,
adaptive research, and project monitoring and (iii) to support
forestry development in the North;
(b) to provide financial and technical assistance to SODECOTON
required to discharge its broadened responsibilities, including
management of the proposed project. At the same time, assistance
would be provided to facilitate a rationalization of agricultural
extension in the project area by equipping the remaining HINAGRI



- 4 -
structure with the means to perform its other tasks more
effectively; and
(c) to help existing administrative structure at the provincial level
to participate more effectively in the planning, coordination and
control of all development projects in the Northern Province,
within the framework of national development policies; to extend
the agricultural project monitoring and evaluation unit being
formed by MINAGRI for the Northern Province; and to assist the
Agricultural Research Institute for the North (IRA-North) enhance
its research efforts on food crops.
2.07         The project was comprised of two sets of activities within
what was then the Northern Provinces
-    rural development activities in the project area itself (Center-
north), including infrastructural improvements, reforestation
activities and food crop development.
-    at the provincial levels (a) to establish competent institutions
for planning and coordination of rural development in the Province
and for project monitoring and evaluation; (b) to establish a
sound research base for future agriculture and forestry
development in the North, including adaptive research for food
crops.
2.08    The SAR outlined the following project components in the Center
northt
(a)  strengtheni. g SODECOTON agricultural extension services in the
project area by increasing the number of its extension sectors
from 19 to 23, the number of its extension zones from 75 to 150
and of its monitors from 560 to 600;
(b) establishing an animal husbandry extension unit within SODECOTON,
employing two veterinarians and 20 livestock assistants,
principally to look after the feeding and health care of draft
animals;
(c) systematic training and retraining programs for SODECOTON and
MINAGRI staff of all levels; two training centers would be built
and training specialists provided;
(d) an agricultural experimentation unit within SODECOTON would be
established to carry out field trials and demonstrations at two
new field plotc in each of the 23 sectors in the area;
(e) staff and operating costs required by SODECOTON for the provision
of these project management services.
(f) construction of additional field storage facilities to handle farm
inputs required for the project;



- 5 -
(g) improvement of about 800 km of feeder roads in the area;
(h) improvement of rural market place facilities to ease marketing of
food crops within the area;
Ci) financing of incremental costs of seasonal inputs used by farmers
and prcvided by SODECOTON;
(j) financir@ cf an agricultural credit program for participating
farmers .uquiring credit to buy draft oxen and equipment;
(k) pilot tree plantations in forest reserves for fuelwoood and poles
and plantings of windbreaks in densely farmed areas to reduce
erosion and improve soil fertility.
2.09         The SAR described the following project components for the
Northern Province as a wholes
(a) strengthening the provincial planning unit at Garoua (NPED) to
improve planning and coordination of development projects;
(b) support for agricultural research at IRA-North, notably for
adaptive research on food crops, and to strengthen the Savannah
forest research unitt
(c) purchasing additional seed handling equipment required by MIDEVIV
(NSMP) to furnish improved groundnut seed required for development
projects in the north;
(d) providing new vehicles and improved office facilities for MINAGRI,
as well as staff training;
(e) establishing a monitoring unit under NINAGRI to monitor and
evaluate results of this and later agricultural projects in the
north;
E. Proiect Organization and Management
2.10         The Project required the collaboration of eight agencies
operating in the Center-North (SODECOTON, MINAGRI, FONADER, MINEL, MINEQ,
local councils, FNFP and MIDEVIV), and two more (the Provincial Economic
Division of MINEP and IRA-North) at the Provincial level.
2.11         SODECOTON would play the lead in assuming the execution and
supervision of all components and would be responsible for the physical
execution of the agricultural development program and construction of
feeder roads in the project area. (At the national level, responsibility
for overseeing the implementation of project activities would rest with the
corresponding responsible Ministries (MINEP, MINAGRI, MINFIN) and other
technical Ministries concerned such as MINEQ for roads and DGRST for
research coordination at provincial level between the various executing
agencies and other institutions involved in the project would be assured by



- 6 -
a Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) to be established under the
authority of the Governor of the Northern Province.
F. Prolect Costs and Financing
2.12         Total project cost, including taxes, amounted to US$74.7
million of which the Bank would finance a Bank loan of US$ 25 million and
an IDA Credit of US$ 12.5 million, making a total Bank group participation
of US$ 37.5 million or about 50Z of total project costs.
III. IMPLEMENTATION
A. Effectiveness and Start-up
3.01         The project was approved in November 1980 and became effective
in June 1981. After a five-year implementation period, the project was
extended for a six-month period and closed on June 30, 1987, about six and
a half years after Board Approval. Estimated targets and actual
accomplishments for key project components are given in Annex 1, Table 1.
3.02         Start-up was relatively uneventful and rapid, not least
because of SODECOTON's experience and management capacities. Several
expatriates hired as experts by the project were already in Garoua working
for SODECOTON, for example and were immediately operational.   Activities
not directly under its control started more slowly and the SAR proved
unduly optimistic regarding implementation schedules. For example,
livestock assistants to be provided to SODECOTON by MINEL were not
recruited until mid 1983. The Northern Seed Multiplication Project (NSNP)
proved incapable of supplying the desired quantities improved quality
groundnut seeds and alternative sources were not sought before the 1985/86
growing season. Finally, FONADER did not meet the loan condition of
submitting to the Bank a report on the results of loan recovery efforts in
the north indicating a recovery rate of at least 75 percent. These issues
are discussed at greater length below.
3.03         The Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) convened for the
first time in May 1981 and again in August and appeared to play a
satisfactory role in the early phases of the project.
B. Progress and Revisions
3.04         Several events occurred during project implementation that
could not have been predicted at Appraisal but that were to have a bearing
on project implementation and impact:
(1) the dollar appreciated sharply relative to the CFA franc from 1981
to 1985 and depreciated just as sharply in 1986-1987, with substantial
repercussions for project finances. Appraisal had assumed a stable
exchange rate of 210 CFAF per dollar throughout the life of the project.



In fact, exchange rates varied widely, climbing from a low of 206 CFAF
per US dollar in the third quarter of 1980 to a high of 498 CPAF in the
first quarter of 1985, and then back down to 260 CFAF in late 1987.
(2) the North Province was subdivided in 1984 into three provinces (Far
north, North and Adamaoua). 80 percent of the surface of the project
was in the new Far North Province, while the planning and evaluation and
monitoring units of the project continued to be based in Garoua, in the
regional delegations for MINAGRI and MINPAT of the new North province.
Further, technical assistance to MINAGRI extension was also based in the
North Provincial Delegation at Garoua. The Bank mission of July 1985
(over a year after the subdivision) proposed that these activities all
be moved to the Provincial delegations of the Far North Province in
Maroua, but this was never done.
(3) The five growing seasons under the life of the project were
characterized by well below normal precipitation levels, perturbing the
agricultural cycle and SODECOTON operations, and leading to production
shortfalls, not only for cotton but also for food crops.
(4) The Appraisal had predicted modest real increases in the world
cotton price over the life of the project, from the level of 181 US
Cents a kilo in 1980 (Mexican strict middling 1 1/16 inch, CIF Northern
Europe). In fact, the cotton price peaked in 1980 at a little over two
dollars a kilo and fell to just over a dollar in 1986. The sharp
appreciation of the dollar vis a vis other major trading currencies
between 1980 and early 1985 protected SODECOTON's cotton revenues, since
cotton is traded in dollar terms. After 1985, the further decline in
world cotton prices combined with a large decrease of the value of the
dollar in 1986-1987 led to a major financial crisis for SODECOTON,
particularly since the Government's budgetary difficulties led it to
decrease its level of support for SODECOTON activities.
C. Costs and Financing
3.05         Total project costs, including taxes, were estimated at
appraisal at CFAF 15,690 million, or US$ 74.7 million with a foreign
exchange component of 52 percent or CFAF 8,190 million (US $39.0 million),
based on a exchange rate of 210 CFAF per US dollar. Actual project costs
are not available except for those components of the project which were
partly financed from the Bank loan and IDA credit, which are discussed
below. The disbursements records show that almost all project exenditures
were made in CFAF or in French Francs. It is therefore interesting to
reflect that the loan generated considerably in excess of the estimated
needs of CFAF 8 billion, as a result of the appreciation of the US dollar,
even though $4.7 million was eventually cancelled.
3.06         The financing plan proposed in the SAR envisaged financial
inputs from the Government, the Bank, SODECOTON, farmers and FONADER as
follows:



-8
SAR
($0000)
Government          27.5
Bank                37.5
Farmers              9.3
FONADER               0.4
SODECOTON            0.0
Total               74.7
3.07         There are no figures for the actual amount that was made
available by the Government to SODECOTON, NMINGRI and the other agencies
implementing the project, but it is clear that from 1985 onwards the
Government's contribution to SODECOTON was reduced, so that SODECOTON
itself had to contribute towards incremental operating costs of extension
from its own resources in order for implementation of the project to
continue. This lack of Government counterpart contribution was one of the
most important factors affecting implementation of the project from 1985
onwards. However, the reduction in Government budgetary allocation may
have been exascerbated by the provisions of the loan agreement that
required a rapidly increasing Government contribution to incremental
operating costs in the latter years of implementation. Thus, whereas
initially the Government was only required to finance 10 percent of
incremental staff salaries, the percentage increased to 30, 50 and 70
percent through the project period. Even without the national financial
crisis, it might have been difficult for SODECOTON to obtain such rapid
increases in Government recurrent budget allocations.
3.08         Although actual costs are not available, the Bank's
contribution to each of the categories is available from the disbursement
records. They are smaller than the total costs, since the Bank only
financed a proportion of the costs of each component, but they can be used
to estimate costs.   Moreover, since separate disbursement categories were
included in the loan and credit agreements for the different institutions
responsible for implementing the project - SODECOTON, IRA, FNFP, FONADER,
MINAGRI, MINEP and MIDEVIV, it is possible also to obtain some indication
of the performance of the different agencies.
3.09         Annex 1, Table 1 presents the disbursements for each category
and for each of the parts of- the project. The data, which is summarised in
the table below, confirms that SODECOTON was able to implement the project
more or less as envisaged in the SAR. Incremental staff salaries and other
operating costs, as well as specialists' services were within 10 percent of
appraisal extimates. There were some savings on vehicle costs. Costs of
civil works, mainly the roads construction program, exceeded SAR estimates
by 60 percent. IRA was also able to utilize the funds that were made
available for research on food crop and trees. However, costs of the
FONADER implemented medium term credit program for draft animals and



-9-
equipment were only 30 percent of appraisal estimates, and equipment
purchased for the MIDEVIV executed seed production program was only 40
percent of the amount estimated. Moreover, the costs of the MINAGRI and
MINEQ programs were only 60 percent of appraisal estimates.
Proiect Costs Financed by Cr.1075-CM and Loan 1919-CM
Proiect Component                       SAR       Actual         Actual
($000)    ($000)         as 2 of
SAR
- Provision of extension services
by SODECOTON
- Operating Expenditures             9,552.1  10,384.7        109
- Civil works                        4,486.8   7,312.2        163
- Specialist' services               6,056.3   5,472.0         90
- Vehicles and equipment             3,928.9   3,239.5         82
sub-total                           24,024.1  26,408.4        110
- Strengthening of agricultural         2,707.9   2,806.6        104
and forestry research by IRA
- Pilot tree plantings, and             1,386.8   1,145.6         83
windbreaks by FNFP.
- Medium term credit program for        3,182.6      958.5        30
animal traction
- Strengthening of MINAGRI and          1,755.3   1,036.1         65
Project Monitoring and Evaluation.
- Development Planning                    557.4      360.7        65
by MIMEP
- Seed Production by MIDEVIV             195.8        71.2        36
Contingencies                          3,690.0         0.0         -
Total                                  37,500.0  32,787.2         87
D. Procurement and Disbursement
3.10         The project files indicate that there were no major
procurement problems during implementation.
3.11         Disbursements of the Credit 1075-CM started towards the end
of 1981 and were completed in early 1984, at which time disbursements from
the Loan 1919-CM commenced. Disbursements lagged somewhat behind the
appraisal estimates, largely as a result of the appreciating US dollar
exchange rate. As early as June 1985, it was anticipated that appreciation
of the dollar would result in underspending of project funds, perhaps by as
much as US$ 17 million (Memo, June 5 1985, p. 2). In early 1985 SODECOTON
proposed that it prepare a work plan of activities to undertake for two



- 10 -
additional years with these funds. Horeover, the Government and SODECOTON
proposed that these funds be used to finance a ginnery at Bibemi, and
provided the Bank with detailed cost estimates for its construction.
However, due to lack of availability of Government counterpart funds, the
revised work plan was never fully implemented. Nevertheless, all but USS
4.7 million of the loan was disbursed by project closing.
E. Reporting
3.12         According to the SAR, the project's three executing agencies,
SODECOTON, MINAGRI and FONADER would each submit quarterly progress reports
to the Government and to the Bank showing actual and budgeted expenditures,
statements of progress achieved and objectives for the forthcoming quarter
by each project component. SODECOTON's quarterly reports were to contain
summary financial information indicating the levels of its short-term
borrowing and of any outstanding receivables from the Government or other
bodies with respect to budgetary allocations for the project and subsidies
on production inputs. In addition, SODECOTON was to keep records for the
project consistent with sound accounting practice to reflect not only its
overall financial situation, but also the detailed costs of operations in
the project components it was to execute. SODECOTON's existing cost
accounting system was to be revamped to allow it more accurate cost
allocation in the context of its new role as a more comprehensive
development agency. MINAGRI's project accounts were to be kept by the
Provincial Delegate in Garoua, in accordance with standard goverament audit
procedures.
3.13         These procedures were followed satisfactorily.  SODECOTON's
annual and quarterly reports were regularly submitted to the Bank, as were
detailed reports of expenditures. Similarly, after a slow start, MINAGRI's
evaluation and monitoring unit provided regular reporting of its
activities. SODECOTON's accounting system was adequately modernized, and
now clearly distinguishes commercial from non commercial activities. The
new approach has been quite useful to SODECOTON by providing precise cost
estimates of SODECOTON's different activities, notably the rural
development ones for which the agency receives no reimbursements from the
Government. These estimates have been used by the Government, CCCE and the
Bank in the recent debates over SODECOTON's rehabilitation.
F. Proiect closing
3.14         Project activities were initially supposed to end June 1986
and the initial closing date for the project was December 31, 1986.
SODECOTON requested a two year extension to the project, made possible by
large unspent funds. The ostensible justification for prolongation was to
continue and intensify project actions to alleviate the effects of drought.
In addition, the onset of SODECOTON's financial difficulties made any
additional funding highly desirable.



- 11 -
3.15         Bank missions initially agreed informally to SODECOTON
proposals to extend the project with a new and revised work plan for 1987
and 1988. Such a work plan was designed by SODECOTON in early 1986. But
it was soon overtaken by the deteriorating financial situation. With the
Government's own financial situation worsening rapidly, counterpart funds
for the project were increasingly being withheld. By mid 1986, the Bank
continued to accept the principle of extension but now made it contingent
upon agreement with the Government on a plan of action for the
rehabilitation of the cotton subsector and agreement on counterpart
funding. After some internal debate the Bank agreed to provide the project
with a first six month extension of the closing date, to June 30 1987, to
provide the Government enough time to complete an in depth study of
SODECOTON's finances and rehabilitation.
3.16         In February 1987, the Bank sent the Government a telex urging
the Government to alleviate SODECOTON's financial problems and disburse
obligated funds to SODECOTON. The telex warned that if adequate measures
were not taken, disbursements would be stopped, no second extension would
be granted and the balance of funds under the loan would be cancelled. The
Government responded shortly thereafter indicating that counterpart funding
was now assured for SODECOTON and that a ministerial review of the
parastatal was underway. In July 1987, the Bank informed the Government
that it had not received any information concerning the ministerial review,
and that consequently the loan closing date would be maintained at June 30,
1987.
3.17         Undisbursed Bank project funds still totalled US$ 5.6 million
as of September 30, 1987. A Bank mission to Cameroon in October 1987 was
given a study, by Price Waterhouse, which included a number of
recommendations based on a comprehensive diagnostic of SODECOTON's crisis.
The mission was informed that the Government accepted most of Price
Waterhouse's recommendations and would begin implementing them. In view of
this new information the Bank mission indicated it would reconsider
extending the closing date. After some internal debate in the Bank,
however, the closing date was maintained and no further extension granted.
The Bank now argued that additional finance to SODECOTON be linked to the
major policy dialogue underway in the context of proposed sectoral and
structural adjustment lending.
IV. OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE AND PROJECT IMPACT
A. Issues
4.01         An evaluation of project operations and their impact should
take into account the environment in which the project activities were
carried out. This is particularly true for the present project. First, it
should be noted the project covered only 4 growing seasons. Though it was
signed in January 1981, the project really only got started in June 1981,



- 12 -
too late to have any effect on the 1981182 season. The 1982/83 season was
the first season to benefit from project inputs, and thus at the original
project completion date (June 1986), only 4 growing seasons (not including
the 1986/87 season) had been concludled under the life of the project, or 5
years with the additional year of cperations, which did not include all
project components, and was conducted in the shadows of the Government's
financial difficulties. This is little time for technology diffusion in a
rural environment, even when -- as in the case of cotton -- a tested
technological package already existed at SODECOTON. For most of the food
crops the project included a research and field test component to finalize
the development of such packages because none existed at project inception.
For these crops, it is therefore not surprising that project impact was
limited in terms of production and productivity increases. The SAR
contained unrealistic expectations in this regard.
4.02         In addition, the project was perturbed by a series of
negative exogenous events, whose effect must be properly taken account of.
First, precipitation levels were below average for 3 of the 5 growing
seasons during the life of the project. The Appraisal argued that 700 m
over the course of the June-September growing season represents a minimal
requirement for successful cotton cultivation. From 1982 through 1984, the
project zone averaged less than that, with such lows as 410 mm at Maroua in
all of 1984 or 630 mm in Garoua in 1983.   The drought had an effect not
only on the agricultural potential of the project area, but also on farmer
incentives. In particular, drought can be expected to lower the potential
of all cultivations, albeit of some more than others. The lower level of
precipitation apparently made maize cultivation all but impossible, for
example, but must have had a much lesser effect on millet. More
importantly, drought put a premium on food crops in farmer strategies,
particularly when as is the case in northern Cameroon, food marketing
networks are poorly developed. The drought could thus be expected to have
had a disproportionate effect on cotton. The drought conditions prevailing
during much of the project's existence undermined project results. Since
1985, however, the rainfall levels have been satisfactory and production
levels have increased appreciably. Indeed, the 1988/89 season provided
SODECOTON with its largest cotton crop ever, some 168,000 tons of seed
cotton.
4.03         Secondly, in 1985, the world price of cotton underwent a
dramatic and unexpected decrease. This combined with the appreciation of
the dollar to make SODECOTON's cotton activities highly unprofitable, not
least because of the generous producer price increases the governement
granted cotton farmers between 1980-1985. SODECOTON's financial
difficulties were compounded by the Government's own budgetary crisis which
led it to reduce its support of SODECOTON, and other relevant institutions,
notably of IRA. Additional projects, such as the Bank's National
Agricultural Research Project were delayed due to lack of counterpart
funding, which undermined continuity and eroded progress made under the
project.
4.04         A final factor which perturbed project operations was the
Government's decision to subdivide the Northern Province in 1984. This
change was followed by indecision on the Government's part as to whether or
not project activities taking place in the ministerial Provincial



- 13 -
delegation in Garoua should be physically moved to Maroua or not. This
hesitation can be expected to have perturbed planning and perhaps morale in
the Delegation at Garoua. Once the decision was made to move most of these
project activities to Maroua, more time and energy was lost moving
equipment and personnel and starting new activities from scratch at Maroua.
The low degree of impact of the project activities conducted in MINAGRI and
MINEP were at least in part a result of this move.
B. Proiect Components
4.05         The project included over twenty separate activities and most
were implemented satisfactorily and on schedule. In particular, activities
focusing on extension agent training, seasonal credit and internal
SODECOTON management proceeded smoothly. Despite this, not all of the
project objectives were achieved, or are today sustainable. The following
sections focus on some of the key issues that were raised by project
operations, on activities which proved problematic and on the reasons why
some of the targets were not met.
4.06         Cotton activities:   The appraisal had set out an objective
of an increase from 48,000 to 70,000 hectares of intensive cotton
cultivation producing 82,300 tons of cotton seed by PY5. Instead,
approximately 60,000 tons of cotton were produced on 52.500 Ha during the
198511986 season, implying a 27 percent production shortfall compared with
appraisal. Cotton production statistics are given in Table 1. In
addition, yields averaged 1140 kilos per Ha, instead of the 1200 foreseen
in the SAR. These totals suggest a fairly successful project. Moreover,
with the return of higher rainfall levels in 1986-1989, the project
production targets have been met. However, to put these totals in
perspective, it should be remembered that the old CFDT had produced as
much as 70,700 tons in more or less the project area as early as 196911970
and had extended its low intensity extension system over 70-80,000 hectares
there through out the late 1960s and early 19708. The SODECOTON was not so
much introducing as reintroducing cotton to most farmers in the area, and
its inability to promote intensification more successfully suggest the
presence of fundamental agro-ec-logical problems in the project area as
discussed below. This is corroborated by SODECOTON's greater success in
areas south of the project zone. Though production increased some 8.5
percent a year on average in the Far North Province between 1974 and 1986,
it grew by 12.4 percent in the North Province and by 10.6 percent overall
for SODECOTON. Between 1980 and 1986, the life of the project, these
production growth rates were -1.22, 12.62 and 5.72 respectively (See Table
2) 2/.
4.07         Several factors explain this disparity between the North and
Far North Provinces and seems to have been responsible for the project
never reaching the production objectives laid out at appraisal. First,
2/ Comparisons are complicated by the fact that the Center-North project
area is roughly 80 percent in the Far North Province and 20 percent in the
Benoue Department of North Province. Data for the project area were nct
available for the entire period.   The Benoue Department, with greater
precipitation levels, regularly outperformed the rest of the project area.



- 14 -
drought hit the north of Cameroon in 1982-1984. It was particularly severe
in the Far North, including the project area, whereas SODECOTON areas
further south in the Benoue valley were less affected.   With lower and
more unpredictable precipitation levels, farmers have turned away from
cotton and have focused on food crops, particularly in the Haroua region
where food prices increased appreciably during the project period. In
addition, there has been some out migration of farmers to the cotton areas
further south in the Benoue Valley. Some observers were led by the drought
years to argue that there is a secular decline in precipitation levels in
the Far North that will continue to undermine the project area's production
potential. With the returns of three years of adequate rains, a slightly
more sanguine view may be in order. In any event, the sustainability of
the cotton production increases achieved through the project will likely
depend on the area's precipitation levels in the future.
4.08         Food croD activities;  The food crop component of the pro4ect
was no more successful at meeting project targets, albeit for different
reasons.   SODECOTON was slow to undertake the full program of activities
for food crops listed in the appraisal, in part because of its lack cf
experience with food crop extension. The early years of the project
witnessed some groping. For example, it first focused on wholesale
intensification of food crops on small perimeters, instead of the program
of semi-intensification on large areas outlined in the SAR. Bank staff
involved in supervision missions appear to have agreed with this departure
from the SAR strategy though several Supervision missions did raise the
issue with SODECOTON. While difficult to quantify precisely since
SODECOTON did not provide the Bank with complete statistics for food crops
in the project area, pro,ect results were well below the objectives listed
in the SAR. Target shortfalls for output of groundnuts and sorghum, were
well above 50 percent and the production objectives for maize were
altogether scrapped when it became clear that maize was not a viable crop
in the project area. Project results were hampered by the drought
conditions. In general, it can be said that tested technological packages
did not exist to promote intensification of production, at the project
outset. For most crops, the SAR foresaw the need to begin by recommending
simple improvements to farmers in a first stage while field trials tested
new varieties and more sophisticated input use. SODECOTON's food crop
intensification strategy was undermined by an initially poor understanding
of farm level incentives and food crop/cash crop tradeoffs, as well as by
the exiguity of food markets in the region, and the drought conditions
preva.ling during the prject. Project results for food crops were thus
slow to appear. Recent results have been much more encouraging, however,
suggesting cause for a more positive assessment of the progress made under
the project. The project experience with each crop is reviewed separately
below.
4.09    Groundnuts:  In the appraisal, it was widely felt groundnuts had
the greatest pntential among food crops for the project area.
SEMNORD had spoisored the intensification of groundnuts in the
seventies before its abolition, and it was thought that farmers
would be quick to accept extension recommendations. Local market
prospects for groundnuts were better than for other food crops and
simple technical innovations were thought to be sufficient to
appreciably increase output. The seed multiplication project was



- 15 -
supposed to be able to provide the project area with improved
seeds. The appraisal promoted the twin approach of seeking
wholesale intensification on only some 10,000 hectares by the end
of project operations on the one hand and simple improvements on
the another 29,500 hectares. The latter consisted of semi-
intensification and included on farm seed selection and
rudimentary greater planting density, for example, but no
fertilizer use. The SAR estimated that these simple improvements
could increase yields from 350 to 560-630 kilos of shelled nuts
per ha. In fact, SODECOTON efforts in the early phases of project
implementation focused entirely on intensification, leading to
criticism by several bank supervision missions. By PY5, the
project had promoted intensification on 1500 hectares, but had yet
to begin the program of semi-intensification, despite Bank
insistence. In part, this slow progress can be explained by the
poor weather conditions for groundnuts and the absence of well
adapted varieties for the project area.
4.10    Sorghum:  Sorghum (wet and dry season or Mouskwari) represents the
most important subsistence crop in the region. Under traditional
systems of cultivation, mean yields were said to approximate 700-
750 kg of threshed grain per hectare for wet and dry season
sorghum. The project focused exclusively on wet season sorghum,
though SODECOTON estimated at 75,000 Ha the acreage devoted to
this crop in the 1985/86 season (45,000 ha in 1984185). Acreage
devoted to improved sorghum cultivation was supposed to increase
from 12,500 ha in PYO to 91.850 ha by PY5; instead, SODECOTON
reported increases to 25,000 ha., a 73 percent shortfall. By way
of comparison, the 1984 Agricultural Census reports total sorghum
and millets acreage at 292,000 ha in the Far North province. In
part, marketing problems undermined production efforts. For
example in 1986, the excellent sorghum harvest led to brutal fall
in the market price paid to farmers, which went from 200 CFAF per
kilo in August 1985 to 25-40 CFAF in December 1986. The good
rains in 1986 and then again in 1988 seem to have led to a
quantitative jump in semi-intensive sorghum cultivation in those
years, however, suggesting that the project's impact on production
is tributary to adequate rainfall levels.
4.11    Maize:  SODECOTON had high hopes for maize cultivation in the
project area, though it is not a traditional crop in the area and
was grown mainly as a garden vegetable (culture de case). The
project appraisal foresaw the experimental introduction of high
yielding short season varieties of maize among the area's more
progressive farmers, essentially as a cash crop. It noted that
maize consumption in the area was practically nil and cautioned
that current marketing outlets might be very thin. It established
a target of some 5,000 Ha under advanced technology on 0.25 Ha
plots. In fact, SODECOTON abandoned this project component when
it became clear that intensive maize cultivation was not viable in
the project area under the drought conditions prevailing in the
project area. It should be noted that in the Benoue valley
further south, SODECOTON's efforts to promote maize have been



- 16 -
successful and production ihcreases have been rapid, often at the
expense of sorghum cultivation.
4.12          Food marketing issues: The SAR had pointed to the low
proportion of food production marketed as a key development constraint ir.
the project area. As well as the feeder roads component, the project
included a component to modernize seven rural markets as a way of improving
marketing channels.  These were not built, as SODECOTON appears to Lkve
determined they would have little impact on marketing in the area. To
justify this SODECOTON pointed to a number of farmer needs surveys that do
not mention rural markets as a priority need. In any event, the decision
to include this component in the project can be questioned in light of the
fact that the major urban centers in the north do not have permanent market
structures. Food marketing has been very active in certain parts of the
project area, notably in the immediate radius of provincial towns like
Maroua.
4.13         A consensus has now emerged among government agencies and
donors that the biggest constraint to increasing food production in the
project area is not the production possibility frontier under existing
production technologies, but rather the exiguity of markets. With less
than 20 percent of food production actually marketed, most farmers in the
area are more or less self reliant. There is so little farming
specialization that even SODECOTON's most progressive farmers continue to
cultivate food crops for home consumption. Food demand comes mainly from
the urban populations, which are small in the North and increasingly
consuming non traditional food stuffs like bread and rice. SODECOTON
efforts to promote food pro1action was not hampered by technological or
ecological issues (though these were present, notably for maize in the Far
North) so much as by the lack of market outlets for the resulting output.
Farmers would not expand their food crop acreage and'use modern inputs like
fertilizer unless they were assured of being able to market the surplus
output. Until 1986 SODECOTON did guarantee a purchase price for some food
stuffs, but supply soon out stripped demand and the operation became
unprofitable. It was discontinued because of SODECOTON's mounting
financial difficulties.
4.14         The Appraisal mission was aware that marketing channels were
poorly developed, but it overestimated the demand for the surplus
foodstuffs the project aimed to produce. In retrospect, greater attention
should have been devoted to the immediate causes of food insecurity in the
project area, the Osoudurew period every year and the failure of the rains
that seems to occur one in three or four years. In particular, project
efforts to improve farm and village storage capacitv should have been
expanded to address this type of insecurity. On the research level,
greater efforts should have been devoted to improving storage technology
and increasing the shelf life of cereals.
4.15         Feeder roads: SAR cost estimates for feeder road construction
proved overly optimistic and revised cost estimates in early 1982 indicated
that the CFAF 3.2 billion (USS 10.7) earmarked this component in the SAR
would cover only 80 percent of the original 800 kilometers, or some 650 km.
Eventually, some 600 km were built or rehabilitated over the course of four



- 17 -
seasons. SODECOTON focused on the eastern and southern regions of the
project area, on the assumption that a later phase of the project could
expand the road network north and west. By late 1986, over half of these
roads had been classified by the HINEQ and thus was included in their
maintenance schedules. The remaining roads were classified by 1988. After
this component had been completed, some of the road building equipment was
transferred to MINEQ and ONAREF. The lack of operating budgets at both of
these institutions since 1987 has led to a near total absence of
maintenance for the feeder roads. Under these circumstances, by 1990 some
of these roads will in worse conesition than at project inception.
4.16         Medium Term Credit:  The project set aside US$ 4.6 million
(including 3.2 million from the Bank) to allow FONADER to extend medium
term loans to farmers to allow them to purchase oxen from SODECOTON.
Implementation of this component proved problematic. The project Loan
Agreement (Schedule 1, para 4 (c) and (d)) stated as a condition of
disbursement that FONADER had to provide the Bank with a report on the
results of agricultural credit recovery efforts in the Northern Province
showing that arrears had been reduced to no more than 25 percent of the
aggregate principal amount of such credits which were due and payable.
Such a report was provided to the Bank in April 1984, two and a half years
after the beginning of operations, showing that arrears had been brought
down close to 23 percent and the Bank auLhorized disbursements under this
component. In fact repayment rates at FONADER appear to have continued to
be low.
4.17         FONADER was never able to disburse the loans at anything
close to the levels predicated by the appraisal. Of the US $ 3.2 million
budgeted by the Bank in the SAR for this activity, only $0.95 million was
spent by the end of operations. The reasons for this are not clear. There
was some question as to the effective demand for such credit on the part of
farmers. After 1985, SODECOTON successfully began promoting the use of
donkey traction, and the medium term credit component was used to provide
farmers with credit for donkeys rather than oxen. This appeared to fit
farmer needs better, and the donkey's cheaper cost seems to have better
adapted to farmers means. Some 3,800 donkeys were eventually distributed
to farmers and trained.
4.18         Forestrys The appraisal had argued that the forestry
component was important to addressing the ecological problems of northern
Cameroon.   Proposed targets in the SAR included 300 Ha of experimental
tree plantations in IRA's forestry research station in Maroua, 700 Ha of
pilot savannah plantations for fuel wood and 750 km of windbreak planting
in selected parts of the project area. In addition, forestry research
would be actively promoted. While good progress appears to have been made
on the research front, the targets proved too ambitious. For lack of
determined management and strict adherence to the work program, the
savannah forest plantation lagged over 50 percent below target, with a
meager 330 hectares planted, instead of the 700 planned. Technical
problems led to a large attrition rate among young trees. The SAR had
argued that the windbreak or village plantations component of the project
was a promising way of protecting fields from wind erosion and would lead
to increased yields. Eventually, it was entirely dropped from the project
due to lack of village level interest. In retroapect, there was inadequate



- 18 -
knowledge of technical issues to embark on a planting scheduleof the size
foreseen by the SAR.
4.19         Agricultural Research:  The project was more successful at
enhancing the adaptation and diffusion of existing technologies than at
developing new technologies, given the short life of the project and the
exceptional drought conditions. The applied research program was executed
at the Maroua research station and 9 substations located in the three
northern provinces. The experimentation program was properly executed and
involved 183 trials, including 134 on food crops, on the substations and
about 400 trials performed throughout the cotton area. Food crops tested
included sorghum, groundnuts, maize, paddy, cow pea, soybean and yams. Due
to drought many of the trials failed.   By 1984, the IRA had with the
assistance of SODECOTON established 4,200 demonstration patches of a
quarter hectare of Sorghum fertilized with urea to show its potential
benefit to farmers. The impact of these research results on farming
systems seems to depend on the precipitation levels.
4.20         Several factors seriously hampered the sustainability of this
component's impact, however. The lack of counterpart funding for project
activities was first compensated by SODECOTON's willingness to prefinance
them, but it soon stopped doing this. In addition, some of the activities
were designed to be continued by the Bank's Agricultural Research Project,
initially slated to begin operations in late 1984. That project did not
become effective in 1988. As a consequence, much of the research begun
under NPRD was in effect discontinued.
4.21         Northern Province Economic Division; the NPED, based in the
MINPAT was designed by the SAR to fill a gap in regional planning by
coordinating regional interministerial forecasting activities and by
coordinating the numerous interventions of multi and bilateral donors. It
seems to have gotten off to a slow start but then to have played a useful
role, in reporting regional trends and analyzing development constraints.
Unfortunately, the NPED seems to have ended its activities with the
departure of the expatriate expert.
4.22         Project Monitoring and Evaluation Units the PMEU established
in the HINAGRI's regional delegation was less successful. It was meant by
the SAR to monitor the project's impact at the farmer level and eventually
monitor and evaluate all projects in the area using a consistent and
rigorous set of techniques and criteria. In fact, it was never able to
carry out a meaningful baseline survey, as it used an excessively complex
questionnaire which it waa not able to completely master, and there were
complaints that the Regional Delegate used the unit as little more than a
agricultural statistics collection unit. After a laborious start, however,
the unit did provide several useful reports on the project's impact on the
farming population. Since the end of the project and departure of the
expatriate expert, the unit has been closed. Its personr.el was integrated
into the statistics division, project cars were taken away and the computer
equipment was transferred to the DEP in Yaounde.



- 19 -
V. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
A. Financial Performance
5.01         The financial performance of SODECOTON, the rain project
implementing agency, was overshadowed by the fluctations in the price of
cotton. During the early 1980s, while the price of cotton was strong,
SODECOTON was able to show a modest profit, but increased revenues were
largely passed on to producers in the form of increased prices for seed
cotton, which increased from CFAF 80/kg in 1980-81 to CFAF 140/kg in 1985-
86. This does not include the CFAF 15/kg post-harvest bonus paid by ONCPB.
Throughout this period, SODECOTON subsidized seeds and fertilisers and
provided free insecticides.
5.02         In addition to the agricultural assistance to farmers for
cotton, SODECOTON continued to expand its rural development activities
during the 1980s. It addition to the crop development programs for
sorghum, maize, and groundnuts and the roads construction included in the
Bank financed project, SODECOTON was involved in groundnut processing and
storage and adult literacy programs through the Bank financed FSAR I and II
projects, as well as implementing a number of other rural developemnt
activities. The total cost of rural development is estimated to have been
CFAF 5.8 billion in 1985-86.
5.03         The fall in the price of cotton in 1986, combined with the
failure of the Government to provide the agreed counterpart funding for the
project related and rural development work, resulted in the acute financial
crises of 1985-86 and 1986-87 when financial deficits of CFAF 20.3 billion
and CFAF 12.1 billion were recorded. Furthermore a deficit of CFAF 11.8
was estimated for 1987-88. Financial audits prepared by Price-Waterhouse
in 1986-87 and the CCCE in 1987-88, led to recommendations for
restructuring SODECOTON, including reduction in the subsidies on cotton
inputs from 56 percent in 1985-86 to 25 percent in 1986-87. In addition, a
third grade of seed cotton was introduced in 1988, which reduced the
average cost of seed cotton to CFAF 126/kg in 1987-88. Under the
provisions of the Structural Adjustment Program, it is realistic to assume
that the producer price could be reduced to about CFAF100/kg seed cotton,
and other farmer input subsidies removed completely, which would permit
SODECOTON to cover its variable costs. However, without some improvement
in world cotton prices it is unlikely that would be much of a positive
return on the capital employed.
5.04         Financial returns to farmers throughout the project period
were satisfactory, with a net return of CFAF 60,000-90,000/ha equivalent to
CFAF 30-50,000 per farmer. As noted above, even after the fall in world
cotton prices, farmers were largely insulated from lower returns. In
addition the project also assisted them to increase food crop production,
some of which was marketed.



- 20 -
B. Economic Performance
5.05         The economic performance of the project has been much more
favorable than is suggested by the lack of financial profitability of
SODECOTON. Over the longer term, the economic viability of cotton
production in Northern Cameroon should be satisfactory, and considerably
better than the financial figures suggest, due in part to the fact that the
price of seed-cotton paid to farmers was not reduced when world cotton
prices fell, and in part to low controlled prices for the sale cf cotton
lint on the domestic market (nearly 20 percent of the total volume of
lint), and cotton seed oil, all of which is sold on the domestic market at
regulated prices well below border prices. Thus, the financial returns do
not reflect the returns to the economy. Moreover the medium and longer
term price projections for cotton indicate some recovery, which combined
with some recovery of the US dollar relative to the CFAF, would lead to
increased revenues from exports of cotton lint.
5.06         Throughout the 1980s farmers in the project a-ea have
received a considerable economic rent from cotton sales. Even with a
producer price below CFAF 100/kg seed cotton, farmers can still make a
satisfactory net return to land and labor after deducting all input costs,
particularly in the Northern Province, where conditions are more favorable
and yields are higher. In the Extreme North, where yields are lower,
farmers have still been able to make satisfactory returns from cotton and
food crops, whereas without the project yields and the level of farm income
would probably have fallen.
5.07         The project's economic rate of return has been estimated
again to compare it with the estimates made in 1980 at the time of project
appraisal. In the SAR some 55 percent of the benefits at full production
in the 10th year, were projected to result from incremental seed-cotton
produLtion of 37,400 tons, compared with the actual production of 51,000
tons in 1988-89, which was a good year. Taking into consideration the
pattern of poor rainfall once every three years, incremental production is
estimated at 32,400 tons of seed cotton annually, some 85 percent of that
estimated at appraisal. The value of future cotton production for the
remaining 12 years of the project is projected to be CFA 7.0 billion
annually, largely mitigating the effects of low cotton prices and
unfavorable exchange rates in some of the early years of the project.
Cotton would account for 75 percent of the net value of project benefits,
assuming a cotton fibre price of US$1.55/kg f.o.b. and a future exchange
rate of CFA350s$1.00.
5.08         Incremental food crop benefits were projected in the SAR to
account for 35 percent of total project benefits at full production, with
an estimated annual value of CFA 3.6 billion. Figures are not available of
the actual increased area or production, since SODECOTON keeps complete
statistics for intensive food crops only, rather than the much larger area
of semi-intensive crops. In the absence of detailed information concerning
areas and yields of food crops, their incremental value at full production
has been estimated at CFA 0.9 billion annually, some 25 percent of the SAR



- 21 -
projection (para 4.08-4.11). This reduced estimate is based on the facts
that it was not possible to introduce maize as projected in the SAR, due to
lower than anticipated rainfall, and that SODECOTON concentrated on a small
area of intensive food crop production in rotation with cotton, rather than
a much larger area of semi-intensive food crop production. The actual area
of cotton was smaller than estimated in the SAR (although yields increased
as projected), therefore it is likely that the area of intensive food crop
production was also smaller. On the other hand, the SAR did not take into
account the benefits from niebe (cowpeas) cultivation, a crop which
SODECOTON has had some success intensifying in recent years. Food crop
benefits are assumed to account for 20 percent of total net benefits in the
economic analysis in this report.
5.09         The remaining benefits assumed in the SAR were derived from
roads and livestock benefits. The benefits from roads construction have
been assumed to be 75 percent of the 3AR estimate, since only 600 kms of
the 800 kms planned were constructed. No benefits were derived from the
livestock activities to reflect the poor performance of the credit
component.
5.10         On the costs side, the SAR did not include many of the long
term fixed costs of SODECOTON. As discussed in Paragraphs 5.02-5.03, these
have proved to be higher than anticipated. The Caisse Centrale estimates
of actual and future SODECOTON fixed and variable costs have been used in
the projected ERR.
5.11          Taking into account the actual performance from 1981-82 to
1988-89, assuming no further production increases would result from the
project, and using current World Bank commodity forecasts, the revised ERR
of the project would be about 10 percent over a 20 years project life. The
project life has been increased from 15 years in the SAR to 20 years to
compensate for the effects of the unanticipated drought (1983-85) in the
early years of project execution (Annex 4, Table 1).
5.12         Another set of calculations has been made to determine how
sensitive the ERR is to changes in production, in which the return of
drought conditions over the project area has been assumed, such as late
onset or partial failure of the rains, giving rise to higher food crop
prices, and an increase in the area of food crops planted, to try to
compensate for lower yields. Under these conditions, the value of
incremental food crop production has been assumed to remain at CFA 0.9
billion/year, with incremental cotton production falling from 32,400 tons
to 20,400 tons, resulting in an ERR over a twenty year period estimated at
7 percent (Annex 4, Table 2). If the value of food crop benefits was also
to fall by 25 or 50 percent, the ERR would fall to 5 or 2 percent
respectively, indicating that the project is rather sensitive to changes in
the value of food crop benefits.
5.13         The implication of these calculations is that project
performance was adequate, albeit not as strong as foreseen by the SAR, and
that future economic performance of cotton will be highly dependent on
weather patterns in the North. Though project benefits were not weighted
according to social criteria, it should be clear that project results would
be even more valuable to the region, and to its social welfare, if drought



- 22 -
conditions do prevail in the near future, since the project did make
peasants less vulnerable to the effects of drought. Had the project output
been valuated taking this into account, its rate of return would have been
higher. Finally, it is important to note that the economic assessment of
the project is not directly related to that of SODECOTON, whose large fixed
overheads are by definition not considered in the incremental cost and
benefit estimates used in the project economic calculations.
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
6.01         The institutional problems in northern Cameroon identified by
the SAR do not appear to have been relieved by the project. Though the
physical goals for cotton production were largely met at high financial
cost by SODECOTON, other institutions involved in project implementation
were less satisfactory and the project's institutional development
objectives were not achieved. As a result, policy making and implementing
structures in north Cameroon remain largely deficient. The lack of
progress during the project has now been compounded by the Government's
inability to continue funding operating expenditures.
6.02         SODECOTON was and remains an effective cotton development
agency. During the course of the project it demonstrated this
effectiveness by meeting many of the physical targets of the project with
minimal delays. The infrastructural components of the project (road
building, rural markets etc) were all executed on time. Training of
extension agents was similarly satisfactory. The shortfall in meeting
cotton production outputs can be blamed on the drought rather than on
SODECOTON.
6.03         On the other hand, the project helped SODECOTON improve the
scope of its non cotton activities, notably in the area of food crops, even
if they remain secondary to its cotton activities. SODECOTON was not
transformed into a rural development agency, but it did begin to integrate
rural development activities in its promotion of cotton based farming
system. During the project implementation period, SODECOTON expanded its
integrated rural development activities, and acquired new or enhanced
experience in such areas as credit distribution, road building and food
crops research and extension. Much of this institutional growth has
continued since the end of the project, though it is jeopardized by the
cotton sector crisis as well as its and the Government's fiscal
difficulties.
6.04         The performance of the rest of the institutional apparatus in
the north does not appear to have undergone sustainable improvements during
the life of the project. The project decision to decrease duplication
between HINAGRI and SODECOTON extension efforts by placing all extension
activities under the competence of the latter did not improve MINAGRI
efforts in other areas (moreover, MINAGRI extension staff levels for the
project area were not decreased correspondingly as agreed to at
negotiations). It may also have undermined MINAGRI's extension efforts in
areas adjacent to, but not covered by the project area, notably the Mandara
mountains. Monitoring and evaluation capacity in the provincial delegation
of MINAGRI was not noticeably improved beyond the life of the project, nor



- 23 -
was provincial planning and coordination efforts by the MINEP's provincial
offices, despite a promising start. If anything, with the onset of
budgetary cuts after 1986, the provincial ministerial structures at MINAGRI
and MINPAT have suffered institutional decay.
6.05         Some progress in institutional development was made, notably
in the area of agricultural research where the project trained local
personnel, improved coordination efforts between projects and undertook
useful and time consuming field trials for a number of crops. Cooperation
between IRA and SODECOTON was enhanced during the project and has been
sustained. Valuable experience was gained during the course of four
growing seasons (1982/83 - 1985/1986). This progress was then greatly
undermined by the termination of those activities, the endless delays in
beginning implementation of the Agricultural Research Project and the major
cuts in government funding for the IRA after 1986 as these have fallen
disproportionately on its field offices.
VII. BANK PERFORMANCE
A. Prolect Justification and Obiectives
7.01         The Government's development priorities for the north were
not clearly or precisely outlined at the time of appraisal and combined
inconsistent social and commercial objectives. The project was justified
by the perceived need to enhance development efforts in the Par North
province, by far the poorest region of the country, to reach the poorest
farmers and to promote the country's third most important agricultural
export, cotton. In addition, the project area's ecological deterioration
needed to be reversed.   The SAR properly identified these issues, but the
resulting project design effectively focused more on the commercial and
environmental issues than on the social ones. The project for example
excluded the poorest area in the region, the Mandara Mountains, because
cotton is not produced there. More generally, by focusing on the cotton
growing areas, the project excluded the poorest farmers even in the cotton
region, who typically do not cultivate cotton.
7.02         The criteria behind the delineation of the project area are
not clear. By Appraisal, it was clear that the Center-North was not a high
potential area for cotton, and that SODECOTON's future growth lay in the
higher potential Benoue Valley. The Appraisal noted this point but argued
that Bank assistance could reverse or at least slow down the region's
decline, and that social welfare arguments justified intervention.
However, the project area included Guider, an arrondissement in the Benoue
Department with higher precipitation and income levels which consistently
outperformed the other project zones, and excluded the poorest areas of the
Far North Province. In retrospect the Bank seemed ambivalent about
emphasizing commercial criteria, by focusing exclusively on cotton in the
higher potential areas further south, or concentrating on social objectives
by pursuing integrated rural development objectives all over the Far North.
SODECOTON's geographical area of activities seems to have influenced the



- 24 -
choice of the project area; the Center-North was the only major sector of
its activities where SODECOTON did not already have a foreign funded
project.
7 *'3        The choice of SODECOTON as the lead implementing agency was
strongly supported by the Government throughout negotiations.   It did
reflect the Bank's preference for short term advantages in project
execution capability to longer term institution building. At the same
time, it was justified by the fact that SODECOTON was the most if not the
only effective rural development institution in Northern Cameroon. The SAR
did nonetheless attempt to balance the short and long run considerations by
entrusting the bulk of project implementation to SODECOTON, while also
including several project components that would in the long run serve
institution building objectives in the central administration. In
retrospect, the project design did not devote nearly enough resources to
ensure the success of these non cotton objectives. Moreover, these
objectives were slowly forgotten during implementation and SODECOTON's
components became the focal point of most supervision missions,
particularly after the onset of the cotton crisis. Indeed, successive
supervisions progressively lost sight of the project's rural development
objectives for the Center North area and concentrated on SODECOTON's cotton
activities in both northern provinces. The last two supervision mission
reports confuse overall SODECOTON output goals with those of the project
for example. By the end of execution, it is fair to say that the Bank
considered the project a cotton project based in SODECOTON.
7.04         The Bank actively sought the increase of cotton producer
prices during appraisal and negotiations, in keeping with its view that
swings in world commodity prices should be transmitted to farmers. In
Cameroon, this led to a rapid increase in the producer price, which went
from 80 CFAP per kilo in 1980/81 to 140 in 1985186 (excluding the
additional 15 CFAP provided by the ONCPB). The Government imposed these
price 1-creases on a recalcitrant SODECOTON, while maintaining the
subsidies on fertilizers and pesticides. The Government refused to
decrease the producer price after 1986, however, to reflect the decrease in
world prices. The high prices are a major reason for SODECOTON's financial
difficulties since then. The lesson for the Bank is that producer prices
are likely to be 'sticky, downwards when the marketing parastatal does not
have price setting authority. Political pressure and the slow speed of
government decision making can have as a consequence the rapid accumulation
of deficits for the parastatal, which does not control the parameters of
its own profitability.
B. Bank Supervision
7.05         There were nine Bank supervision missions.  The first
supervisions focused on start up issues and were effective in prodding the
different actors to implement agreed to measures. The Bank was quick to
remedy minor appraisal weaknesses and agree to revised targets when these
seemed more reasonable. This was notably the case with the feeder roads
component, where the target was brought down from 800 to 600 km of roads,
when it became clear the former was too ambitious.   After 1985,
supervision missions were increasingly focused on SODECOTON's financial



- 25 -
difficulties, the absence of counterpart fundinA and on the project's
extension with undisbursed funds. These missions were much more lax in
monitoring project activities not controlled by SODECOTON and paid little
or no attention to the output targets established in the SAR. Thus, it is
impossible to determine from supervision mission reports the number of
loans made by FONADER, the quantity of groundnuts and sorghum produced in
the project area in PY5 or the area and yield of cotton in the Center-North
Project Area.
7.06         The Bank paid insufficient attention to the sustainability of
project results. By 1986, it was clear that many of the project activities
would end with the end of Bank funding, as continued counterpart funding
was increasingly unlikely, and would undermine project results with
sizeable recurrent expenditure implications. It was foreseable that the
project's end implied the slow decay of the feeder roads built or
rehabilitated by the project for example.
VIII. CONCLUSION
8.01         The success of this project was undermined by a series of
exogenous events which could not have been predicted or controlled.
Drought, the wide swings in the value of cotton and of the CFAF, and the
growing government financial crisis undermined project implementation and
the sustainability of its achievements.
8.02         Project design was consistent with the Bank's policy for
rural development projects at that time, though it did not pay enough
attention to institution building and it overestimated the project area's
long term cotton potential. More successful institution building would
have required greater attention to the long term needs of the central
administration. instead of emphasizing the strengthening of SODECOTON.
Project components of regional planning, project monitoring and evaluation
based in MINAGRI and MINPAT were inadequate in this respect. The meager
results of these project components did not last beyond the end of project
operations. The project design followed Bank and government policy in
Cameroon at that time of implementing the project through the existing
relatively efficient and experienced SODECOTON, rather than using the
project for the longer run objective of increasing implementation capacity
in the central administration. While it would have been counter productive
not to use SODECOTON's existing capabilities for rural development in the
region, in retrospect the project's emphasis was excessively tipped against
the needs of the central administration, and institution building in North
Cameroon was delayed. This policy of relying on project authorities for
rural development has since been reversed by the Government and the Bank,
which has begun more substantial institution building efforts in the
MINAGRI, notably through the National Agricultural Extension and Training
project, and the earlier Technical Assistance project.
8.03          In addition, what was designed to be a rural development
project with cotton as the most important crop turned into a cotton project
with few substantial non cotton activities. The SAR overestimated the



- 26 -
viability of expanding food crop production, as well as the incentives to
farmers to do so. It overestimated SODECOTON's ability to diversify its
activities away from a narrow concern with cotton to the other crops --
sorghum, groundnuts and cowpeas -- associated in the crop rotation. Maize
cultivation turned out not to be practical under prevailing precipitation
levels while sorghum and groundnuts production growth was constrained by
limited marketing possibilities. SODECOTON needed to develop experience
and technical expertise before it could support these new activities
effectively.   During implementation of the project little was done to
promote agricultural extension in the non-cotton growing areas. Although
personnel were not removed from MINAGRI's extension service as agreed to
during negotiations, its agents never implemented any extension program in
the regions left out of SODECOTON's program. By 1986, the lack of a
recurrent expenditure budget in MINAGRI excluded the possibility of any
meaningful action on its part.
8.04         The financial calculations at appraisal proved to be
excessively sanguine regarding the financial viability of SODECOTON. It is
unlikely that SODECOTON can become a profitable parastatal in strictly
financial terms, in the near future.
8.05         The Appraisal was too optimistic about the likely evolution
of the world cotton price. More serious it did not predict the exchange
rate volatility that has characterized the last decade. The exchange rate
used at appraisal of 210 CFAF per US dollar turned out to be just about the
highest level for the CPA franc ever, and actually underestimated the
SODECOTON's profitability once the dollar began to appreciate. SODECOTON
enjoyed its best years in 1983 and 1984 as a consequence, but its windfall
profits were passed on to the farmers through generous producer price
increases and the maintenance of input subsidies. These were imposed by
the Government despite SODECOTON's opposition.   SODECOTON also financed an
increasingly expensive administrative structure and took on a series of
unprofitable rural development activities. When the dollar peaked and
began to decline after 1985 and world cotton prices tumbled simultaneously,
SODECOTON accumulated losses. A recent Caisse Centrale report on SODECOTON
suggests that the parastatal would continue to lose money even after major
internal reforms and a decrease of the producer price granted farmers to
around 100 CFA/kg.
8.06         SODECOTON is generally considered one of the most effective
public institutions in Cameroon. It expanded into a number of non cotton
activities, often at the behest of international donors like the Bank,
because of the deficiencies of the central administration. Thus, it
financed expensive activities such as extension, training, industrial
training, village level infrastructure, food crop marketing and road
maintenance. No other public institution was providing these critical
public goods for sustained rural development, that were in any event
preconditions for SODECOTON's program of cotton intensification.   As a
consequence, the major questions posed by this project for the cotton
growing areas of the North and Extreme North Provinces are whether
SODECOTON is the institution best suited to provide these public goods, and
if so, does this justify subsidizing SODECOTON's rural development
activities for the foreseable future?



- 27 -
8.07         Tt is difficult to attach an economic value to SODECOTON's
accumulated e..perience in these areas, but one of basic indicators of the
success of a project relates to its replicability to the other two-thirds
of non-cotton producing farmers in the region. Unfortunately, it is not
likely that much of the experience gained by SODECOTON in rural development
with cotton growing farmers can be readily utilized by the other Government
implementing agencies to benefit the majority of non-cotton growing farmers
of the North and Extreme-North Provinces. Financial considerations dictate
that SODECOTON will have to concentrate its efforts on cotton and cotton
farmers for the forseeable future, and separate plans will have to be made
for MINAGRI and associated Government institutions to assist the other two-
thirds of the regicn's farmers.



- 28 -
Annex 1
Table 1
Page 1 of 3
Disbursements by Project ComDonenet and Disbursement Category
Loan 1919-CM and Credit 1075-CM
CateRorY  Allocated       Disbursed       Proiect Conoonent
($000)           ($000)
Part A (ii) of the Proiect - Provision of extension services...
3 Ln.  6,460.0         6,132.2         Operating Expenditure of SODECOTON
Cr.  3,092.1         4,252.5         and of PCC for Project
Tot. 9,552.1        10,384.7         Administration under Parts A (ii)
and B of the Project (including
local staff salaries).
1 Ln.  3,000.0         5,349.4         Civil Works under Part A (ii) of
Cr.  1,486.8         1,962.8         the Project
Tot. 4,486.8         7,312.2
15 La.  4,030.0         3,548.1         Specialist's Services
Cr.  2,026.3         1,923.9
Tot. 6,056.3         5,472.0
2 Ln.  2,600.0           955.2         Vehicles and Equipment under Part
Cr.  1,328.9         2,284.3         A (ii) of the Project
Tot. 3,928.9         3,239.5
Sub-total Part A (ii)
La.  16,090.0       15,984.9
Cr.   7,934.1       10,423.5
Tot. 24,024.1       26,408.4
Part D of the Proiect - Strengthening and support of agricultural research
by IlA, and Part E (i}  - Strengthening of the Savannnah forest research
unit of IRA,
8 La.  1,200.0         1,031.0         Operating Expenditures including
Cr.    605.3           337.5         local salaries uncer Parts D and E
Tot. 1,805.3         1,368.5         (i) of the Project.
7 Ln.    600.0           937.5         Civil Works, vehicles and
Cr.    302.6           500.6         equipment for Parts D and E (i) of
Tot.   902.6         1,438.1         the Project.
Sub-total Parts D and E (i)
Ln.  1,800.0         1,968.5
Cr.    907.9           838.1
Tot. 2,707.9         2,806.6



- 29 -
Annex 1
Table 1
Page 2 of 3
Parts E (ii) and E Uiii) of the Proiect - Pilot tree plantings and
windbreaks to be implemented by FNFP.
10 Ln.    400.0           403.4         Operating expenditures including
Cr.    210.5           266.0         staff salaries under Part E (ii)
Tot    610.5           669.4
9 Ln.    500.0            80.9         Civil Works, vehicles and
Cr.    276.3           395.3         equipment for Parts E (ii) and
Tot.   776.3           476.2         (iii)
Sub-total Parts D and E
La.    900.0           484.3
Cr.    486.8           661.3
Tot. 1,386.8         1,145.6
Part A (iii) of the Proiect - A medium term credit program to finance the
provision of draft animals and agricultural equipment to farmers.
5 Ln.    930.0           948.7         Animals for Part A (iii)
Cr.    460.5             0.0
Tot. 1,390.5           948.7
4 Lu.  1,200.0              9.8        Agricultural equipment - Part A
Cr.    592.1             0.0         (iii)
Tot. 1,793.1             9.8
Sub-total Part A  iii)
Ln.  2,130.0          958.5
Cr.  1,052.6            0.0
Tot. 3,182.6          958.5
Part F of the Proiect - Strengthening of MINAGRI and Project Monitoring and
Evaluation.
12 Ln.    570.0           460.8         Operating E*penditures, including
Cr.    289.5           249.4         local staff salaries, under Part F
Tot}  *859.5           710.2         of the Project.
11 Ln.    580.0           142.2         Civil Works, vehicles and
Cr.    315.8           183.7         equipment under Part F
Tot.   895.8           325.9
Sub-total Part F
Ln.  1,150.0           603.0
Cr.    605.3           433.1
Tot. 1,755.3         1,036.1



- 30 -
Annex 1
Table 1
Page 3 of 3
Part G of the Project . Development Planning
14 Ln.    160.0           186.4        Operating Expenditures,
Cr.     92.1            52.2        including salaries under
Tot.   252.1           238.6        Part G
13 Ln.    200.0            96.0        Civil works, vehicles and
Cr.    105.4            26.1        equipment
Tot.   305.4           122.1
Sub-total Part G
Ln.    360.0           282.4
Cr.    197.4            78.3
Tot.   5S7.4           360.7
Part C of the Proiect _ Seed Production
6 Ln.    130.0             5.5        Equipment for Part C
Cr.     65.8            65.7
Tot.   195.8            71.2
Continaencies
Ln.  2,440.0.            0.0
Cr.  1,250.0             0.0
Tot. 3,690.0             0.0
TOTAL DISBURSEMENTS
Ln.     25,000.0   20,287.2
Cr.     12,500.0   12,500.0
Tot.    37,500.0   32,787.2
- For Credit 1075-CM, the same rate of conversion of SDR 1.00 - $1.3158
has beei' uded for the purposes of comparing appraisal estimates with actual
disbursements. Due to strengthening of the US dollar against the SDR over
the disbursement period, a US dollar equivalent of US$10.1 million was
disbursed, but since most expenditures were in CFAF or French Francs, the
CFAF equivalent was similar to the CFAF 2.6 billion estimated in the SAR.
2/ - Annex 1, Table 1 presents the disbursement information for the Credit
and the Loan separately, since the detailed data is not readily available
elsewhere because the disbursements file for Credit 1075-CM has been
misplaced.



Camarsa Northern Proviso Rural ivel_pset Project: Selete  Annual Prodution Indicators
61^/          12/01          0/64           64/86          "5/
P11           P12            PS             P14            PC
App. Lob.    App. Acb.       App. Ach.      Ap. Lch.       App. Ach.
I. Pasr pased l.t  rjet ('lo) 1/                      16             181            148 
arealdast                     1i             U                             8              as
Naom,.uwthCott"                so            77 n2                          7             92
Oa-dras withCoett"             16          17.5             19           2.6              22
tot settee                     95   94   114.6   so        U1  IIJ    142.5  i6          16S  1i
U1. Area Unr Citivatleo ('M  lb)
a.   seteeo traditisal 21           8.6  6.1      2.6  7.1       2.0  5.6       2.6  5.6       2.0  4.7
Cott" to4al Iteasivo        U6.6 89.6    66.6 26.6        09.6  41.1     64.0 40.1      66.0 47.6
Total Cetten       54.2 45.0    68.6  85.4    62.6 46.9         00.6 46.6      76.O  62.6
b.          ied orm (et iee.)
Ia Sote loe wIth Cetdt       22.2 16.4    * .6 27.5       86.7 16.9      46.6 24.6      U2.7
In letetlee wlith Croeedmt    2.2 5/        7.6           12.            190.3           2.8
TOtal Sorgbh          24.4 16.4    57.1 27.5        11.5 16.9     66.5 24.6      79.0 25.0
c.   lbenro" eved Orawa e          2.2           19.6           27.5           23.6           29.5
Isteaslfifed Groomig"           1, 6.4        2  6.6         8  6.6       7.4  1.8       1i  1.5
ToteS  Or osw st        8.2  0.4    21.1  6.6       66.6  6.6        3   1.5      59.5
d.   Improwe 1Iba                   0.7  6.4      1.5   4/       2.6            8.3                                         w
III. iProdiactios '6
Seed Cott".                  65.9 62.6    65.1 4J.9       76.8  66.6     76.6 54.4      S2.8 6.6
ixe,                          1.8  0.4      2.6  0.6       4.2   4/       0.4            6.6
IV. Asime_ Trestle ('_
Tote 1xistIag                  16 18.9    17.5 14.4         10 18.4    2U.S 15.5?         22   16
PaIrs Of trOe  *xeA             -    -        - 6.05         - 6.214        - 6.488        -  .609
Pairs of traleed fow..
total                   16 18.9    17.5 14.4         10 18.6      26.6  15.6       22 16.69
total wO"Is deo"ps            1.5  2.6      1.6  2.?       1.9 2.06       2.2 X.7?       2.5  3.97
There are umepleiloe slight differemoes to totals betsweena SODECOTOanI reports cnd Supervision reports
atotals lis*      I Supvleol. reports. Rne used figures from latter, ecept for 1886/1  yer
1/. Accordng to ses as crap.
21. Supsviis  report. ree to 'nprove  tdi)tioal'. 
5/. PIgmaros net reported by SCDECOTO   PU   ws supposed to report thm but nevr did.
4/. ProJect act  deold                                                                                                       x



See  Cotton Prodwtise, Acreg and Yields, Caesroon: 107s-1m
Tl  862C016N            :  Extreme North Pronce   a          Nort ProvIn am                Cse.r-Wlrt&
year            Sfla  Prodctlo    Yields: Surface Produ)om  Yields: Surf*  ProoducION  Yields: Surtae Production  Yields:
,(In lb.)  (tee)    No/be :(t He.)  (tees)          o/he s:(n lb.)  (toes)    Kg/ha :(In sl.)  (ton)    Kg/ae
1190/26           1581Sr64U   9188 4   *44f      WM      7sm        27  a  27584    238          749 :  90441    625         In8
1076/171         16666 U8o*So4          70s t74544    s6m           8   *  27511      1101t      48U  a  *9142    sU8K2      87M
1071/1072            46sow  48197      48 6    71917    21918       891 s  27 @       1ism4      Us :   MOI5    87857        416 :
U7108/11          P 9079    4523       51?    02t69      2854       458 a  26         107m6      SW9   t 7416    877         495
108/127t4         01S70    17687       466 a  8SO21    1168i1       S       2 n86s    15376      748    * 56327    70        84  :
1274/1273         04432    4002        022 a  42012      21156      472     no m      127        9QC    58191    2740   '   s64
107Lv10            mn78170    48461    070 :   2877    25074        464 t  2GM1       24146     1160 :  01044    8a96m       5o l
12o970077         _908s     477        727 :  42816    25916        612 t  17615      216s      1241 :  4915    82684        664 :
1277/3078         48486    4686        9867 a  88865    36i2        64  t  14J1       1776      1217 :   823      2721       096 
108/1909          4718U    56427    1202 s  81789    8566          116 a  1u          28O44   18  :  85688    41156    1158
108/106 i@5694              mm8       1419    8 $6846    46789    1219:  19749    880m    17M1 :  42085                          :
1966/191          6646U"    844o8    1298 s  42287    45467        175 a  2865    8*960   1092 :
1061/1162o 08848    70619    1168 a  89867    42466                170w      2970      7158    1C55  :  4636      520M      1146:
1961/1268         540    726          15    195    822             16    24764    4J111    16    864K             4891      1165:
1808/1984         73992      4566    1886 a7  9  8o5     41907     164 a  SI6         SM        18    406         60        118:
16/1              7         073*      186    8M          n4 1  1            876       0171      1640    48    6_            1111
196soo966         66282   116544      16    42411    4179    114 s          401       67420    1441:  621   _9              1148 a
1@06/3187          4469 1   U_11011    18a  45110        4    J I76 I       4Y58 s  466U  6     10   s   65100    540        SW
s sobEelm ~ ~    ~    ~     a                               *                                                     a
$00root SOKC91011 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~o
w



Cameoon Seed Cotton
soz - 
10 -
uvwo        9    73474    ^       Se  x
o3   Totd+            Fw Nort                   Not



CAMERM #01FITHE-N RIPAL De   NW  WFRO eT - RR
ECIIC   RTE OF  1E83 W          - OM6 CASE *4LYS.S
increemntol Production table                                                                          aedecoton     ttl        ic  r*       nrpjt poet
fixi pr ctopion soo       sltareo *       e tf
*itm  *rJ *ilmt pr withow1bf r;   *Il rhoj    sifA, project -ith projet  project isar.                _as            _"  r"to conr-nrAb   total orodi   f;S cam
:0 1*14 (tam g prod.o (WMe ~naduct4t9 prod. (twon                                             CP4bi Iion      ton           twoCMbllo
1".0/01                              wt         " e&;))t                                                               tl-t < C        ren  'i;     OD A. i.04 7n619.0 0  0.00  0.00 0  00n
19311                      4~~44.0  a  :::  00         00                                                                                                                  0.000.
1001   44010.00       1.04      41041.00     45900.00         1.U i      9601.40      675.40                     0.04      72851.00      S.O            0.09         078
am     0M.00          1.01      8664.80      85410.00         1.U1      4066.00      69:9.20                     6.04      946.00        68.S 0          0.06         0.48
i99    440000.0       0.97      416.400      46900.00         1.18      892w7.00     wa,.00                      8.04      97600.00     102.00           0.10         0.04
1aid   4400.00        0.94      4111.00      410100.0,        1.1       4996.00        77.00                     0.04     111544.00      6767.01         0.06         0.61
m    441-000.00       0.0       8O0.00       _ 0.00           1.14      6 .60        SOW.8o                      6.12    1108-000       204o.8o          0.19          1.60
SW    uoo.oo          O."       2"o.oo       4211.0           1.15      606178.00    SW 7.00                     7.38    12110600000    90775.00         0.19          1.85
137   44100.00        0._0      6 9600.0     8519.00          1.15      656.O        956.00                      6.90    1106100-00     38.c00           0.2           1.49
am0   46010.00,       0.90    8SO00.0        604695.00'       1.40      90418.00     8067500                     6.87    11000r .00     JIM   .400       0.46         8.08
193    46010.00       0.00      6 0.00       60000.00         1.0       790.00       59600.00                    6.97    110600.00    524C0.00           0.20          1.64
1lo0   4400.00        0."0      66190.0      6000.00          1.90      79000.040    8491010.00                  6.27    110100.0       59400.00         0.29          1.54
$10M  WO   A  IOcveMtel  PeP0elk 0e I    *t 52.400 tone, 4o reflect on. bad Fear ir four                                                               rdflct me bad yer in fou
ECOSIONIC COST PiCt K0 OF PlEO                                  PROJECT ECONOMIC COSTS (BILLION  CFA)
_adegeton dsoeo          ferm          laIor   _     cme         roductio   .odemton    endecoto         fate       Iabor          tota
werible emet fied eme      lpoe           pe"               kg    fibre       garble ael  flid me          lapte                      oi
Afbre                                             WaseOl     billio nCPA   bi IIont bA hill;onCF biI. CfA  birl ion CFA
1460/61          SIC900      178.00        61.0111      1.00         661.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00
1461     91.0O       178.00         6.00       111.00       651.00        701.85         0.65         0.78       0.10          0.99         1.77
Am       m11o.00,    178.00        6.00        10.00        8l.5100      9195.66         0.42         0.4        0.14          0.28         1.25
m        99.00,    1178.00         61.00       101.0eo      81.00        409.60          0.8          0.6u       0.97          0.44         2.11
16"      9561.00     178.00        66.00       101.00       851.00       850-.1o         0.n          0.61       0.92          0.85         1.98
am9    11111.o1      176.00        6.00        11611.00     651.00       6165.0          I.651        1.80       0.54          0.66         4.87
t                  W.0  t          .0       1101.0        5.o an00     8810.00         1.5          1.85       0.44          0.O          4. 2
1sm      100.        1.613.00      46.0        140:.00      445.:00      9S518.0         1.11.490                0.:40         1.06         4.611
sm        11.61      146B.00       4.00        106.00       412.00      20915.00         2.77         8.06       u.n          2.20          6.8
146      21185.00    199.0         45.00       1016.00      418.00      199610.00        1.76         1.164      0.54          1.40         58
am9      au.o0       11811.01      45.00       11111.00     40.4.0      199610.00        1.78         1.84       0.86          1.40         5.85
b4enf             "O I 0t                     incrumntel
_,enue per BbI of fibre                                         CPA bill lop      Cotm projec Investment         production    lcaeenntel   em  reenue
incA,      uec$ts t of n"/S cfeA            net  ,                           meotrtonFw  _                          Inrt  reree           billion
as      -a                               wr he                          i~p1. UIS   C.  billim            teO          (CFA   r kg)
1l63/61           185.00     170.95 t126.00               SP           -164         0.00,        0.C0         0.00                     0.00       67.49          0.00
1461     186.0O      14.110 95     1.0            a7          -154         4.41          9.40         0.76                  91.85         8.44           1.07
am       a11.o0     170.90        mO.             M             11         0.02          7.9o         9.41                  S6."          li 11.4        1.18
am       m.oo       168.46          410           as            M          0.51         6.70          1.78                  40911.60      675.19         2.74
1464    S11.01       211.44       471.00          M             21         0.0r          6.80         9.9                   8506.0        571.4          2.01
am       au1.eO      u.S2         S.PA            W7          -174        -1.42         6.*0          2.66                 6160.00        817.40         0.00
1466     164.8       166. .481.SH  4Ot          -Ot                       4.009          7.00         9.C5                 8.01      0.00 461.81         4.00
193  1410.00    19.3         912.00          we          -UT          -1.11         9.70         0.79                  66.15.9       876.10         8.60
am       us.oi       18.16        N.00            do           -a          4.46                                            960=.00        4019.46       -.1                    LO
1009     163.00      184.66       86.00           641          196          1.68                                           190111.06      84.66          7.01
100                  1.00        111110.01        a"           SW          1.78                                            1966.00        540."6         7.01
net    . et            Ret IVe"                               P"Mject      500011        totel                        TOt.         Pood crnp    Food cr.
Co4tt"     rod        few d EJp   net                         Iaioemte  PRead onete  cmet                             Not          benefit.     benefi to
Va.   ~   boneelt.    e ben      benFi.        enfit.                   CPA bWllio   CPA bilIlion CP ~blIIion                   benefit      roedued      reduced
CPA  io bi$a   m  aIIton P 6  I bilio   CF billion                                                              CFAbi IISon     byU          bpSO
1960/61 1461              0:00 o0.00                                           0.00         0.00         0.00100                               0.00         0.00
lift  .00  0.00                     ~~0.06                     0.78         0.78          1.58                   -1.46        -1.48        -1.46
low        0.319      0.00                       0.8911                    2.41         0.45          9.85                   -2.47         -2.47        -2.47
am         1.90       0.24         O.80          2.8l                      2.78         0.6           3."5                   -1.2          -1.45        -1.67
seat        o.     "  0.24          0.00         4.411                     2.7          0."          16.51                    -1.75        -1.97        -2.91X
am         O.a"        e.           0.46         1.18                      9.6           1.11         4.18                    -2.tO       -8.95         -8.48
193        1.10       0.94          0.46         9.96                      .2.9         1.68          8.69                   -1.38         -1.00        -1.88
SW         0.44       0.94          0.03         1.66                      0.79         1.49          9.95                   40.70         40.98        -1. is
sm         a.4        0.94          0.00         5.8                                    J1.010        8.06                    0.60         0.36         0.1is
1Ion       S.83       0.94          0.60         4.45                                   1.54          1.64                    9.60         2.85         9.15
1110       S.AO       0.94         0.40          4.45                                    1.96         1.64                    9.00         2.8511       2.18
*1         4.8D       0.94          0.00         4.40                                   1."           1.14 2.00                            2.J3         2.15
1099       6.60       0.94          0.90         4.45                                   1.64          1.64                    2.60         9.38         2.1is
1901       8.85       0.94          0.00         4.45                                   1.64          1.64                    2.00         2.35         2.15
1le6       6.10       0.94          0.90         4.45                                   1.54          1.64                    2.60         2.85         2.15
lmw        8.30       0.9           0.46         4.45                                   1.6           1.64                    2.60         2.38         2.15
iom       811.9101    0.94         0.00          4.45                                   1.64          1.04 2.0                             2.85         2.28
107        81.801     0.94          0.90         4.45                                   1."4          1.64                    2.60         2.85         2.15 
low        S.SO       0.94          0.00         4.45                                   1.64          1.84                    2.60         2.85         2.15
1t"        6.60       0.94         0.90          4.45                                   11.44         1.68                    2.00         2.16         2.1is
17.99
gene Ce.. Aeelple - With Project Amea * 0.000 be. end
Incremental cotto  productio  a 59.400 tone. (pile 0919411.ebl)                                                     NVev 606        -0.276        -1.00        -2.916
M             0.098        0.076        0.0642



CuM    N-           MUAL oevAouer ioi  - II
GSMC RAT9 OF 1ER5    Wm           - MSITT    AL751
eadecotom     total     itcc, .rodn   sner 9rjct   proj*CV6~
locrementl P1rodoction Tablo                                                                          fixed          produclic. seed cotton  a,odn as U   shoa., of
Withot C,               ile wis rj  Wib rl       Wthpels  Wilb projoe  project nro            J        camt           "   ncot. centr*o-a 'l  trstan prnodn  timsod cots
,    Joo        , ~~~~~~~~V*odmJ6  or" -awe)    yi ld    { t6t.s proda (tms  pr   o (o              CFAbillii9 twome                                    CIFA bAtio
i          4418 O       0         41gW OO      4UDDa                                       0  "l1?".9D              8.04      79610.00       0.0D           8:o 00       0 
1d440Co.  O.4      46 .00        50.OD           1.15      5201.460      711?6D.410                     IIA  721.O0         576.40          0 09          a 75
1412   $40.00    1.01     a"6?.00      81114010.00       1.14     40667.00       281011.2011                0.06      94560.0-00     2100                        0.4"
Is"    44000.00       0.907     4    .00     40o.00            1.18     61097.00     l1m1.s                       3.04     9750I.00      30229.00        O 190 14
1"6   440O10.00       0.O4      411.001    46D00.00            1.11     409W5.00      067.OD                      0.06    115644.00       71.00                        0 61
1     C 44000.00      0.40 C       0 0.00   F60.00            3.14      60007.50 2F01*0                           0.12    110600.00      20407.50        0 19          I so
11    44000.00       0.00      800.00       62.O00           1.15 610.00            20771..00                   7.85    10             20775.00        0 le          1 30
Iv   440400.         100 0."0  9.600.00      15120.00        .O         6 0.00         2.0                  4. o          110200.          M             022 4           4
If"      X  00  .00 0         .40 NN.S.too40 *                           047150.     1005.00                      0.57    110600.00        675.00        04"           303
0    40100            0.00      8 I0 0.00      100.00       4.0D         5D.O           1.10          *.27    11000.00                   200.00          0 IS          I IS
im    4100.01,   09..      O.0          SM.011                      OW01        sm0                         0.37    110600.0       2040.00          0.1          I 115
NM;3 We aeam  IrArmamtel leePob4lOm  I sIs O% Wed40  tmom. to rafSec% me0 ba yewr a four                                                              reflect one bed moor on too.
icosioewc  COST   a              iG    plan o*u                 a 0 PUo aEc   sECOwowtC  COSTS  (BILL ION    C FA )
oeodeot=  godeo6m        farm          labor        agat      crodwlliom  eadIactm        Todecotm       fare       labor           total
earblOe oGM% flied mat     lopote                          Bog6    fibre       warble coat  fiened MAt    trotlscst
1ibr       was 0       Im $&twCFA  billionCA  hillB  CF billion CFA  6iCin a i  CFA
1,6001           202.s0      ITS500        0.01         1.00         601.00         0.00         0.00          0.00       0.00         0.00          0.00
,1101,    1102:00    175.00        99,00       10.00        161.00       270.66          0.6.75                   0.16         0.29         1.17
sin     SM.0        150           66.00        111.00       551.0       26.6             0.42         0.45       0.14          0.21               1.23
am0      26.00       175.00        66.d0       10.00        5611.00      4001.60         0."6         0.2.7                    0.44         2.30
1104     20.         1.0 0         99.00  106.     00       111.00       6600.60         0.71         0: 0.21                  0.10         1.93
Sim6      02.00      1751.00       66.60       110116:0      51:100      #13OOI04 .0                              0.34         0.66         4.57,
1107                               o.     "    us. ." ." l m.m    *s.U 29-10-
1*0      SU* f                                111100        MAD8    20000 ,              .u          *.0 u                    2.2t          .U1 
WAS"      31911.011,    a go          gSS as      4U15.00     " 001.1                       1.1511     0.64         0.60          8.40
1910     18.00       110.00        40.00       11010.       404.00       6160.0          1.10         1.14        O." 85*                   8.41
REVENUES   PEAI  K I LO                                            bemefits                                        nrmna
Rawemum wr ki lo of fibr                                        CFA bUll..m      "NAT   DWO1IiT                   wrodctios   Incremental   AO" eoIItO
411011 GIs^w - -        "kg                                                        Cott" IPbilroaentn l*n, r     beus 
"'DIAN     ne"Al                            VWetF *a 9 D                      R. ffllc i lA b Iiotome 000                 (CPA pool 0o0)
115.00  170.20    210~~~.00        -w         -3            0.00         0.00          0.00                    0.00i       857.42         0.00
sin0 110     10.00       14.=0       110.011          86?-w                    4.41          1.00         0.76                  2701.36       897.44          1.07
Iam     Iuse         170.2        16.03                        s1           :.00         7.40         1.43                  200.6         56.6           1.10
INS      179.00       0..00          00D 0So                   14           0.51         0.70         21.7                  4051.602      675.11         2.76 
1164     10.40       11.4         411.00          57             1          0.07         6.80         1.97                 6306.00        571.00         2.01
INS      31001.001   91a          15111.00        W           -174         .1.411        0.00         2.4111                01683.00      877.40         3.00
1466     184.00      1:.0         8119.0118 4n                             -.19          7.40         2.21011               610.00        401.51         4.00                    .
11117    140.00      12.6         20.07                       -117         -1.1I         1.70         0.9O61.M                            Va4.10a        3 M0
som      140.00      to.1         800.00          406          -141        64.10                                           2060.00        400.40         0.81I
1000     ' 16.0      184.6        86.d0           5411         120          1.00                                            0100.00       5140.961       4 41
1100                 165.00       63.00           541          W8           1.3It                                           0100.00       540.96         4 41
eat          e        ma" Beat.    eabtatel                                 6inrim   total                            Total       Food crow    Food crop
Seatson    red        tfaw aroeam   Foe i                       rjc          loed         oat,                        not,        bonfita      beef ito
VW0          Iea  o be  o           15s S                                     esit        ot                                       bne t        eue  , reduced bog
UAbIllIemUAbllBlom~~~AblBli.5   CA bII Ion           CGA   IIBBi..  CGA biBI Io   GFAOIbiio               GFA belIIeon       Sprerent   SO percent
CPA U       II Io0.00 VI 0.0                       0.00                      0 II.0.00     .000.0                                000          0.00         0 0s
141   .0         0.0 0                     0.00                       0.0'.s                     1.60                   -'1.40       -1.40        .1 40
106   .9         0.00                      0.99                       2.4          04112.6                              -2.47        -2.47        -2.47
am   1.201       0.16         0.00         1.SF                       1.75         0.04         8.00                    -1."         -1.45        .1 67
1O4 ."           0.14         0.00         1."0                       1.07         0.01         8.0-1.75                             -1.07        .2.20
Gm ."            0.214        0.60         1.18                       1.06         1.60         41.181                  -2 90        -8.20         .3 43
1m     to        0.34         0.00         1.16                       1.23         1.66         5.62                    -1.39        -l 60        -1.65
G17   ."         0.34         0.00         1."001                                  1.40         2.6111                  40.70        4003         -1.15
1100       1.40       0.16         0.00          5.60                                   81.011        01.08                   0.60          0.50         0.15
1at0       2.00       0.14         0.00          8.20                                    1.10         1.16                   2305           1.64         1.31
1MG        2.00       0.24         0.00          0.20                                    1.1s62 146                           2.011         1.54         1.61
11101      1.00       0.34         0.00          8.20                                     .            .Is20I.1-11
9111,2     2.00       0.34         0.00          .0u                                     1.10         3.10                    2.05          1.04         1.61              :
1le"       2.00       0.24         0.00          01.21                                   1.10         1.16s                   2.06          1.04         1.61
114   .06        0.24         0.00         0.40                                    1.16         1.16                     2.06         1.04         1.1I
115   .00        0.16         0.0          11.21                                   1.164        11.161                   2.06         1.04         1.61     ~        
106  2.00        0.16         0.00         0.20                                    1.30         1.1as                    2.00         3.54         3.5 III
110711     1.00       0.16         0.00          8.20                                    1.16         1.20s                   2.06          1.64         1 SI
1100       2.010      0.16         0.00          8.20                                    1.10s        1.16                    2.06          1.04         1 01 I4
0" to bfA sBA.alasi - With. Project Area e 60 000 Is med
inreena celtom produallom a 20.400 bose. FiPle l&Ociea.ebl)                                                      WV mg6 5        -1.168       -3.124       -4.400
EU             0.0102        0.0411       0 0am



MALI                       22~                                                             .       -~                                  t
I / ~~N I G E R /-    ,d,  c~  -  4  ;t    5ZJU
rh t~Y~C~S    SUDAN                 
SLIRKA / usc H A D    t.
FASOi\
,   NIGERIA    r   '> _I  
gio~                   />v,   i CENTRAL AFRICAN    1
~~"~'  -'    REPUBLIC   ~
CAMEROON \                                                                                   I     r                                :
G yf S   @ \   N S  j     KILOMETERS   2, 40 K0 50 1e 0 120 140 160            eLOGONE-
EOIa  OA          .                                MILES 0    20  40  60   go  100
.Of THE                                                                                   1
ATANrAc oCEAN       GABON t"cNO         ZAIRE                                                                                               )I-
^jt ~~~~~~~~~~~~AMAn~
j g   t;  ,.                       N I       G E R   A          S     A
CAMEROON                                                                      iM-AYO-    DI roAwE
REGIONS AND MAIN CROPS
MAJOR EXPORT CROPS BY PROVINCE:
ID*                     Arabicr Crafrt ee                                                  'LOU i) -.Arbi C .ff       _C.
R.bust Coffe.
Cotton 
OTHER MAIN CROPS:
PLANTAIN   CASSAVA    EANSC H A D
MILLET    TARO      YAMS
MAIZE     RICE    GROUNDNUIS
*   National Copital                                        %        N    C;
    Province Capitals
O   Division Capitals                                      M      I L
Rivers                                                            ,
-Dwivisin Boundaries                                                                 MV-E
-  Pravince Bounrjaies,E                                            ,_                  MILLET            \ 
- -     Intesnational Boundories
FARO-E- DTEC/_
0
N I G E R I A                        +tSV/                                                W-N 
MAt E r\DO @EEtNGA                                                                                 N R
8'        .    9NYU   MOMO    MEAM BEANS 0  t        
U~~~~~~~~~~O    Au ,                        YO MILLET~                       Z 
N0j4    (   EME                                      CASAAf  sCv            OMf-DEf CASSA
4_;   ,  cP,'/t             YAMi  9  S  o;CBN RM Y AMSTRA
' EsQUATORIA   ....... LANTAFN   SSAVA ,J, T
iNULAR GU*RIN4         iti  cA                  MC OO<                                                .                                i
A TtC' ,  /GROUNDNUtS 5DA                                    SAVA
0e  v  7                                                          5  5          ASVA SAVA                          SSA          >
mg
Yr  /   (CONTIENTAL GUINAA]S    N!R E      2   O F  T H E    CO N GO                       si
oo~~ ~ ~ ~~~~          ~       ~       ~~~~~~~~~ I'    v       GA-i
I  !   .  .1    IS !E V{ h_ s l;r / / M  * tMt  E        MA'''EtE



