Document of
The World Bank                               ot A Apy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rejort No. 3031-CM
CAMEROON
NORTHERN PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
October 7, 1980
Regional Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
-I
Currency Unit            =         CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00                 =          CFAF 210
CFAF 1,000               =         US$4.76
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer                 =          0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)  =            0.39 square miles
I hectare                   =          2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)             =          2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (t)            =          2,205 pounds
FISCAL YEAR
Government:    July 1        -   June 30
SODECOTON:      July 1       -   June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
CCCE           Caisse Centrale de Coop6ration Economique (France)
CFDT           Compagnie Francaise pour le D6veloppement des Fibres Textiles
CFJA           Centre de Formation des Jeunes Agriculteurs
CRF            Centre de Recherche Forestibre
CTFT           Centre Technique Forestier Tropical
DEP            Direction des Etudes et Projets
DGRST          D6l6gation Gen6rale & la Recherche Scientifique et Technique
DPNA           Northern Province Delegate for Agriculture
FAO            Food and Agriculture Organization
FNFP           Fonds National Forestier et Piscicole
FONADER        Fonds National de Developpement Rural
FSAR           Fonds Sp6cial d'Actions Rurales
FTDU           Field Trials and Demonstration Unit
GAM            Groupement d'Agriculteurs Modernes
GPN            Governor of the Northern Province
IRA-Nord       Institut de Recherches Agricoles, Maroua
IRCT           Institut de Recherche sur le Coton et Fibres Textiles
MEAVSB         Mission d'Amenagement de la Vallee Superieure de la Benou6
MIDEVIV        Mission de D6veloppement des Cultures Vivrieres, Maraicheres
et Fruitiers
MINAGRI        Ministere de l'Agriculture
MINEQ          Ministere de l'Equipment
MINEL          Ministere de 1'Elevage
MINEP          Ministbre de l'Economie et du Plan
NPED           Northern Province Economic Division
NSMP           Northern Seed Multiplication Project
OC             Cereals Office
ONCPB          Office National de Commercialisation des Produits de Base
PCAR           Provincial Committee for Agricultural Research
PCC            Project Coordination Committee
PMEU           Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
SCB            SociWt6 Camerouaise de Banque
SEMNORD        Secteur Exp6rimental de Modernisation du Nord
SEMRY          Societe d'Expansion et de Modernisation de la Riziculture
de Yagoua
SGPN           Secretaire General Province Nord
SODECOTON      Societ6 de D6veloppement du Coton du Cameroun
ULV            Ultra Low Volume
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






CAMEROON
NORTHERN PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
I.    BACKGROUND  ..............               .................................                   1
A.   Project Origin    ................................                                     I
B.    General  Background    ..............................   .                             1
C.    Agriculture  in the  Economy  ...... ........... .                                    2
D.    Rural  Development  Policy  ......                 ......................             3
E.    Sectoral  Institutions  ..............................    .                           4
F.     Bank  Involvement  in the  Sector  ..... .......... .                                6
II.   THE PROJECT  AREA  .........................................                                 6
A. Physical Environment ...........                                                         6
B.    Population and Employment  ...........................                                8
C.    Agricultural Activities  .............................                                9
D.    Agricultural  Support  Services  .......................                            11
E.    Previous and Ongoing  Development  Projects  ....                     .......       13
F.     Planning  and  Coordination  of Development  ....                   ........       14
III.  THE PROJECT  .............                .................................                15
A.     General  Objectives  ..................................                            15
B.     Summary Project Description  .........................                             16
C.    Detailed Features              ..................        .................          18
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ......                   ........................             23
A.     General  Aspects  .....................................                            23
B.     Implementation  ......................................                             25
C.     Specific  Features  ...................................                            26
V.    COST  ESTIMATES  AND FINANCIAL  ARRANGEMENTS  .....                      ...........        28
A.     Project  Costs           ....................       ...................            28
B.     Proposed  Financing  .................                  .................          29
C.     Procurement           .....................        ....................            32
D.    Disbursement            .................... ....................                   34
E.    Accounts,  Audit and  Reporting  Requirements  ..........                           35



- ii -
Table of Contents - con't
Page
VI.  AGRICULTURAL YIELDS, PRODUCTION AND FARMERS'  BENEFITS ....                   36
A.    The Target Group ....................................                  36
B.    Technical Specifications ............................                  36
C.    Adoption Rates ....................    ...................             38
D.   Yields .....................................................            39
E.   Project Production ...... .................   ............... .         39
F.    Farmers' Benefits ........... .. .............................. .      40
VII. MARKETS, PRICES & FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS FOR GOVERNMENT  ..                   40
A.    Market Prospects for Exported and Locally-
Marketed Crops ........         ............................        40
B.    International and Local Market Prices ...............                  43
C.    Marketing Constraints and Proposed Remedies .........                  44
D.    Subsidies, Taxes and Financial Implications
for Government ....................................                 46
VIII. PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS...... ..........                   47
A.    Overall Impact .........        .............................          47
B.    Project Benefits and their Distribution .............                  48
C.    Economic Analysis and Rates of Return ...............                  49
D.    Sensitivity Analysis ................  ...... .                        51
E.   Project Risks ......................... ............ .                  51
IX.  ASSURANCES,  CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION ................                   52



- iii -
Table of Contents - con't
TABLES IN THE MAIN TEXT                           Chapter
Table 1:  Summary of Project Costs               V
2:  Proposed Financing Plan                V
3: Expected Adoption Rate by Farmers VI
4:  Summary of Family Farm Budgets        VI
ANNEXES
Annex 1 - Financial Tables
Table 1: Government Cash Flow
2: Disbursement Schedule
3: SODECOTON - Analysis of Operational Results
Annex 2 - Cost Tables
Table 1: Annual Project Costs, by Component
Annex 3 - Economic Tables
Table 1: Summary of Economic Costs and Benefits
2: Price Structure for Cotton
3: Price Structure for Sorghum
4: Price Structure for Maize
5: Price Structure for Groundnuts
Annex 4 - List of Reports and Working Papers in Project File
Annex 5 - Proposed Management Responsibilities
Annex 6 - Implementation Schedule
CHARTS
21572 - Cameroon: Cotton Planting and Production (1951-1979)
21822 - Project Organization Chart
MAPS
15025     Cameroon:  Rural Development Projects
15026     Northern Province - administrative boundaries, isohyets and
research sites
15027     Center North - population density and agro-ecological zones
15028     SODECOTON field organization and communications and infrastructure






CAMEROON
NORTHERN PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Origin
1.01      The Government of Cameroon has requested Bank assistance in financ-
ing a Rur4l Development Project in the Northern Province, estimated to cost
US$74.7 million over five years. The project would include strengthening
of the institutional structure in the Province for the planning, monitoring
and evaluation of development and for carrying out agricultural research;
and, within a selected area (the Center-North), an agricultural development
program reaching about 150,000 smallholder farmers growing cotton, groundnuts
and foodcrops and including related reforestation activities and infrastruc-
tural improvement.
1.02      The project originates from needs identified in the Bank's agricul-
tural sector survey in 1974. Following a formal Government request for
assistance in November 1976, a Bank identification mission visited Cameroon in
May/June, 1977. The project was then prepared by the FAO/World Bank Coopera-
tive Program which visited Cameroon twice, in October/November 1977, and in
March 1978, when consultants from CFDT, financed under Technical Assis-
tance Credit 673-CM, assisted in preparation of the agricultural produc-
tion components of the project. Project preparation reports are listed at
Annex IV. This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
comprising Messrs. Ch. Redfern, R. Fishwick, M. Macklin, E. Pagacz and A.
Rychener (Bank) and Messrs. R. Crofts and R. Wetherall (consultants) which
visited Cameroon in November/December 1979.
B.   General Background
1.03      The United Republic of Cameroon is located on the Gulf of Guinea
in Central Africa. It extends northward 1,200 km to the shores of Lake
Chad and is bounded by Nigeria to the west, by Chad and the Central African
Republic to the east and by Equatorial Guinea, Gabon and Congo to the south.
Covering 475,000 km2, the country embraces a wide range of climatic condi-
tions, from Sahelian in the extreme north to tropical rain forest in the
south, permitting a well diversified agricultural sector and near self-
sufficiency in food production. Although the country's reserves of petroleum
are to be increasingly exploited, industrial development is still largely
based on agriculture and forestry and involves domestic processing of primary
commodities, such as cocoa and palm kernels, and the conversion of logs into
lumber and wood pulp.  Food processing industries account for 45%0 of total
industrial turnover.
1.04      Infrastructure developments include improvement of the road network,
particularly rural roads critical for the movement of agricultural produce,



- 2 -
modernization of the Trans-Camerounais railway system, expansion of port
facilities at Douala and plans for creation of a new port at Rocher du Loup
(Wolf Rock) between Kribi and Campo. A major hydro-electric installation has
been created on the Sanaga river at Edea and other dams are under construction
on the Sanaga river and, in the North, on the Benoue river at Lagdo (para 2.23).
1.05       The population, estimated at 7.9 million in 1978, is currently
growing at about 2.3°o per year, and over 40/% is under 15 years of age. Of
the adult population of 4.5 million, 74°o or 3.3 million, are engaged in the
rural sector and about 25°o are in urban employment.  Population density
varies widely between regions. It is highest in the western highlands and
in parts of the Northern Province, where it reaches 200 or more per km2,
and lowest in the east (3 per km2). A recent Government projection fore-
casts a total population in the year 2000 of 14 million, with almost 50
percent of the people living in towns.
1.06       The GNP, currently estimated at US$3.6 billion, represents a per
capita income of US$460.  Although per capita incomes were increasing at 6%o a
year in the 1960s, they are now growing at only about half that rate.
The drop was due initially to a decline in export commodity prices, notably
for coffee and cocoa, and then to a slowdown in investment, while the infla-
tion rate, which averaged 6.2%o during the five years 1969-73, rose to 11.8%o
during 1974-78. Government set itself the objective of reestablishing a 6%o GNP
growth rate under the Fourth National Plan (1976/77-1980/81) and increased the
investment budget during the period from an originally planned CFAF 685
billion (US$3.3 billion) to CFAF 930 billion (US$4.4 billion). During the
first four Plan periods only about 14%o of realized investments (public and
private sector) have been for agriculture and rural development. However, the
proportion has risen to about 17%° recently, and the allocation for agriculture
is expected to rise still further in the Fifth Plan, currently being prepared.
C. Agriculture in the Economy
1.07      Agriculture plays a major role in the economy of Cameroon and
agricultural expansion remains the cornerstone of the country's economic
development strategy. The rural sector contributes 40°o of the GNP, including
70%o of the country's export earnings and about 35/% of tax revenues and
employs about three-quarters of the total labor force. Rural per capita
incomes vary widely between regions and in the Northern savannah areas are
only about US$75, or less than half of the national rural average.
1.08      Smallholder farming is the predominant source of agricultural
output. Nearly a million farm families, cultivating an average of about
2 ha, contribute 90%0 of total agricultural production.  The two main export
crops, coffee and cocoa, are grown principally by peasant producers. Three
other important crops which partly serve domestic industries, namely cotton,
tobacco and rice, are also almost entirely produced by small farmers.



- 3 -
1.09       Domestic fooderops, which supply about 96 percent of the country's
needs, are also produced almost entirely by small farmers. Overall foodcrop
production in the last ten years (1966/68 - 1976/78) has increased at about
5 percent per year but whilst vegetables, plantain and some rootcrops increased
at over 6 percent, production of cereal grains rose at only 1.2 percent.
Major cash crops in the small farm sector are cocoa, coffee, cotton and
groundnuts, production of which has increased at 1.6 percent per year. Cocoa
and coffee are a major source of foreign exchange, providing 50 percent of
total exports, while cotton presently represents about 5 percent.
1.10       Although critical during the drought years, 1973-75, the food
supply situation in Northern Cameroon has now greatly improved, and, following
good millet harvests in 1978 and 1979, food crop prices have returned to
more normal levels. In general, however, the rapid escalation in prices of
petroleum based and other production inputs has had an adverse effect on
current efforts to rehabilitate and modernize Cameroon's agricultural sector.
Prices received for the country's major export commodities have not generally
kept pace with this faster rate of cost inflation. Domestic food production,
notably of rice and sugar, also faces strong competition from cheaper imports.
Despite ongoing infrastructural improvements, internal marketing costs con-
tinue to rise reflecting higher fuel prices and increasing wage rates. In
response to these developments, Government is attaching particular importance
to projects which will earn or conserve foreign exchange and is also taking
more account of the recurrent cost impact of its investments.
D. Rural Development Policy
1.11       With large areas of cultivable land still unexploited Cameroon has
good potential for increased production.  Only about 14°o of the total land
area is currently used for agriculture, the rest is mostly either under
forest or used for grazing, as shown in the following table:
('000 km2)                 (/)
Smallholder cultivation                     20                       4
Fallow land                                 45                       9
Permanent cash crops                         5                       1
Natural forest                            155                       33
Grazing lands                             150                       32
Other (rivers, lakes, urban,
unoccupied)                             100                       21
Total area                           475                     100
Only in the Western Highlands, in the Mandara Mountains of the Northern
Province and in the Lekie area of the Center-South is there a density of
population which puts pressure on available cultivable land. Government is
pursuing policies to encourage resettlement by opening up new farming lands,
such as in the Benoue valley, and by establishing industrial plantations to
provide alternative rural employment.



1.12      Attention in the past, particularly in the field of applied research
and technical support, has been focussed on export crops such as coffee,
cocoa, cotton and oil palm. Although food crop production has generally
managed to keep pace with population growth, progress has been restricted by
the weakness of rural institutions and limited access of most smallholders to
extension, marketing or credit services. In particular, the need is apparent
to provide better training for agricultural staff and to make agricultural
research more responsive to the needs of its users. The proposed project
would address these problems in the Northern Province.
E. Sectoral Institutions
1.13      Responsibility for compilation of the national development plan
and for following its implementation lies with the Ministry of Economic
Affairs and Planning (MINEP), which normally entrusts the planning and
supervision of development programs in the rural sector to the Ministries of
Agriculture (MINAGRI) and Livestock (MINEL). Actual project implementation
is frequently carried out by a sector or area-specific agency, either a
state-owned crop development company (Societ6 d'Etat) such as SOCAPALM
(plantation and outgrower oil palm), CAMDEV (plantation oil palm and
rubber), HEVECAM (plantation rubber), SODECAO (smallholder cocoa) and
SODEPA (livestock), or else by more localized institutions such as UCCAO
(union of coffee cooperatives in the West), SODENKAM (integrated development
of Yabassi-Bafang area), SEMRY (rice development in Yagoua area) and the ZAPI
(zones d'actions prioritaires integrees). Other development activities are
carried out by field services of MINAGRI at provincial and departmental level
representing the following main departments: Agriculture, Community Develop-
ment and Rural Works, Statistics, Training and Cooperatives. Agricultural
extension services to farmers are hampered by insufficient and inadequately
trained personnel, difficulty of liaison with research, and by the lack of
coherent work programs and the means to implement them. Given the need for
achieving output diversification and regional balance, Cameroon has faced a
difficult task in designing and implementing cost-effective development
programs in the traditional sector and some of the results have been very
costly. However, the Government is expected to draw upon the lessons of the
various institutional formats it has already tried out in making its proposals
for the next (fifth) Plan period covering 1981-85.
1.14      The leading institution in the cotton sub-sector and in agricul-
tural development in the north of Cameroon is SODECOTON, which would be the
project's principal executing agency (para 4.05). SODECOTONI/ was estab-
lished in May, 1974, as a parastatal development company to take over the
functions previously carried out in northern Cameroon by the French cotton
development company, CFDT. SODECOTON's capital now stands at CFAF 2,595
million (US$12.5 million), subscribed 55'% by the Cameroon Government and
1/   A fuller description of SODECOTON, its operations and financial results
is given in Staff Working Paper C.ll (Project File).



45%0 by CFDT.  This is sufficient to meet its total long-term liabilities of
(CFAF 1,685 million at June 30, 1979, including deferred reserves of CFAF 242
million). SODECOTON's turnover in 1978/79 amounted to CFAF 8.3 billion (US$40
million), of which about 70%' represented sales of raw cotton (110,000 bales)
and 23%D, the value of its oilseed processing operations.  SODECOTON keeps its
accounts on a commercial basis. Its statutes provide for the apportionment of
surpluses (60%o to the National Produce Marketing Board, ONCPB; 10°n to the
cooperative savings and development movement of the Northern Province and 30%O
to SODECOTON), while deficits are supported in their entirety by the ONCPB.
For this reason, and because its accounts include the costs of agricultural
extension, training, field trials and input subsidies, SODECOTON is an agent
of Government development policy rather than a profit-oriented enterprise,
which could be better reflected in its internal accounting and in its finan-
cial relationships with Government (para 5.12).
1.15       SODECOTON is a vertically-integrated organization covering the
following main operations: production development, through an extension
force of about 800, organized in four regions and 29 sectors and affecting
about 120,000 farmers; input supply presently about 12,000 tons of ferti-
lizers and 1 million liters of cotton insecticides are ordered annually;
credit operations seed, fertilizers, chemicals and farm equipment are dis-
tributed to farmers and a proportion of the cost involved, calculated on a per
hectare basis, is recovered when farmers sell their seed cotton; cotton
marketing is organized by SODECOTON using a container transport system to
evacuate seed cotton from market to ginnery with a minimum of delay and loss;
ginning, grading and seed processing take place at eight ginneries, two oil
mills and a new refining plant; and selling, with some 16 types of Cameroon
cotton offered on the world market. Export sales of lint and seed cake are
handled through the selling organization of CFDT. Cotton is sold to the local
textile industry (CICAM) on the basis of current world prices. Part of the
cotton seed cake production is sold locally to aid the livestock industry.
All vegetable oil produced is sold on the local market, where there is a
considerable unsatisfied demand (Ch. VII).
1.16       Until the early 1970s SODECOTON, and before it CFDT, had been
reasonably successful in developing cotton as the principal cash crop in the
central part of the Northern Province. However, from its first introduction
in 1951, the crop was developed entirely on an extensive, low-input basis.
Fertilizers for example, were not used at all. This was because in order for
the operation to break even, there was little room for raising the price paid
to farmers and hence no interest on their part in applying yield-raising
inputs. Thus, the area planted under cotton steadily increased, to reach its
peak of 108,000 ha in 1969 (see Chart IBRD-21572). Yields generally remained
very low throughout this period, averaging only about 500 kg/ha. The area
planted began to fall from 1970 onwards and, with the increasing impact of the
drought years which resulted in farmers replacing cotton with staple food
crops, cotton production fell in only four years from 91,000 tons in 1969 (its
peak and an exceptionally good year) to only 27,800 tons in 1973. At the same
time, world prices for cotton fiber rose spectacularly in 1973-1974 and, with
considerable fluctuations, have generally remained at a somewhat higher real
level than during 1950-70.



-6-
1.17      It was from this conjuncture of climatic and economic events that
Government and SODECOTON began since 1974 the process of reestablishing cotton
production in Cameroon. Its strategy, based in part on the high-quality
applied research work on cotton done by IRCT (French cotton research institute)
in Cameroon, has been to make cotton profitable to farmers as an intensively -
grown cash crop on a reduced area (i.e. freeing land and labor for food
crops). This strategy has meant the introduction of new technology to farmers
(ULV spraying against cotton pests for example), changes in organization
and extension approach (such as grouping farmers' cotton fields together in
blocks), and improving the economic incentives (the producer price was in-
creased from CFAF/kg 31 in 1972 to CFAF/kg 65 in 1977). This new approach
began to show its first results in 1976, when the average cotton yield rose to
almost 800 kg/ha. While the total farm area devoted to cotton continued to
decline until 1978, overall average yields have been raised each year (1977:
830 kg/ha, 1978: 1,250 kg/ha, 1979: 1,420 kg/ha), with a response by farmers
to the intensification campaign more rapid than might have been considered
possible five years ago. The next phase in this strategy is, while maintain-
ing the momentum on cotton intensification, to (a) provide the means for
developing other profitable cash crops in areas where cotton is not suited,
notably groundnuts and maize; and (b) to improve the productivity of staple
food crops production (notably of sorghum), in line with expected increases in
demand. It is in pursuit of such a strategy that the agricultural development
component of the proposed project is conceived.
F. Bank Involvement in Agriculture
1.18      As of June 30, 1980, the Bank had approved 13 loans/credits to
Cameroon in the agricultural sector. Most recently approved have been: a
Second Livestock Development Project (SODEPA), with an IDA credit of US$16.5
million, and a Second HEVECAM Rubber Plantation Project, with a loan of
US$16.5 million and an IDA credit of US$15.0. A second Technical Assistance
project is under preparation, which would include continued assistance for
strengthening MINAGRI's capacity for project preparation and monitoring. All
these projects are aimed, in different ways, at supporting Government's
policies and objectives for developing the rural sector (paras 1.10 - 1.12).
Three of the Bank-assisted agricultural projects have been in the Northern
Province: the Rural Development Fund Project, approved in FY77 (para 2.25)
and the two SEMRY rice projects, approved in FY72 and FY79 (para 2.21). The
proposed project would be the fourth Rural Development Project in Cameroon.
The three other projects, Rural Development Fund (FY77), Plaine des M'Bo
(FY78), and Western Highland (FY79) are still being implemented.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Physical Environment
2.01      Project Area, covering 19,700 km2 of the Centre-North between
latitudes 9°N and 13°N (map IBRD 15025), would comprise all the depart-
ment of Diamar6, the department of Mayo-Danay excluding the SEMRY zone, the



- 7 -
plain areas of Margui-Wandala and the arrondissement of Guider (department of
Benou6). The mountainous areas of Mandara (Margui-Wandala department) are not
included: these are being studied for a possible rural development project to
be financed by USAID.  The Northern Province comprises 30Do of the total
population of Cameroon; about half of this (15%) is included in the project
area. Basic data for the Province and the project area are shown below.
Northern                           Project
Province                            Area
Total Area km2                  163,500                            19,700
Total Population              2,445,000                         1,150,000
Pop. Density/km2                     15                                 58
Rural Population              2,030,000                           973,000
Rural Pop. Density/km2               12                                 49
Cultivated Area ha              759,000                           435,000
No. Farm Holdings               432,000                           207,000
Av. Size/Holding ha                   1.7                                2.1
Av. No. Persons/Holding               4.7                                4.7
(All figures above estimated as for 1980.)
2.02      Climate.  The climate of the project area is Sudano-Sahelian.
The mean annual rainfall ranges from 773 mm at Mora in the north to 945 mm at
Guider in the south. The wet season extends over five months from May to
October. Fifty percent of precipitation falls in July and August. Mora with
a mean June to September (crop season) rainfall of 682 mm represents the
northern limit for satisfactory cotton production. Mean rainfall data (isoh-
yets) are shown on map IBRD 15026. At Maroua, in the center of the project
zone, mean maximum temperature rises to about 400 in March-April, falling to
a mean minimum of about 180 in December-January. Total annual evaporation
(Piche) amounts to 2,400 mm. Evaporation during the period January to April
accounts for 50%' of the annual total.
2.03      Topography and Soils.  Four main agro-ecological zones can be
distinguished within the project area. They are described below in tabular
form and shown on Map IBRD 15027:
Maroua-    Eastern
Mora      Kaele       Sandy        Northern
Plain     Plain       Zones         Guider
Approximate area (km2)                 2,700      8,200       4,800         4,000
Annual rainfall (mm) mean                 770       900         810           945
June-Sept. rainfall (mm) - mean           680       N/A         705           730
June-Sept. rainfall (mm)
- 50%0 probability 1/                   664       N/A         657           714
A more detailed description of these zones is given in SWP C. 1 (Project File).
1/ Calculated on 29 years data.



- 8 -
2.04      Within the project area exists a great variety of geological mate-
rial and topographical conditions, leading to numerous soil types and a
complex pattern of soil distribution. Five soil types can be isolated as the
most important: vertisols, sandy ferruginous tropical soils, red tropical
soils, sodic soils and colluvial and little developed soils. (Project File).
All these soils are deficient in phosphorous. Nitrogen is lacking in all soil
types, although less deficient in the alluvial areas. In the case of the
vertisols and the sodic soils, their unfavorable physical properties are a
more significant limiting factor than their mineral deficiencies.
2.05      Vegetation.  The predominant vegetation is a mixed tree and scrub
savannah typical of the Sudano-Sahelian zone, with a grassy swamp vegetation
in the Yaeres (seasonally flooded depressions). The heavy resident and
transhumant cattle population has led to overgrazing of the plains vegetation
and the original light tree cover has been degraded by the encroachment of
agriculture.
B. Population and Employment
2.06      Population.  Excluding the SEMRY zones and the Mandara Mountains,
the present (1980) population of the project area is estimated at 1.15 mil-
lion, consisting of 970,000 people in the rural areas on 207,000 family farms
and 178,000 in urban areas. The bulk of the rural population lives in settle-
ments with populations of between 500 and 1,000. The mean population density
of the project area, excluding towns, is 49/km2 (see map IBRD 15027 for
distribution).
2.07      Ethnic Groups  Although there are altogether about 16 different
tribes in the Northern Province, two main ethnic groups are found in the
project area.
(a)  The Islamic group:  the Foulbe people who comprise 60°o of this
group are concentrated in the districts of Maroua, Bogo and Mindif
where they form more than 50%0 of the population.  Other important
islamic tribes include the Bornouans, who are mainly located in
Diamare department, and the Kotoko and Mandara who reside princi-
pally in the plains of Mora. The Islamic people whilst primarily
livestock rearers are now also settled agriculturalists. The Foulbe
and Kotoko are often prominent in the local administration and are
the most important landowners of the area.
(b)  Non-Muslims of the plains:  this group comprises many tribes, the
dominant ones being the Toupouri in South Eastern Mindif and
Southern Diamare, the Guider in Guider district and the Moundang
particularly around Kaele. These peoples are the most advanced
agriculturalists and also in the past the main cotton growers.



- 9 -
2.08      Migration and Employment  Migration out of the most densely populated
areas southwards to the sparsely populated Benoue valley is being encouraged
but to date the migrants have come mainly from the southern Diamar6 plain
rather than from the Mandara Mountains. There is also some, but unquanti-
fied, level of migration to the urban centers in the south of the country.
About 90G° of the rural population are dependent upon primary agricultural
production and livestock rearing for their livelihood. Fishing along the
Logone river and in Lake Fianga to the east is of secondary importance.
Agroindustrial processing in cotton-ginning and seed crushing factories, for
example, provides about 3,000 jobs in the Northern Province, while a cement
factory at Figuil is the only non agriculture-based industry in the area.
Tourism--attracting some 20,000 visitors a year, principally to the Waza
National Park--provides some alternative employment. There is a shortage
of technically skilled artisans in the area. Whilst labour may be in short
supply during the peak agricultural months of June-July there is heavy seasonal
unemployment, due to the six to seven months dry season, and limited job
opportunities for primary school leavers.
C. Agricultural Activities
2.09      Agriculture in the project area   Agricultural production is domi-
nated by the small family producer. Average family size is 4.7 persons (2.8
active farming members including those over 60); occasional additional farm
labour is required at times of weeding and harvesting but currently only the
Muslim Foulbe and Mandara of the plains use hired labour to any significant
extent. About 60°% of farms range between 1 and 3 ha, with an average size of
approximately 2.1 ha. Fragmentation is the norm, each unit split into between
2 and 4 plots. In Diamar6, 15°o of farms are larger than 3 ha; these are
normally associated with the Foulb6, who tend to have more extensive farms, to
be more business-minded and to use hired labour (often from the Mandara
Mountains). Cotton is increasingly grown in blocks by groups of farmers,
varying in size from 5 to 50 ha. MINAGRI estimates that annual cultivation
totalling 435,000 ha in the project area includes 174,000 ha (40°o) of sorghum,
102,000 ha (24%o) of muskwari (transplanted dry season sorghum), 48,000 ha
(11°o) of cotton, 80,000 ha (18°%) of groundnuts and 31,000 ha (7°o) of other
crops, such as millet, maize, rice, cassava and various leguminous crops.
2.10       Land Tenure  Two main types of land tenure exist within the project
area. The Islamic peoples, particularly the Foulb6, recognize familial
land ownership and often cultivate their larger-than-average size farms with
hired labour or by renting the land to others for cultivation. Payment is
made in cash or as a fixed share of the crop after harvest. In the latter
case, the tiller has no security of tenure. This, however, does not appear to
present constraints as far as the adoption of intensification techniques for
annual crops is concerned. In the other tribal areas, land is held and
distributed according to custom by the traditional chief. Such systems take
into account family size and needs and do not demand rental payments as such.
Once allocated, the family can enjoy security of tenure over its lands as long
as it continues to use them and to do so in a reasonably sound way. The chief
may redistribute those lands unused or ill used. Inheritance of land is
patrilineal, father to son.



- 10 -
2.11      Cropping patterns  Sorghum (wet season) is the main cereal crop,
with red sorghum cultivated for beer production and white/yellow sorghums
for meal. Dry season sorghum (muskwari) is grown as a transplanted crop on
the vertisols. Some millet, maize or groundnuts may be grown by the women
around the sar6 (compound). Cotton is the major cash crop, with groundnuts
planted in certain localities as an alternative. Secondary crops are beans,
sesame, air-cured tobacco and bambara nuts (voandzu). Over much of the area
pressure of population has eliminated the fallow period and a continuous
cropping pattern of cotton for 2 years and sorghum for 2-3 years is followed.
Elsewhere, a fallow period of 2-3 years may follow five years of cropping. A
typical farm in this area, growing cotton and cultivating some 2.1 ha, would
have the following crop mix:
*  Rainfed sorghum           0.85 ha
* Cotton                    0.50 ha
Groundnuts               0.15 ha
* Muskwari sorghum          0.50 ha
• Miscellaneous crops       0.10 ha
2.12      Livestock  There are about 580,000 cattle and a larger number of
sheep and goats in the Centre-North (2.15 million cattle in the Northern
Province). During the dry season, transhumant cattle pass through the area to
the seasonal grazing lands to the north around lake Chad and along the Logone
river. Management and nutrition practices are poor and the main efforts of
the livestock services of the Ministere d'Elevage (MINEL) are concentrated on
the endemic diseases of cattle. MINEL services are constrained by lack of
trained staff and, in particular, by a chronic shortage of medicines. Trypano-
somiasis is not endemic in the area but has been brought in by transhumant
stock. Integration of agriculture and livestock has so far been confined to
the adoption of animal traction, but this is to be further explored under the
USAID-assisted livestock project at Mindif-Moulvouday (which is situated in
the project area).   Groundnut and cotton seed cake has been distributed by
SODECOTON at preferential prices for feeding to oxen, but otherwise nutrition
and supporting services for control of parasitic disorders are inadequate.
The Bank-financed project for livestock development (para 1.17 and 2.27) is
not involved in this area because it is concerned with the cattle trade in the
southern part of the country. However, efforts are being made by SODECOTON to
improve management of work animals and these would be expanded under the
proposed project.
2.13      Animal Traction  Oxen and, to a lesser extent, donkeys are increas-
ingly being trained and used for cultivation. By 1979, 13,200 pairs of oxen
were counted in use within the project area. It is estimated that one pair
can effectively plough 3-5 ha per season, depending on condition, soil, and the
cropping calendar. Besides the release of labour at peak periods and the
relief to the farmer of the backbreaking tasks of hand cultivation, yield
improvements also accrue, resulting from improvements in both the quality
and timeliness of tillage operations. All farmers with trained oxen have



- II -
ploughs and increasing numbers are using ridgers and weeders as well. Ox-
ploughing is concentrated in the cotton areas, about 60°o of the cotton
being so prepared. Whilst supplementary feeding to oxen of concentrate has
been introduced, it is little practiced so far. Consequently, oxen are
frequently in poor condition in the early rains, at the peak of their work
demand. As yet no large attempt has been made to use females for traction.
The proposed project would place considerable emphasis on developing animal
traction (para 3.07), including the use of females.
D. Agricultural Support Services
2.14      Extension  The Ministry of Agriculture's provincial services
are headed by a provincial delegate based at Garoua, who also acts as agricul-
tural advisor to the Governor. The MINAGRI provincial organization follows
that of the administration, each department having an agricultural delegate,
advisor to the prefect, each sub-prefecture a "chef de poste principal",
advisor to the sub-prefect. In the project area, there are 77 agricultural
monitors (that is 1 per 2,600 farmers), 16 postes agricoles principaux
and 16 postes agricoles antennes. The MINAGRI provincial agriculture service
is inadequately staffed, has very poor logistical support and is poorly
organized and ineffective. Although nominally responsible for foodcrop
extension, its only real functions are (i) collection of agricultural
statistics and (ii) the processing of credits for farmers applying for loans
from FONADER. SODECOTON field staff, who have the responsibility for cotton
extension and marketing, are more effective and well organized in their task.
Its extension force of 560 monitors, 75 "Chefs de zone", 19 "Chefs de secteur"
and 3 "Chefs de r6gion" covering the project zone is well supported by
technical and administrative personnel based at its headquarters at Garoua.
However, the above dual arrangement of extension services has resulted in the
rapid development and intensification of cotton and relative neglect of
foodcrop extension and development.
2.15      Progress made by SODECOTON cotton extension services since 1975 in
the cotton intensification program has been remarkable. During the six
year period 1975-80, 88,000 small farmers have adopted the 'intensive' package
(outlined in para 6.04), planting in 1980 a crop of 44,000 ha. That repre-
sents an average annual uptake of the new methods by almost 15,000 farmers.
Also important has been the associated program of blocking the individual
plots into village cotton production areas; this system has eased extension
difficulties and could facilitate future more sophisticated technical develop-
ments as well as forming the basis of farmer groups for participation in
cotton primary marketing, inputs distribution and demonstration activities.
All seasonal inputs for cotton are procured and distributed by SODECOTON
before the time for planting (May-June). Farmers are charged for the fer-
tilizer and herbicides. Recovery of costs is made at time of marketing
(November-March) by SODECOTON (para 2.17). Cotton seed and insecticides are
provided free of charge.
2.16      Training   MINAGRI staff training in the province is concentrated
at the agricultural college at Maroua, which produces every two years 20
agricultural technicians. A certain amount of in-service training is also



- 12 -
carried out at this centre, about 30 monitors attending 15 days of training
per year. An additional centre at Babourri designed to produce 20 monitors
per year has closed due to lack of funds. SODECOTON's extension staff train-
ing program has centered around the nine-month "Chef de zone" course held at
their Guetale Centre, about 20 "Chefs de zone" being turned out per year.
Since 1974 monitor training has been effected on the job in the field but
neither the quantity nor depth of basic and in-service training programs of
either MINAGRI or SODECOTON are adequate. Farmer training has been carried
out under the CFJA scheme (centers for training young farmers) administered by
the International Union for Child Welfare with partial funding from USAID.
Three centres in the Northern Province have the capacity to train 70 farmers
per year. Nine-month courses are conducted covering a wide range of agricul-
tural topics. Each farmer leaves with a pair of trained oxen and a plough,
for which he has to reimburse 50%' of the cost.  However, the total number of
farmers reached is relatively small, follow-up contact with the young farmers
after their return home is inadequate and initial selection has not always
been successful in identifying the most diligent or capable young farmers.
Although run with considerable enthusiasm, the scheme has yet to make much of
an impact in numerical terms.
2.17      Credit  There are two channels for agricultural credit.  Seasonal
credit for cotton inputs is provided in kind by SODECOTON, which also provides
short-term credit for farm equipment. Loan recovery is effected through
cotton sales and the percentage is high (around 98%o). FONADER finances
medium-term credit, distributed through MINAGRI 'postes principaux', for
purchase of-draught animals and equipment. Loans are made at an interest rate
of 10%° to so-called "Groupements d'Agriculteurs Modernes" (GAM) on the basis
of collective responsibility but the rate of loan recovery presently stands at
only about 60°o.
2.18       Research  Agricultural research in the Northern Province is con-
ducted by the Research Institute for Agriculture (IRA-North), which is based
at Maroua. Its work is organized in two divisions. The Food Crop Division has
four sections viz. (i) sorghum and millet improvement; (ii) rainfed rice
agronomy; (iii) soils; and (iv) agroeconomics. The Fibre Crop Division has
three sections viz. (i) cotton improvement; (ii) cotton agronomy; and (iii)
entomology. The management and coordination of research efforts, particularly
in the foodcrop division, is in urgent need of improvement. Although research
expertise is on site, work programs are neither coordinated nor well supported
financially. In recent years budgetary support for the research stations has
been severely reduced. However, the fibre crop division, because of back-up
logistical support from SODECOTON, has been able to continue an effective
program. SODECOTON has also carried out a modest program of on-farm adaptive
trials. Better programming of research efforts, greater budgetary support,
improved management and an expanded on-farm trial program must be improvement
priorities.
2.19      Forestry  The natural savannah is still the main source of firewood
but the rate of exploitation is such that within 20 years it is likely to
be very degraded. Erosion is already serious in the hills, along the mayos
(seasonal streams) and in parts of the plain. The price of firewood in
the main towns is high, and wood is being supplied from a 30-40 km radius.



- 13 -
The Service des Eaux et Forets is responsible for administration in the
sector while the Fonds National Forestier et Piscicole, which is under the
tutelle of MINAGRI, is responsible for execution of the forestry programme.
'0peration Sahel Vert', which has planted about 2,000 ha during the last three
years, involves young volunteer workers and comes under the Ministere de la
Jeunesse et des Sports. The resources applied to the forestry programme are
very small in relation to the needs and, in the Centre-North, it may not
be possible to supply more than 25°o of the future firewood and local timber
needs unless more research is done into ways of establishing and exploiting
more productive tree plantations. Outside the project area, in the Adamawa
department, there is a large and as yet unexploited natural forest resource,
but the economics of using this to supply the fuel wood needs of the northern
departments are so far not attractive. Therefore, the project would include
planting of 1,000 ha of trees, mainly for firewood (para 3.14).
F. Previous and On-going Development Projects
2.20       The North-East Benoue Development Project commenced in 1975 with
FED financing, with the objective of providing services and basic infrastruc-
ture for the settlement of surplus population from the Mandara Mountains, and
also the Diamar6 plain. To date, about 10,000 families have been settled.
Relatively few potential settlers have descended from the Mandara Mountains
and most of the migrant farmers have been plainsmen, but given the problems
inherent in resettlement programs, the project is proceeding well.
2.21      In the eastern region of the Mayo-Danay department, along the
flood plains of the Logone river, the irrigated rice project SEMRY I commenced
in 1972, co-financed by the Bank, CCCE and FAC. About 5,300 ha have been put
into production, involving about 3,400 farmer families. SEMRY II commenced in
1977, and when completed, a further 7,000 ha will be under irrigated rice, and
about 40,000 people will be resettled in satellite villages in the area.
2.22       In 1979 financing was agreed with the French CCCE for a first-phase
project of infrastructural development in advance of settlement by farmers
in South-East Benoue. This phase of the project, whose execution is entirely
entrusted to SODECOTON, includes the construction of 400 km of roads, 60
boreholes, relocation of a cotton ginnery, a hospital extension, four dispen-
saries and 24 schools, as well as an agricultural development program for
cotton, maize and rainfed rice cultivation for the existing population of the
Tchollire area.
2.23      A major development project for the Northern Province is under
construction to the south-east of Garoua, where a team from the People's
Republic of China is assisting with the construction of a 40 m high dam across
the Benoue river at Lagdo. By 1983, this dam will provide hydro-electric
power to Garoua and to other urban centers, and large areas of the Lower
Benou6 Valley are expected to be irrigated for the production of sugarcane and
other crops. Planning and supervision of works are under the responsibility
of a special office (MEAVSB) attached to the Provincial Economic Division.



- 14 -
2.24      The Northern Seed Multiplication Project (NSMP) was set up in
1977, with the assistance of USAID for a period of five years and is imple-
mented under the control of MINAGRI and MIDEVIV. The project is aimed at
multiplying and supplying to farmers improved seed of groundnuts and sorghum.
The quantity and quality of the groundnut seed produced to date has been
unsatisfactory, while for sorghum the suitability and local acceptance of
exotic, higher-yielding varieties has yet to be proven.
2.25      In 1977, the Bank financed a Rural Development Fund Project, which
is administered by a specially created branch of FONADER. The project
includes financing for the rehabilitation or construction of 1,000 wells and
boreholes, and of 10 small dams in the Mandara Mountains, as well as for small
credit operations for cattle stall-fattening and irrigated market gardening.
When completed (1982), this project will have provided a clean water supply
for about 60% of the rural population in the area (1 well per 120 rural
families).
2.26      A USAID-financed project for livestock in the Mindif-Moulvouday
area is just getting under way. USAID is also planning a project for infra-
structural improvement and assistance to rural development in the Mandara
Mountains, on which liaison has taken place with the Bank.
2.27      Since 1976, the Bank has financed a project for Livestock Develop-
ment in Cameroon, which includes the creation of three state ranches and major
efforts to eradicate the vectors of trypanosomiasis in the Adamawa region, in
the southern part of the province. A Second Livestock Project has recently
been approved (para 1.17). These two projects are not directly concerned with
livestock development in the Centre-North project area, although this is a
major source of cattle for the on-going and proposed fattening operations
further to the south.
G. Planning and Coordination of Development
2.28      The Northern Province was largely untouched by the major development
efforts of the pre- and early post-independence years, although SEMNORD
was quite successful in providing extension and training services and in
managing small-scale rural development projects, before it was disbanded in
August 1973 as part of a national reorganization. More recently, however, a
number of important projects to develop agriculture and education and improve
the infrastructure of the province have been initiated, making up for its
earlier relative neglect.
2.29      The faster pace of development in the north, the number of projects
on-going or planned and the multiplicity of sources of external aid, all
indicate a need to strengthen the capacity of the administration at province
level to plan, coordinate and monitor development efforts. This responsibil-
ity is exercised primarily by the Provincial Economic Division at Garoua. The
aim of such strengthening should be to ensure consistency of projects with the
provincial and national development plans, and proper liaison between
projects in different sectors, and to avoid over-lapping of functional respon-
sibilities. This problem is addressed under the proposed project (para 3.17).



- 15 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Objectives
3.01      Government Strategy.  Government's rural development program in
the North under the 3rd, 4th and 5th national plans (1971-85) comprises
actions of four main types: (a) relieving pressure on land in the Center-
North by provision of infrastructure and services for settlement in the
Benoue valley (NE and SE Benou6 projects ongoing, NW Benoue project being
considered); (b) use for irrigation of the main watercourses of the region -
Logone and Chari (SEMRY projects I, II and III), Benoue (Lagdo dam) and
Mayo Tsanaga (Hollom pilot scheme); (c) raising the productivity of rainfed
agriculture in conjunction with efforts to improve the rural infrastructure
(notably concerning water supplies) in the most densely populated areas,
e.g. the proposed projects in the Center-North and Mandara Mountains and the
on-going Rural Development Fund (FSAR) and Mindif-Moulvouday projects; and
(d) exploiting the unpopulated Guinea savannah grasslands of the Adamawa for
livestock production (e.g. livestock development projects, para 2.27). The
proposed project is intended by Government to contribute an important part in
both the implementation and the direction of the above development strategy.
3.02      At the field level there is a duplication of farmer extension
services in cotton and groundnut growing areas in the project area, since the
field structure of MINAGRI (para 2.14), nominally responsible for crop devel-
opment but without the means to work, overlaps with that of SODECOTON, which
effectively reaches about 75,000 farmers (36° of farmers) in the Project area.
Government has decided that, in order to avoid further duplication, SODECOTON
should be charged with assuming extension services for all main crops in the
Project area.
3.03      The specific objectives of the proposed project would be:
(a)  to provide:  (i) an improved rural infrastructure, including roads,
stores and marketing facilities; (ii) effective services, including
input delivery, supervised credit, extension, marketing, adaptive
research, and project monitoring, necessary for the achievement of a
program of balanced development of agricultural production and
incomes reaching by PY5 some 150,000 farm families with an estimated
present median annual income of only CFAF 16,000 (US$75) per head;
and (iii) to support forestry development in the North;
(b)  to provide financial and technical assistance to SODECOTON required
to discharge its broadened responsibilities, including management of
the proposed project, and to become an organization capable of
assuming a broader approach to rural development in the regions
entrusted to its charge. At the same time assistance would be
provided to facilitate a rationalization of agricultural exten-
sion in the project area (para 2.14) by equipping the remaining
MINAGRI structure with the means to perform its other tasks (para
4.09) more effectively; and



- 16 -
(c) to help existing administrative structures at the provincial level
to participate more effectively in the planning, coordination
and control of all development projects in the Northern Province,
within the framework of national development policies; to extend the
agricultural project monitoring and evaluation network being formed
by MINAGRI to the Northern Province; and to help the agricultural
research institute for the North work more productively.
B. Summary Project Description
3.04      The proposed project, to be implemented over five years, would
comprise activities at two levels within the Northern Province:
-    within the project area itself (Center-North), to carry out an
agricultural development program aimed at raising farm incomes,
particularly of the poorer farmers, and including reforestation
activities and infrastructural improvement.
-    at the provincial level:  (a) to establish competent institutions
for planning and coordination of rural development in the Province
and for project monitoring and evaluation; (b) to establish a sound
research base for future agriculture and forestry development in the
North, including adaptive research for food crops.
3.05      Project components to be carried out in the Center-North would
be the following:
(a) strengthening SODECOTON agricultural extension services in the
project area by increasing the number of extension sectors from 19
to 23, the number of extension zones from 75 to 150 and of monitors
from 560 to 600;
(b) establishment of an animal husbandry extension unit within SODECO-
TON, employing two veterinarians and 20 livestock assistants,
principally to look after the feeding and health care of draft
animals;
(c) systematic training and retraining programs for SODECOTON and
MINAGRI staff of all levels; two existing training centers of
SODECOTON would be enlarged and additional training specialists
provided;
(d) establishment of an agricultural experimentation unit within
SODECOTON, to carry out field trials and demonstration at two new
sites and on field plots in each of the 23 sectors in the area;
(e) staff and operating costs required by SODECOTON for the provision of
pro3ect management services;



- 17 -
(f)  construction of additional field storage facilities to handle farm
inputs required for the project;
(g)  improvement of about 800 km of feeder roads in the area including
construction of fords and culverts, in order to facilitate crop
marketing, inputs delivery and extension work;
(h)  improvement of rural market place facilities to ease marketing
of food crops within the area;
(i)  financing of incremental costs of seasonal inputs used by farmers
(revolving fund administered by SODECOTON);
(j)  administration by FONADER and financing of an agricultural credit
program for participating farmers requiring credit to buy draft oxen
and equipment; and
(k)  pilot tree plantations in forest reserves for fuelwood and poles
and plantings of windbreaks in densely farmed areas to reduce soil
erosion and help improve soil fertility.
3.06      Project components related to the Northern Province as a whole
would be as follows:
(a)  strengthening of the provincial planning unit at Garoua (NPED)
to improve planning and coordination of development projects;
(b)  support for agricultural applied research work of IRA-North, with
a view to making better use of existing resources, in particular for
adaptive research on food crops;
(c)  strengthening the savannah forest research unit (CRF) of IRA-North;
(d)  purchase of additional seed handling equipment required by MIDEVIV
(NSMP) to furnish improved groundnut seed required for development
projects in the province;
(e)  provision of new vehicles and improved office facilities for
MINAGRI, as well as staff retraining; and
(f)  establishment of a monitoring unit under MINAGRI to monitor and
evaluate results of this and, later, of other agricultural projects
in the north.



- 18 -
C. Detailed Features
3.07      Agricultural Development Services.  SODECOTON would be provided
with the resources needed to implement an agricultural development program in
the project area with the following objectives:
-    to increase cotton planting from about 48,000 ha (PYO) to 70,000 ha
(PY5), of which the area under intensive methods of cultivation to
be increased from 44,000 ha to 68,000 ha, giving an increased
production in PY5 of about 29,000 tons seed cotton;
-    to develop production of traditional varieties of sorghum grown on
about 80,000 ha in rotation with cotton or groundnuts, giving an
increased production in PY5 of about 22,000 tons of sorghum;
-    to expand areas of groundnuts grown as a cash crop using improved
seed and techniques (40,000 ha), with an expected increased
production in PY5 about 6,000 tons of groundnuts in shell;
-    to introduce maize cultivation of about 5,000 ha in suitable
areas, with an expected incremental production of about 8,000
tons by PY5;
-    to further develop animal traction as a means of improving soil
preparation, facilitating farm transport and introducing mixed
farming (latter to be assisted through the introduction of female
draft cattle). The number of pairs of trained and equipped draft
oxen/females would be expected to increase during the project period
from 14,000 to 22,000, and donkey units from 1,600 to 2,500. To the
extent necessary, medium-term credit would be provided to selected
young farmers under a credit system to be operated jointly by
FONADER and SODECOTON (para 4.10).
Project costs (incremental requirements only) for these components are as
follows:
(i)  agricultural extension services costs (US$3.8 million);
(ii)  animal husbandry extension unit costs (US$1.8 million);
(iii)  animal traction credit to farmers (US$4.2 million); and
(iv)  seasonal farm inputs costs (revolving fund) (US$23.3 million).
Details of the farm and crop development program and technical parameters
are given in Ch VI, while further background on the agronomic basis for the
proposals is contained in Staff Working Paper C.2 (Project File).



- 19 -
3.08      Extension Service Training Scheme.  SODECOTON extension services
have concentrated mainly on cotton. In order to ensure that food crops
receive equal attention, a program for recycling of the existing staff and
more complete training of new staff is called for. A Cameroonian deputy
director for training, three training specialists (for 3 years) and four
local training officers would be needed. One internationally-recruited
specialist and his counterpart would be concerned with training of the indus-
trial personnel for all of SODECOTON's ginneries and oil mills. Total costs
are estimated at US$2.8. Details of the project's training component are
given in Staff Working Paper C.3 (Project File). Two existing training
centers at Guetale and Ka6le would be expanded and minor equipment and
operating costs provided to allow a training and visit system to be introduced
in the SODECOTON field service. These facilities would also be used for
offering retraining courses to MINAGRI field staff.
3.09      Field Trials and Demonstrations.  In view of the relative lack of
adaptive field trial work on crops other than cotton and the need to develop
technical packages appropriate to farm conditions, the existing agricultural
experimentation section of SODECOTON would be strengthened into a Field
Trials and Demonstration Unit (FTDU). A qualified local agronomist would be
recruited to take charge of the new unit under the direction of the Director
of Development, and assisted by two agricultural technicians. The unit would
work in close liaison both with the IRA-North research station (para 2.18)
and with the extension training section of SODECOTON. It would carry out
confirmation trials and demonstrations of improved farming systems, including
cotton, groundnuts, maize and local and introduced sorghum varieties. Two
main sites of about 8 ha would be laid out and equipped under the project;
one at Gu6tal6, one at Ka6l6, in proximity to the two training centers. Small
field trial plots of about 1 ha each would be laid out in each extension
sector, where the two agricultural training specialists would be responsible
for organizing training and demonstration sessions for extension workers, who
would in turn organize demonstration plots on contact farmers' fields.
Further details are given in Staff Working Paper C.5 (Project File). Costs
are estimated at US$0.6 million.
3.10      Additional Field Storage Construction.  Field storage capacity
available to SODECOTON in the project area amounts to about 12,000 m2, made
up of 38 stores of 169 m2 and 105 of 50 m2 but this capacity is already
stretched to the limit to meet the storage demand. This situation is leading
to pilferage losses, particularly of fertilizer. Under the project the field
storage capacity would be increased through building approximately 350
stores (with a total storage area of about 18,000 m ) at sites in the
project area to be selected by SODECOTON, sufficient to handle about 20,000
tons of fertilizers and 1.4 million liters of insecticides by PY5. As and
when viable farmers groups emerge, responsibility for the operation of field
stores would progressively be delegated to them. The costs for construction,
maintenance and operation during the project period are estimated at US$1.8
million.
3.11      Marketplace Improvements.  Local produce markets would handle
a large part of expected incremental foodcrop production of sorghum, ground-
nuts and maize. However, they generally lack any amenities for produce



- 20 -
handling or reception such as lorry parks, scales, water supplies, concrete
floors, and warehouses. These markets are run by local councils, who lack
financial means to make appropriate improvements. Project financing would
include the establishment of a fund (US$0.5 million) to permit such improve-
ments to be made at about seven market places, with priorities to be deter-
mined during implementation. Construction works would be either by local
contractors or by the SODECOTON road-building unit, as appropriate.
3.12      Feeder Road Infrastructure.  In order to provide access for exten-
sion staff during the growing season, to facilitate dry-season cotton evacua-
tion, food crop marketing and inputs delivery, as well as to improve condi-
tions for general traffic, about 800 km of identified priority roads (map
15028) would be rehabilitated or,constructed (PY2-5) as far as practical to
minimum all-weather standard. Finance would be provided to establish a
garage/workshop at Maroua and to provide technical assistance and equipment
for two construction brigades which would be operated on force account by
SODECOTON, under the technical supervision of MINEQ. SODECOTON is already
responsible for road construction under the SE Benoue project, where work is
on schedule. Maintenance of improved roads would be carried out by the new
unit during the project and after the project period would revert to MINEQ in
the case of classified roads under its responsibility at that time. The rest
would be maintained by local councils with the assistance of SODECOTON, as at
present. MINEQ is being provided under the ongoing Fourth Highway Project
with one additional road maintenance brigade with equipment and operating
funds to carry out "spot repairs" to district roads in the North, as well as
funds to improve the maintenance of some non-bitumized major roads in the
area. It would be important that MINEQ's road repair and maintenance program
in the area complement the feeder road improvement program to be carried out
under the project. Therefore, MINEQ and SODECOTON would, by March 31, 1981,
sign an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, establishing their respective
responsibilities during the project period for construction and maintenance of
secondary, district and unclassified roads in the project area. An assurance
to this effect has been obtained during negotiations. Total costs are esti-
mated at US$10.0 million. Full details of the roads program are given in SWP
C.8 (Project File).
3.13      Project Management Services.  The project components under the
responsibility of SODECOTON (Annex 5) would be implemented without changing
its existing organizational structure, based on four extension regions with
support services attached to the Headquarters at Garoua (para 1.15). In
particular, the agricultural development program in the project area would
remain under the responsibility of the Director of Development. However,
six additional management posts would need to be created for the purpose
of project implementation. An experienced rural development specialist would
be recruited to the Director General's office to act as coordinator of all
SODECOTON's development activities, including the Center-North project.
A qualified local agronomist would be recruited to head the new FTDU and
assist the Director of Development in preparing annual programs for food crops
development. An experienced livestock specialist would be required to take
charge of the ox-cultivation program, including provision of veterinary care
for up to 22,000 pairs of work oxen or heifers and extension advice to farmers



- 21 -
adopting animal traction and mixed farming. A Project Financial Manager would
be recruited to the Direction Administrative et Financiere, to be responsible
for controlling all project funds channelled through SODECOTON (para 4.05)
and preparing disbursement applications (para 5.10). In view of the amount of
construction and maintenance works on roads, houses, storage facilities,
office and training center improvements, rural marketplaces and new cotton
ginneries throughout the project period, SODECOTON plans to create a new
Public Works Department (Direction de Travaux), for which an experienced
construction engineer would be recruited under the project as Director. The
Project Roads Engineer, responsible for executing the feeder roads construction
component in the Center-North (800 kmi), would report to the Director of Public
Works. Since the project would already represent a considerable demand for
additional manpower at the technical and middle-management levels, it is
expected that the posts of SODECOTON Development Coordinator, Director of
Public Works, Financial Manager, livestock specialist, and Roads Engineer
will need to be filled with expatriate specialists for all or most of the
project period. Cost estimates for HQ project management services include the
first three of the above-listed posts and amount to US$2.1 million. Terms of
reference for expatriate staff are included in Staff Working Paper C.10
(Project File).
3.14      Tree Planting.  As stated in para 2.19, the remaining natural
savannah woodland in the area is being fast exploited, and deforestation is
already resulting in severe erosion damage in the hills and in farm land.
Resources presently available for forestry are limited and an applied research
program to find more productive species and economic establishment tech-
niques under the adverse soil and climatic conditions of the Sahel has only
recently been started in Cameroon, with the assistance of the French tropical
forest research institute, CTFT. This research program deserves strengthening
and, at the same time, an expansion of the Government's present modest plant-
ing program of 200 ha per year is called for. The proposed project would
include:
(i) strengthening of basic savannah forestry research by provision
to IRA of equipment and operating funds required to establish
about 300 ha of experimental tree plantations;
(ii) assisting Government agencies (MINAGRI/FNFP) responsible for
using forestry research results by provision of an interna-
tionally-recruited forester experienced in arid-zone forestry,
and by providing equipment and operating funds required to
establish about 700 ha of pilot plantations for fuelwood and
poles within existing forest reserves in the project area. Nursery
trees surplus to plantation requirements would be distributed
free of charge to local farmers and villages; and
(iii) carrying out by FNFP a pilot program of about 750 km of windbreak
plantings in selected parts of the project area (especially Diamare
Department) where intensive agriculture could most benefit from the
influence of shelter belts and where the population has demonstrated
their recognition of the economic value of trees.



- 22 -
Total cost for forestry sub-components is estimated at US$2.4 million.
A detailed description and justification is given in Staff Working Paper C.6
(Project File).
3.15      Monitoring and Evaluation.  Monitoring of the project's effects
at farmer level would be carried out by a new cellule (PMEU), based at Garoua,
of MINAGRI's monitoring and evaluation network currently being established
with help from the Bank-assisted Technical Assistance Project, Cr 673-CM.
Technical support and evaluation of results would be carried out by the
nucleus unit at Yaounde. Eventually this unit would be expected to be able
to cover other agricultural projects, using a consistent set of monitoring
techniques and criteria, but cost estimates refer only to the proposed project
(Center-North). Costs include an internationally-recruited specialist to head
the Garoua unit, 16 enumerators and incremental operating costs for the
central unit for data processing and field visits, and amount to US$1.6
million. Details are given in Staff Working Paper C.12 (Project File).
3.16      Strengthening of MINAGRI Services.  In order to make the pro-
posed rationalization of farmer extension services more effective (para 3.03),
MINAGRI's 16 'postes principaux' in the project area, as well as four Depart-
mental and Provincial Agriculture Offices, would be equipped with additional
vehicles and improved office facilities. With redefined and essentially
reduced responsibilities (para 4.09), MINAGRI's field staff would play a more
effective role than in the past without duplicating the work of SODECOTON
extension workers. Total costs are estimated at US$1.0 million. Details are
given in Staff Working Paper C.3 (Project File).
3.17      Provincial Planning and Coordination.  To reinforce and expand the
Economic Division at Garoua, which is the provincial planning unit of MINEP,
one internationally-recruited specialist in regional planning and rural
economy and a Cameroonian planner would be required, in order to follow
ongoing and planned development projects and to assure the needed coordination
between them during implementation. This is one of the present responsibili-
ties of the Economic Division but which it cannot discharge adequately because
of the multiplicity of projects financed by various donors and the shortage of
professional manpower (para 2.29). Costs for this component are estimated at
US$1.0 million.
3.18      Agricultural Research.  Government recently announced a reorganiza-
tion of research. Amongst the objectives of this reorganization is to provide
a greater autonomy for the agricultural research stations and a closer link
between them and the users of applied research results. In furtherance of
this objective in the North, the PCC (para 4.04) would set up a subcommittee
responsible for agricultural research (PCAR) to provide such liaison and, more
specifically, to review annual work programs for IRA-North. Even though
cotton and foodgrain research specialists are being provided in adequate
numbers by bilateral agencies, the pursuit of basic agricultural research
adequate to support future development efforts is hampered by lack of funds to
meet operating costs and investments and by inefficient management. Therefore,
one internationally-recruited agricultural research officer (with training in
agro-economics, not necessarily an agronomist) would be financed under the



- 23 -
proposed project to coordinate the work on farming systems. In addition an
administrative officer, five junior research agronomists and personnel would
be required, plus their respective incremental operating funds. Three existing
sub-stations in the project area would be rehabilitated and a fourth created
(Map 15026). Total costs are estimated at US$3.1 million. The Government's
contribution to the operating budget of IRA-North has been cut by about 40%
over the last two years and this needs to be restored if existing research
workers are to be utilized effectively. An assurance was obtained at negotia-
tions that Government would furnish all the necessary means in order to cover
operating and maintenance expenses of the existing research station at Maroua
and its sub-stations.
3.19      Seed Production.  Cotton seed requirements are already satis-
factorily provided by SODECOTON. The Northern seed multiplication proj-
ect (NSMP), due to end mid-1980, has been producing groundnut seed but of
unsatisfactory quality. However, with limited additional support, in the
form of additional seed grading/cleaning equipment, and some adjustment of
working methods, the existing seed farms should be able to satisfy the needs
of the project area and other development projects for improved groundnut
and maize seed. Introduced sorghum varieties presently being tested by
IRA-Nord require further adaptive research trials before distribution to
farmers. Anticipated additional seed equipment costs amount to US$0.1 mil-
lion. Detailed specifications are included in Staff Working Paper C.4
(Project File).
IV. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. General Aspects
Introduction
4.01      For a project of its type and size, the project is not particularly
complex from a technical point of view. Concerning the agricultural develop-
ment program, all proposed activities are already underway or have been tried
successfully for varying periods. Nevertheless, this program aimed at reaching
a total of 150,000 farmers in five years necessarily involves a considerable
diversification of extension activities, training of field staff, organizational
readjustment and learning of new roles, as well as a large construction
program, and requires the concerted participation of a number of Government
agencies working in the Northern Province. In fact, to varying degrees, the
project requires the collaboration of no less than eight agencies operating in
the Center-North 1/, and two more (the Provincial Economic Division of MINEP,
and IRA-North) at the provincial level.
1/   SODECOTON, MINAGRI, FONADER, MINEL, MINEQ, local councils, FNFP
and MIDEVIV (NSMP).



- 24 -
Responsibilities for Execution and Control
4.02      Aware of the problems of coordination that could arise, Govern-
ment has decided that one agency, SODECOTON, should play the lead in assur-
ing the execution and supervision of all components of the proposed project.
In particular, SODECOTON would be responsible for the physical execution of
the agricultural development program and construction of feeder roads in the
project area. At the same time, Government intends to use the project as the
occasion for a rationalization of agricultural extension services in the
project area, ending an unprofitable duplication of activities between
SODECOTON and MINAGRI (para 3.03). SODECOTON would act as the channel and
procurement agency for all project funds, except those handled directly by
FONADER.
4.03      At the national level, responsibility for overseeing the imple-
mentation of project activities would rest with the corresponding responsible
Ministries ("Ministeres de tutelle"), viz. MINEP, MINAGRI and Ministry of
Finance, and other technical Ministries concerned, viz. MINEQ for roads and
DGRST for research. Coordination at province level between the various
executing agencies and other institutions involved in the project would be
assured by a Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) to be established under
the authority of the Governor of the Northern Province. The exact res-
ponsibilities of each agency are summarized at Annex 5.
4.04      Project Coordinating Committee.  The PCC would play an important
role in the direction of the project by linking the political, administrative
and traditional authorities in the Province to the technical agencies respon-
sible for implementation. Its terms of reference would include: (i) to
ensure coordination of all agencies involved in project implementation; (ii)
to review work programs and progress reports of project executing agencies to
ensure consistency with the overall implementation plan (PCC would not substi-
tute for technical control by responsible Ministries); (iii) to review
annual budget proposals of project executing agencies prior to their sub-
mission to central Government; and (iv) to assist project executing agencies
in maintaining the full cooperation of the local populations and of their
traditional and administrative leaders. In order to carry out these functions
PCC would meet as often as judged necessary by the chairman, but at least once
every three months. Chairman of PCC would be the Governor of the Northern
Province (GPN) or his delegate, the Secr6taire-Gen6ral (SGPN). The secre-
tariat of the committee would be assured by SODECOTON. Ex-officio members
would be: the Director General of SODECOTON, the Provincial Delegate of
MINAGRI, the head of the Provincial Economic Division of MINEP, the Provincial
Delegate of MINEQ, the Director of the Garoua branch of FONADER, the Provincial
Delegate of MINEL, the provincial representatives of FNFP and of IRA-North.
The committee would coopt such members to be designated by the Chairman to
represent farmers in the project area as it considered appropriate. Such
non-official members would receive reasonable attendance and travelling
allowances out of project funds. Representatives of other agencies (such as
managers of other rural development projects or technical specialists would



- 25 -
attend specific meetings as required. Since maintenance of high-level
membership would be essential to ensure committee effectiveness, ex-officio
members would normally be expected to attend in person. Decisions of PCC
would be advisory, rather than binding, to the extent that they would not
over-ride established responsibilities of the Administration; however, it is
not expected that questions of competency will be encountered such as to limit
the effectiveness of the committee in the discharge of its tasks. Minutes of
PCC meetings would be sent to the responsible Government Ministers and to the
Bank for information. Since PCC will be particularly important during early
stages of project implementation, its establishment with TOR's and composition
satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of effectiveness.
B. Implementation
4.05      SODECOTON.  The national cotton development corporation, Societ6
pour le Developpement du Coton (SODECOTON) (para 1.14) would be responsible
for physical implementation of the project in the Center-North area, except
for the three components to be carried out by MINAGRI, namely forestry plant-
ings (FNFP), provision of essential offices and vehicles for MINAGRI, and
project monitoring and evaluation. SODECOTON would act as the channel of
funds for the implementation of the province-wide components: agricultural
and forestry research (IRA-North) and provincial planning and coordination
(Provincial Economic Division) as well as procurement of additional seed
handling equipment for MIDEVIV. SODECOTON would release funds for these on
the approval of the Project Coordinating Committee. SODECOTON would be
responsible for implementing all aspects of the agricultural development
program (crop and animal husbandry extension services, provision of inputs and
farm equipment), for staff training and agricultural field trials components,
for the construction of stores, rural marketplace improvements and feeder
roads, and for procurement of all contracts required for the project. FONADER
would be responsible for administering medium-term credit to farmers for the
development of ox-drawn cultivation.
4.06      SODECOTON has already demonstrated a high level of managerial
competence in successfully launching since 1975 a campaign to reestablish
cotton production, as well as pilot actions on food crop intensification,
involving about 88,000 farmers in the North (para 1.16). SODECOTON is also
the executing agency for the agricultural components of the N.E. Benoue
Project and for the first-phase rural development and settlement project
in S.E. Benoue (para 2.22). Its headquarters management would be strengthened
for the purpose of the project in the specific areas of (i) supervision of
project activities; (ii) project financial control and accounting; and (iii)
management of the buildings and road construction components (para 3.13).
Government and SODECOTON would enter into a Financing Agreement which would
determine SODECOTON responsibilities for execution and coordination of the
project, including a clear definition of responsibilities for agricultural
extension work between SODECOTON and MINAGRI, the flow of funds to SODECOTON
and from SODECOTON to subsidiary executing agencies, arrangements for



- 26 -
pre-financing and claiming reimbursement from the Bank loan/credit, and
arrangements for reimbursing SODECOTON for its overhead costs incurred in
providing financial, accounting and procurement services for the project. The
signing of a Financing Agreement on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan and credit.
4.07      The Provincial Delegate in the North of MINAGRI (DPNA) would be
in charge of the execution of the following components of the project:
(a) tree plantings, to be carried out by the FNFP, including
700 ha of pilot plantings, and about 750 km of windbreaks;
(b) offices and vehicles for MINAGRI services;
(c) project monitoring and evaluation.
He would also be jointly responsible with the SODECOTON Development Director
for ensuring the smooth transfer to SODECOTON of MINAGRI field staff required
for the project. Thereafter DPNA would be responsible for ensuring that
physical facilities to be made available under the project for training
MINAGRI staff at the two SODECOTON training centers were fully utilized
(para 3.08).
4.08      The project would contribute to a rationalization of arrangements
for agricultural credit in the area by (a) permitting a clearer identifica-
tion of costs of SODECOTON's seasonal credit operation for cotton inputs and
(b) developing new arrangements for supervising medium-term credit between
SODECOTON and FONADER. FONADER would be the executing agency for a component
of medium-term (maximum three years) credit aimed mainly at encouraging
the first-time purchase of work oxen and ox-drawn equipment, particularly
by young farmers. Details and conditions of implementation are given below.
C. Specific Features
4.09      Rationalization of Extension Services.  Because of a tendency
towards overlapping of responsibilities (para 2.14), Government has decided
(para 3.02) to make SODECOTON solely responsible for extension activities on
field crops, while MINAGRI would continue to deal with the small number
of fruit and vegetable growers in the area. To put this decision into
effect, DPNA and SODECOTON would agree on the number of additional field staff
that SODECOTON would require in PYI and the number of surplus MINAGRI agents
which would become available. Out of the present strength in the area of 110,
it is expected that only about 32 MINAGRI agents would be retained (two per
"poste principal") and that the other 78 would become available for reassign-
ment, following a close-down of the "postes antennes".



- 27 -
SODECOTON's Development Directer would, in liaison with DPNA, organize a
selection for the additional field staff (about 40 moniteurs, 25 chefs de
zone, 2 chefs de secteur) needed in the area for PY1, as well as 16 agents to
be recruited by MINAGRI (DEP) as enumerators for the PMEU (para 3.15).
MINAGRI agents entering the selection process and accepted by SODECOTON would
thereonafter become SODECOTON agents. Tlhose not selected would be either (i)
selected for retraining and kept in the area, (ii) transferred to another
area, or (iii) pensioned off, as determined by DPNA. Retraining courses (para
5.08) would be arranged during the project by DPNA for the 32 MINAGRI agents
kept in the project area, using SODECOTON's facilities which would be made
available. Their redefined responsibilities would essentially consist of:
(i) collection of agricultural statistics; \ii) assistance for rural works
(genie rural) and LOmmunity developmernt, incluuing i,, particular, maintenance
of about 1,000 village wells (FSAR program, para 2.25); (iii) extension
services to market gardeners; and (iv) protection of natural resources (Eaux
et Forets).  They would no longer need to handle applications for and recovery
of loans from FOJNADER, since these would be handled Lhrough SODECOTON and
FONADER's Garoua branch (see below). Respective responsibilities of MINAGRI
and SGDECOTON field services in the project area would be defined in the
Financing Agreement between Government and SODECOTON (para 4.06). Improved
office facilities, some additional vehicles and costs for retraining would be
financed under the project in order to assist MINAGRI to carry out the above
tasks (para 3.16). A plan for implementing this radionalizaticr" vhas discussed
during negotiations, and it is desirable that it should be substaritially
effected before project activities commence. Experience under the Bank-
financed Western Highlands Project (Credit 764) has shown that such a re-
organization, unless completed early on, can tend to noLa up other project
activities. It would therefore be made a conditiun of disbursement cf
Category 11 of the proposed loan and credit that the transfer of MINAGRI staff
to SODECOTON mentioned above had been carried out.
4.10      Medium-Term Credit.  A fusion of the two overlapping systems or
medium-term credit presently provided by FONADER and SODECOTUN (para 2.1/)
would be required since, in the project area, SODECOTON would assume res-
ponsibility for virtually all agricultural development activities.  In thisl
fusion, it would be essential to ensure that steps are taken to minimize the
deficiencies inherent in the present FONADER system that have led fe the high
level of overdues. Therefore, under terms of a protocol to be signed between
FONADER and SODECOTON: (a) SODECOTON would be responsible for: identifica-
tion and selection of applicants; procurement and distribution of approved
credit items, in kind; supervision of the use of credit items by farmers; and
recovery of loan installments; while (b) FONADER would be responsible for:
financing medium-term credit; approving applications submitted by SODECOTON;
administering credit accounts through its Garoua agency, where the individual
dossiers would be kept; and preparing annual installment repayment demands and
submitting them to SODECOTON for collection. Loan terms to farmers would be
at FONADER's standard interest rate, which is 10°o p.a., for a period of up to
three years. Financial risks would be shared equally by FONADER and SODECOTON.



- 28 -
It would be a condition of disbursement for the medium-term credit component
(categories 4 and 5) that a satisfactory protocol had been signed between
these two agencies. A draft protocol covering the above points is given at
Attachment 1 of Staff Working Paper C.4 (Project File) and was discussed
during negotiations. Also as a condition of disbursement would be the signing
of a satisfactory FONADER Financing Agreement, setting out terms for on-lending
and repayment. Such terms (see para 5.04c) were discussed and agreed during
negotiations.
4.11      Regarding the provision of credit particularly for draft animals, in
view of the risks involved as evidenced by past experience in Cameroon and in
other countries, the protocol between FONADER and SODECOTON would also include
the following:
(a) that FONADER would not operate a parallel credit scheme for purchase
of draft animals during the project period in the Center-North
project area; and
(b)  the recruitment and posting by FONADER of a credit officer to
its Garoua branch to supervise a credit recovery section, which
would have as its main task the recovery of outstanding amounts due
in respect of past loans to farmers in the Northern Province for
draft oxen and other itFms.
4.12      New credit to farmers for the puchase of draft animals would not be
offered until the recovery rate for pa8t loans had been significantly improved.
Therefore a condition of disbursement against medium-term credit issued for
purchase of draft animals (Category 5) would be the submission by FONADER to
the Bank of a report on the results of agricultural credit recovery efforts in
the Northern Province showing that arrears had been reduced to not more than
25%° of the aggregate principal amount of such credits which were due and
payable; the Bank would review this report with FONADER before new loans for
draft animals to farmers in the project area could commence.
4.13      FONADER has also provided an assurance that it would present to the
Bank by December 31, 1981 a detailed proposal for operating an insurance
scheme to cover farmers against the risk of losses of draft animals due to
accident, mortality or other specified causes beyond the farmer's control.
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Costs
5.01      Total project cost, including taxes, is estimated at CFAF 15,690
million (US$74.7 million) with a foreign exchange component of 52%6 or CFAF
8,190 million (US$39.0 million). Customs duties and identifiable taxes of
£V¶F 1,833 million (US$8.7 million) represent 12%°o of total cost. Thus project
cost net of taxes amounts to CFAF 13,857 million (US$66.0 million) of which
foreign exchange represents 59O0.



- 29 -
5.02      Cost estimates are based on end-1979 prices and include:  (i)
physical contingencies of 15%o on civil works, 10°o on operating expenses and 5%'
on all other costs except salaries, wages and technical assistance; and (ii)
price contingencies compounded as follows:
Expected Price Increases:
Annual Rates (l):         1980      1981      1982      1983     1984      1985
Local Costs                  12       11        11        10       10        10
Foreign Costs                10.5       9        8         7         7        7
Copounded Factnrs (end-°l'79 = l.000)
Local Costs                   1.060    l.177    1.306    1.437    1.580    1.738
Foreign Costs                 1.053   J3J55    1.253    1.346    1.441    1.541
The higher price escalation factors on local costs are based on estimatedc
annual inflation (GDP deflator) for Cameroon. Total contingencies are equiva-
lent to 45%0 of baseline cost estimates, or 31%o of total project costs net of
revolving fund requirements, which are calculated in current terms.  Detailed
cost estimates are presented in Annex 2, Table 1 and are summarized in Table 1
below.
B. Proposed Financing
5.03      A Bank loan of US$25 million, and IDA credit of US$12.5 million
are proposed, making a total Bank Group participation of US$37.5 million.
Government would contribute US$27.5 million equivalent to 37%' of total cost or
US$18.8 million (28%o) net of taxes.  Governmerit contributions would be mainly
for financing fertilizers and pesticides (US$14.0 million). Farmer contribu-
tion would amount to US$9.3 million to finance seasonal inputs, equivalent to
14% of project cost net of taxes. FONADER would cover US$0.4 million for
administration of medium-term credit.   SODECOTON, the project's executing
agency would pre-finance the project's revolving fund requirements for incre-
mental seasonal inputs, estimated at US$23.3 million over the 5 year project
period. SODECOTON has done so successfully in the past by borrowing short-term
funds at a preferential rate, presently 8.6%O, from a consortium of local banks
led by Societe Camerounaise de Banque (SCB), and there is, therefore, no need
for Bank Group participation (see para 5.08). The Bank Group financing would
therefore cover about 50%' of total project cost or 57%O net of taxes.
5.04      Except for a loan described under para c) below, Bank group funds
together with Government contribution would be deployed to - and administered
by - SODECOTON and utilized as foljows:



- 30 -
Table 1:  Summary of Project Costs
CFAF million              Foreign                US$ million
Local      Foreign       Total    Exchange    Local         Foreign       Total
I.  CENTER NORTH AREA:
1. SODECOTON:  Extension Services           573.8        218.9        792.7       28          2.8          1.0          3.8
Livestock Services          279.5        103.6        383.1      27          1.3          0.5           1.8
Staff Training              348.8        293.9        642.7      46          1.7          1.4          3.1
Field Trials and
Demonstration Unit        101.5         33.9        135.4      25          0.4          0.2          0.6
Storage Facilities          222.8        148.5        371.3      40          1.1          0.7          1.8
Project Management          171.8        263.7        435.5       61         0.9          1.2           2.1
TOTAL SODECOTON                         1698.2       1062.5       2760.7       3Q         8.2          5.0         13.2
2. MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Strengthening of
Field Services            119.1       100.5        219.6       46          0.5          0.5          1.0
Project Monitoring
and Evaluation            194.1       135.2        329.3       41          1.0          0.6          1.6
Tree Planting (FNFP)        231.0        212.0        443.0       48         1.1          1.0          2.1
TOTAL MINAGRI                            544.2        447.7        991.9      45          2.6          2.1          4.7
3. FEEDER ROADS                             945.0       1165.3       2110.3       55          4.5          5.5         10.0
4. Credit Administration - FONADER           40.3         13.2         53.5       25          0.2          0.1          0.3
5. Marketplace Improvements                  63.4         36.6        100.0       37         0.3           0.2         0.5
TOTAL CENTER NORTH AREA                 3291.1      2725.3       6016.4       45         15.8         12.9         28.7
II. PROVINCE LEVEL
6. Strengthening of Provincial
Planning Unit                         93.0        118.2        211.2       56          0.4          0.6          1.0
7. IRA - Agricultural Research              369.2        282.3        651.5       43         1.8          1.3          3.1
B. IRA - Forestry Research                   44.4         22.2         66.6                  0.2          0.1          0.3
9. Seed Production                            8.0         12.0         20.0       60           2/         0.1          0.1
TOTAL PROVINCE LEVEL                     514.6        434.7        949.3      46          2.4          2.1          4.5
TOTAL BASE COSTS                        3805.7      3160.0       6965.7       46         18.2         15.0         33.2
Contingencies - Physical                253.6         169.0       422.6       40          1.2          0.8          2.0
- Price                 1216.4       1309.0       2525.4       52          5.7          6.3         12.0
Sub-total                              5275.7       4638.0       9913.7       47         25.1         22.1         47.2
10. REVOLVING FUND REQUIREENTSI/
- Seasonal Inputs                       1519.1       3381.3       4900.4      69          7.2         16.1         23.3
- Medium-term                            737.2        140.4        877.6      16          3.5          0.7          4.2
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                     7532.0       8159.7     15691.7       52         35.8         38.9         74.7
1l In current terms
2/ Amount below $0.05 million.



- 31 -
a)   for the components carried out by SODECOTON:
i)   Extension services, CFAF 1,134 million (US$5.4 million);
ii)   Livestock services, CFAF 546 million (US$2.6 million);
iii)   Staff training, CFAF 903 million (US$4.3 million);
iv)   Field trials and demonstration unit, CFAF 189 million
(US$0.9 million);
v)   Construction of storage facilities, CFAF 525 million
(US$2.5 million);
vi)   Project management services, CFAF 609 million
(US$2.9 million);
vii)   Construction and maintenance of feeder roads, CFAF 3,003
million (US$14.3 million); and
viii)   Rural marketplace improvements, CFAF 147 million
(US$0.7 million).
b)   Against annual budgets submitted to the PCC and SODECOTON, the latter
would release to:
MINAGRI:
i)   For strengthening of its services, CFAF 294 million
(US$1.4 million);
ii)   For project monitoring and evaluation activities
CFAF 462 million (US$2.2 million); and
iii)   For tree planting by the FNFP, CFAF 609 million
(US$2.9 million);
MINEP:
iv)   For strengthening of its Northern Provincial Economic Division,
CFAF 294 million (US$1.4 million).
IRA - North:
v)   For Agricultural and Forestry Research, CFAF 1,071 million
(US$5.1 million);
MIDEVIV:
vi)   For purchase of groundnut seed production equipment,
CFAF 42 million (US$0.2 million).



- 32 -
c)   CFAF 882 million (US$4.2 million) would be onlent to FONADER for 8
years, including a 3 year grace period on principal repayment, and
with interest at 5°0, to finance medium term credits to farmers for
draft oxen/heifers and implements.
5.05      Remaining project costs of CFAF 4,981 million (US$23.7 million) would
be financed as follows. Government would reimburse SODECOTON an estimated
US$14.0 million for the costs of incremental seasonal inputs, while an esti-
mated US$9.3 million would be recovered by SODECOTON from farmers (para 7.15).
Estimated costs of administering medium-term credit to farmers (para 4.10),
including recovery of past loans, would be financed by FONADER out of its own
resources (US$0.4 million). An assurance to this effect has been obtained
from Government (para 9.02). The proposed financing plan is given in Table 2.
5.06      During negotiations assurances were also obtained that:
(i) the budgets for the project components to be executed or administered
by SODECOTON, MINAGRI, IRA, FNFP and FONADER be sent to Government
after review by the PCC (para 4.04) 3 months ahead of each Govern-
ment fiscal year for inclusion in Government's budgets; and
(ii) Government would make available to SODECOTON funds necessary to
carry out the project on the basis of half-yearly advances according
to the approved budgets.
The SODECOTON Financing Agreement (para 4.06) would specify that such amounts
would cover Government's contribution to project costs and would, in addition,
prefinance all items which, under the terms of the Bank loan/credit, would be
eligible for reimbursement (para 5.09).
C. Procurement
5.07      Contracts of US$100,000 or more would be awarded through interna-
tional competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Goods so
purchased would be expected to total about US$6.7 million, of which the Bank
Group would finance US$5.6 million, and would include vehicles, road-making
and agricultural equipment. Purchases would be grouped whenever possible in
order to derive maximum benefits from bulk procurement. Contracts for con-
struction of staff housing (US$3.7 million) and of storage-facilities (US$2.7
million) (Bank Group US$5.3 million) would be too small and geographically
dispersed to attract international bidders and consequently would be awarded
following locally advertised competitive bidding procedures acceptable
to the Bank. Contracts below US$100,000 but more than US$50,000 would be
awarded through local competitive bidding procedures, while those of less than
US$50,000 would be on the basis of quotations from not fewer than three
reputable suppliers. Such contracts would be expected to aggregate about
US$2.5 million (Bank Group U5$2.1 million). Contracts for technical assistance
valued at about US$8.7 million (Bank Group US$6.8 million) would be obtained
in accordance with procedures for international recruitment acceptable to the
Bank. About US$23.4 million (Bank Group US$14.5 million) of project expendi-
tures, consisting mainly of operating costs and local staff salaries, does not
lend itself to bidding procedures and would be committed in accordance with
Government procedures. Goods financed through the FONADER medium-term credit
(farm equipment and draft animals) worth US$4.2 million (Bank Group US$3.2
million) would be procured through local commercial channels.



- 33
Table 2: Proposed Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Bank          SODECOTON        Government         FONADER         TOTAL
Group          Farmers                                            _
1.  SODECOTON:  Extension Services                  4.2              -               1.2                 -              5.4
Livestock Services                 2.0              -               0.6                 -              2.6
Staff Training                     3.3              -               1.0                 -              4.3
Field Trials and
Demonstration Unit               0.7              -               0.2                 -              0.9
Storage Facilities                 1.9              -               0.6                 -              2.5
Project Management Services        2.2              -               0.7                 -              2.9
2.  MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Strengthening of
Field Services                   1.0              -               0.4                 -              1.4
Project Monitoring
and Evaluation                   1.6              -               0.6                -               2.2
Tree Planting                      2.1              -               0.8                 -              2.9
3.  FEEDER ROADS                                   10.5              -               3.8                 -             14.3
4.  Medium term Credit FONADER-/                    3.2              -               1.0                0.4             4.6
5.  Marketplace Improvements                        0.5              -               0.2                 -              0.7
6. Strengthening of Provincial
Planning Unit                                 1.0              -               0.4                -              1.4
7.  IRA - Agricultural Research                     2.9              -               1.7                -               9.6
8.  IRA - Forestry Research                         0.3              -               0.2                 -              0.5
9.  Seed Production                                 0.1              -               0.1                 -              0.2
10. Revolving Fund Requirement
2/
Seasonal Inputs                                                  9.3            14.0-               -             23.3
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS (Including Taxes)          37.5              9.3            27.5               0.4             74.7
% TOTAL                                        50               12              37                  1             100
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS NET OF 10                  37.5              -              13.5               0.4             51.4
as % NET OF 10 (Seasonal inputs)               73                -              26                  1            100
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS NET OF TAXES               37.5              9.3            18.8                0.4            66.0
57               14              28                  1              100
1/ Includes credit administration costs and revolving fund requirements.
2/ represents subsidies on seasonal inputs.



- 34 -
5.08      Incremental seasonal farm inputs, chiefly insecticides, fertilizer
and herbicides, estimated to cost US$23.3 million, are an essential part of
the project but would not be financed by the Bank. They would be prefinanced
through the commercial banking system, (para 5.03) and would be procured on
behalf of SODECOTON by the Buying Department of CFDT in Paris, in accordance
with the established procedures authorized by the Government's "Commission
Centrale des March6s." CFDT would purchase such inputs, bulked together where
practicable with purchases on behalf of other cotton producing countries (para
1.07), on the basis of open international bidding. These arrangements are
considered satisfactory to the Bank, since they assure a timely supply of
inputs to farmers, of correct specification and procured at competitive prices.
D. Disbursement
5.09      The Bank Group funds (US$37.5 million) would be disbursed over about
5-1/2 years. The IDA credit (US$12.5 million equivalent) would be disbursed
first. It is expected that no claims would be made against the IBRD loan
until the fourth quarter of Bank FY83. A forecast schedule of disbursements
for both credit and loan is shown at Annex 1, Table 2. Disbursement against
project operationg costs would be on a declining basis to facilitate take-over
by the national budget on project completion.
Bank Group Financing Covering Five Years' Expenditures
Category                                                    US$  Million
1.   SODECOTON:
Civil Works                                             4.5            80
Vehicles, Equipment                                     3.9            80
Operating Costs including Local Personnel               9.7            62 1/
Technical Assistance                                    4.3            80
2.   Ministry of Agriculture:
Civil Works                                             0.4            80
Vehicles, Equipment                                     1.4            80
Operating Costs including Local Personnel               1.4            62 1/
Technical Assistance                                    0.9            80
3.   Province Level:
Civil Works                                             0.9            90
Vehicles, Equipment                                     0.5            90
Operating Costs including Local Personnel               2.1            62 1/
Technical Assistance                                    1.0            80
4.   FONADER-Medium Term Credit                                2.9            90
5.   Unallocated                                               3.6
Total                                                    37.5
1/   Represents a weighted average over 5-year period.  Financing on a year-to-
year basis is as follows:  PYl-2=90°o , PY3=70°o , PY4=50°o and PY5=30°o .



- 35 -
All disbursement claims against contracts for civil works, vehicles, road-
making and agricultural equipment would be fully documented. Disbursements
against project operating costs incurred by SODECOTON, MINAGRI, IRA-North and
the Provincial Planning Unit would be against statements of expenditures.
Full supporting documentation, showing costs incurred, would be retained for
inspection by the Bank during project supervision. Disbursements for credits
made by FONADER would be against certified statements of credit disbursements,
with supporting documentation retained for verification during project super-
vision.
5.10      The Project Financial Manager (para 3.13) to be recruited and posted
to SODECOTON's Headquarters would, in addition to his responsibilities for
accounting and financial control of the project components to be executed by
SODECOTON, assist in the preparation of withdrawal applications against Bank
Group funds for all components of the project.
5.11      Conditions of disbursement against Categories 4, 5 and 11 are set
out in paras 4.09, 4.10 and 4.12.
E. Accounts, Audit and Reporting Requirements
5.12      SODECOTON would, within the context of its general financial
accounting system, keep records for the project consistent with sound ac-
counting practice and adequate to reflect both the overall financial situation
of the company and the detailed costs of operations of the project components
executed or administered by it (para 5.09). In addition, SODECOTON's existing
cost accounting system (comptabilite analytique) would be refined to allow
more accurate cost allocation to the diversified activities associated with
the de facto change in its role to that of a more general development agency.
Such refinements would be introduced with effect from the beginning of its
1980/81 financial year.
5.13      SODECOTON's accounts are jointly audited by the independent audi-
tors, Maison Ebal6, Garoua (appointed by Government) and Societe Fiducaire
France Afrique, Cameroun (appointed by CFDT). These auditors, who are
acceptable to the Bank, would be retained for auditing the project accounts.
Their reports would be furnished to the Bank within four months after the
close of SODECOTON's financial year. FONADER would keep separate accounts in
its Garoua branch for medium-term credit disbursed or committed under the
project. These accounts would be subject to an annual audit by an independent
auditor acceptable to the Bank. The auditor's report would include, in
particular, an opinion on the documentation supporting the statements of
credit disbursement against which withdrawal applications against Bank Group
funds were to be, or had been, made. Accounts for the project components to
be executed by MINAGRI would be kept by the Provincial Delegate of Agriculture
in Garoua, in accordance with standard Government practices, and would be
subject to existing governmental audit procedures.



- 36 -
5.14       The project's three executing agencies, SODECOTON, MINAGRI and
FONADER would submit quarterly progress reports to Government and to the
Bank showing actual and budgeted expenditures, statements of progress achieved
and objectives for the forthcoming quarter by each project component. SODECO-
TON's quarterly reports would contain summary financial information indicating
the levels of its short-term borrowings and of any outstanding receivables
from Government or other bodies with respect to budgetary allocations for the
project and subsidies on production inputs.
VI. AGRICULTURAL YIELDS, PRODUCTION AND FARMERS' BENEFITS
A. The Target Group
6.01       Of the total population living in the project area of 1.2 million
(para 2.01) the rural farming population which makes up the target group
for the project is estimated at 1.0 million, corresponding to an estimated
207,000 farm families. With an annual rate of population increase in the
rural areas estimated at 1.6%, there would be 225,000 farm families in 1985.
6.02       The mean farm size in the Northern Province is about 1.6 ha.
However, for the project area which excludes the most over-populated mountain
areas, the mean farm size is estimated at 2.1 ha (para 2.11).
B. Technical Specifications
6.03       The cultivated area per farm would not be expected to increase
due to the project under manual cultivation but would be increased by 0.50 ha
under ox-drawn cultivation. Participating farmers would adopt one of the
following five broad categories of intensified cropping patterns, according to
their choice of main cash crops and to the method of cultivation used.
Cropping Patterns (ha)
Without Project                     With Project
Ground-          Cotton,           Cotton,
Main Cash Crops:            Groundnuts   Cotton   nuts    Cotton   Maize  Cotton   Maize
Method of Cultivation:              Manual               Manual               Ox-drawn
Cotton                            -         0.50        -     0.50      0.50   1.00       1.00
Groundnuts                     0.65        0.15      0.75    0.15       0.25   0.15       0.25
Sorghum (wet season)           0.85        0.85      0.75    0.85       0.50   0.85       0.50
Maize                             -           -         -       -       0.25      -       0.25
Sorghum (dry season)           0.50        0.50      0.50    0.50       0.50   0.50       0.50
Miscellaneous crops            0.10        0.10      0.10    0.10       0.10   0.10       0.10
lot,al area               2.10        2.10      2.10    2.10       2.10   2.60      2.60



- 37 -
6.04       Improved or 'intensive' cotton would be mainly grown in grouped
blocks of individual plots in order to facilitate effective control of inputs
use, utilization of animal traction and rotation of cotton with sorghum.
The inputs needed per ha would be 40 kg of improved and treated seed, 200 kg
of compound fertilizer NPKSBo (22-18-14-6-0.7) and 50 kg of urea, 20 liters
of insecticides, with one ULV sprayer for 10 ha of cotton and, for more
advanced farmers, 2 liter/ha of herbicide with one LV sprayer for 15 ha.
Sorghum would follow improved cotton to benefit from the residual effects of
cotton fertilizers. On-farm selected seed would be used and more advanced
farmers would use 50 kg/ha of urea. Farmers would multiply their own improved
groundnut seed from basic selected seed supplied by the Northern Seed Multi-
plication Project (NSMP) at the rate of 10 kg/ha, which they would renew every
four years.  Since very little is known in the area of groundnuts' response to
fertilizer, until applied research results became available fertilizer applica-
tion on groundnuts would be only gradually introduced, most probably not
before PY4. Maize, to be introduced as a cash crop in suitable areas, limited
on an experimental basis only to more progressive farmers, would be grown in
rotation with cotton or groundnuts. Selected composite seed, renewed every
three years by the NSMP, would be used at the rate of 25 kg/ha. Inputs would
consist of 200 kg/ha of compound fertilizer and 50 kg/ha of urea, and 3
liter/ha of herbicides would be sprayed at sowing. In addition to these
inputs, an insecticidal dressing would be applied to groundnut, maize and
wet-season sorghum seed at time of storage and at sowing. Detailed recom-
mended practices are given in SWP C.2 (para 16-39) in the Project File.
6.05      Farmers utilizing oxen would purchase, on medium-term credit if
required, a complete set of ox-drawn implements comprising a plough with chain
sold at US$114 equivalent, a ridger (US$57) and a weeder (US$38). It is
expected that about 10%0 of farmers with oxen would purchase an ox-cart at
about US$260. Farmers with work oxen would plough and weed about 1 ha each
year of cotton and 1 ha of improved sorghum and groundnuts on their own
farms, plus about 2 ha of cotton on contract for other farmers.
6.06       During the project period, participating farmers would be expected
to adopt different steps of new or improved practices in stages. For example,
farmers with groundnuts as their main cash crop at stage 1 would first be
taught to use improved and treated seed, better density and early sowing and
weeding for their groundnut crop, on about 0.75 ha. At stage 2, improved
cultivation of wet-season sorghum would be introduced in rotation with ground-
nuts. At stage 3, NPK fertilizer would be used for groundnuts, if the applied
research results show this is worthwhile, and 50 kg/ha of urea for wet-season
sorghum. Farmers growing cotton as their main cash crop would first (stage 1)
learn to cultivate 'intensive' cotton on about 0.5 ha. At stage 2, improved
cultivation methods would be adopted on groundnuts and wet-season sorghum,
planted in rotation with cotton to capture the residual effect of the cotton
fertilizer. At stage 3, a top-dressing of 50 kg/ha of urea on the sorghum
would be added; and at stage 4, a small area (about 0.25 ha) of intensified
maize would be grown in rotation with the groundnut crop.



- 38 -
C. Adoption Rates
6.07      Due to the Sahel drought, the area cultivated with cotton in the
project area decreased from 93,000 ha in 1969 to 51,000 ha in 1973, and
the production of seed cotton fell from 82,000 t to 18,000 t. However, since
1976, SODECOTON has launched the cotton intensification program involving
cultivation in blocks and use of fertilizer and pesticides. In 1979, 42,600
ha of cotton, were cultivated in the project area including 34,300 ha using
the prescribed inputs package. Due to a very good rainy season, the produc-
tion reached 56,200 t of seed cotton, with an overall average yield of 1,320
kg/ha, and an average yield in the intensified area of almost 1,500 kg/ha.
However, in addition to the development of intensified cotton production, the
main goals of the project would be: (i) to develop production of local
varieties of sorghum grown in rotation with cotton or groundnuts; (ii) to
expand the area of groundnuts planted with improved seed; (iii) to introduce
intensified maize cultivation in selected areas; and (iv) to increase animal
traction both as a means of cultivation and transport, and as an introduction
of mixed farming.
6.08       The on-going program of intensification of cotton production already
includes 74,000 farms in the project area (36°o of all farms). It is expected
that SODECOTON would be able to reach successfully about 15,000 new farms
each year, so that by PY5 it would have enabled a total of about 150,000 farms
in the project area to raise their productivity.  About 75°o of participating
farmers would probably grow cotton, and about 25%o groundnuts, as their prin-
cipal cash crop.  All participating farmers would be encouraged to use
improved methods of cultivation of sorghum, their staple food crop.
6.09       The following Table 3 shows the number of farms expected to par-
ticipate in the project each year and at full development (PYIO) according
to their main cash crops.
Table 3: Expected Adoption Rate by Project Farmers
Cultivation Method/                      PYO   PYI   PY2   PY3   PY4   PY5   PYIO
Main Cash Crop:                          ----No. of participating farms ('000)---
Manual Cultivation:
Cotton                                    59    67    73    76    79    82         83
Cotton and maize                          -       2      4     6      8    10      15
Groundnuts                                -      10    20    30    35    36        40
Sub-total                            59    79    97   112   122   128    138
Ox-Drawn Cultivation
Cotton                                    15    15    16    15    14    12         10
Cotton and maize                          -       1      2.0   4      7    10      15
Sub-total                            15    16    18    19    21    22         25
Total No. of participating farms          74    95   115   131   143   150    163
No. of farms in project area             207   211   215   217   222   225    243
Expected adoption rate                   36°o  45°o  53°o  60%o  64%'  67%o   67°o



- 39 -
D.  Yields
6.10       Yields obtained by farmers participating in the project would
depend on a range of factors including ecological conditions and degree of
intercropping. It is expected, however, that by project completion partici-
pating farmers would fall into one of four stages of yield improvement
for each of the four crops (cotton, groundnuts, maize and wet season sorghum)
directly influenced by the project. The expected average yields of these four
crops at the various stages of development are summarized below. They are
conservative relative to potential results in any particular year, since they
allow for a 20%D chance of poor harvests due to drought or other natural
cause.
Yield Assumptions
Traditional                      Improved
---------------------(kg/ha)----------------------
Manual            Ox-drawn
0                I      II      III          IV
Seed cotton                    400             1,000  1,100   1,200        1,300
Groundnuts (shelled)           350               560    630       700         770
Maize                          N/A                -       -    1,600       1,800
Sorghum (wet-season)           700               800    950   1,150        1,200
E. Project Production
6.11       The volume of total crop production from the 163,000 farms which
by PY10 would be directly affected by the project, is expected to increase at
an average rate of roughly 3%0 per annum over the pre-project level.  This
assumes that extension and input delivery services would be maintained after
PY5, and that producer prices and marketing arrangements remained satisfactory
(para. 7.19). Detailed annual projections of expected production under the
project are given in SWP C.3 (Project File) and are summarized below.
Project Production ('000 tons)
Pre-Project      Project        Full         % increase
Completion  Development       (PY1O/
PYO           PY5          PY1O             PYO)
Seed cotton                      47.4          82.3         91.0             92
Groundnuts (shelled)             23.2          27.7         30.0             29
Sorghum                         161.3         183.0        189.5             17
Maize                             -             8.5         12.7
Miscellaneous                     6.6           6.6          6.6              -
Total Quantity             238.5          308.1        329.8            38
No. of farms ('000)
Traditional                      88.9          13.0          -
Improved                         74.1         150.0        163.0
Total                      163.0         163.0         163.0



- 40 -
6.12      However, it is estimated that even without the project the number of
farms growing improved cotton would increase from 74,100 in PYO to 94,000 in
PY5 (with project: 114,000) and the area cultivated under intensive cotton
from 44,000 ha in PYO to 50,000 ha (with project: 68,000 ha). Thus incremental
production attributable to the project is evaluated as follows:
Incremental Project Production
('000 tons)
PY5 (')          PYlO (°)
Seed cotton                                 28.7 (54)        37.4 (70)
Groundnuts (shelled)                         6.6 (31)         8.8 (42)
Sorghum                                     21.6 (13)        28.0 (17)
Maize                                        8.5             12.7
Total Quantity (incremental)           65.4              86.9
F. Farmers' Benefits
6.13      Annual average net farm income for unimproved farms in the project
area is estimated at about CFAF 54,000, requiring an estimated labor input of
about 168 mandays per year. The return per manday worked in traditional
agricultural activities averages about CFAF 325. The adoption of intensifica-
tion for cotton and maize, and of improved techniques for groundnuts and
sorghum, involves an increased employment of farm family labor and results in
increasing the net annual income (at constant prices) per farm participating
in the project by CFAF 19,000 or 35°o without cotton, by CFAF 27,000 or 50%O
with cotton, and by CFAF 34,000 or 62°o with cotton and maize as cash crops,
using purely manual cultivation. Using ox-drawn cultivation, the net annual
income per farm (after repayment of loans) would be expected to increase by
CFAF 52,000 or 96%o with cotton and by CFAF 56,000 or 104°o with cotton and
maize. The net return per manday under the improved farming systems would
increase from CFAF 325 to CFAF 393 or by 21%o with manual cultivation, and to
CFAF 420, an increase of 29o, with ox-drawn cultivation.  These benefits
appear sufficiently attrative to encourage farmer participation as expected.
Family labor of about 45 mandays equivalent per month is adequate for the
average small farm and in general labor shortages would not be encountered
either at planting or at harvest. Family farm budgets are detailed in
Tables 11, 12 and 13 of SWP C.2 (Project File); the main data are summarized
in Table 4 (page 41).
VII. MARKETS, PRICES AND FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS FOR GOVERNMENT
A. Market Prospects for Exported and Locally Marketed Crops
7.01      Export Crops.  At full development the project would contribute to
an increase in production of about 43,600 of seed cotton, bringing estimated
total Cameroon production to about 135,000 t in 1990, equivalent to 54,000 t
(250,000 bales) of raw cotton. The market prospects for cotton fiber, the
only export commodity to be produced by the project, appear reasonably good.



Table 4
CAMEROON
NORTHERN PROVINCE: RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Family Farm Budgets
Without Project                    With Project (at ful.. development)
Manual                         Manual                            Ox-Drawn
Without   With         Without   With Cotton  With Cot on         With    With Cotton
Farming System:  Cotton    Cotton         Cotton                    and Maize       Cotton    and Maize
Value of production (CFAF)                         62,875    61,125        95,850      102,360       115,350        158,905    168,925
Production costs    (CFAF)                          5,155      3,205       19,315       17,318        23,730         44,988      50,740
Taxes                (CFAF)                         3,500      3,500        3,500        3,500         3,500          3,500       3,500
Debt service         (CFAF).                                     -           -                   -                   14,150      13,150
Cash income from outside plowing                     -          -            -            -             -            10,000      10,000
Total net farm benefit CFAF                        54,220    54,420        73,035       81,542        88,120        106,267    110,535
US$                           258.19    259.14       347.78       388.29         419.62         506         526.35         1
Family labor (mandays/farm)                           169        166          222          224           224            259         263
Net benefit per manday CFAF                           321        328          329          364           393             410        420
US$                             1.52       1.56        1.56          1.73          1.87           1.95        2.00
Net benefit per capita CFAF                        11,536    11,579        15,539       17,349        18,749         22,610      23,518
US$                            54.93     55.13        74.00        82.61          89.28         107.65      112.00



- 42 -
From a period of stagnation, world market prices increased in 1974 along with
rises in raw material costs for competing oil-based fibers, but thereafter
fell back, largely because of substantial price cuts for synthetic yarn due to
excess manufacturing capacity. Over the longer term, cotton prices will be
affected less intensively by man-made fiber prices as the growth in fiber
demand, and also the restraint of higher feedstock costs oni the construction
of new production facilities for man-made fiber, bring about an improved
balance between the supply and demand for fibers.l/ Apart from sales at the
equivalent of world market prices to local textile mills (CICAM), currently
amounting to about 5,000 tons per annum, cotton lint output would be world
markets where the main grade (No. 1 Allen 1 1/32 inch) sells at a slight
discount on Mexican Strict Middling 1 1/16 inch on which the Bank's medium
staple price projections are based. Although France remains the single most
important market for Cameroon lint, its relative position has declined and, in
the period 1974/75 to 1977/78, France's share (38%) was nearly equalled by
sales to Far Eastern destinations (36°%).
7.02      Locally Marketed Crops.  Annual sorghum and millet production
for the Northern Province is estimated at 360,000 tons, accounting for about
85°o of total cereal consumption.  Of this production, only some 10-15% is
marketed, the bulk being consumed on the farm. Additional consumption
needs by 1990 are estimated at 40,000 tons, so that incremental project
production by that year (28,000 tons) would be a major factor in maintaining
present nutritional levels. Assuming on-farm consumption (including millet
beer) remains constant at 170 kg/capita/year, marketable surpluses would
increase by 20,700 tons in PY5 and 27,000 tons at full production in PY10,
thus helping to supply the needs of faster growing urban populations. In this
case, the marketed proportion of total production in the area would increase
from an estimated 12%o at present to approximately 25%o at PY10.
7.03      In PY10, project incremental groundnut production of 8,800 tons,
together with increases elsewhere in the province, should bring total incre-
mental production to about 15,000 tons, which is in line with Bank estimates
of increased demand in the Northern Province alone. The projected consumption
increases elsewhere in Cameroon (55,000 tons by 1990), coupled with external
demand for exports to Nigeria and Chad should ensure that the present firmness
of the local market continues. The proportion of the incremental production
marketed is expected to rise from 33%° to 50%' in response to expanded urban
demand.
7.04      Project incremental production of maize would be small (12,700 tons
in PY10), but since maize only enters peripherally into the local diet in the
project area, a higher proportion, estimated at 60%, would need to be marketed.
Although this marketable surplus should easily be absorbed by the projected
overall increase in maize consumption in Cameroon of some 175,000 tons in
1990, there could from time to time be temporary marketing problems, until
extra-provincial trading channels are developed (see para 7.15).
1/   From Cotton Market Prospects, IBRD Report No. 814/80, January 1980.



- 43 -
7.05      Incremental production, 2,800 tons, of cottonseed oil due to the
project, together with that arising from other seed cotton production
increases in the Northern Province, would bring total production in PYIO to
a projected 8,800 tons or 9.5 million liters. This would all be absorbed
by local consumption. Previously the demand could barely be met by supple-
menting local production with the import of unrefined oil from Chad for
refining at Garoua. As, however, this supply is no longer forthcoming,
there is a shortfall in domestic production.
7.06      As regards cottonseed cake, incremental project production of
7,300 tons would help raise total national production to 22,500 tons by PYlO.
Most of it would be absorbed by the local market as the demand is increasing
due to rapid expansion of livestock production. Eventual surpluses could
easily be exported since a firm demand on world markets is forecast.
B. International and Local Market Prices
7.07      Producer prices for seed cotton are fixed by Government each year
after taking into account the recommendations of ONCPB and SODECOTON. Price
increases in the 1974/75 to 1976/77 seasons followed the upward price trend
on world markets over this period, yet still resulted in operational surpluses
totalling an estimated CFAF 3.9 billion (US$16 million). Subsequently,
maintenance of an even higher level of producer price coupled with a fall
in the world market has reduced such surpluses. The producer price for
the 1979/80 season (CFAF 70/kg graded seed cotton) provides adequate produc-
tion incentive at current levels of input subsidy (para 7.15) and, at the same
time is projected to show a surplus of some CFAF 8 per kg on SODECOTON's
operating accounts, i.e. taking into consideration marketing and ginning costs
only and leaving development costs (extension, training etc.) aside. For the
purpose of project financial analysis, it has been assumed that producer
prices both for cotton and for inputs (para 7.16) would be maintained at
actual levels in 1980 terms, and that the increasing surpluses, projected to
reach CFAF 50/kg in PY5 due to projections of higher world market prices,
would accrue to Government through ONCPB. (Annex 3, Table 2).
7.08      Taking local market price levels and trends into account, a farm-
gate price of CFAF 40/kg for sorghum and millet has been adopted in project
financial calculations. This is in fact lower than import substitution
cost projections based on World Bank price forecasts which indicate economic
price levels of CFAF 65/kg in 1980 and CFAF 68/kg in 1985 (PY5). Similarly, a
farmgate price of CFAF 40/kg has been used for maize and shown to be justified
by import substitution cost projections which give prices of CFAF 37/kg
in 1980 and CFAF 41/kg in PY5. (Annex 3, Tables 3 and 4).
7.09      For groundnuts, official buying prices are set by Government
(CFAF 60/kg decorticated groundnuts in 1978/79) and official exports have to
be made through ONCPB. In fact, no purchases have been made at these of-
ficial prices for years as market prices have been at much higher levels
(over CFAF 120/kg decorticated in the last three seasons). The strong inter-
nal demand in the Northern Province has been further stimulated by unofficial
exports to Nigeria and Chad, and, as market prices are expected to continue
firm, a farmgate price of CFAF 90/kg decorticated groundnuts has been adopted



- 44 -
for project financial purposes. Export price calculations based on world
market price projections result in lower values but since exports are unlikely
during the project period price projections on an import substitution cost
basis are more indicative of real economic values (CFAF 104/kg in 1980, rising
to CFAF 117/kg in PY5, Annex 3, Table 5). Estimated financial and economic
farmage prices for the above commodities are summarized below.
Projected Financial and Economic Farmqate Prices
Actual          Financial               Economic
1978      1980  1985  1990       1980   1985   1990
Product                      CFAF/kg      ----CFAF/kg in constant 1980 prices----
Groundnuts (shelled)            90          90    90    90      103.5  116.6  126.2
Sorghum/millet               40-50          40    40    40       64.7   68.1   68.6
Maize                        40-50          40    40    40        36.7   40.5   41.3
Seed Cotton
a)  producer                65/35          70    70    70  )
)    86.5  127.7  133.0
b)  Government                              9.3  50.4  55.7)
C.  Marketing Constraints and Proposed Remedies
7.10      Cotton Marketing.  The existing cotton marketing system operated by
SODECOTON is efficient (para 1.15) and results in producers receiving more
than 50°Q of gross sales proceeds even under current breakeven conditions
(refer to Annex 1, Table 3 for SODECOTON operational accounts). To ensure
that the project would not suffer from any changes in the present system,
assurances have been obtained from the Government that appropriate arrange-
ments for the marketing of cotton and its by-products will be maintained.
7.11      Ginning.  SODECOTON owns and operates four cotton ginneries in the
project area, at Ka6le, Maroua (I and II) and Guider, with a combined capacity
estimated at 75,000 t seed cotton per year, over a maximum ginning period of 6
months.
Ka6l6 (10 x  90)              1953        25,000 t
-Maroua I (3 x 88)            1963        10,000
Maroua II (3 x 128)           1967        20,000
Guider (3 x 128)              1973        20,000
75,000
If the ginning period is limited to five months, which is desirable, the
available capacity is only 63,000 tons per year. This level of production
would be expected in the 1982/83 season. However, because of climate-induced
yield variati3s wh\ich can be large, available capacity should be about 20%-
higher.



- 45 -
('000 t seed cotton)           PY1      PY2     PY3      PY4      PY5
Production forecast            56       63       70      77       82
Capacity required              67       76       84      92       99
Capacity to be created          63    (+18)      81    (+18)      99
Thus new units of 18,000 t capacity would be required for the 1982/83 and
1984/85 seasons. Suitable sites and infrastructure already exist at Guider
and Kaele, and design studies are being undertaken. Government has given an
asurance that it would provide SODECOTON with all the necessary means to
construct sufficient ginning capacity in the Northern Province for the dura-
tion of the project.
7.12      Accounting.  At present, SODECOTON is charging all its costs,
including not only marketing and processing, but also costs of rural develop-
ment operations, of input subsidies, of oil seed processing losses, together
with costs of financing its investment program by loan borrowings, against
sales proceeds and obtaining reimbursement from ONCPB of any resultant deficit.
With the introduction of the refinements in SODECOTON's cost accounts referred
to in para. 5.12, it would be possible for arrangements to be introduced by
Government which would:
(a)  permit the inclusion of an annual management fee in
SODECOTON's operating and processing costs, which
could be calculated on a throughput basis or as a
percentage of operational costs. Such fees would enable
SODECOTON to accumulate reserves to finance future invest-
ments and thus give it greater certainty in longer-term
planning; and
(b)  provide for separate and identifiable financing or reimburse-
ment of SODECOTON's costs in respect of:
(i) rural development operations (mainly extension
service, agricultural experimentation and staff
training);
(ii) input subsidies, which would continue to be met by
ONCPB as is the case with other export commodities;
and
(iii) costs of SODECOTON's commercial activities relating to the
production and sale of cotton lint, seedcake and vegetable
oil, under SODECOTON's cotton exploitation account.
7.13      The proposed new financing arrangements would simply reflect that
SODECOTON's role as a 'Soci6te de developpement' is essentially that of an
agent of Government policy (para 1.14). They would not add to existing costs
but merely apportion them in such a way as to permit easier financial analysis
and control of expenditure on each type of operation, and to provide more
accurate information to Government for making decisions on the level of
producer prices. An assurance has been obtained that Government would study
this question and consult with the Bank upon its findings, with a view to
introducing suitable measures not later than December 31, 1981.



- 46 -
7.14      Foodcrops Marketing.  The marketed proportion of incremental project
production of locally marketed crops (sorghum, millet, maize and groundnuts)
would be higher than present averages, thus helping to meet rising urban
demand. Even so, the total volume traded of these commodities is not expected
to grow by more than 25°o within the project period.  Such an increase could,
in general, be handled by the traditional marketing system which is flexible
enough to cope with seasonal variations of similar magnitude, due to climate
engendered crop fluctuations. Selective action through market infrastructure
improvements to be financed under the project (para. 3.11) would contribute to
increased marketing efficiency. The Cereals Office (OC) - a Governmental
price stabilization agency operating with FAO assistance, so far only in the
North - would continue its buying operations for sorghum when required from
time to time to replenish its buffer stock. In 1978/79, OC purchased 4,000 t
of grain, representing about 1°o of estimated production in the Northern
Province.
7.15      In the case of maize, because of limited internal demand in the
project area, development of extra-provincial marketing channels is called
for (para. 7.04); this is likely to be gradual and while it is taking place
occasional market surpluses may occur which, if unchecked, could temporarily
depress prices and reduce productiorn incentives. SODECOTON indicated during
negotiations that it intends to engage in a limited program of temporary
support-buying for those fooderops to be developed under the project, and that
external financing was being sought for the necessary equipment and storage
facilities.
D. Subsidies, Taxes and Financial Implications for Government
7.16      Subsidies.  As part of a production package SODECOTON provides
cotton farmers with improved seed, fertilizers, herbicides, insecticides and
ULV sprayers. In line with national policy for other export crops such as
cocoa and coffee, improved seed, insecticides and ULV sprayers for cotton are
provided free of charge to the farmers. For fertilizers and herbicides
SODECOTON recovers a fixed per ha amount known as a "prix forfaitaire" when
the farmer sells his seed cotton at the marketplace. The subsidy element in
the cost of compound fertilizer is currently of the order of 17%1o and for
urea and herbicide 540, giving an average subsidy of about 30%o for these
inputs. Over the 5-year project period the estimated additional total cost of
subsidies on seasonal inputs used by project farmers is some CFAF 2,940
million (US$14.0 million). Forecast total input subsidies for 1979/80 of CFAF
600 million are equivalent in cost to CFAF 8 per kg of seed cotton produced,
or 12% of the producer price (CFAF 70 per kg).
7.17      The "prix forfaitaires" and hence subsidy levels on inputs are
determined by taking account of the cotton farmers' capacity to pay. At
present the relationship between producer prices and farmers' input costs
provides an adequate production incentive. Rather than attempt to forecast
the evolution of producer prices and input costs to the farmer, both have been
assumed to remain constant in 1980 terms for project financial calculations.
On this basis, forecast annual returns to the public sector from additional
cotton marketing surpluses and export taxes due to the project, would exceed
the cost of additional input subsidies from PY3 (Annex 1, Table 1).



- 47 -
7.18       Taxes and Financial Implications for Government.  Returns to Govern-
ment on incremental project production would arise from two principal sources:
taxes on exportation of cotton lint, presently CFAF 7,000/ton, and the pro-
jected marketing surplus on the sale of cotton lint. While the tax revenue
would accrue directly to Government treasury, the projected marketing surplus
on cotton lint sales would flow into ONCPB's export earnings account in the
national treasury. The Government cash flow projection at Annex 1, Table 1
shows that these sources of revenue would begin to exceed total costs of
operating the project by PY6. Over a 15-year period Government would,
after financing recurrent project costs from PY6-PY15 including debt servicing
on the proposed Bank Group financing, derive a total net cash flow, in constant
1985 terms of some CFAF 4,300 million (US$20.4 million) from incremental
project production of cotton. Thus the project would generate sufficient
Government funds to finance continuing project activities after the end of the
5-year project period.
7.19       Producer Pricing Policy.  The present system of producer prices for
cotton and partial subsidy on agricultural inputs offers an adequate incentive
to grow cotton, so long as good yields are obtained, but does not introduce an
economic distortion in favor of cotton at the expense of foodcrops. In fact,
the reverse is the case, since it is only by taking advantage of the residual
effects of cotton fertilizer, accompanied by changes in husbandry practices,
that economic increases in rainfed cereal yields are presently feasible.
The policy of cotton intensification also allows for a given production to be
achieved on a much smaller area, freeing land for foodcrop production. The
success of this policy since 1976 can readily be deduced from the Chart
showing the evolution of total cotton production and area in Cameroon since
1951. Furthermore, the system alleviates the financial risk to farmers,
inevitably present under Sahelian climatic conditions, in adopting purchased
inputs for raising agricultural productivity. Therefore the present producer
pricing policy pursued by the Government is considered satisfactory. Never-
theless, a gradual move towards increasing the cotton producer price in real
terms, accompanied by an increase in the proportion of costs covered by the
'prix forfaitaires' for production inputs, would be feasible after about 1983,
in line with the Bank's forecast of rising world prices for these commodities.
VIII. PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Overall Impact
8.01       In line with the objectives described in para 3.03, the expected
impact of the proposed project may be summarized as follows:
(a) a strengthening of SODECOTON agricultural services in the
project area, elimination of duplication in extension services
and in channels for farm credit and definition of a positive role
for MINAGRI; (b) providing the rural infrastructure in the area
needed for the agricultural development program, including the
construction of 800 km of priority feeder roads, additional field



- 48 -
storage capacity and improved facilities at rural market places;
(c) an increase in incomes of about 66°o of the small farmers in
the area, most of whom are within the poverty target group
(para 8.04); (d) an increase in cotton production, which would
increase the foreign exchange earnings from lint exports and
improve the supply of vegetable oil and seedcake for the domestic
market; (e) an increase in groundnut, cereal and beef production
for domestic consumption, which would maintain existing nutri-
tional levels which are generally satisfactory in terms of energy
and protein availability; (f) support for a reforestation program
to meet growing needs for fuelwood and to demonstrate means for
arresting degradation of the savannah ecology resulting from
increased pressure on farming land; (g) a strengthening of
agricultural and forestry research work in the province in
order to provide a sound technical base for development in the
medium and longer term; and (h) a strengthening of institutions
for planning, coordinating and monitoring rural development,
in order to ensure best use of the limited resources in the
province.
B. Project Benefits and their Distribution
8.02      Increase in Cotton Production.  At full development (PY10) cotton
production in the project area would increase by 43,600 tons (para 6.11).
This would result in an increase in FOB exports of cotton lint valued at CFAF
7.6 billion (US$36 million) on the basis of Bank 1990 price forecasts (US$2.46
per kg CIF, 1980 terms). The additional farmgate value of production would be
about CFAF 5.8 billion (US$27.5 million) per year, valued at forecast economic
prices, shared between about 123,000 participating cotton farmers. At present
(1979/80 season) cotton growers receive about 80%o of the estimated economic
farmgate value, or 90% if account is taken of the value of input subsidies
(para 7.16). This price structure already provides sufficient incentive to
intensify cotton production (para 7.19) but the favorable world market pros-
pects for cotton (para 7.01) would allow for a 54%0 increase by 1990 in the
economic farmgate price of seed cotton (Annex 3, Table 2). This projected
increase would be available for increasing the producer price, reducing input
subsidies, improving SODECOTON's capacity to self-finance its investments or
increasing Government revenues through ONCPB, or for a combination of these
uses. The proposed formalization of the SODECOTON - ONCPB financial relation-
ship (para 7.13) would provide Government with a clearer basis on which to
make its decisions on the use of these financial resources, in light of the
actual evolution of market factors.
8.03      Increase in Food Production.  In general there are sufficient
supplies of basic foods in the project area. Seasonal and inter-annual
fluctuation in supply are, however, a normal event and farmers are accustomed
to producing and storing on-farm grain surpluses in case of need. Herds also
pl~ay an important defensive role in the event of food shortage.  The FAG -
assisted Cereals Office (OC) also operates a grain buffer stock in the area
(para 7.14). However, urban food demand in the province is expected to grow



- 49 -
at around 8% and this provides the opportunity to further improve farm incomes
by increasing foodcrop production. The project would at full development
result in an increased annual production of about 28,000 tons of rainfed
sorghum, 9,000 tons of decorticated groundnuts and 13,000 tons of maize (para
6.12). Demand for these commodities in the Northern Province is projected to
increase by about 40,000 tons (sorghum), 12,000 tons (groundnuts) and 6,000
tons (maize) by 1990 over estimated 1978 levels. Some part of the additional
production of maize will therefore be available for export out of the region.
A modest increase in beef production is expected to result from improvements
under the project in the health care and feeding of animals taken from the
herds and trained for draft work. Expected increases in foodcrop production
would essentially result from an integration of food and cash crop farming
methods and would not rely on highly input-intensive systems which might
expose farmers to unacceptable risks. By making available economic improve-
ment packages for groundnuts and maize, the project would help to ensure that
farmers in all parts of the project area had the possibility of growing a
remunerative cash crop, and were not effectively limited in their choice of
enterprise to cotton, irrigated rice (SEMRY projects) or market gardening.
The agricultural research, field trials, extension staff training and market
infrastructure components of the project are all designed to improve foodcrop
production and to avoid an over-emphasis on the cotton program. Improvements
to be adopted by project farmers who cannot or do not choose to grow cotton
would lead to an estimated increase of CFAF 18,800 (US$90) in annual net farm
incomes (see Table 4), or about 35 percent. The marginal return per man-day
of work also would rise from CFAF 320 to 355, an increase of 11 percent, which
is expected to offer sufficient inducement.
8.04      Project Beneficiaries.  Some 163,000 farm families would be expected
to benefit directly from the project at full development. About 90,000 of
these farms (55%0) are presently not reached by extension services and have
average farm incomes of only about CFAF 54,000 (US$259), or only about CFAF
11,500 (US$55) per capita, which would imply that most of their members are in
the absolute poverty group. The project would not have a direct impact on the
even poorer farmers living in the Mandara Mountains, to be assisted under a
USAID-financed project (para 2.26), but part of the feeder road program would
improve access to this area.
C. Economic Analysis and Rates of Return
8.05      Costs.  Costs are categorized in Annex 3, Table 1 into (a) those
relating to project services and investments (including their maintenance) and
(b) on-farm costs, consisting of farm inputs, equipment and additional family
labor requirements. Cost figures include project investment and operating
base costs plus physical contingencies minus taxes. SODECOTON extension
service costs after project development have been lowered, reflecting the
expected localization of expatriate-held management and technical posts.
Annual farm input costs are total rather than incremental. Family labor has
been costed at an estimated average opportunity-cost of CFAF 250 per day.
The estimated Shadow Wage Rate compares with an estimated marginal return to
labor in traditional agriculture of about CFAF 320 per day and an estimated
subsistence cost equivalent to CFAF 175 per day.



- 50 -
8.06      Benefits.  Direct benefits consist of forecast increases in produc-
tion of cotton, foodcrops and meat by an estimated 163,000 smaliholder farms.
Indirect benefits, such as increased earnings and employment in the transport,
construction and agro-industrial sectors, have not been separately quantified.
Seed cotton has been valued at the current producer price of CFAF 70/kg. Net
surpluses on cotton processing and marketing comprise export and other taxes
and net ONCPB revenues. Bank world market price forecasts for cotton fiber
and cottonseed have been used to determine gross sales proceeds. Incremental
fooderop production (groundnuts, sorghum and maize) has been valued at the
economic import substitution prices derived from Bank price forecasts. For
the purpose of these calculations assumed points of consumption are Garoua
(sorghum) and Yaounde (groundnuts and maize). Benefits from incremental
livestock (beef) production are estimated on the basis of improved liveweight
gain and condition expected from work oxen as a result of animal husbandry
extension. A work animal is expected to gain an average of 50 kg/year, as
compared with only 25 kg/year on average for herd cattle. This gain is valued
at the current market price of about CFAF 250 per kg (on the hoof) paid by
local butchers.
8.07      The principal benefits from the feeder roads improvement component
are subsumed in expected benefits from increased cotton and fooderop produc-
tion. There would, however, probably be additional benefits to existing and
future non-project related traffic. The possible value of such additional
user-cost savings has been calculated and is included in a sensitivity analy-
sis of the economic rate of return. Since the roads improvement component is
an integral and necessary part of the Center-North agricultural development
program, it is not appropriate to estimate a separate rate of return for this
component of the project on its own. It is noteworthy, however, that on the
basis of estimated savings to non-project road users only, the roads investment
would yield a 10°o economic rate of return.
8.08      Rate of Return.  The "full development" level of farm improvement
(163,000 farmers) would be reached in PYIO. Costs and benefits have each been
estimated over a 15-year period, corresponding to the expected life-span of
project investments. However, all benefits have been lagged by one year, to
reflect the time interval between procurement of inputs by SODECOTON, for
example, and receipts from sale of agriculture products.
8.09      The economic rate of return (ERR) calculated on the above basic
assumptions is 34.2%'O, or 39.5%o if additional road benefits are included.  The
high rate of return obtained, despite the inclusion of costs for several
non-directly productive components, is explained by the fact that:
(a)  The project will be executed by an already established and competent
organization; also the investment represented by the project is
small relative to that represented by the ongoing cotton program;
and
(b)  The Bank world price forecasts for cotton lint, the main quantifi-
able output of the project, are favorable, implying an increase in
the calculated economic value at farmgate level of 54%o between 1980
and 1990 (from CFAF 86.5 to 133.0 per kg of seed cotton) in real
terms.



- 51 -
D. Sensitivity Analysis
8.10      Sensitivity.  The high economic rate of return on the project
has been tested for sensitivity to several foreseeable variations in cost and
benefit values or timing. Results for each case are shown in SWP. C14. All
sensitivity tests carried out indicate a high degree of robustness of the ERR
estimate under unfavorable assumptions. For example, if the incremental
cotton production were 25%' below forecast (accompanied by a 25%o reduction in
use of inputs and other incremental on-farm costs) due to lower than expected
adoption rates, then the ERR would still be 23°o.  Even assuming that, in
addition to the above changes, incremental foodcrop production were also to
fall 25%o below expectations, the ERR would still be about 15%o.  Similarly, if
the expected increases in production (cotton and foodcrops) were to be reached,
but only after an unforeseen time-lag of five years, the ERR would still be
18.5%o.  If the actual economic farmgate price for cotton (or similarly average
cotton yields) were 25%o lower than projected, while all production costs
remained the same, the ERR would be  26%o.  If, conversely, the price of
cotton remained as projected, but the economic cost of all seasonal inputs
were 25%O higher, the rate of return would only fall to 29°%.  A 28%O increase
in the shadow wage rate for farm labor to CFAF 320 per day, which is the
estimated marginal product of labor in traditional agriculture on the plains,
would reduce the ERR estimate to about 301%. An analysis of switching values
indicates that only a combined 20%o increase in all production costs and a
simultaneous 20%o reduction in the value of all benefits would bring down the
ERR of the project to 12%, which is the estimated opportunity-cost of capital
in Cameroon. Such an eventuality, however, would not be allowed to happen
without some corrective reorientation of project goals and activities.
E. Project Risks
8.11      Risks affecting the successful implementation of the project have
been considered from the economic, financial, institutional and technical point
of view. The project's economic rate of return and its financial interest
both for the Government and for farmers are linked to an expected strong
upward trend in world prices for cotton. However, as the preceding paragraphs
show, the project's estimated rate of return is sufficiently resilient when
tested against less optimistic assumptions. This is because the project,
considered only as an investment in cotton production, represents an expansion
of an on-going program for which the necessary organization and infrastructure
already largely exist.
8.12      For the same reason, the possible management risks affecting project
implementation are considerably lessened because SODECOTON is a well-managed
and experienced organization, given the Government's favorable attitude
towards foreign (mainly CFDT) technical assistance and the high priority given
under the project to local management training. However, since project
implementation will involve SODECOTON, MINAGRI, FONADER and about 8 other
agencies, the institutional risk is significant. This underlines the impor-
tance of the PCC, to be chaired by the Governor of the Northern Province,



- 52 -
in securing a strong political and traditional impetus in support of project
activities. This risk would also be alleviated through provision of technical
assistance for project management, monitoring and coordination.
8.13      The physical accomplishment of project production targets is subject
to normal risks associated with agriculture. The risks associated with the
introduction of technically innovative production packages are relatively low
since the agronomic bases for project proposals have all been successfully
tried in the area over the last 2-5 years and are not contingent upon successful
applied research results during project implementation. On the other hand,
climatic hazards in the Sahelian zone are perennial and, as the early 1970's
experience showed, the cumulative effects of a series of bad seasons can be
long-lasting.  Such effects include not only the obvious fall in yields of
food and cash crops following insufficient rain, but also the disturbances to
operation of local food crop markets and to prices caused by unusually bad or
good seasons, which are less easy to predict. However, the likelihood of about
20° of both cotton and foodcrop harvests being severely affected by drought
(or other pestilence) has been included in the average yield figures upon
which project output forecasts are based (para 6.10). Overall, the possible
risks facing the proposed project are judged acceptable and normal for a
project of this kind.
IX. ASSURANCES, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
9.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(i)  with respect to project staffing,
(a) Government and SODECOTON would appoint, or cause to be
appointed, staff with appropriate qualifications and
experience to all the key positions listed in Annex 6;
(b) all internationally-recruited staff to be financed under
the project for MINAGRI, SODECOTON, MINEP and IRA (listed in
Annex 6) would have qualifications and experience and would be
employed under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank;
(ii)  with respect to project accounts,
(a) detailed, separate accounts for the parts of the project
under their respective responsibility would be kept by
SODECOTON, MINAGRI and FONADER and audited and submitted
to the Bank as specified in paras 5.12 and 5.13; and
(b) with effect from its 1980/81 financial year SODECOTON would
incorporate refinements to its cost accounting system such
as to permit a more accurate allocation of certain costs as
described in para 5.12;



- 53 -
(iii) with respect to progress reports, SODECOTON, MINAGRI and
FONADER would within 2 months of the end of each period
submit quarterly and annual progress reports on the
project to the Bank as specified in para 5.14;
(iv) with respect to project financing, Government would make
available to SODECOTON all funds necessary to carry out
the project on the basis of half-yearly advances according
to approved budgets, as specified in para 5.06;
(v) with respect to support for agricultural research,
(a) Government would establish a sub-committee of PCC,
comprising representatives of IRA-North and of agri-
cultural development agencies operating in the Northern
Province, with responsibility for reviewing annual work
programs of IRA-North; and
(b) in order to execute such work programs, Government would
maintain its annual budgetary allocations to IRA-North,
(exclusive of additional financing under the proposed
project and of other direct sources of income to IRA-
North) at a level adequate for the functioning of its
existing research station and sub-stations (para 3.18);
(vi) with respect to feeder roads improvement, an agreement, satis-
factory to the Bank, would be signed between MINEQ and SODECOTON by
March 31, 1981, establishing their respective responsibilities
during the project period for construction, supervision and
maintenance of roads in the project area (para 3.12);
(vii)  with respect to tree planting and forestry research,
a protocol, satisfactory to the Bank, would be signed
by SODECOTON with IRA (CRF) and MINAGRI (FNFP) by
March 31, 1981, establishing their respective respon-
sibilities during the project period for the carrying
out of these components of the project;
(viii) with respect to the processing and marketing of cotton fiber and
cotton by-products,
(a) SODECOTON would be provided with all the necessary means to
construct additional cotton ginning capacity required for the
duration of the project; and
(b) suitable marketing arrangements would be maintained and the
Bank would be promptly informed in the event of any major
change (para 7.10).



- 54 -
9.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan and credit would be
that:
(i) a coordinating committee for the project (PCC) had been
established with terms of reference, responsibilities and
composition satisfactory to the Bank, as specified in
para 4.04;
(ii) a satisfactory Financing Agreement (Convention) had been
signed between Government and SODECOTON determining SODECOTON's
responsibilities for implementation of the project and the
channelling of project funds, including pre-financing and
reimbursement arrangements, as described in paras 4.06 and 5.06.
9.03      Conditions of disbursement would be:
(i) for Category 11 of the proposed loan and credit (Additional
Vehicles and Offices for MINAGRI), that the transfer of MINAGRI
field staff to SODECOTON required for the project had been carried
out (para 4.09); and of
(ii) for Categories 4 and 5 of the proposed loan and credit,
agreements had been signed between FONADER and SODECOTON and
between FONADER and Government and approved by the Bank setting
out terms and conditions for administering medium-term credit to
farmers in the project area, as described in paras 4.10 and 5.05;
and
(iii) for Category 5 of the proposed credit (medium-term credit to
farmers for purchase of oxen), that the Bank had received
and approved reports from FONADER concerning agricultural
credit recovery in the Northern Province as specified in
para 4.11.
9.04      Under the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project
would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$25 million and an IDA credit of
SDR 9.5 million (US$12.5 million equivalent).



CAMEROON                                                                 ANNEX 1
Table 1
NORTHERN PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GOVERNMENT CASH FLOW
(CFAF Million in Current Terms for 1985, Thereafter in Constant 1985 prices)
1981     1982      1983      1984      1985      1986    1987       1988      1989      1990      1991      1992      1993      1994       1995
I. INFLOIJ
A. GOVERNMENT REVENUE
Export Taxes on Cotton Lint/Seed Cake                      25.0      48,0      78.0    106.0    137.0    155.0   166.0    172.0    178.0    179.0             179.0   179.0    179.0    179.0    179.0
Projected Marketing Surpluses on Sale of Cotton           131.0    369.0    788.0   1341.0   2069.0   2381.0  2598.0   2754.0   2901.0   2981.0    2981.0                      2981.0   2981.0   2981.0
FONADER Loan Repayment                                      2.6       8.6      19.8    299.2    298.5    295.0   281.8    268.8          -          -         -         -         -         -         -
Taxes on Project Costs                                    493.0    317.9    351.0    349.6    371.4    279.4   288.8    288.7    282.3    283.9    277.4    281.3    276.9    272.9    273.1
(i4direct taxes on farmers incremental
incolne from project)
B.  TAL INFLOW                                               651.6    743.3   1236.8   2095.8   2875.9   3110.4  3334.6   3483.5   3361.3   3442.9   3437.4   3441.3   3436.9   3432.9   3433.1
11. OUTFW
A. -ROjECT COSTS
SONECOTON                                                1094.2    804.2    762.8    588.1    658.2    472.7   471.0    415.5    366.4    341.9    329.6    329.6    309.2    309.2    309.2    ,
Feeder Roads                                              877.4    506.9    542.2    580.9    489.4    285.6    89.9           89.9       89.9      89.9      89.9      89.9      89.9      89.9      89.9   '
Marketplace Improvements                                   -         -         41.7      45.3      78.0      -        -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
Ministry of Agriculture                                   470.6    177.1    228.4    284.9    250.6         88.0    86.5    125.9         93.7    107.1       65.3      97.8      81.4      47.7      49.9
FOINADER, Mt-Credit                                       108.0    140.4    335.5    412.5    418.9         32.8    19.6        6.6       -         -         -         -         -         -         -
Province Level                                            446.3    183.9    210.1    272.5    254.4    200.3   200.3    200.3    200.3    200.3    200.3    200.3    200.3    200.3    200.3
Sub-total                                          2996.5   1812.5   2120.7   2229.5   2149.5   1079.4   867.3    838.2    750.3    739.2    685.1    717.6    680.8    647.1    649.3
B. INPIT SUBSIDIES
- Insecticides and Sprayers                               193.4    342.5    485.6    626.0    765.6    829.6   844.0    870.0    886.5    892.6    893.3    893.3    893.3    893.3    893.3
- Fertilizer, lierbicides                                  86.5    172.7    281.9    410.2    559.0    630.7   675.2    697.3    716.1    734.2    733.5    733.5    733.5    733.5    733.5
Sub-total                                           279.9    512.2    767.5   1036.2   1324.6   1460.3  1539.2   1567.3   1602.6   1626.8   1626.8   1626.8   1626.8   1626.8   1626.8
C. CONSUER S.UBSIDY
- Vegetable oil                                            33.0      65.0    106.0    145.0    188.0    225.0   241.0    250.0    259.0    260.0    260.0    260.0    260.0    260.0    260.0
.  T           OW                                           3309.4   2389.7   2994.2   3410.7   3662.1   2764.7  2647.5   2655.5   2611.9   2626.0   2571.9   2604.4   2567.6   2533.8   2536.1
III. CASH FLOW BEFORE EXTERNAL FINANCING                         (2657.8) (1646.2) (1757.4) (1314.9)  (786.2)   345.7   687.1    828.0    749.4    817.9    865.5    836.9    869.3    899.0    897.0
IV. EXTERNA4 FINANCING
R IDRO-Loan                                                -         -      1113.0   1470.0   1333.0   1344.0             -         -          -         -         -         -              -         -
- IbA-Credit                                              525.0   1911.0    189.0        -         -        -        -         -          -         -         -         -
iese:  Debt Service - IBRD                                 40.0      40.0    109.0    231.0    355.0    449.0   421.0    389.0    356.0    324.0    291.0    259.0    227.0    195.0    160.0
- IDA                                 4.0      18.0      19.0      20.0     20.0       20.0    20.0       20.0      20.0      20.0      45.0      45.0      44.0      44.0      44.0
NET EXTERNAL FINANCING (DEBT SERVICE)                     481.0   1853.0   1174.0   1219.0    948.0    875.0  (441.0)  (409.0)  (376.0)  (344.0)  (336.0)  (304.0)  (271.0)  (239.0)  (203.0)
V. NET CASII FLOW                                               (2176.8)   206.8   (583.4)   (95.9)   161.8    529.3   246.1    419.0    373.4    473.9    529 ..6   532.9    598.3    660.0    694.0
CUMULATIVE NET CASH FLOW                                       -      (1970.0) (2553.4) (2649.3) (2487.5) (1958.2)(1712.1) (1293.1)  (919.7)  (445.8)    83.8    616.7   1215.0   1875.0   2569.0



CAMEROON                                                                         ANNEX 1
Table 2
NORTHERN PROVINCE: RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT
(US$ '000)
- - - - IDA                                                                                      -UCredit US$ 12.5 million  o- - - - IBRD Loan US$25.0 Milli-------D-U-.Ml
Bank Fiscal Year 1/                               Cumulative    Undisbursed                                               Undisbursed         Project Year 2/
and Quarter                 Disbursements   Disbursements        Amount              Disbursements   Disbursements        Amount              and Quarter
FY 81          3                                                   12,500                      -                -             25,000          PY1 (81)       1
4                   -                  -            12,500                     -                 -            25,000                         2
FY 82          1                    -                 -            12,500                     -                 -             25,000                        3
2                1,000              1,000           11,500                     -                 -            25,000                         4
3                1,500              2,500           10,000                     -                 _            25,000           PY2 (82)      1
4                2,500              5,000            7,500                                                    25,000                         2
FY 83          1                2,500              7,500            5,000                                                 -  25,000                         3
2                2,500             10,000            2,500                     -                 -            25,000                         4
3                1,600            11,600               900                     _                 -            25,000           PY3 (83)      1
4                  900             12,500               -                     700               700           24,300                         2
FY 84          1                    -                 -                 -                  1,600             2,300            22,700                         3
2                   -                                   -                   1,500             3,800           21,200                         4
3                   -                  -                -                   1,500             5,300           19,700           PY4 (84)      1
4                   -                  -                -                   1,500             6,800           18,200                         2
FY 85          1                                     - -                                  1,500             8,300           16,700                          3
2                   -                  -                -                   2,200           10,500            14,500                         4
3                    -        -                 -                           1,800           12,300            12,700           PY5 (85)      1
4                   -                  -                -                   1,800           14,100            10,900                         2
FY 86          1                   -                  -                _                   1,500            15,600            9,400                         3
2                   -                  -                _                   1,600           17,200             7,800                         4
3                   -                  -                -                   1,600           18,800             6,200           PY6 (86)      1
4                   -                  -                -                   1,700           20,500             4,500                         2
FY 87          1                   -                  -                _                   2,000            22,500             2,500                        3
2                   -                  -                                    2,500           25,000                 -                         4
3                   -                  -                                                                           -           PY7 (87)      1
4                                                                                                                                            2
1/  Fiscal Year:  July 1  -  June 30, 1981
Closing date; June 30, 1986
2/  Project Year!  January 1 - December 31



- 57 -
CAMEROON                                                              Table 3
NORTHERN PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SODECOTON: Analysis of Operational Results: 1974/75 - 1979/80
1974/75               1975/76               1976177               1977/78               1978/79               1979/80 1/
Season                Season                Season                Season                season                Season
A.  COSTS
Seed cotton p-rchases (t)                                           40088                 49446                 47767                 40682                 59496                 7.000
Av-rage produeor price  CFAF/kg                                        43                    43                    55                    65.5                  63.7                   68
CFAF million .        CFAF sillion  7.    CFAF millio-  7         CFAF nillion  7.    CFAP milli-n  T         CFAF million .
Total paid to prodocers                                              1729      51          2135      51          2631      52          2667      54          3793      55          4760      59
Seed totton mtrketing                                                 130       4           149       3           199       4           220       4           324       5            364      5
Transport asd storage                                                 178       5           217       5           254       5           225       5            341      5           426        5
Gi-ing                                                                201       6           248       6           286       6           249       5            303      4            376       5
Orading,  hip-et and -ole of lint                                                                                 512                   391                   719                   NO
- ditto - 2/                                                 305                   470                   570                   548                   886                   NA
650     19            925     22           1082     21            939     19           1605      23          1327      16
Overheads 3/                                                          483      15           553      13           610      12           642      13           590       8           826      10
Total narketing and processing costs                                 3371    100           4227    100           5064    100           4942    100           6956    100           8079    100
h.  RECEIPTS
Cotton lint sold (t)                                                13000                 19055                 18058                 15776                 23316                 27500
(a)  Overseas (t)                                                    9650                 15055                 14954                 10264                 18706                 22500
(b)  CICAM (t)                                                       5350                  4000                  4004                  5512                  4610                  5000
Av_ragn selling prie  CFAF/kg                                         218                   312                   380                   302                   329                   313
(CIF)                                               CFAF million          CFAF nillien          CFAF milli-n          CFAF =illion          CFAF millimOe         CFAF million
Lint sales                                                           3265                  5950                  6868                  4764                  7674                  8614
Cotton seed sales                                                     162 4/                185 4/                157                   162                   221                   210
Total sales proceeds                                                 3427                  6135                  7025                  4926                  7895                  8824
Operetinnal surplos (+)                                             +  56                 +1908                 +1961                 -  16                 + 939                 + 745
Deficit (-)
Tnpat sobsidi-s (Fante-rs de Productivite)
i-ect  ost                                                       158                   396                   132                   244                    388                   493
107 of total overheads                                            64                     74                   81                    86                     79                   110
- 222                 - 470                 - 213                 - 330                 - 467                 - 600
Revised operational - Surplus (+)/Deficit C-)                       - 166                 +1338                 +1748                 - 346                 + 472                 + 145
C.  OILSEED OPERATIONS
Maroua                                                              +   2                 +   3                 -  95                 -170                  - 211                 N/A
Kaele                                                               -  10                 -  54                 -  40                 -  18                 +  97                 N/A
Caroua                                                              -                     -                     -                     -                     - 279                 N/A
S-rplus (+)/Deficit (-)                                             -  16                 _  51                 - 135                 - 188                 - 393
D. COM15INED OPERATIONAL SURPLUS (+)/DEFICIT  I-)                       - 182                 +1287                 +1613                 - 534                 +  79                 + 145
E.  DEVELOPMiENT OPERATIONS
Eacadreneet agricale lee facteurs dn Peoductivite                     299                   358                   451                   425                   681                   527
15% of total overheads                                                 97                   110                   123                   128                   117                   165
Itons directly reitbursed                                              80                    99                   -                     -           
- 476                 - 567                 - 574                 - 553                 - 798                 - 692
P.  MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS 5/                                              +   5                 +31                   +25                   -   1                 +  95                 NA
G   NET SURPLUS/DEFICIT                                                  - 653                + 751                 +1064                  -1088                 - 624                 - 547
Source:  SODEGOTON:  Comptes Analytiqaes.
17  SODECOTON Projections dated October 27, 1979.
2/  Cents incurred in Enlloving financial year.
75% of total overheads:  BRlance allocated: 10/. ta inputs
157., ta de-elopnent op-ratioes.
4/ mi-cion esti reos.
5/ Mostly asset realis..ad o djutenat ts.



k1hEkS PROV7WCE RURAL 0IEVEIOP0S  PEOJECT
TOTAL PROJECT       CO7S1P0SEN  308 PER 683R
TOTAL                  lAkES                     FoRE8i0
1. CEHR8  5080RH 0k28                                          P"i             P52            P23           PY4        PV5       PROJECT                 _    A oooo                      Aoo no
1.2  Cot    OS-i- CSUDECook                           71.7            24.2                                                 95-  -  9                   14 5              40 o       30
1.1joLos a,I se             3 56.2           90                3.5       15.0        10.0       104.i31 3 1                                    4         56 
P __000  Co_             68.       .0       0I0.                       0.7      10.2         48.                                                         .
Opooooooglottl   21.2           ~~~~     ~     ~~~~~23.0  20.5  2020.5 0.5           005.8                22      1.               33         35.h
9ober4tlO g OR1 t         217.0             59.-0         132.7         144.2    109.0         792.7 23                      81.3             28 Z1.0
1  tko o 0 01.                      16.5                 15      2.5.
1.2  Livestock Oe Vice:  Civil Work                   L4              08.5            5.5           2.5        _            9                   5 30   14.8             '6           . 2
Ps--ols  aCn               38.0             07.5           57.0          66.6      66.6          5 8                 1      42                 2         60.0
Perso=nel Costs            34.4             67.8            1.2           2.4        5.9        41.60040 7.
8o6.rooains Cost           83.6             22.8          8727.          86.5      72.5        583.1        16                                 7        20358
1.3  Sta-ff -r-ing        Civol Rook                 10.8             20.5            -             -          -          14.3                         20.2                         3 .7
OhlEealt90oR1             26.9             12.5            0.0           3.1       10 .1       52507                                                    20.07
Pshi-Rool    - COdE        90.3            102.7          1037.7         20.8      22.8        351.3                  5                       53        1090
OpRrR000g CoRER             20.3            26.8           24.8          13.8       13.6         8964                                                    21.0
Sob-RoOR                  21,4.3          162.3           132.2          41.0      48.7        642.73l                                        460To 293.
1.1   Fitld toli1 .od  -os,o -stoaiooo Volt:
Cioil Werk                 27.1              0.1            -               -                    27.2                15        0              4           0.
000:0200 a.:O0qOOpRRRoE      8.0             -              2.5           2.5        -           14.8                28        .              6.6
P_osonoal CoRts             12.2            12.2           12.7          12.7       0            3.5 1  6             6 
...ER-40C00RR               7.0             32             5.9           5.8        5.9         29.9                13       5840                       22.1
so00tosl                   856.6            18.0           21.0          21. 1      18.6       135.4                 10      15.5             25         33.9
1.5   Stooage
Civil o. ks                 150.0           1.0            100.0           -          -         380.0                 15      5.0              40        144.0
OpRerting CoRts                               I-0            2.6           3.6        3.6         11.2                15       17              40          4.5
Sob-Rotal                   132.0           111.5          102.6           3.6       3.6        371.3                 15      55.7             40        148.5
0.6 Otalqotottot CORE:
CivilWorks                   06.5             -              -            -           -          06.5                 15       2.5             40          6.6
Vehcles ooooEqolpoRoR       4.0              -              -             2.5                    6.5                 38       2.5             48          3.1
PRersonnel CoRER             56.3            56.5           56.5          56.5      56.5        282.5                 12     35.1              67        189,0
0RatsElg CeR                 20.0            23.0           15.0          30.0      30.0         130.2                10      05.0             5          65.0
OoE-tooal                   97.0             81.5           01.5          89.0      86.5        435.5                 12      52.1             61        263.7
TOTAL 60E03055             6358.1          618.2          53d.3         386.1      367.1      2.760.7                 12    335.2              58     1.062.5
2.  TUROSrY OP AGRIC7LWRE
2.01  OROR-E,h-iOR of Seroicos:
Civil or                     122.8                                         -12.8                                       5       1.9             40          3.1
ishicleR Rod Eqtilm-no       56.0             -              1.4          35.4        1.4        94.2                 37      54.4             48         45.0
OPRORE-OR Co-ts              25-4            21.8           21.8          21.6       22.8        112.6                5       05.8             44         49.,
Sob-OtEo1                    94.2            21.8           23.2          57.2       23.2        219.6                24      52.1             46        100.5
2.2  looEtorig aod CoROostEon:
CloI Work                    38.6                            -             -          -           28.6                15       5.9             40         15.3
05610105 Rod EqOORRent       22.5             _              1.4           6.4        1.4         28.2                30       8.8             55         06
Personnel Costs             38.5             30.5           38.5          58.5       38.5        192.5                 3       5.7             42         00.0
OERE-iTr Costs               17.0            12.9           12.9          12.9       12.8         68.5                12       8.3             30         23.2
Sob-total                   084.6            50.4           00.8          57.8       52.7       329.3                  9      28.9             41        13532
2.3  PROP - foot planRing:
Civil Work                   31.0             -              -             .          .          31.0                 13       4.7             40         12.4
O         -ieE    aod Equip ent  98.6         -              2.5           5.4        -           88.5                31      30.5             60         38.1
P-rsonoel C2st-              23.3            23.3           23.3          23.3       23.3        116.5                 3       3.5             53         61.7
opaTattoR Co:ts             ISk              5838.0         59.4          43.4       40.6        197.0                11      21.7             42         78.8
Rob-Roost                   6088.            61.3           85.2          72.1       63.9       443.0                 24      60.4             4t        222.0
T     TA1 PrlISTRY OP ARRCEuLTORt        369.3           134.5          161.2         187.1      139.8       891.9                 14    140.4              45        447.4
1.  P0EDE8 ROADS
Ciil Work                     37.0             -              _             _          _          37.0                 15       5.5             40         14.8
Vshiol-s sod EqoiptE-        594.4             -              -                          _        594.4                20    119.8              64        382.2
Perso=ns7  Costs              35.2           127.5          127.5         126.3       22.2       438.7                 16      72.4             46        108.8
opeo-is   Costs              21.8           237.4          055.1         255.1 i     50E       .0                     10    100.5              55        589.5
TOTAL FE0EOE  ROADS                     688.4           384.9           382.6         381.4     273.0      2,110.3                 14    305.3             35      1,165.3
4.  PONdDEE - Credit iA-ioisoosoloo
VeiRles Rod Cqalpssot          7.1                              2           5.0        0.2         12.3                30       4.7             47          5.8
PRR5OR,sonn Co5RR              4.9      C      3.0            4.8           5.0        4.9        24.7                  6
OPRRREO2R COREs                3.3             3.3            3.3           3.3        3.3          6.5                13       2               45          7.4
TOTAL  ADHLdlSTRATDON                     15.3             8.3            8.3          13.3        8.3        53.5                 16      8.4              25         13.2
5. baoksoplsoe Otopoootottto:
CivilWook                     _                              08.0          28.8      44.0        100.0                 17      17.2             37        36.6
1OTAL CERTE 0 NORT0  AR0A             1,931.5         1,138.4         1,118.4        995.9      832.2      6,016.4                 13    807.5             45      2,725.0
11.  PR3VLdCR8 LEVEL
6.  SOtr.E..&h.iog or P-oOo-,E408 P1-i.6g U000:
Civi Work                     28.6             -                     -        _        _          28.6                 15      43               40        11.4
Veitlos sod 290400000        01.0             -              -             ;6.2                                       3                        52           .4
P     -eroRRO CsE26                                                         6 26.7  2  267        3.9                   1      1.6             63         04.0
Op isottopCosts               10.0             5,6   5.6    5                           .0         32.3                04      4.5              4         13.4
vb,-tot5l                     76.5            32.5           32.3          37.6      32.3        211.2                  7                                2507 56  18 .2
7.  L A-North:  AtiotORE-R.  ORRRR-Oh:
CiviiiWork                    09.5     .                                                          20-  -   -   78.3    15                                 5 4  30.6
V;d:6EiclesRnEOCqREpRsE       56.9             1.5            8.3          29.0        0          97.3                 34     324. 49
49.3            45 4           49.3          4 93      49.3        24645                  3      8 3              32        00.0
OPo-E-oEO CosRs       .      42.2             46.2           47.0          40.0      40.0        209.4                 11                                124.4
306--otl                     226.7            97.0          104.6         126.1      97.0        651.5                 12     78.9             43        282.3
8.  LA- North:  Forestry R-soo-h:
Cioil kok                     10.0                                          -          -          10.0                 05       1.5            40          4.0
Vehicles adRquEiPent           6.2             -                            2.7        -           0.9                 31      2.8              48         4.3
Persototsl Costs               4.0             4.0            4.1           4.0        4.0        00.0                  3 
OPIt-to Costs                 43.              4.1            0.3           6.0       .6 3        27.2                 11       68              5         13.9
Su,-ootsO                     23.6             8.1           10.6          13.5       10.8        66.6                 12      7.7              33        22.2
9.  SeodPoodoosioo:  og,-Ool-oral Eqoipmet                20.0,             -              -             -.        -           20.0                 27      1.4             6          12.2
T0AL. PROCIV!CE  LVEsL                  345.0           137.6          147.5         17272      140.2        949.3                11    107.7              46       434.3
T01-  bRES 00Sf                      2,278.3          1,276.0       10265.9        1,173.1      972.4     6,965.7                 13    9152 2             45     3,159.7
Coontlogotoot:  Pkysoa- 12605.9                          73.6           70.1          30.4       34.6        422.4                 9      36.1             2. 169.0
462.9           332.8          457.9         335.3     716.5      2.525.4                 10    244.               52     1 . 3953
3o6-EooaR            2,9074           1,602.4        1,793.9      0,7E6.8   4,7455        3,913.3                 1      ,.               476     4 ,630.0
10.  2oOS0,0   040.04
S        Lssao (s lopoto (03DEO00ON)  1,000.33                                         360.2   95.6  .1,209.0  ,600.4     1          1                             5939 .03 3
Medikdo TRsns (P8OHOER)                021.3           2                09.  221.7  230.6      142.5        877.6                 10     96.5             06 140 4
00-01 PIOJE 3-oos                     4,l08.7         2,649.2        2,925.8       2,913.0   3,095.0    05,691.7                   12  1,833.0             51      0,157
====...===r= =5=== =e==== ===== ==p=== ====== ===== ==sU== =====------------==== ------= =------------==== =====     --=-=.==-=-



=4                                                                             -4
'0    g 
0 °      4    0                                                   0 
O~                             V    0           '10 
1~F                                                                         .0   .0   C0.0
C      ~               ~~~~ h      0    1.                                        '     ' 0    1'
I              h           ffih,                                               h   ='It  
N                00        4-        -                              - 4       0    0.0          0.0          0 - 4         0  
O~~ ~          ~ 0                                                                                                                       1.0 ck          3                 mzc
0-4                                                                                                                                                    C =4-    4 0-
j|                                                                                              N                 N                                  
t~~~                                                                 ~    ~~~   N    O C O                        -s                      A   N 00  N- '           -4
~~N-  -4    N  D4-    
t                        -41                                                                    0 1-4                    -     ^    n               .       Sff                         
=1 X < - >l                                 N '        'lj        N                .0-40>-4                                            N      o      f         |      o<2     ea>ON NO   40i   0
~~~4~1-     f       f                       a       t,N   " 4   °      1                                                                                     0    -4_°N    
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   b
-40O                   N-                - 5S> ^_6Re¢Z|4    N    S|    o00                       -  4°@oo    
_N           j                                      4    '40-4_   N              _          0   
.0-4-4ONO'                               .0-SNN                                      -   s400 1-e4                                                                     0'       0           0 o    
-44-                      -4    s      I               °1 JSN   10                        -400r 
14    0 0                -1                       N-t-"                     =-4    0           -4     I    Nf    "        4    -4    NI   R       a-4s                            | |                          
I  _¢    3   eX            C  g   ffi                           s  C                        53               E           e  e -4INI0
-4b42 40.00                     .0       ,, .0      0           N.            0    0    01                        'S.            .fi   .0° 0.              0z 0r
0.00 1 0_                                           0 b4                       40    E c t| - 41.0      i;          8             8     b                                         Z        C       Y
X ol la IZ z g m :E * % * 3 R _ h * b 8 o * = w .x .u | | ° ~~~~ c
|  ~          ~           6                  '0            'K =4                             4.  4g                                   NN        '0             '41ZXu 8 '^  |i33°i    g  
goO                                                                                      ^@                  =                                °^-N^                                                             |1  
0..014                             a0      0                                                                                   Z                                    c:       14 4       9 O    0h
b                                       0000                                                                      -44                                                                                                 .04            0



CAMEROON
NORThBRN PROVINCE RURAL DEVFLOPMENT PROJECT
Price Structure: Cotton
------ Financial Prtces ------   ------ Economic Price           e -------
1978        1980        1985        t990        1980         1985        1990
actual.        in constant 1980 prices              in constant 1980 prices
--------------------------- - lS$ per tonne -------------------------------
Cotton lint
Mexican SM  1/16"
CIF Northern Europe i/                   1,607.0    1,811.0    2,390.0    2,464.0
Freight 21                                 106.1       133.5        133.5       133.5
Inaiirance 31                               16.1        18.1        23.9         24.6
1,484.8    1,659.h    2,232.6    2,305.9
----------------------------------- FCFA/kg -------------------------------
Equtivalent in FCFA/kg 4/                  334.1       348.5        468.8       484.2        348.5      468.8        484.2
Adjustment factor 5/   -                    32.4        34.9         46.9        48.4         34.9        46.9        48.4
Export duty 61                               7.0         8.8          8.8         8.8
TranriV & lhandling 6/                       5.6          7.1         7.1         7.1          6.5         6.5         6.5
Trannport Maroua/Douaal  6/                 21.0        26.5         26.5        26.5         23.8        73.8        23.8
Cinning costs 7/                            15.0        15.8         15.8        15.8         15.8        15.8        15.8
Share SODlECOTON overhpads 8/               21.0        20.0        20.0         20.0         20.0       20.0         20.0
231.1       235.4       343.7       357.6         247.5      355.8       369.7                          1
87.8        89.5       130.6       135.9          94.0      135.2       140.5
Seed cotton equivalent 9/
VAluie of cottonseed 10/                     4.0         5.2         5.2          5.2          7.0         7.0         7.0
91.8        94.7       135.8       1/11.1       101.0             1       742.2  l1.5
Deduct: aped cotton
purchlasing costs 7/                        11.0        11.3        11.3         11.3         11.0       11.0         11.0
Share SODECOTON overheads                    4.5         4.1         4.1          4.1          3.5         3.5         3.5
Marketing surplue                          +12.3        49.3       +50.4        +55.7
Farmgate price                              64.0        70.0         70.0        70.0         86.5      127.7        133.0
1/ I1): EPOlCE report 814/80, Feb. 1980
21 see Annex Table 3: increased by International inflation Index 1980/1.978 - 125.8 for 1980
t/1% of CTF price
41 Exchange ratea: 1978 - FCFA 225/$; 1980 - FCFA 210/$
5/ 107 reduction for local sales nnd lower quality of Cameroon, Allen no. I 1 1/32" based on 1978 actual
6/ 1978 actuals increased by country Inflation rate 1978/79 = 12.1% - 1979/80 e 12.7% - 1980/78 = 26.3%
71 SODECOTON Compteg Analyttques 1978/79 and (provisional) 1979180- costa per tonne not increasing
with larger throughput.                                                                                                                            F 
8/ ns for 7/ with nrbitrary allocation of SODECOTON overheads as follows: ginning, lint export and sale = 507;                                        (D
seed cotton purchnsing = 25%; remaining 257! to cover development and Input distribution operations.
9/ nt 387. ginning percentage                                                                                                                             W
10/ .58 tonne at FCFA 9/kg (financial) and FCFA 12/kg (economic) - Annex Table 4A
revined 4/1/80



CAMEROON
NORTIERN PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMFNT PROJECT
Price Structure: Sorgtium
(basis: import - parity, Garoua)
------ Financial Prtces ------   ------ Economic Prices -------
1978        1980        1985        1990         1980        1985         1990
actual         in constant 1980 prices              in constant 1980 prices
----------------------------- US$ per Lonne -------------------------------
Grain sorghum no. 2,
Milo vellow FOB gulf ports 1/                93.8        152.0        168.1      171.0
Freighvt 2/                                  73.1         92.0         92.0       92.0
Insutrance 3/                                 1.7          2.4          2.6        2.6
CIF Donuala                             168.6        246.4       262.7      265.6
Equivalent'4/                             ---------------------------------- FCFA/kg --------------------------------
FCFAIkg                                  37.9         51.7        55.2       55.8          51.7       55.2       55.8
Import duty 5/                               26.7         36.4         38.9       39.3
lhnndlinig & transit 5/                       3.8          4.8          4,8        4.8          4.5         4.5        4.5
Importers' margin 67                          6.8          9.3          9.3        9.3
rIrnnsport Douala/Caroua                     18.0         22.7         22.7       22.7         20.4       20.4        20.4
Wholesnlers' margin 7/                        8.6          12.5        12.9       13.0
VnIue ex-wholessle Caroua                   101.8        137.4       143.8       lh             76.6      80.1        A0.7
Less:
'I'ransport  Maroua/Garoun                    3.0           3.8         3.8        3.8           3.4        3.4        3.4
Maroun wtioiesalers' margin 8/                9.9          13.4        13.8       13.9
P'rimary marketing                            4.0          5.1          5.1        5.1          5.1         5.1        5.1
Losses 9/                                    4.2          5.7          6.0        6.0          3.4         3.5        3.6
Farmgate price                               80.7        109.4       115.1      116.2          64.7       68.1       68.6
av. 68.5
I/ IIIRID EPOCE Report no. 814/80, Feb. 1980
2/ Annxex Table 2
3/ 17. of CIF Douala
41 Exchange rntes- 1918 - FCFA 225/$, 1980 - FCFA  MI11$
5/ Annex Table 2                                                                                                                                          93
6/  V/. - of whichi 1/2 FE
TI107.
I/  M                                                                                                                                                     WD
revised h/1/80



CAMEROON
NORTIERN PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJFCT
Price Struicture: Maize
(basle! import - parity, Ynounde)
F--- Fnancial PrtceE -----    -                conomic Price      … --
1978        1980        1985         1990        1980        1985         1990
actual         In constant 1980 prices               in constant prices
…IIS$----------------------- USS per tonne -------------------------------
FOB North Exirope 1|                   100.7       172.0        191.3       195.6
Freight 2/                              73.1         92.0        92.0        92.0
Innaurance 3/                            1.0          1.7         1.9         1.9
CIF Douala                         174.8       265.7       285.2        289.6
---------------------------------- FCFA/kg --------------------------------
Equitvalent FCFA/kg 4/                  39.3         55.8        59.9        60.8         55.8       59.9          60.8
Import duty 5/                          21.2         30.1        32.3        32.8
lHandling & transIt                      3.8          4.8         4.8          4.8         4.5         4.5          4.5
Transport Douala/ynounde                  3.0         3.8         3.8          3.8         3.4         3.4           3.4
Wholesalers' margtn 6/                   6.8          9.4         9.9         10.0                                                               I
0'.
Wholesale price Yaound6             76.1       103.9        110.7       112.2         63.7       67.8          68.7                         f
Leas:
Tra11r ort YaoundA/Marous               18.0         22.7        22.7         22.7        20.4        20.4         20.4
Wholesnlers' margin Maroua 7/            3.0          4.0         4.3          4.4
Prtmary marketing                        2.0          2.5         2.5          2.5         2.5         2.5          2.5
T,osses 8/                               5.5          7.5         7.9          8.1         4.1        4.4           4.5
Farmgate price                          47.6         67.2        73.3         74.5        36.7        40.5         41.3
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _av   4 1 .0
1/ InRn EPDCE Report no. 814/80, Feb. 1980                                                                 n
2/ Annex Table 2
3/ 1% of CIF Douala
E; Exchange rates: 1978 - FCFA 225/$; 1980 - FCFA 210/$
5/ Annex Tnble 2
6/1070
7/  5%
8/ 1OX
revised 411180                                                                                                                                       I 3
(D~



CAMEROON
NORTHERN PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Price Structure: Groundnuts
(basis: import - parity, Yaounde)
------ Financial Prices       --           Economic Prices -------
1978       1980        1985        1990        1980        1985        1990
actual         in constant 1980 prices            in constant 1980.prices
-------------------------- US' per tonne shelled --------------------------
CIF North Europe 1/                 621.0       533.0       602.0      652.0
Frtight 2/                           73.1        92.0        92.0        92.0
Insurance 3/                          7.0         6.3         7.0         7.5
CIF Douala   .                  701.1      631.3       701.0       751.5
---- ------------------ FCFA per kg ------------------------------
Equivalent in
FCFA/kg 4/                      175.3       132.6      147.2       157.8        132.6       147.2        157.8
Import duty 2/
Transit & handling 2/                 3.8          4.8        4.8         4.8         4.5         4.5          4.5
Transport Douala/Yaounde              3.0          3.8        3.8         3.8         3.4         3.4          3.4      C
Wholesalers margin 5/                12,7          qA        10.9       11.6
Wholesale price, Yaounde            194.8        151.1      166.7      178.0        140.5       155.1        165.7
Less:
Transport Maroua/Yaounde             18.0         22.7       22.7       22.7         20.4        20.4         20.4
Wholesaler's margin Maroua 6/         8.8          6.4        7.2         7.8
Primary marketing                     4.0          5.1        5.1        5.1          5.1         5.1          5.1
Losses 7/                            16.4         11.7       13.2       14.2         11.5        13.0       . 14.0
Faxmgate price 8/                   147.6        105.2      118.5      128.2        103.5       116.6        126.2
1/  IBRD EPDCE Report No. 814/80, Feb. 1980
2/  Annex Table 2; assumed exempt from import duties
3/  1% CIF Douala
41  Exchange rate: FCFA 225/$ in 1978, FCFA 210/$ in 1980                                                             (D
5/  7%                                                                                                                  w
6/  5%
7/  10%
8/ Shelled (dcortique)
4/1/80



ANNEX IV
-64-                     Page 1
CAMEROON
NORTHERN PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Reports in Project File
A.  REports on the Agriculture Sector and Project Area
IBRD, Washington:  United Republic of Cameroon, Agricultural Sector Survey,
December 1974 (two volumes).
IBRD, Abidjan:     United Republic of Cameroon, draft report of
Agricultural Projects Reconnaissance Mission,
August 1979 (four volumes).
Government of Cameroon, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Planning, Yaounde:
Fourth Five-Year Plan of Economic, Social and Cultural
Development (1976-1981), September 1976.
ONAREST, Institut des Sciences Humaines, Yaounde:
Le Nord du Cameroun - Bilan de Dix Ans de Recherches
(two volumes), undated.
USDA, Soil Conservation Service, and Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation, France:
Resource Inventory of North Cameroon, Africa, 1978.
MEAVSB, Garoua:    Evaluation Report of North-East Benoue Project, First Phase
December 1979.
B. Project Preparation Reports
FAO, Rome:         Project Briefs dated July 25, 1977, and June 12, 1978.
FAO, Rome:         Report of Northern Province Rural Development Project
Preparation Mission, Report No. 31/78-CMR.6 dated
July 3, 1978 (four volumes).
CFDT, Paris:       Projet de D6veloppement Rural, Region Centre-Nord Cameroun -
Volet Amelioration de la Production Agricole, Cultures Pluviales
June 1978 (two volumes).
IBRD/FAO:          Cameroon Forestry Sector Identification Report
May 14, 1979.
IRAF, Centre Recherche Forestiere, Maroua:
Projet Centre-Nord, Propositions et Commentaires sur
le Programme Sylvicole.
December 1978.



- 65 -                   ANNEX IV
Page 2
IBRD, Abidjan:     Review of Feeder Road Component Annex
December 5, 1978.
T.P. O'Sullivan & Partners, London:
Feeder Roads Component - Supplementary Report
October 1979.
SODECOTON, Garoua: L'evolution de la SODECOTON et de ges Activites Depuis
Fevrier-Mars 1978
November 1979.
C. Staff Working Papers Prepared by Appraisal Mission
SWP No.
C. 1                The Northern Province and Project Area
C. 2                Farm and Crop Development
C. 3               Extension Services and Training
C. 4                Input Supply, Credit and Farmers Organizations
C. 5                Agricultural Research
C. 6                Forestry Development
C. 7                Crop Marketing, Storage, Processing and Prices
C. 8                Roads Improvement
C. 9                Water Supplies, Health
C.10                Project Organization and Management
C.ll                The Project Executing Agency - SODECOTON
C.12                Planning, Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation of
Rural Development in Northern Province
C.13               Detailed Project Cost Tables
C.14                Economic Analysis
C.15                Financial Analysis (Working Tables).



NORTHERN PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES
Responsible /xecuting            Overall Control
A.   CENTER-NORTH COMPONENTS             Physical Execution                Agency-i               Responsible Ministries/2
Agricultural Development Program       SODECOTON                   SODECOTON                    MINEP/MINAGRI
Extension Staff Training               SODECOTON                   SODECOTON                    MINEP/MINAGRI
Agricultural Experimentation           SODECOTON                   SODECOTON                    MINEP/MINAGRI
Construction of Stores                 SODECOTON                  SODECOTON                     MINEP/MINAGRI
Marketplace Improvements               SODECOTON/Contractors       SODECOTON                    MINEP/Admin. Territoriale
Feeder Roads Improvement               SODECOTON/Contractors       SODECOTON                    MINEP/MINEH
Project Management Services            SODECOTON                   SODECOTON                    MINEP
Credit for Ox-Cultivation              FONADER/SODECOTON           FONADER                      MINAGRI/MINFIN/MINEP
Forestry - Tree Planting               Fonds Forestier            MINAGRI                       MINAGRI
MINAGRI Offices and Vehicles           Del. Prov. Ag. Nord        MINAGRI                       MINAGRI
Monitoring and Evaluation              MINAGRI - DEP               MINAGRI                      MINAGRI
B.  NORTHERN PROVINCE COMPONENTS
Provincial Planning/Coordination       MINEP-Division Economique MINEP/3                        MINEP/GPN
Agricultural Research                  IRA - Nord                  SODECOTQN'4                  DGRST/MINEP
Forestry - Research                    IRA - CRF                  MINAGR1/4                     DGRST/MINAGRI
Seed Production                        MIDEVIV                    SODECOTON'3                   MINAGRI
1/ Under Project Coordinating Committee
2/ 'Minist6re de tutelle" and Ministry involved in technical control
31 Funds channelled via Project Financial Manager, SODECOTON
4/  Under Provincial Committee for Agricultural Research



- 67 
.ANNEX 6
CAMEROON                                     ?'age 1 of 2
NORTHERNI PROVINCE: RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1.  Key Project Personnel                                   PYl       PY2       PY3        PY4       PYS
a) International Recruitment Posts:
Training Officers: Agriculture (2)
Training Officer : Industry    (1)
Feeder Road Project Engineer
Feeder Road Chief Mechanical Engineer
Feeder Road Training Officer
Provinicial Planning Unit: Rural Planner
Project Management: Technical Manager
Financial Manager
tRAF-Yord: Agricultural Research Specialist
Forestry Research Specialist
Project Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist
b) Senior Local Staff
Deputy Technical Manager
Veterinary Assistant (Livestock)
Deputy Training Director
Agricultural Training Officers (3)
Industry Training Officer         (1)
Statistician (PMEU)
Agricultural Technician ITA (PMEU.)
Agronomist (FTDU)
Economist (Provincial rlanning Unit)
Credit Specialist (FONADER)
Agricultural Technicians (IRAF-Nord) (5)
Forestry Technician (ITF) (2)
Feeder Road Technicians                               1         2         2         2          1
Livestock Assistants                                  5        10        15         20        20
2.  Training Program (man/months)
Extension staff                                      67         94     . l9_        119       119
Livestock staff                                  _   5          lO         15        20     20
FTDU staff                                           10    =   10          lo 10     10   i   10
MINAGRI staff                                      64         32     7 32 _        32 _   t'32_
PMEU staff                                          10        20       20 _       20          20
Training staff                                       5         5         5      '5        ! 5
3.  No. Participating Farmers ('000)                        95        114       131 .      141       150
4.  No. Farmer Groups Under Training                                   1 75     225        275       300
*                         '   '        I  '      i        7    7..1



- 68 -
ANNEX 6
CAMEROON                                    Page 2 of 2
NORTHERN PROVINCE: RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
.IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
5.  Civil Works                                                  _PY         PY2    jPY3          PY4         PY5
a) Construction
Road Unit Workshop and Office                               13        1
Senior staff houses (150 m2)                                1                   .
Senior staff houses (110 m2)                                 7        2
Storage facilities (200 m2)                                            2  _
Storage facilities (50 m2) m                                150O       100       100 _
Building Rehabilitation IRAF-Nord
Sector class room (40 m2)                                    22         2 _
Store and office (50 m2) (F.T. and IRAF)                _   6  _
Dormitory.(Guetale Training Center) (50 m2)              _    7
Wells (Field Trial and IRAF substations)
Offices 16 m2 (PMEU and MINAGRI)
b) Others
Land clearing (ha) (Field Trial and IRAF)                     112 _  2
Rural Roads (km) - construction /1                                     200      -200       200        200
- maintenance
6.  Vehicle Procurement
Station waggn                             .21                                                19
Sedan                                                         6                              6
Light pick-up                                                 7         3      _  1      _  7   _      4
4 x 4 wheel                                                   5         2                _  5   .    2
Heavy pick-up                                                 4            .                 4
Trucks 3 t                   --   . 1                                                        1
Trucks 6 t
7.  Equipment Procurement
Feeder Road Construction Equipment
House Furniture                                               20        4
Office Furniture             .                                62  ___12    _   7
Grinding Unit (Livestock)
Feed Mill and Mixing Plant
B.  Credit Services
Ox-drawn Equipment
Heifers and oxen
9.  Monitoring and Evaluation
10.  House Rental (Senior staff) (months)                           137        63        36
Fo   dtaleiplmetaiosheulseWPC.   _ _.,, . i  ._!
1/ For detailed implementation schedule see SWP C.8, Appendix 15.



- 69 -
CAMEROON
COTTON PLANTING AND PRODUCTION - NORTHERN PROVINCE
110                                                                                                                                                   110
100 --0
.000    90 --9
ha
Planted
80 -rodu n Saed Coeton Tons.                                                                                    World 6ank-2 7          Produ
.000
70 -7
60 -6
40 -                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40
51            54        56        58        60         62       64        66        68        70        72.       74        76             79
Year*
Area Planted he.
Production Seed Cotton Tons.                                                                               World Bank - 21572



0                                               ..............>.....
0                                 L
L .~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*C  ¾
0 1~~~~~1~
Q                                                                                                           ;
L~~~~~~~K~~
z                                      F                                                                       >    >0    >       Lu     Lu~~~~~~~~~~~.  
0
UOU 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
>~~~~~~~~>L
0                       Z
0.                                                                                                                                                               0.
F  ~~~~~~~~~  0 ~   ~       T5 
a:                      I                 -- -- 
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
4 x~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L 
4  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o                               C
a    NO
~0
(0UON-3IN30)
lt2OUJ NOZ
IVN01--                              aD~~~~~~~~~~~UNLAOUd



I B R D 15025
fr                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAY 'ISO
M A I I 
I                  ;             f c i                                               ' A 0
--' *~r-~  N                                                                             E C E  AD  LAKE    CHAD 
W. ,  11.3¢/UDAN   M. fr >       tfts 
__f'  >       /,2 V             \       w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pr3flrOF<Rr ttds^.,at  - Of           ,>
N I G t RA                                     =z =t
~~ i~z~    A'rI       'CNTRAL. AFRICAN
_             5          S~~~ REpUttlic ,,JN lG                                                   X          @
C AMEROO~\                                            N    I  G   E-e R
GirW TA                                                                                                                  D
v4t/tJs7hr~ ~         CON Z}et    Al ES>                          ww                     -                             .-
UNITED REPIBULC OF CAMEROON
NORTHERN PROVNCE RURAL                                                       f
DEELAMENT POJECT                                4
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
PROJECT AREAS-                               AsM 4 rYA             A
IBRA SBITED:                                  0
ASSISTED BY OTHER Dqf  T I                           I
PMAED ROADS:
UNPAVED ROAMS
Fr->.  Aiona Aolp I
---rrlterNrrS ) donoP BdFAras&E                                   0
f     A/6> IEK    4 BAMgot                                       St ~               / I>                           1f1
---r~  Rd)ftdiotiol No ss  y  fei- Si t                                                              A
) ~~                ~         ~t SlonG *i-                          At S /7  //     8//
/~~~~ ~ ~ ~ Morrnl  ,kselse-Fly 'weritlo /re //j24  "
N I G E R I    IAk   S    )i    /                                                                                          v
ATLANTXCt O9CEAN                         =                     =  d~~               a         >---<   :S, C NTRA
S.wAWXfGUtN'EA                                                                                     F R I C A N
CNittlZiNGAc,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                             U B    






UNfTED REPUBLIC -OF CAMEROON
NORTHERN PROVINCE
RUR~AL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                      >
Rainfolf, Admmiiistrafive  Divisioovs &- Research  5tations                    '?
Project Area                                                                    0.1      t
UI IRAF - No~rth Research Centrer
IRAF -North Reseorclh Sub- Stations                                                          0NJMN
120        ~~ ~~~ SODECOTON Training centers & Fieldl Trial Sites                                   /KOUSSI                                                   120
12'   ~~ ~         Chief la-wn iri Province
@    hief Townt in Departmnent
a     Chef Towr, ri Arrondissement
-600-  lsohyels in mmr60
-Paved Primary Roads
Primnary Roads, Moatorable AllI Seasons
Secondary Roads. Motarable All Sealsonsl
Department Boendories
Arrondissenisent Soundaories
- - tnriernotionol Borindaries
Rivers 
o  so  100       50~~~~~~~~~~~~~V  1
1 .00  so                                                                                                                           150~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
KhLsAseTp has heLrpre ils
00 CepaA;f 500  (5 ~  ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~00
Mor ee.tor s' my eO-irrbee'e
fh~~~ ---f M. wd- ~  ~       ~      J. ~
d. -t 1~~pjy. ., th, P~ of  h,
1500                                                          rd -AAd 5-
1300
-    -   ,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~140ci
i  ~~~~>-2>I~       >~NGAOUNDERE
COe
T  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;  >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~         /~~~~~~~~~~~~
-~~       ~ ~ ~~~~~~~ 5.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j~~lEI






_________________________________ _I_ IBRD    15027
5301                                         14"                                    70591  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  TO~~~7 KOLISSEA/  I                                    cuMA 90
cnti                                                                                                                                      toD   e
.r ¾ h;IGE,h ,/ Lb67 Sf                                                                                                                                                                      ' ; - 7 , ; EL kGL/55EF/ a1u  : UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
0"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MYV,R                                                                                                                                                          NORTHERN  PROVINCE
| 9t e   *  ,   > t414iUioiX|      0               ° <   .                         /         /                            ~' tfi   , 0                          0 bRURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
oJzt.%ERL"!IIt '\4/-_j.--, l: : i: : j \E i 9                        /                     0             -2   -f2'  5: P                                                                opulation  Density $    Agro -Ecokgical Zones
U,  I _  /Y  A ;S$   .:D          ;i    :       |S        :/\                              /f X                                                                          >Xf                  S       :0     i EW           N,;EV?0
;   : 2   ; 2   i   ,     : :   ! : ; \   ::   :   UI                     MM    O R A                                                     1 7 ./  .  .o                                                     l n o f d                      i  i
is-N;0'                                   N                                      . t GEace  Ro  J: A q X vg a 1 >:  *:r  ,}  T  :,  g  \  5  S  Mtf520  KEPrirIcipl Roads
ut 0:  ;    ; '    2 t   :9  t  |   '   /   !   (   \   \<   ';,  A  5   8   ;4  :fChie Town Indpprrneit,i6ol
-                                          19~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j76 Cents
Less tHan 50'
17150 - tO
pb    9    \    )    \   '   FAtK   i;   "  )tYfE5(8eCEr3nallyllzl ndOtidfone5)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~groEcaapial  one
,G"Ri               ,    |                                                                                                                                                                                     Moro     o Kle Plan n0
Eastern Sandy Zone (Teipcuri no,,ntry3
G.,iiclr Zone
|NL) fMId-Modora Moanrpcns, N. of Mo_iola
RelIct                                   Irrigat~~~~YOMedl Rice Areas
F                  an y~~~~~F) Belt/7 Dune Areas8
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ (ei                                                                         ®lOUKGOLA. ;:
GUIDER*                                                                                                         5 d,1/.'-..  __ .1..****  *
C H  A  :'D
0      tO              4      445
Id A ~ ~    ~     ~     4) 1        0 0
T5,scus  tie ue  noe -ies  1s sWii   o       59sotsieotoOe,neii~
ro~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AE4R                                                         coses, rc coc¶ otcs'u  nuoTesecneosoe u S






___________________________________                                                                                                                                                    SEC  5020~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SPD102
NIGER    /  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                        40    C"                                   100      4                                                                       MAY 1950~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A 1K
-~~~~A                                                      I         ;vooo                              /    ( ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UNITEW   REPUB9LIC  OF CAMEROON
N  K                                          -'                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NORTHERN PROVINqCE
AFEICAS  _____ ~~~~~~0                                                                   )   (K. ~~RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
045)01010.    - ~~~~~ .                         /            s00<Th-'                        5                                                                     Extension  Areas &    ommunications
bN                     A,, od'~~                      / 
AflAAo."0(  -)   /                 Aso                           /                                                             7   N ~~~~~~~MO A                                   UPAVE0~C~
J/Rooyons  <tA                             '--' /~~~~~ '0'----   ee
¶00                       P                                                                                 /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      '.-o
7             I                                     I          5/07CC    ~~~~~ ~~CFEeder 
n'          I'.MnoPopsd odss b  mpoe
% ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rN                                                             50UdR teRri                                       c
r&44nsN00005  Kr    E.(400K00\                A-   Ev                                                   4.     orT
J  ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ "                  ~          *.~      +               AAtI N J F                                                                         radseetoree
olnn                                                          s;oo0S                                               ,
N 0~~~~N                  _
I  DMRUA  R                                                                                                  LSNES[ N  A -.A
N,                       I   KARHAY
N     /)  DMr3                                                     A        - AG-ldO*.5
0                   4~~~~~H  
-<                                   "'KAE/E        Oon'ns10t~~~~~~~  /0  7'N0     Ny;rdno11 Y A/C  Cu~                              30     4
I                   -     -<     oro-AroHAPy~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r----
9-  n   '.-..  F  Zov,0     /   94505                      0     15 
(  g                                   I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/-->-fM.IW4                                191,1.    = zv*
A'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ h /'d8o~di



