Document of                 FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2889-CM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR THE
NORTHERN PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
October 29, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorizatbon.



UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
NORTHERN PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                           CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1                                    CFAF 210 1/
CFAF 1,000                =            -US$4.8
CFAF 1,000,000                          US$4,762
1/  Floating Exchange Rate.
ABBREVIATIONS
CCCE           Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
CFDT           Compagnie Francaise pour le Developpement des Fibres
Textiles
FAO            Food and Agriculture Organization
FED            Fonds Europeen de Developpement
FNFP           Fonds National Forestier et Piscicole
FONADER        Fonds National de Developpement Rural
FTDU           Field Trial and Demonstration Unit
IRA-North      Institut de Recherches Agricoles et Forestieres,
Maroua
MIDEVIV        Mission de Developpement des Cultures Vivrieres,
Maraicheres et Fruitieres
MINAGRI        Ministere de l'Agriculture
MINEQ          Ministere de l'Equipement
MINEP          Ministere de l'Economie et du Plan
PCC            Project Coordinating Committee
SEMRY          Societe d'Expansion et de Modernisation de la
Riziculture de Yagoua
SODECOTON      Societe de Developpement du Coton du Cameroun
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
Government and SODECOTON:      July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
NORTHERN PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN/CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      United Republic of Cameroon
Principal
Beneficiaries:Societe de Developpement du Coton du Cameroun (SODECOTON)
Fonds National de Developpement Rural (FONADER)
Amount:        Loan: US$25.0 million
Credit: SDR 9.5 million (US$12.5 million equivalent)
Terms:         Loan:  20 years including 5 years of grace
at annual interest rate of 9.25 percent.
Credit: Standard
Relending
Terms:         US$25.3 million of the Loan/Credit proceeds would be passed on
by the Government to SODECOTON as a grant. US$9.0 million would
be transferred to and administered by SODECOTON for execution of
different elements of the project by specific public agencies as
follows: (i) the Institute for Agricultural and Forestry Research
at Maroua (US$3.2 million); (ii) the Ministry of Agriculture
(US$2.6 million); (iii) the National Fund for Forestry and
Fisheries (US$2.1 million); (iv) the Provincial Planning Unit
(US$1.0 million) and (v) the Agency for Development of Food
Crops and Fruits and Vegetables (US$0.1 million). The remaining
US$3.2 million from Loan/Credit proceeds would be relent to
FONADER for 8 years, including a 3-year gracl period, at an
interest of 5 percent per year, to finance medium-term credits
to farmers; on-lending terms to sub-borrowers would be three
years, at an interest rate of 10 percent per year.
Project
Description:  The objectives of the proposed project are: (a) to improve
agricultural production and farm incomes in the center-north
area of Cameroon's Northern Province by providing: (i) improved
rural infrastructure, including roads, storage and marketplace
facilities; and (ii) effective services, including input supply,
supervised credit for purchase of draft animals and equipment,
extension and training, marketing, and adaptive research; (b) to
provide the principal executing agency, SODECOTON, with financial
and technical assistance to extend its responsibilities for a
wider range of rural development activities; and (c) to improve
the effectiveness of existing administrative structures in the
Northern Province in the planning, coordination and control of
development projects, including monitoring and evaluation and
agricultural research.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by tecipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorization.



Benefits
and Risks:  At full project development after ten years, annual production of
cotton is estimated to increase by about 43,600 tons, rainfed
sorghum by 28,000 tons, decorticated groundnuts by 9,000 tons, and
maize by 13,000 tons. The benefits of this increased crop produc-
tion would accrue to about 163,000 farm families, more than half
of whom are currently not reached by extension services and are
in the absolute poverty group with average annual income of about
US$260 per family or US$55 per capita (1978). The project will
also generate important indirect benefits through the proposed
strengthening of institutions in the Northern Province responsible
for various agricultural and rural development activities.
Project implementation faces one important risk in that the
management is shared by several agencies. To reduce this risk,
the project provides for establishment of a Project Coordinating
Committee with representation of each of the agencies involved,
and under the chairmanship of the Governor of the Northern Province.
The risk would be further alleviated through the planned provision
of technical assistance for project management, monitoring and
coordination, and for training. Achievement of the crop production
targets is subject to the normal risks associated with agriculture
in the Sahelian regions, but output forecasts have been based on
conservative estimates, and technically innovative production
packages have been tested with satisfactory results.



- iii -
Estimated Costs:
US$ million
Foreign   Local       Total
Agricultural development                 5.1      8.2       13.3
Project monrtoring and
field services                         1.1      1.5        2.6
Feeder roads and marketplace
facilities                             5.7     4.8        10.5
Tree planting                            1.0      1.1        2.1
Provincial Planning Unit                 0.6      0.4         1.0
Applied research                         1.4      2.0         3.4
Total Base Cost                       14.9    18.0        32.9
Contingencie3 - physical           0.8     1.2         2.0
- prices            6.3     5.7        12.0
Sub-Total                             22.0    24.9        46.9
Seasonal inputs revolving
fund (Incremental)                    16.1     7.2        23.3
Medium-Term Credit Program
fund                                   0.8     3.7         4.5
Total Project Costs                     38.9    35.8        74.7
Estimated taxes                         -       8.7        8.7
Total Project Costs
Net of taxes                          38.9    27.1        66.0
Financing Plan:  The proposed Bank Group financing of US$37.5 million composed
of a Bank loan of US$25 million and an IDA credit of SDR 9.5
million (US$12.5 million quivalent) would cover 57 percent of
total project costs net of taxes, equivalent to 96 percent of
foreign costs. Government, FONADER and farmers would finance
the remaining 43 percent of total project costs.



- iv -
Estimated Disbursement
From the Loan/Credit:                         US$ million
FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87
Annual  Loan                     0.7    6.1    7.3    6.4    4.5
Credit            5.0   7.5
Cumulative                5.0  13.2   19.3   26.6   33.0   37.5
Rate of Return:      34 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:  Report No. 3031-CM, dated October 7, 1980
Maps: IBRD 15025 - Cameroon: Rural Development Projects
IBRD 15028 - Extensions and communications and infrastructure



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON FOR A
NORTHERN PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of US$25 million and a development credit for the
equivalent of SDR 9.5 million (US$12.5 million equivalent) to the United
Republic of Cameroon to help finance a Northern Province Rural Development
Project. The Loan will have a term of 20 years, including five years of
grace, with interest at 9.25 percent per annum; the Development Credit will be
on standard IDA terms. The loan/credit blend will have a grant element of 32
percent. US$25.3 million of the proceeds of the loan/credit would be passed on
by the Government to SODECOTON as a grant.  US$3.? m>l:ion would be relent to
FONADER for 8 years, including a 3-year grace period, at an interest rate of 5
percent per year. The remaining US$9.0 million will be administered by
SODECOTON for various public agencies in charge of specific project components.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "United Republic of Cameroon Economic Memorandum"
(No. 2877-CM), was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 30, 1980.
Annex I provides basic country data.
Background
3.        Cameroon is one of Africa's most diversified countries with a wide
range of ecological conditions, ethnic groups and cultures. Cameroon was a
federation until the United Republic, which unified the anglophone western and
francophone eastern parts of the country, was established in 1972. The
Government has concentrated on the establishment and maintenance of national
unity between the eastern and relatively small western parts of the country
and between the sahelian zone in the north with Muslim traditions and the
southern tropical regions.
4.        Cameroon has a population of 8.3 million (1979) and covers an
area of 475,000 km2. The main opportunities for development lie in the
expansion of agricultural production, including forestry, and the processing
of agricultural and forestry products for export. Soils and climatic condi-
tions permit cultivation of a wide range of crops, and the southeast contains
large untapped timber resources. The north holds promising potential for
livestock development. Cameroon became an oil producer and exported 645,000
tons of crude petroleum in 1978. Crude oil exports reached 1.6 million tons
in 1979 and are estimated to be about 3 million tons in 1980. Trade, trans-
portation and transit services are other important economic activities.
Cameroon's main economic centers are separated by vast areas of low population
1/   This Part is identical to that of the proposed Artisans and Small- and
Medium-Scale Enterprise II Project (Report No. P-2890-CM) which is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors on October 30, 1980.



-2-
density; furthermore, the country-s transport facilities also serve landlocked
Chad and the Central African Republic. As a result, a large port and adequate
inland transportation infrastructure are essential for promoting agriculture,
forestry and industry, and for strengthening Cameroon's role as a regional
trade center.
Past Performance
5.        GDP growth was about 4.5 percent per year during both the Second
Five-Year Plan (1966-71) and the Third Plan (1971-76), and accelerated to 7.3
percent during 1976/79, the first three years of the Fourth Plan.  Population
growth is estimated at about 1.8 percent per year in the 1960s, about 1.9
percent until the mid-1970s and about 2.3 percent from 1975 to 1980. Per
capita GNP reached about US$560 in 1979.
6.        Most agricultural crops, livestock, fishing and forestry experienced
high growth rates during 1966-71 thanks to favorable supply and demand condi-
tions including high producer prices, high domestic income growth and rapid
economic expansion abroad. Lower agricultural growth during 1971-76 was due
in part to the decrease in output of two major commercial crops, cocoa and
arabica coffee. Important factors in this decline were the decline in rela-
tive competitiveness of producer prices with food cash crop prices and the
termination of the foreign supported fertilizer subsidy program for arabica
coffee. The decline in cocoa and arabica coffee output was not fully offset
by growth in other important commercial crops including cotton, rubber, and
oil palm. Growth in forestry production dropped during 1971-76 because of
reduced Western European demand and some transportation bottlenecks.
7.        Manufacturing and mining grew at about 10 percent per year during
1966-71 mainly on account of the rapid development of import substitution
industries, particularly manufactured consumer goods. The lower manu-
facturing growth experienced during 1971-76 was due to the slowdown in new
import substitution activities and to slower income growth because of the
deteriorating terms of trade.
8.        Since 1976, Cameroon has experienced rapid growth in most major
sectors. Agricultural growth was helped by recovery in cocoa production, as
farmers responded to higher producer prices, and in forestry production. The
construction industry grew by 14 percent per year during 1976-79 as large
investments were undertaken for the implementation of the plan. The rapid
increase in income and the high rate of economic activities has led to sub-
stantial growth in most other sectors particularly food crops, trade, trans-
port and other services.
Investment and Savings
9.        During the Second Plan period (1966-71), the investment rate,
including increase in stocks, exceeded 16 percent of GDP, and gross
domestic savings and gross national savings were 13.4 and 12.6 percent
of GDP respectively. Foreign resources financed about 33 percent of invest-
ment during this period. During the Third Plan period (1971-76), despite
slow income growth, the investment rate increased to 18.1 percent of GDP.



- 3 -
Gross domestic savings rose to 16.4 percent of GDP but with debt service
increasing by 60 percent from a small base, gross national savings rose only
to 13.9 percent of GDP.   External resources therefore continued to finance
about one-third of total investment during this period. The higher savings
rate in a :eriod of slow output growth was made possible by a considerable
reduction in the real growth of consumption, particularly private consumption,
to less than 3 percent per annum. One of the prices paid for the substantial
improvement in savings during the Third Plan was, however, a limitation on
farmers earnings in tree crops, providing insufficient incentives for them to
maintain and expand production capacity through efficient use of existing
trees and to make new plantings; this situation may have serious implications
for the longer term future of these crops. The high investment rate during
this period was offset by a decline in the efficiency of investment. Some
reduction in capital productivity was attributable to projects, such as oil
exploration and trensport infrastructure, which would lead to production
increases only a number of years later, and to social infrastructure invest-
ments, which would improve welfare but have a limited impact on output.
During 1976-79, the investment rate reached an average of 23.8 percent of GDP.
Due largely to the record cocoa and coffee export prices, gross domestic
savings and gross national savings increased further to 20.8 and 18.6 percent
respectively of GDP. As a result, external resources financed about 30
percent of total investment during these three years.
Public Finance and Balance of Payments
10.       Budgetary revenue amounted to about 15 percent of GDP during each
of the past two plan periods, and increased slightly to an average of 15.2
percent in 1976-79. Public savings after debt service as a percentage of
total public investment declined from about 39 percent in 1966-71 to about 36
percent in 1971-76. During 1976-79, this ratio reached 55 percent thanks to
the public savings mobilized by the Stabilization Funds. The balance of
payments did not become a problem until 1974-76 while agricultural exports
declined, particularly exports of cocoa and timber, resulting in sizeable
current account deficits. The bulk of the current account deficits was
financed by net capital inflows but a substantial drawdown of international
reserves also took place in 1975. Therefore, net official international
reserves decreased from more than two months of imports in 1974 to less than
one month in 1975. In 1977-80, exports rose substantially (at an average
annual rate of 26 percent) but imports also increased (at an average annual
rate of 29 percent) because of rapid economic growth and expanded investment.
Gross official international reserves were rebuilt in 1976-80, in part by the
use of IMF credits but net official international reserves were about one
month of imports at mid-1979. This was a low level by international standards
but still acceptable considering Cameroon s membership in the Central African
Monetary Union.
Development Issues and Prospects
11.       Cameroon's main medium- and long-term potential lies in the develop-
ment of a diversified agricultural sector relying upon export crop production
to generate foreign exchange and domestic food crop production to meet the



-4-
needs of a growing urban population. Realizing this potential depends upon an
appropriate mix of public intervention and policy measures aiming at stimulat-
ing private initiative. Factors that further complicate the agricultural
development effort in Cameroon are the dispersion of the main economic and
population centers, regional and institutional diversity, the competition
between export and cash food crops for the dwindling agricultural labor in
some parts of the country, the dependence of a substantial part of public
revenue and savings on cocoa and coffee, and the limited availability of
skilled agricultural agents and administrators. Through technical assistance
and education projects and through normal project work, the Bank is supporting
Cameroon-s effort in manpower training and development in agricultural serv-
ices, and in other sectors. In industry the Government has moved to channel
more financial resources for investment directly through the public sector, in
addition to the indirect support provided by tax incentives and other measures,
which have been in existence for many years. The Government has actively
participated in a Bank study of the manufacturing sector which will help to
identify bottlenecks and opportunities to develop existing as well as new
industrial activities.
12.       The outlook for agricultural and industrial growth during 1980-86
is quite favorable. Agricultural growth expectations are based on the mainte-
nance of cocoa output at about 110,000 tons; recovery of robusta coffee;
continuing expansion for arabica coffee; increased production of most other
commercial and food crops, as well as of livestock; and expansion of commer-
cial forestry production. Growth of industrial and mining production is
expected to result from existing and expanded manufacturing facilities (par-
ticularly for food, beverages and construction materials), some new industrial
projects and from crude oil and new mining ventures. Given the stepped-up
production and investment activities, a high growth rate is also expected for
construction and services.
13.      Cameroon's vast and still largely unexploited natural resources,
particularly agricultural, forestry and mineral resources, will continue
to provide a fundamental basis for its growth and development in the next
twenty years. With the revenue from the likely prospects of oil production
considerably exceeding its current level of 3 million tons per year, in
addition to resources from traditional agricultural exports and external
borrowing, the constraints on the pace of development in Cameroon in the 1980s
and 1990s will be increasingly non-financial. The extent to which Cameroon
succeeds in expanding its manpower and institutional capacity will determine
the rate of growth of an effective investment program to promote economic and
social development.
Fourth Development Plan (1976-81)
14.       Cameroon is now implementing its Fourth Economic and Social Develop-
ment Plan. Private investment is encouraged, under Government guidelines, to
expand production capacity in agriculture, forestry, mining and manufac-
turing. Part of the financing of private investment activities, however,
will be publicly guaranteed borrowing. Planned investment of some US$3.1
billion (in 1974/75 prices) is about 40 percent higher in real terms than the



-5-
estimated level achieved during the last Plan period and more than double
previous Plan expenditures in nominal terms. Actual investment during the
first three years of the Plan was estimated to be about US$2.2 billion (in
1974/75 prices) or at an annual rate about 60 percent higher in real terms
than annual investment during the last Plan.
External Borrowing and Creditworthiness
15.      Total public and publicly guaranteed debt outstanding and disbursed
rose from US$515 million at the end of the Third Plan Period to US$1.6 billion
at the end of 1979, and is expected to exceed US$2.0 billion in 1981, the last
year of the Fourth Plan. Debt service payments rose from US$39 million in
1976 to US$126 million in 1979, while exports of goods and services increased
from US$715 million to more than US$1.3 billion during the same period.
Notwithstanding a hardening of average terms since t^e -early 1970s, Cameroon's
debt service ratio was still less than 10 percent at the end of 1979, up
from 5-1/2 percent in the mid-1970s. The debt service ratio is projected to
peak at about 16 percent in 1982 and decline gradually throughout the remainder
of the decade to about its 1979 level in 1990. This projection assumes that
the amount of new loans contracted during 1982-86 will be slightly above the
average annual amounts contracted in 1977-81, and that there will be no
dramatic change in the assistance programs and project intentions of official
donors. Borrowing on non-concessionary terms would account for about two-
thirds of total new commitments, and average terms would become harder during
the period. Because of higher debt service payments, projected average annual
net disbursements would be less than during the preceeding five year period
but, with Cameroon-s favorable export and savings prospect, would be sufficient
to allow an investment rate of some 25 percent and a restoration of a healthy
foreign exchange reserve position. Cameroon is thus judged to be creditworthy
for Bank financing on the basis of its ability to productively utilize the
country's resources and its favorable potential to further diversify the
economy. However, in view of the country's record of performance as well as
the need to maintain debt service within the range mentioned above, foreign
donors should be prepared to continue to provide some 50 percent of public
capital assistance on concessionary terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CAMEROON 1/
16.       The Bank and IDA commitments in Cameroon now amount to US$538
million and cover 34 projects: sixteen in agriculture, eleven in transport,
three in education, two in public utilities, one small- and medium-scale
enterprises project, and one technical assistance project. Transport accounts
for the largest share (48 percent) of these commitments, followed by agricul-
ture (39 percent). Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and
IDA credits as of August 31, 19B0, and includes notes on the execution of
1/   This Part of the report is substantially the same as that of the
proposed Artisans and Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise II Project
(Report No. P-2890-CM) which is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors on October 30, 1980.



- 6 -
ongoing projects. Although delays and setbacks have occasionally been en-
countered in the execution of projects, the Government has consistently shown
willingness to collaborate with the Bank in finding solutions to such problems.
17.       The Bank Group's strategy for the future is to support the Govern-
ment in its effort to increase agricultural production, including export-
oriented crops, and in the process create productive employment in rural
areas; to upgrade and improve the operation and maintenance of the country's
infrastructure; to stimulate investment by local entrepreneurs and increase
employment in urban areas; and to enhance the efficiency of Cameroon's
institutions.
18.       The Government's objectives in the agricultural sector are:  (a)
to achieve balanced and integrated regional development; (b) to improve
income distribution and to raise living standards in rural areas; (c) to
increase production of essential foodstuffs; and (d) to promote plantation
agriculture, including smallholder schemes. The Bank has helped the Govern-
ment develop agricultural resources in the southern and western parts of
Cameroon by financing two oil palm and two rubber plantation projects. The
Bank has financed two smallholder rice irrigation projects in the north, as
well as a smallholder cocoa project which is modernizing cocoa farming and
increasing rural productivity in the areas south and west of the capital city
of Yaounde. The recently signed Second Livestock Project will benefit tradi-
tional herdsmen in central and western Cameroon. The Government's objectives
in the rural sector have been supported by three Bank-assisted rural develop-
ment projects in populated but poor regions of Cameroon - Plaine des M-Bo on
the western plain, ZAPI in the east, and the Western Highlands. These projects
include studies, trial activities, and packages of inputs, techniques and
infrastructure for improving agricultural productivity. The ongoing Rural
Development Fund Project is designed to help the Government establish machinery
for processing and implementing small-scale rural sub-projects, initially in
the north. The proposed Northern Province Rural Development Project would
provide SODECOTON and the Government with financial and technical assistance
for planning and coordination at the provincial level and for strengthening
agricultural research, thus enabling them to take a broader approach to rural
development in the north, including crop diversification, reforestation, and
improvement of rural infrastructure, as well as further development of cotton
production.
19.       In view of the crucial importance of transportation to the econo-
mic growth of Cameroon and neighboring countries, the Government has devoted
the largest portion of public investment to this sector. The Bank Group,
together with other development institutions, has substantially aided the
development of adequate transport facilities. The First, Second and Third
Highway Projects were designed to help complete the country's basic trunk road
system. A Feeder Roads Project approved in 1977 is establishing institu-
tions for feeder road administration and maintenance in addition to pro-
viding the necessary resources for a feeder road program to support high
priority agricultural/ rural development projects. The Fourth Highway
Project concentrates on road maintenance and rehabilitation and includes
funds for feasibility studies for the construction of a two-lane heavy duty
road between Yaounde and Douala. The Fourth Railway Project will help finance
the new Douala marshalling yard, maintenance facilities at Yaounde, railway
equipment, and technical assistance for improvements in operations, management
and training. Given projected traffic increases, and the backlog of required



investments in the transport sector, substantial capital outlays are still
necessary - particularly for the construction of Yaounde-Douala road, the
expansion of the Port of Douala, which is being assisted by a Bank loan and
IDA credit, and for related facilities such as those being financed by the
Fourth Rai_.wd.y Project. Future road investments could possibly include
financing of strategic international routes, but should place greater emphasis
on road maintenance and on developing the network of forestry, feeder and farm
access roads.
20.       In other sectors, the first Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise
Project, approved in 1975, focuses mainly on developing local entrepreneurship
and a second project which is now under preparation, would aim at further
assisting Cameroonian artisans and small- and medium-scale enterprises and
strengthening the Banque Camerounaise de Developpement, a development finance
agency. A Third Education Project, approved in April 1976, places special
emphasis on rural education and training. The Second Water Supply Project
of December 1979 will provide water to 13 secondary centers, reinforce
and expand water supply systems in Douala and Yaounde, and includes sewerage
and drainage master plan studies for these two cities. At the same time an
urban development project is being prepared which is designed to upgrade
several low-income settlements and develop sites and services in Douala and
Yaounde.
21.       All Bank projects in Cameroon include training, technical assistance
and other provisions necessary for strengthening institutions and improving
sector policies. The Technical Assistance Project approved in June 1977
supports Government services in several key Ministries involved in investment
planning, policy analysis, and project processing; a second technical assist-
ance project is in preparation. The Bank's lending strategy will continue to
emphasize institution building, particularly in the areas of sector planning,
project preparation, and project implementation in transportation and rural
and urban development. The Bank will also continue to assist the Government
in developing policies in newer sectors of the economy. The Bank carried out
sector studies in industry, forestry, and energy, and in telecommunications
together with the International Telecommunications Union. Future projects
have already been tentatively identified through these studies.
22.       During the second half of the sixties, overall disbursements of
official development assistance to Cameroon amounted to about US$40-45
million a year. While at the beginning of this period two-thirds of aid
funds were grants, the proportion of loans slowly increased. A major part
of the external assistance was provided by France and was concentrated in
infrastructure and the productive sectors. The European Development Fund
and European Investment Bank directed most of their lending to agriculture,
with infrastructure next in magnitude. Bank and IDA disbursements were
small during this period. Since 1972 overall disbursements of foreign aid
have increased to about US$90 million per year with only one-fifth as
grants. The Bank and IDA's share of these overall disbursements has amounted
to about 23 percent and lending to Cameroon has been closely coordinated with
other donors; in 16 of the 34 Bank projects, joint or parallel co-financing
arrangements have been made and co-financing is being actively sought for
several future projects.



-8-
23.       Cameroon s public debt outstanding and disbursed as of December 31,
1979 amounted to US$1.7 billion, 7.7 percent of which was due to Bank loans
and 7.6 percent to IDA credits. Bank loans accounted for 9.5 percent of
public debt service at that date, and IDA credits for 0.6 percent. By
1985, the public debt outstanding and disbursed is projected to reach US$2.9
billion, and annual foreign loan disbursements may amount to over US$480
million. In 1985, Bank loans and credits are expected to account for about 18
percent of total public debt and 10 percent of public debt service.
24.       In October 1974, Cameroon became IFC's 100th member.  IFC's
first operation in Cameroon, approved in May 1975, was a US$380,000 under-
writing to bring domestic shareholders into a previously wholly foreign-
owned shoe manufacturing company. In September 1976, the IFC Board approved
an equity investment of about US$800,000 in a foreign-owned rubber estate
(SAFACAM), which is currently the second largest rubber producer in Cameroon.
The investment is assisting in the rehabilitation and diversification of an
existing estate that will produce rubber for export and palm oil for the
domestic market. The operation will also facilitate participation of domestic
shareholders in the estate. The Board approved a second equity investment in
SAFACAM of US$390,000 equivalent in September 1978. The increased capitaliza-
tion was required to finance the construction of a palm oil mill. In November
1977, the Board approved a third IFC operation, an investment of up to
US$125,000 in the share capital of a promotional company for maize development.
No commitment has yet been made on this investment since the original technical
partner has been replaced and major changes have been made in the arrangements
expected earlier. In April 1979, the Board approved an IFC investment of
US$7.93 million consisting of US$7 million loan and US$0.93 million equivalent
in equity in a Cameroonian aluminum producing company, ALUCAM, to help expand
the company's production capacity. Annex II contains a summary statement of
IFC investments in the country as of August 31, 1980. IFC commitments in
Cameroon total US$9.28 million - a loan of US$7.00 million, and US$2.28
million in equity participations.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
General
25.      Agriculture plays a major role in the economy of Cameroon and
agricultural expansion remains the cornerstone of the country's economic
development strategy. The sector contributes about 33 percent of the GDP,
including 70 percent of the country s export earnings, and about 35 percent
of tax revenues, and employs about three-quarters of the total labor force.
Rural per capita incomes vary widely between regions and in the northern
savannah areas average only about US$75, or less than half of the national
rural average. During the first four Plan periods only about 14 percent of
realized investments (Government and private sector) have been for agricul-
ture and rural development. However, the proportion has risen to about 17
percent recently, and the allocation for agriculture is expected to rise
still further in the Fifth Plan, currently being prepared.



-9.
26.      Cameroon-s diversity of soil and climatic conditions are reflected
in the variety and geographic distribution of its principal agricultural
products. In the north, millet, sorghum, rice, maize, groundnuts and
cotton are produced and there is potential for wheat. In the center and
eastern provinces, marked by low population density, root crops, groundnuts,
coffee, tobacco and some cereals are grown and livestock production is also
an important feature. In the center south, including the principal urban
concentrations, 80 percent of the country s cocoa is produced while plantain
and taro are major food crops. In the coastal provinces, robusta coffee,
cocoa and bananas are grown by individual farmers, while oil palm, and
rubber are produced on large scale estates. In the heavily populated
western provinces maize and tuber crops supplemented by groundnuts, beans and
vegetables, are the main food staples.
27.       Smallholder farming is the predominant source of agricultural
output. Nearly a million farm families, cultivating an average of about 2
ha each, contribute 90 percent of total production. Small farmers are the
principal growers of the two main export crops, cocoa and coffee, and of
three other important crops which partly serve domestic industries, namely
cotton, tobacco and rice. Almost all domestic foodcrops, which supply about
96 percent of the country's needs, are produced by small farmers.
28.       Overall foodcrop production in the last ten years (1966-68 to
1976-78) has increased at about 5 percent per year. Production of vegetables,
plantain and some rootcrops has increased at a rate of over 6 percent,
production of cereal grains at only 1.2 percent, and production of major
cash crops in the small farmer sector--cocoa, coffee, cotton and groundnuts
--at 1.6 percent. With large areas of cultivable land still unexploited
Cameroon has good potential for increased production. Only about 14 percent
of the total land area is currently used for agriculture, with the rest
mostly either under natural forest or used for grazing. But in the Western
Highlands, in the Mandara Mountains of the Northern Province and in the
Lekie area of the center-south there is a density of population which puts
pressure on available cultivable land. The Government is encouraging reset-
tlement in these areas by opening up new farm land, such as in the Benoue
valley, and by establishing industrial plantations to provide alternative
rural employment.
29.      The food supply situation in northern Cameroon has greatly improved
since the critical drought years, 1973-75, and, following good millet harvests
in 1978 and 1979, food crop prices have returned to more normal levels. In
general, however, the rapid escalation in prices of production inputs--partic-
ularly petroleum based ones--has had an adverse effect on current efforts to
rehabilitate and modernize Cameroon's agricultural sector. Prices received
for the country's major export commodities have not generally kept pace with
this fast rate of inflation. Domestic food production, notably of rice and
sugar, also faces strong competition from cheaper imports. Despite ongoing
infrastructure improvements, internal marketing costs continue to rise reflec-
ting higher fuel prices and increasing wage rates. In response to these
developments, the Government is encouraging projects which will earn or
conserve foreign exchange, and is also taking the recurrent cost impact of its
investments more into account.



- 10 -
30.      Applied research and technical support has focussed in the past on
export crops such as coffee, cocoa, cotton and oil palm. Cocoa and coffee
are a major source of foreign exchange, providing 50 percent of total exports,
while cotton provides about 5 percent. Food crop production has managed to
keep pace with population growth, but progress has been restricted by the
weakness of rural institutions and the limited access of most smallholders to
extension, marketing or credit services. Better training is needed for
agricultural extension staff, and agricultural research should be more respon-
sive to the needs of its users. The proposed project would address these
problems in the Northern Province.
Institutions
31.      Responsibility for designing and implementing the national develop-
ment plan lies with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Planning (MINEP),
which normally entrusts the planning and supervision of development programs
in the rural sector to the Ministries of Agriculture (MINAGRI) and Livestock
(MINEL). Frequently, actual project implementation is carried out by a
sector- or area-specific agency, either by a state-owned crop development
company (Societe d'Etat) such as SOCAPALM (plantation and outgrower oil
palm), CAMDEV (plantation and outgrower oil palm and rubber), HEVECAM (plan-
tation rubber), SODECAO (smallholder cocoa) or SODEPA (Livestock), or by
more localized institutions such as UCCAO (union of arabica coffee coopera-
tives in the West), SEMRY (rice development in Yagoua area) and ZAPI (zones
d actions prioritaires integrees). Other development activities are carried
out by field services at the provincial and departmental levels of MINAGRI,
representing the following main departments: Agriculture, Community Develop-
ment and Rural Works, Statistics, Training and Cooperatives.  MINAGRI exten-
sion services to farmers are hampered by insufficient and inadequately
trained personnel, difficulty of liaison with research, and the lack of
coherent work programs and the means of implementing them. With objectives
of output diversification and regional balance, Cameroon has faced a diffi-
cult task in designing and implementing institutionally cost-effective
development programs in the traditional sector. However, the Government is
expected to draw upon lessons learned from the various institutional forms
it has already tried out in preparing the next (fifth) Plan period covering
1981-86.
32.      Fonds National de Developpement Rural (FONADER) was created in 1973
with the dual role of (a) providing credit to farmers or groups of farmers
and (b) appraising, financing, and supervising a wide variety of rural
development projects. In the past six years, however, it has become a large
and complex financing and credit agency and has outgrown its original
structure--which was, until recently, fully operated from Yaounde.  It has
concentrated mainly on administering various credit programs and project
funds--some of which have been Bank provided--and it has gained considerable
experience in cash management. Its growth has been supported by technical
assistance from the Federal Republic of Germany, and a cadre of capable
Cameroonians has developed. However, the development of adequate program
and client accounting, budgeting and credit monitoring procedures has
lagged. This has resulted in considerable committed but undisbursed cash



- 11 -
reserves and a relatively high level of defaults--although these have been
declining. In 1977, a reorganization of FONADER, designed with the assis-
tance of the Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole of France (CNCA), began
which is gradually streamlining operations and alleviating major problems.
Moreover, the Government is taking steps to transform FONADER into an
agricultural development bank. Sufficient capable personnel are currently in
place to carry out the reforms required at the overall management level.
Technical supervision of credit in the field requires improvement, however,
and would be addressed in the proposed project (paras 45-47).
Institutions Serving the Cotton Sub-Sector
33.      Societe de Developpement du Coton du Cameroun (SODECOTON) is the
leading institution in the cotton sub-sector and in agricultural development
in northern Cameroon, and would be the project's principal executing agency.
SODECOTON was established in May 1974 as a parastatal development company to
take over the functions previously carried out in northern Cameroon by the
French cotton development company, CFDT.  The company s capital now stands
at CFAF 2,595 million (US$12.5 million), subscribed 55 percent by the Came-
roonian Government and 45 percent by CFDT. SODECOTON's turnover in 1978/79
amounted to CFAF 8.3 billion (US$40 million), of which about 70 percent
represented sales of raw cotton (110,000 bales), and 23 percent the value of
its oilseed processing operations. SODECOTON keeps its accounts on a commer-
cial basis. However, the legislation setting up SODECOTON provides for the
apportionment of surpluses (60 percent to the National Produce Marketing
Board, ONCPB; 10 percent to the cooperative savings and development movement
of the Northern Province, and 30 percent to SODECOTON), while deficits are
supported in their entirety by the ONCPB. For this reason, and because its
accounts include the costs of rural development activities such as agricul-
tural extension, training, field trials and input subsidies, SODECOTON acts
as an agent of Government policy rather than as a profit-oriented enterprise
limited to cotton production and marketing.
34.        SODECOTON's accounting system does not currently permit a clear
separation of costs of commercial activities related to cotton production from
costs of rural development activities. Therefore, SODECOTON would improve its
cost accounting system such that the costs of its various operations could be
more accurately identified (Section 4.01 (b) of the draft Project Agreement).
This separation of various costs would permit the Government:  (i) to reim-
burse SODECOTON for expenses related to development activities separately
from the cotton account (Section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement), and
(ii) to avail itself of more accurate information for making decisions on the
level of producer prices.
35.      SODECOTON is a vertically-integrated organization covering the
following main operations: (a) production development: through an exten-
sion force of about 800 people, organized in four regions and 29 sectors and
affecting about 120,000 farmers; (b) input supply: ordering about 12,000
tons of fertilizers and 1 million liters of cotton insecticides annually and
distributing these as well as cotton, maize, groundnut seed, and farm equip-
ment on credit to cotton farmers; (c) cotton marketing: using a container



- 12 -
transport system to evacuate seed cotton from market to ginnery with a
minimum of delay and loss; (d) ginning, grading and seed processing at eight
ginneries, two oil mills and a new refining plant; and (e) selling 16 types
of Cameroonian cotton lint and seed cake on the world market through the
selling organization of CFDT, and selling cotton to the local textile
industry. Part of the seed cake production is sold locally at preferential
prices to aid the livestock industry. All vegetable oil produced is sold on
the local market, where there is a considerable unsatisfied demand.
Development Strategy in the Cotton Sub-Sector
36.      Until the early 1970s SODECOTON, and before it CFDT, had been
reasonably successful in developing cotton as the principal cash crop in
the central part of the Northern Province. However, from its first intro-
duction in 1951, the crop was developed on an extensive, low-input basis.
Fertilizers, for example, were not used at all. There was little room for
raising the price paid to farmers or applying yield-raising inputs. Produc-
tion was increased almost entirely by an expansion of acreage: the area
planted under cotton steadily increased and reached its peak of 108,000 ha
in 1969. Yields generally remained very low throughout this period, averaging
only about 500 kg/ha. The area planted began to decrease in 1970 and, with
the increasing impact of a low producer price and the drought years, when
farmers replaced cotton with staple food crops, cotton production fell in
only four years from 91,000 tons in 1969 (its peak and an exceptionally good
year) to only 27,800 tons in 1973. At the same time, world prices for
cotton fiber rose spectacularly in 1974 and, with considerable fluctuations,
have generally remained at a somewhat higher real level than during 1950-70.
37.      Following the drought years, Government and SODECOTON began re-
establishing agricultural production in Northern Cameroon. Their strategy has
involved making cotton profitable to farmers as an intensively-grown cash crop
on a reduced area, freeing land and labor for food crops, by introducing new
technology such as ULV spraying against cotton pests; changing the organiza-
tion and extension approach by, for example, grouping farmers fields together
in blocks to facilitate a rotation of cotton with other crops; and improving
economic incentives (the producer price was increased from CFAF/kg 31 in 1972
to CFAF/kg 70 in 1979). Farmers responded rapidly and by 1976, the average
cotton yield had risen to almost 800 kg/ha. Overall average yields have
continued to rise each year (1977: 830 kg/ha, 1978: 1,250 kg/ha, and 1979:
1420 kg/ha), while the total farm area devoted to cotton continued to decline
until 1978. The next phase in implementing this strategy, while maintaining
the momentum on cotton intensification, is to (a) provide the means for
developing other profitable cash crops, notably groundnuts and maize, in areas
where cotton is not suitable; and (b) improve the productivity of staple food
crops, especially sorghum, in an already densely-cultivated area and in line
with expected increases in demand. The agricultural development component of
the proposed project is designed to pursue such a strategy.



- 13 -
IV. THE PROJECT
38.       The project originates from needs identified in the Bank's agricul-
tural sector survey in 1974. Following a formal Government request for assist-
ance in November 1976, a Bank identification mission visited Cameroon in May/
June 1977. The project was then prepared by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program
which visited Cameroon twice, in October/November 1977 and in March 1978, when
consultants from CFDT, financed under the Technical Assistance Credit No. 673
CM, assisted in preparation of the agricultural production components of the
project. This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission
which visited Cameroon in November/December 1979. Negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C. in July/August 1980, with a Cameroonian Delegation led by Mr.
Bindzi, Ambassador to the United States. The Staff Appraisal Report No.
3031-CM dated October 7, 1980 is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors.
Project Objectives
39.       The objectives of the proposed project are:
(a) to improve agricultural production and farm incomes in the center-
north of the Northern Province by providing them with: (i) improved
rural infrastructure, including roads, stores and marketing facili-
ties; and (ii) effective services, including input delivery, super-
vised credit, extension, marketing, adaptive research, and project
monitoring;
(b) to provide SODECOTON with financial and technical assistance
required to extend its responsibilities to include management of
the proposed project, and to take on a wider range of rural
development activities;
(c) to improve the effectiveness of existing administrative structures
in the Northern Province in the planning, coordination and control
of development projects, including monitoring and evaluation
and agricultural research.
Project Description
40.       The proposed project would be implemented over a five-year period
and would include both activities affecting the Northern Province as a whole,
and activities within a project area in the Center-North of the Province.
(i) Project components related to the Northern Province as a whole
would be the following:
(a) strengthening the provincial planning unit at Garoua to improve
planning and coordination of development projects;



- 14 -
(b) supporting the agricultural applied research work of IRA-North,
with a view to making better use of existing resources, in
particular for adaptive research on food crops;
(c) expanding the savannah forest research unit of the Institute
for Agricultural and Forestry Research at Maroua (IRA-North),
which would also provide technical assistance for the compo-
nents for tree planting in the project area;
(d) providing additional seed handling equipment for use by the
Agency for Development of Food Crops and Fruits and Vegetables
(MIDEVIV) in furnishing improved groundnut seed; and
(e) reorienting the tasks of the Ministry of Agriculture (MINAGRI)
through:
-    provision of new vehicles and offices;
establishment of a monitoring unit under MINAGRI to monitor
and evaluate results of the proposed project and later of other
agricultural projects in the north.
(ii) Project components within the Center-North project area would be
the following:
(a) strengthening SODECOTON and broadening its approach to rural
development by:
-    increasing the number of sectors, zones and agricultural
monitors in its extension services;
-    establishing an animal husbandry unit within SODECOTON to
improve the feeding and health care of draft animals;
-    rationalizing extension services through systematic training
and retraining programs for staff of SODECOTON and MINAGRI;
-    expansion of two existing SODECOTON training centers;
-    establishing an agricultural field trials and demonstration
unit within SODECOTON;
-    providing additional staff and operating funds to SODECOTON for
project management services;
(b) facilitating crop production and marketing by:
-    financing the incremental costs of seasonal inputs used by
farmers (revolving fund);



- 15 -
financing an agricultural credit program to be administered
by FONADER, to enable participating farmers needing credit to
buy work oxen and equipment;
constructing additional storage facilities to handle farm
inputs for the project;
improving about 800 km of feeder roads, including construction
of bridges and culverts;
-    improving rural market place facilities;
(c) carrying out pilot tree plantations in forest reserves for
fuelwood and timber, and plantings of windbreaks in densely
farmed areas to reduce soil erosion and help improve soil
fertility.
Project Implementation
41.       Aware of the problem of coordination that could arise, Government
has decided that one agency, SODECOTON, should play the lead in assuring the
execution and supervision of the proposed project. At the national level,
responsibility for overseeing the implementation of project activities would
rest with the corresponding responsible Ministries. SODECOTON would act as
the channel and procurement agency for all project funds except those for
the medium term credit program to be carried out directly by FONADER in
cooperation with SODECOTON. In particular, SODECOTON would be responsible for
implementation of the project in the Center-North area, except for the compo-
nents to be carried out by MINAGRI (provision of essential offices and vehicles
for MINAGRI and project monitoring and evaluation) and by the National Fund
for Forestry and Fisheries (FNFP) for tree plantings. Thus SODECOTON would be
responsible for implementing all aspects of the agricultural development program
(crop and animal husbandry extension services, administration of the revolving
fund for seasonal inputs, procurement of inputs and farm equipment), for the
staff training and agricultural field trials and for the construction of
stores, rural marketplaces and feeder roads. SODECOTON would also act as the
channel of funds for the implementation of the three province-wide components:
agricultural and forestry research (IRA-North) and provincial planning and
coordination (Provincial Economic Division) as well as procurement of addi-
tional seed handling equipment for MIDEVIV. FONADER, in cooperation with
SODECOTON, would be responsible for providing medium-term credit to farmers
for the development of ox-drawn cultivation.  The activities of SODECOTON,
FONADER, and the other institutions involved in implementation of the project
would be coordinated by a Project Coordinating Committee in the Northern
Province, as discussed in para. 48.
42.       Government and SODECOTON would enter into a financing agreement
which, among other features, would determine SODECOTON's responsibilities
for execution and coordination of the project, and the flow of funds from
the Government to SODECOTON and from SODECOTON to subsidiary executing
agencies (MINAGRI, IRA-North, FNFP, MINEP's Provincial Economic Division and



- 16 -
MIDEVIV). The conclusion of a financing agreement satisfactory to the Bank
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan and credit (Sections
3.02 (b) and 6.01 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement). SODECOTON would also
conclude protocols, to be approved by the Bank, with each subsidiary agency
setting out respective responsibilities and financial arrangements. (Section
3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement, Section 2.01 of the draft Project Agreement).
43.       The rehabilitation and construction of feeder roads (about 800 km)
would be carried out by SODECOTON on force account, under the technical super-
vision of the Ministry of Equipment (MINEQ). SODECOTON is already success-
fully executing a road construction component included in the Southeast Benoue
Project financed by the French CCCE. MINEQ and SODECOTON would conclude an
agreement establishing their respective responsibilities for roads improvement
and maintenance in the project area during and after the project period
(Section 2.03 of the draft Project Agreement).
44.       Because of a tendancy towards overlapping of responsibilities
between SODECOTON and MINAGRI, Government has decided to make SODECOTON solely
responsible for extension activities on field crops, while MINAGRI would con-
tinue to deal with the small number of fruit and vegetable growers in the
area. To put this decision into effect, MINAGRI and SODECOTON would agree on
the number of additional field staff required in the first year of implemen-
tation and the number of surplus MINAGRI agents which would be transferred
to SODECOTON. A condition of disbursement of funds for new vehicles and
offices for MINAGRI would be that the above transfer of MINAGRI field staff to
SODECOTON had been carried out (para. 3 (e) of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan
Agreement).
45.       Government would also enter into a financing agreement with FONADER
which would set out, in particular, onlending terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank (Section 3.03(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). In administering
medium-term credit to farmers in the past, FONADER accumulated considerable
committed but undisbursed cash reserves and had a relatively high level of
defaults (40 percent of outstanding amounts due in respect of past loans to
farmers). In order to improve this situation, the Government would combine
the two overlapping systems of medium-term credit presently provided by
FONADER and SODECOTON. While FONADER would assume the role as lender for this
combined credit program, the scope of FONADER-s operational involvement would
be reduced, and the responsibilities of SODECOTON would be broadened.
FONADER-s responsibilities would include financing medium term credit, appro-
ving applications submitted by SODECOTON and preparation of annual debt
service payment schedules (on its normal terms of 10 percent interest for a
period of up to three years) and submission of these schedules to SODECOTON
for collection. SODECOTON would be responsible for selection of loan appli-
cants and for recovery of debt service payments for FONADER. A condition of
disbursement for medium term credit would be: (i) signature of a financing
agreement between the Government and FONADER; and (ii) signature of a credit
administration protocol between FONADER and SODECOTON, approved by the Bank,
outlining their respective responsibilities, sharing of risks, and remunera-
tion of the parties (Section 3.03 (a) of, and Para. 3 (c) of Schedule 1 to,
the draft Loan Agreement, and Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agreement).



- 17 -
46.       In view of the risks involved in the provision of credit for draft
animals, as evidenced by past experience in Cameroon and in other countries,
the credit administration protocol between FONADER and SODECOTON would also
provide: (a) that FONADER would not operate a separate credit scheme for
purchase of draft animals during the project period in the Center-North
project area; and (b) that FONADER would recruit and post a credit officer to
its Garoua branch to supervise a credit recovery section, which would have as
its main task the recovery of outstanding amounts due in respect of past loans
to farmers in the Northern Province for draft oxen and other items (Section
3.03 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
47.       New credit to farmers for the puchase of draft animals would not
be offered until the recovery rate for past loans had been significantly
improved. Therefore a condition of disbursement for medium-term credit for
purchase of draft animals would be that FONADER has reduced arrears in recovery
to a level not exceeding 25 percent of the outstanding aggregate principal
amount due of such credits (para. 3 (d) of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan
Agreement).
48.       Coordination at the provincial level between SODECOTON, FONADER and
MINAGRI and other institutions involved in the project would be assured by a
Project Coordinating Committee to be established under the authority of
the Governor of the Northern Province. The Committee would play an important
role in the direction of the project by linking the political, administrative
and traditional authorities in the Province to the technical agencies respon-
sible for implementation. Its terms of reference would include: (i) ensuring
coordination of all agencies involved in project implementation; (ii) reviewing
work programs and progress reports of project executing agencies to ensure
consistency with the overall implementation plan; (iii) reviewing annual
budget proposals of project executing agencies prior to their submission to
the central Government; and (iv) assisting project executing agencies in
maintaining the full cooperation of the local people and of their traditional
and administrative leaders. The Committee would meet as and when necessary,
but in any event at least once every three months. The Chairman of the
Committee would be the Governor of the Northern Province. Minutes of Com-
mittee meetings would be sent to the responsible Government Ministers and to
the Bank for information. Since the Project Coordinating Committee will be
particularly important during early stages of project implementation, its
establishment with terms of reference and composition satisfactory to the Bank
would be a condition of effectiveness (Sections 3.06 and 6.01 (b) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
49.       The project components under the direct responsibility of SODECOTON
would be implemented without changing SODECOTON's existing organizational
structure. SODECOTON has already demonstrated a high degree of managerial
competence in successfully carrying out since 1975 a campaign to reestablish
cotton production, as well as pilot actions for food crop intensification,
involving about 88,000 farmers in the North. SODECOTON is also the executing
agency for the agricultural components of the Northeast Benoue Project
financed by FED and for the first-phase rural development and settlement
project in Southeast Benoue, financed by French CCCE, which includes major
components of infrastructural development.



- 18 -
50.       Six additional management posts would be created within SODECOTON
for implementation of the project. The Development Coordinator, Project
Financial Manager, Livestock Specialist, Construction Engineer, and Roads
Engineer would need to be filled with specialists from outside Cameroon for
all or most of the project period and they would be responsible to the Direc-
tors of existing Departments. In addition, a Cameroonian agronomist would
receive management training and assist the Director of Development.
51.       Total expatriate technical assistance required for project imple-
mentation estimated at 62 man-years at a cost of about CFAF 20.9 million
(US$100,000) per man-year (1980 prices) makes a total cost of about US$8.7
million (Bank Group US$6.8 million) including contingencies.  All specialists
to be hired for these positions would be required to have qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Bank. These costs are comparable to those
paid in other projects in Cameroon.
Project Costs
52.       Total project costs, including taxes, are estimated at CFAF 15,690
million (US$74.7 million). Customs duties and identifiable taxes of CFAF
1,833 million (US$8.7 million) make up 12 percent of total cost. Thus
project costs net of taxes amount to CFAF 13,857 million (US$66 million),
of which foreign cost account for US$38.9 million or 59 percent. Cost esti-
mates are based on end-1979 prices and include: (i) physical contingencies of
15 percent on civil works, 10 percent on operating expenses and 5 percent on
all other costs except salaries, wages and technical assistance; and (ii)
price contingencies compounded on the basis of 12 percent in FY80, 11 percent
in FY81-82, and 10 percent thereafter for local costs; and 10.5 percent in
FY80 declining to 7 percent in 1985 for foreign costs. The higher price
escalation factors on local costs are based on the estimated annual inflation
rate for Cameroon. Total contingencies are equivalent to 45 percent of
baseline cost estimates, or 31 percent of total project costs net of incre-
mental revolving fund requirements, which are calculated in current terms.
Project Financing
53.       A Bank loan of US$25 million, and IDA credit of SDR 9.5 million
(US$12.5 million equivalent) are proposed, making a total Bank Group partici-
pation of US$37.5 million. Government would contribute US$27.5 million,
equivalent to 37 percent of total costs or US$18.8 million (28 percent), net
of taxes. Bank Group financing would cover about 50 percent of total project
costs, or 57 percent net of taxes. This is less than the estimated foreign
exchange costs of the project (US$38.9 million). Government contributions
would be mainly for fertilizer and pesticide subsidies (US$14 million) for
part of costs of incremental seasonal inputs. Farmer contribution would
amount to US$9.3 million to finance the remaining seasonal inputs (equivalent
to 14 percent of project cost net of taxes). FONADER would cover out of its
own resources US$0.4 million for administration of medium-term credit.
SODECOTON, the project-s leading executing agency, would prefinance the
project's revolving fund requirements for incremental seasonal inputs,
estimated at US$23.3 million over the five year project period. SODECOTON



- 19 -
has successfully borrowed short-term funds at a preferential rate, presently
8.6 percent, in the past from a consortium of local banks thereby eliminating
the need for Bank Group participation in the financing of this component.
54.       The proceeds of the proposed Bank Group financing (US$37.5 million)
would be made available by the Government to SODECOTON and FONADER as follows:
(i) US$25.3 million would be passed on by the Government to SODECOTON as a
grant on the grounds that the funds would predominantly be used for rural
development investments which would not generate direct revenue to SODECOTON.
In line with the non-profit-making status of SODECOTON, it is expected to
allocate any net profit to its reserves for reinvestment during the project
implementation period; (ii) another US$9.0 million would be administered by
SODECOTON and used to strengthen MINAGRI in monitoring and evaluation, field
services, to strengthen the Provincial Planning Unit, to improve the agricul-
tural and savannah forest research units (IRA-North), to carry out tree plant-
ings (FNFP) and to purchase seed handling equipment for MIDEVIV; and (iii)
the remaining US$3.2 million would be relent to FONADER for 8 years, including
a 3-year grace period, at an interest rate of 5 percent per year to finance
medium term credit to farmers. On-lending terms to sub-borrowers would be
at FONADER's standard terms, presently three years, at an interest rate of
10 percent per year, which is close to the average recent and projected rate
of inflation in Cameroon. The proposed interest spread of 5 percent would
provide a sufficient margin to cover FONADER and SODECOTON costs incurred
in credit handling and recovery.
55.       Assurances were obtained from the Government and SODECOTON that the
budgets and work programs for the project components to be executed or admini-
stered by SODECOTON, MINAGRI and FONADER be sent to Government after review by
the Committee four months ahead of each Government fiscal'year for submission
to the Government (Section 3.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement and Sections
2.01(c) and 2.06 of the draft Project Agreement). Since the budgets and work
programs for all project components are prepared either by SODECOTON or with
the assistance of its Project Financial Manager, and thereafter reviewed by
the Committee before being submitted to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and
Planning for inclusion in the Government's budgets, it is felt that a further
review by the Bank would not be necessary. Government would make available to
SODECOTON and FONADER all funds necessary to carry out the project on the
basis of half-yearly advances according to their approved budgets. Such
amounts would cover Government's contribution to project costs and would, in
addition, prefinance all items which, under the terms of the Bank loan/credit,
would be eligible for reimbursement (Sections 3.05 and 3.09 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
56.       The Government contribution to the operating budget of IRA-North
has been cut by about 40 percent over the last two years and this needs to
be restored if existing research workers are to be utilized effectively.
An assurance was obtained from the Government that it would furnish all the
means required to cover operating and maintenance expenses of the existing
research station at Maroua and its substations (Section 4.06 of the draft
Loan Agreement).



- 20 -
Procurement
57.       Contracts for goods estimated to cost US$100,000 or more would be
awarded through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Goods so purchased would be expected to total about US$6.7
million, of which the Bank Group would finance US$5.0 million, and would
include purchase of vehicles, road-making and agricultural equipment.
Purchases would be grouped whenever possible in order to derive maximum
benefits from bulk procurement. Contracts for construction of staff housing
(US$3.7 million) and of storage facilities (US$2.7 million) (Bank Group
financing US$5.3 million) would be too small and geographically dispersed to
attract international bidders and consequently would be awarded following
locally advertised competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Feeder roads construction would be carried out by SODECOTON on force account.
Contracts for goods below US$100,000 but more than US$50,000 would be procured
through local competitive bidding procedures, while those of less than $50,000
would be on the basis of quotations from not fewer than three reputable
suppliers. Such contracts would aggregate about US$2.5 million (Bank Group
financing US$2.1 million). Goods financed through the FONADER medium-term
credit (farm equipment and draft animals) worth US$4.2 million (Bank Group
financing US$3.2 million) would be procured through local commercial channels.
58.       Incremental seasonal farm inputs, chiefly insecticides, fertilizer
and herbicides, estimated to cost US$23.3 million, are an essential part of
the project but would not be financed by the Bank. They would be prefinanced
by SODECOTON through the commercial banking system, and would be procured on
behalf of SODECOTON by the Buying Department of CFDT in Paris, in accordance
with the established procedures authorized by the Government's national tender
board, "Commission Centrale des Marches". CFDT would purchase such inputs,
bulked together where practicable with purchases on behalf of other cotton
producing countries, on the basis of open international bidding. These
arrangements are considered satisfactory to the Bank, since they assure a
timely supply of inputs to farmers, of correct specification and procured at
competitive prices.
Disbursement
59.       The Bank Group funds (US$37 5 million) would be disbursed over about
5-1/2 years to cover 73 percent of total expenditures excluding the revolving
fund component for incremental seasonal inputs amounting to US$23.3 million
which would be entirely financed by the Government and farmers. The IDA
Credit (US$12.5 million) would be disbursed first (Schedule 1 of the draft
Loan Agreement and the draft Credit Agreement). It is expected that no
claims would be made against the IBRD Loan until the fourth quarter of Bank
FY83. All disbursement claims against contracts for civil works, vehicles,
road-making and agricultural equipment would be fully documented. Disburse-
ments against project operating costs would be made on a declining basis,
starting at 90 percent in Project Years 1 and 2 and ending at 30 percent in
Project Year 5, to facilitate takeover by the national budget on project
completion. Full supporting documentation, showing costs incurred, would be
retained for inspection by the Bank during project supervision. Disbursements
for credits made by FONADER would be made against certified statements of
credit disbursements, with supporting documentation retained for verification
during project supervision.



- 21 -
Auditing
60.       SODECOTON's accounts are jointly audited by two independent
auditors, one is appointed by the Government and the other by CFDT. These
auditors, who are acceptable to the Bank, would be retained for auditing the
project accounts. Their reports would be furnished to the Bank within four
months after the close of SODECOTON-s financial year. FONADER would keep
separate accounts in its Garoua branch for medium-term credit disbursed or
committed under the project. These accounts would also be subject to an
annual audit by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank. The auditor's
report would include an opinion on the documentation supporting the state-
ments of credit disbursement upon which withdrawal applications against Bank
Group funds had been made. (Section 4.02 (c) of the draft Loan Agreement,
Section 4.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
Taxes and Financial Returns to Government
61.       Returns to Government on incremental project production would come
from two principal sources: taxes on exportation of cotton lint, and the
projected marketing surplus on the sale of cotton lint. These two sources
of revenue would begin to exceed total costs of operating the project,
including additional input subsidies by project year six. Thus the project
would generate sufficient Government funds to finance continuing project
activities after the end of the five-year project implementation period.
Producer Pricing Policy
62.       The Government's present system of producer prices for cotton and
partial subsidy on agricultural inputs for cotton is satisfactory, since it
offers farmers an adequate incentive to grow cotton, so long as good yields
are obtained, but does not introduce an economic distortion in favor of cotton
at the expense of food crops. In fact, it is only through the residual
effects of cotton fertilizer, and changes in husbandry practices, that
significant increases in rainfed cereal yields are presently feasible. The
policy of cotton intensification also allows a given production on a much
smaller area, freeing land for food crop production. Nevertheless, a gradual
move toward increasing the cotton producer price in real terms, accompanied by
an increase in the proportion of costs covered farmers for production inputs,
would be feasible after about 1983, in view of the Bank's forecast of rising
world prices for cotton.
Market Prospects for Exported and Locally Marketed Crops
63.       Export Crops.  At full development after ten years, the project
would lead to an increase in production of about 43,600 tons of seed cotton,
bringing estimated total Cameroon production to about 135,000 tons in 1990,
equivalent to 54,000 tons (250,000 bales) of cotton lint. The market
prospects for cotton lint, the only export commodity to be produced by the
project, are good. Apart from sales at the equivalent of the world market
price to local textile mills (CICAM), currently amounting to about 5,000 tons
per annum, cotton lint output would be sold on world markets. The existing



- 22 -
cotton marketing system operated by SODECOTON is efficient. To ensure that
the project would not suffer from any changes in the present system, assurances
have been obtained from the Government that appropriate marketing arrangements
for cotton and its by products will be maintained (Section 4.04 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
64.       SODECOTON owns and operates four cotton ginneries in the project
area. Production of seed cotton, however, is expected to exceed the existing
ginning capacity around 1982/83.  Therefore,  assurances were obtained from
the Government that it would provide SODECOTON with all the necessary means to
construct additional ginneries sufficient for the entire cotton production in
the Northern Province (Section 4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
65.       Locally Marketed Crops.  Annual sorghum and millet production
for the Northern Province is estimated at 360,000 tons, accounting for
about 85 percent of total cereal consumption. Of this production, only
10-15 percent is marketed, the bulk being consumed on the farm. Additional
consumption needs by 1990 are estimated at 40,000 tons, so that incremental
project production by that year (28,000 tons) would be a major factor in
maintaining present nutritional levels. Assuming on-farm consumption
remains constant, marketable surpluses would increase by 21,000 tons after
five years and by 27,000 tons at full production after ten years, thus
helping to supply the needs of faster growing urban populations. After ten
years, project incremental groundnut production of 9,000 tons, together with
increases elsewhere in the province, should bring total incremental produc-
tion to about 15,000 tons, which is in line with estimates of increased
demand in the Northern Province alone. However, the proportion of the
incremental production marketed is expected to rise from 33 percent to 50
percent in response to expanded urban demand. The existing marketing systems
with improvement of market places undertaken under the proposed project will
be able to absorb the increase in food crop production.
Project Benefits
62.       The on-going program of intensification of cotton production in
the project area already includes 74,000 farms or 36 percent of the 207,000
farms in the area. SODECOTON is expected to be able to reach about 15,000
additional farms each year, so that after five years it would have enabled a
total of about 150,000 farms in the project area to raise their productivity.
About 75 percent of participating farm families would be expected to grow
cotton, and about 25 percent to grow groundnuts, as their principal cash
crop. All participating farmers would be encouraged to use improved methods
of cultivation of sorghum, their staple food crop. At full development
after ten years, the project would directly benefit some 163,000 farm
families, 55 percent of whom are not currently reached by extension srvices
and are in the absolute poverty group, with average annual incomes of US$259
per family or about US$55 per capita (1978). With an estimated labor input of
168 days per year per farm family, the return per man-day worked in traditional
agricultural activities on unimproved farms averages CFAF 325 or US$1.55.
The adoption of intensification for cotton and maize, and of improved
techniques for groundnuts and sorghum, would involve increased employment of



- 23 -
family labor and would result in an increase in the net annual income per
farm participating in the project of CFAF 19,000 or 35 percent without
cotton, of CFAF 27,000 or 50 percent with cotton, and of CFAF 34,000 or 62
percent with cotton and maize as cash crops, using purely manual cultivation.
Using ox-drawn cultivation, the net annual income per farm (after repayment
of loans) would increase by CFAF 52,000 or 96 percent with cotton and by
CFAF 56,000 or 104 percent with cotton and maize. The net return per man-day
under the improved farming systems would increase from CFAF 325 to CFAF 393 or
by 21 percent with manual cultivation, and to CFAF 420 or by 29 percent with
ox-drawn cultivation. Family labor of about 45 man-days equivalent per month
is adequate for the average small farm and in general labor shortages would
not be encountered either at planting or at harvest.
67.       In general there are sufficient supplies of basic foods in the
project area. However, urban food demand in the province is expected to
grow at around 8 percent per year and to provide the opportunity to further
improve farm incomes through increased foodcrop production. The project at
full development after ten years would have resulted in an increased annual
production of about 37,000 tons of cotton, 28,000 tons of rainfed sorghum,
9,000 tons of decorticated groundnuts and 13,000 tons of maize, some of
which would be available for export out of the region. A modest increase in
beef production is also expected.
68.       Other project benefits would be the strengthening of institu-
tions for planning, coordinating, and monitoring rural development; and the
strengthening of agricultural and forestry research work in the Northern
Province; and a beneficial effect on the environment from proposed fuelwood
plantations, which would reduce the cutting of natural woodland and farm
trees.
69.       Rate of Return.  The full development level of farm improvement
(163,000 farm families) would be reached after ten years. Costs and benefits
have each been estimated over a 15-year period, corresponding to the expected
life-span of project investments. However, all benefits have been lagged by
one year, to reflect the time interval between procurement of inputs by
SODECOTON, for example, and receipts from sale of agricultural products.
70.       The economic rate of return calculated on the above basic assump-
tions is 34 percent including only direct benefits consisting of estimated
increases in production of cotton, foodcrops and meat, or 40 percent if
additional road benefits derived from existing and non-project related traffic
(user-cost savings) are included. The high rate of return obtained, despite
the inclusion of costs for several non-directly productive components, is
explained by the fact that:
(a) The project would be executed by an already established and compe-
tent organization, so that investment made by the project would be
small relative to that made by the ongoing cotton program; and
(b)  The Bank world price forecasts for cotton lint, the main quantifi-
able output of the project, are favorable, showing an increase in



- 24 -
the calculated economic value at farmgate level of 54 percent
between 1980 and 1990 (from CFAF 86.5 to 133 per kg of seed
cotton) in real terms.
Project Risks
71.       The proposed project has a management risk, affecting project
implementation since the project will involve SODECOTON, MINAGRI, FONADER and
other agencies. To reduce this risk the Project Coordinating Committee,
represented by these agencies and chaired by the Governor of the Northern
Province, will be established to secure a strong political and traditional
impetus in support of project activities. This risk would also be alleviated
through the provision of technical assistance for project management, moni-
toring and coordination.
72.       Accomplishment of the project's production targets is subject to
normal risks associated with agriculture. However, expected increases in
foodcrop production under the project would essentially result from an
integration of food and cash crop farming methods and would not rely on
highly input-intensive systems which might expose farmers to unacceptable
risks. The applied agricultural research, field trials, extension staff
training and market infrastructure components of the project are all designed
to avoid an over-emphasis on the cotton program while improving foodcrop
production. Moreover, since the agronomic bases for project proposals have
all been successfully tried in the area over the last 4 years, the risks
associated with the introduction of technically innovative production packages
would be small. On the other hand, climatic hazards in the Sahelian zone are
perennial and the cumulative effect of a series of bad seasons can be long-
lasting. However, the likelihood of about 20 percent of both cotton and
foodcrop harvests being severely affected by drought (or other calamities) has
been included in the average yield figures upon which project output forecasts
are based.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.       The draft Loan Agreement between the United Republic of Cameroon
and the Bank, the draft Development Credit Agreement between the United
Republic of Cameroon and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between
the Bank, the Association and SODECOTON, the Report of the Committee provided
for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank
and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V Section 1
(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
74.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
75.       Special conditions of loan and credit effectiveness (Section
6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement) would be that:



- 25 -
(a) a coordinating committee for the project (PCC) had been established
with terms of reference, and composition satisfactory to the Bank;
and
(b) a satisfactory Financing Agreement had been signed between Govern-
ment and SODECOTON determining SODECOTON-s responsibilities for
implementation of the project and the channelling of project
funds, including pre-financing and reimbursement arrangements.
76.       Conditions of disbursement would be:
(a) for vehicles and offices for MINAGRI, that a plan for reorganizing
agricultural extension in the Northern Province had been satisfac-
torily carried out; and
(b) for medium-term credit to farmers for purchase of draft oxen and
agricultural equipment that:
(i)  a satisfactory Financing Agreement had been signed between the
Government and FONADER;
(ii) a satisfactory Credit Administration Protocol had been signed
between SODECOTON and FONADER; and
(iii) (for draft oxen credit only) FONADER had reduced arrears in
recovery in the project area to less than 25 percent of the
aggregate principal amount due.
77.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
78.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan and credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
October 29, 1980



- 26 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                          Page  1  of  6  pages
CAMEROON - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CAMEROON                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                         - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)A
TOTAL            475.4
AGRICULTURAL     156.8                                 MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  130.0       250.0     460.0/c              726.2                   1384.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      55.0        91.0      119.0                699.4                  1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      5.7          6.8       8.1
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 13.9         20.3      31.6                 28.9                    63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       13.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        31.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2135
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. K1.                       12.0        14.0      17.0                  61.7                    28.1
PER SQ. EN. AGRICULTURAL LAND     36.0        44.0      52.0                 126.0                    81.7
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         40.7        41.3      41.3                  45.5                    41.4
15-64 YRS.                         57.0        55.7      54.6                  51.6                    54.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.3         3.0       4.1                   2.8                     3.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.4         1.8        2.2                  2.7                     2.7
URBAN                               ..         5.6       8.0                   4.9                     4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     43.0        42.0       42.0                 46.8                    34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     27.0        22.0       19.0                 16.4                     8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.3/d        2.7       2.8                  3.2                     2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OP MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          89.0       101.0     112.0                  94.0                   106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   80.0        89.0      89.0                  92.7                   107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          43.0        51.0      51.0                  53.0                    65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       11.0        13.0       15.0                 15.6                    33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     40.0         32.0      27.0                 21.3                     8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   37.0         42.0      46.0                  50.1                    63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          167.0e         ..        ..                    ..                    66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..       26.0                 31.0                    65.9
URBAN                               ..          ..      35.0                  66.8                    80.4
RURAL                               *-           *-      22.0                   ..                    44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..                    ..                    62.3
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                    ..                    79.4
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                    ..                    29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         40192.0/f  30138.0   16509.0                14508.2                  1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     6151.0/f   2870.0    2229.0                 3279.5                  1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            524.0jf     563.0     370.0                1141.5                   480.3
URBAN                            329.0f      302.0
RURAL                            579.0OA     722.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          ..        5.2
URBAN                               ..          ..       5.1
RURAL                               ..          ..        5.2
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        6.7
URBAN                               ..          ..       22.6
RURAL                                                    0.5



- 27 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                          Page  2  of  6  pages
CAMEROON - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CAMEROON                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMEPICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 65.0        107.0     119.0                  61.7                     99.7
MALE                  87.0       124.0      132.0                  69.2                    101.0
FEMALE                43.0        91.0      106.0                  51.4                     99.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  2.0          9.0      17.0                  20.6                     34.4
MALE                   4.0        13.0       23.0                  29.2                     33.5
FEMALE                 1.0         5.0       11.0                  14.7                    34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (B OF SECONDARY)  23.0          23.0      23.0                   7.0                     38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              ..         48.0      51.0                  36.6                     30.5
SECONDARY                            ..         24.0      23.0                  24.3                     14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         19.0        12.0         ..                   ..                      76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0          6.0       7.7                  38.8                     43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          7.7         36.0      96.0                  83.5                    245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..        ..                    ..                     84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   2.0          3.0       3.9                  24.2                     63.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.1            ..        1.0                  0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      2907.0       3299.2    3662.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     ..           ..      41.0                  38.1                     22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              87.0         85.0      82.0                  54.3                     37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  5.0          6.0       7.0                  17,8                     23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                39.3         37.8      35.7                  38.8                     31.5
MALE                                   ..           ..      45.6                  48.4                     48.9
FEMALE                                  ..          ..      26.9                  29.4                     14.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.8         0.9        1.0                  1.3                       1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..     238.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     105.0                    ..                    190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                   ..                    474.0
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                    ..                    332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      15.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      40.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970  between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Fiscal year July-June;  /d West Cameroon only;  /e 1960-65;  /f 1962, including ex-South Cameroon
under British administration.
April, 1980



-28-                                                                       ANNEX I
DEFlNITIONi OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                     Page    3   of   6   pages
Notes:  Alh-ugh the data are druon frou sources ger-e-oly judged the most a-thi-t-etine and re_iab:e, in s-o.id u- ha noted chut they can not ne-O. tet-
nationally comparable  because of the lack of stan.dardiced deflnitions and concepts used by different countries In coI ltlo-ng the data.  The data are, none-
thelesn,  useful to descrltbe _edeta ot nagPitdde, indibate trends, and oharacterize cartatnmaor differrncen hetowee 
The -eference groups are (1) the sane country gronp of rte nab err coutry and (2) a eontry grcap nict na-ehtt htgignr onerage  income than the cousnry group
of the subiect coumnty (enept foe  'Capiata  Surplas 011 Enpcorers' group -here "Middle Ino.mo North Afrtca and  iddle taste  Is chosen because of 
soelo-oul tarai offinities)   In the reference group data the averag-s ore ppula tnin oe ihted a ithhetii teans for ea    tdindlcator and shown onlp shtn at
least half of the caounties in a group baa data far then indtcator.  Sinteebeonerage of countries among the indicators depends on the asilability of
dat and is no  uniforn, caution nat hr enercised in  relating a           -erages of one - ndlnno-. no another.  fT,se areraens se  onny onefol in comraring the valur
of one indicnatr at a ti=s among the country ant reference group.
LAND AREf  (thossand sq.kc.)                                                              Cq--ularii'cet Hc  ca- 'ofu.anun crooned t  nrnb t croctotung ph,-
Tbtan   - Iotat surface area comprising laud area and inland yaters.                      ticiuni <,u: -d        not u otodld ochwoc        tnc    mude.
Agrioultural - Estieate at agrirulearur  area used reaporutnly or permanently           Pupult-n per Nrsing Peosoc - hopodation di-ided by nchbe, of practicing
ftr crops, pastures, narkot and kilchen garde-n  cr no lie falloc; 1971 deta.           nub   and ieale gradustt  cnuea, p,actidal  -n-ses  and P   aIisrant nursns.
GNP PER CAPITA (SO)) - GNP per cnpita esriton at  currna  narkee prices, cal-               urha,s and nut al) divided  r           r          -h-e respocnitueber o  hospisal heAt
oulated bh  sane tannersion=ehod as Acrid bunk dean (1576-TA banis); 1960,                anailsble In public and pri-ate  _ereral and apeotelined hbspial andIre-
1970, ann i97f dana.                                                                      habilitatitonn eern.  Htspitals are establish=enta per=anently staffed
by at least one physictat. ttnahiish=erts prn-idisg prliiprtilycustaditl
ENERGY CONSMDPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consu=peio o  connercial energy (coal                rare are non included.  Rurai  hosptnais, btwever, oinlude health and medical
and litnite, petreleu=, natural gas and hydren-, n-clear and geetbar,sal eDen-            ceneect not permanently staffed ho a phystcian fhut hr a =edical  ssistant.
ttrienit  in kiogrsms at coal equivalent pee capita: 1960, 1970, and 1978                 nurte, nidnife, etr-) whlch affer in-patient acoat,odat          I.n ann pronide ,
data.                                                                                     lmiited range of =edical facilities.   cot stattaieal purposes urban hospi-
talstInc'udektMOs principal inneraul andnspecialized hosyitsls, and rural
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                               ,ospitelo  local nruro  hI .pi.rain and nodical end m,aternttn centers. -
Total P-pulation., Mid-Tear (illiAna1 - An  of  Juty 1: 19h0, 1970, and 157d             Adniussiorn oer Hosnisal ed - Total nunher of odntslions to or di-therge-
date.                                                                                   from hosp itals d inided hy thwe canter of heds.
Urban Populaiton (percent af tonal) - catic of urban en total poynlonion;
different deitnotians of orbon areas  at affect caaparabiiiry of da.a               HOUSING
uong oauntrins; 1960, i970, and 197) data.                                            Average Sloe at enunehold (rernons pee houmehold)   total, urban, sad i l-
Populatioe Peoleotians                                                                    A houmehoid nnnsists of a group of individuols sho shar  lining quarters
Poulation tin near 2000 - Current popalotini  projecti-nn  are baaed  an 1980           -nd their -ain trals-  A hoarder or lodger soy or nay not be itoluded In
total popalatita  by age and  _ru and the,ir enralit  and fert ility ratrs.           the housthold fortrastistical curposts.
Projeotian paramieters far mortality eaten totprise of nhree lerels astor           Averagn nubrb  of persans per roon- total, urban, and rural - Aierage tun-
ing lf eei peenany an birth inoreastogwith country'a per capita in_o_e               bhr nf persons pen eoca 1,, all unbal, and rurul occupied conventional
lenel, and femaile life exopecancy stebilising at 77,5 yaeas.   The pars-            dAsetlings, respotnively.  OrlltIngs exclude non-pottanens struturnes and
neners for fertlitty rate also lbane three Renels assuring dlcline in                 uno. pted P 
ferstilitp oounrdiog to 100cr level oud past tautly planning perforcance.           access to tletrtciin  (percent of d-llings) - tPtl , urban, -nd rural -
tchountry is then assigned one of these tine toahinatlons of mortaity                 Con-entional dwellitgs oith  elrctricity  in liing quAreern an ptrtenragn
and fertility trends for projection purposes.                                         nf iotal, urhan, and rural dwellinganrespectnivey.
Stani.narn paoatseion - In a sotaiona-y popul aton there is no growth strut
the birth rote is equal no the death rant, and also  ens age  struonure re-    EDOCATIOH
n_insuconstoot.  Tbhis is auhiened cohnl after fectility  tates denline to          Adjuted tnrotlmoen  Ratios
tis replacetunt level" o  uninec reprnductionrare,wheneah  nenerOat                   Pri=arvnchool-total,maleand fet-Gross-tota,  =al tand  eula
of wo=en repl aoen utself exacrtly.  Thtnststinnary population sire was                 nnrollment of nIl ages an the pri=ary iroel as percentages of respectine
esti=atnd on the hasis of tile drojocted cdlaraotetlu tIcs nf the papulatioc            prinary snhcol-age popalatitons; nor=a lly includes childrten aged 6-11
on the yrar 2OOt, and rhe race of decline of fertiy raten r  repace-                    y earn but sdusted for different lengtht of prtoarn edueationi for
ment Il..net.. tonni e  nith a,noersal ed._nio  rnreileent say rooned O   percen
Year stat -onls popAlation in reacted - The pear ohee art ionary population               sinto none Ppli7S  are heP G  or agb v  the offi tiol school age p
iee hba bean r-acred.                                                                 Stcondayn  -hotol - total, male and foale - Co=puted am sbone; .e.n.dary
Population De.sity                                                                          tducntio  requires at leost fo-r years of approned primary inetruetion;
Per sq. kA. - Mid-year populanico  per square kilonotor (IOO hnecnten) of                 provides general, vocatioosl, nr trather tratnimg instruntions for pupif
nasal oOe.                                                                               sully of ITto 17 y-ar  nf 1og; nor-enpond.eno  coresae gt-rsty
Per o, A.  agrioultural hood - Compoted .s abuts for agricultural land                    ena oded.
only.                                                                                 Vocational enroilnot (percent nf secondarY) - Vocational institutilot
Population Ago Ser.urune (oercene) - Children (0-14 years), -orking-age (10-                itclude technical, i=dustrial, cr other programs shich operate  nldepen-
h4 yeart), sod retired (65 yours sod over) as peecentages at rid-year ppu-                dently or an  drpartnents of seonodary itnsitution-.
laitno; 1960, 1970, and 1978 dana.                                                      Pupul-teacherratio - prieary, and se.onddry - Total students enr..led in
Poeulation trooth fate (p-erent) - tonal - Annual grut h   -rtes of total mid-              poimry and secondary lenels divided by numbers of teacher-in the
year populations for 1950-60, 19Sf-hf, i960-7i, and n9Tf-75.                              coreponding  _oris
Popalation trooth Rate (percent) - orban -Anual growth rates of arban popu-               Adn7t 1itetraY rate (percent) - Literate adults (sble no read and orite)
1attons too 1950-60, 196g-7f, and 1910-7f.                                                assper.notage of tetD1 adalt populstion agrd 15 yesos and _ver.
Crade Mirth Rfte (perr thussnd) - Atnnal line births per thousand if =id-yesr
population; 1960, 1970, and 1978 dana.                                              CYSUHMPTION
Crude Deth Rate (pfe  th uss.df - Anousl deaths per tho  a d of  id-ynar                Passngsr Cur  (per thouandbeopslin.n  - Passeuger  ars cumpria  manor
population; 1960, 1970, and I97M data,.s _=a soaning Less than eit"                                                b  persons; -) luds  mbulanes, herses and
Grass Reproductiao Rata-Average number of daughters a ooan oill beae un                    milltory -hicl-
her normal reproductine periad if she expertences present age-specific fer-           Radio Rectiners (per tbhasand populatior) - All types of recainars for radi
ellity  rates; usually fine-your uayrageseoding in 1960, 19ff, and 1977,                broad asts lo general public per thousand of popuiation; encludes unli-
FPt.ily Plaoning-A..e.tors, Annual (thoousnds) - Annual number of a-ceptors               tensed tceietrs in countries ond in pecre nben regiseratiom  of rodeo seb
nf birth-oontrol devicet  under auspices of ostionat family plaoning pr-gran.           ass in effet:   d         recntYea
FP,iln Pianningo -sers (pec_ent of  _arried wanen) - P_rcentage of =trried               bwasne     abolisheda ife  Petings
*o=en af child-beariog ego (15-Ak years) cho our birth-conicni denices to             IS fntesain    s (per thousan  p     o) - TV       i      On  b.     s  t
ali  .areind  .onen in sa_e age group.                                                  general public per thousand p-palatio;tn ludes unlic .ned TV receivers
POOD AND NUiTRITION                                                                          inaona ries  and Do years wne n egistratlan of CT' stes wse in ef_ ect.
Indeo of Food Prod-ction par Capita (1169-71=10) - Index of per capita annual           S';ouofe_ Circulaeio  (oat thousn   spopiaon  -eihnd   th aPiedicag irob-
aodction of all foodr ob_ditiesp Product:oncecladessed andteedand                       n
prod                                                             ~~~~~lln-tion d-tondpnimeilytoePrdn            geeaow      eDnoiderd
is on nalendar year basin.  CPtt oditiescovr prinary goods (e.g. saggorcn               no he "daily" Iit "Pp           akt leastdfou  setawnek.
instead of sugar) whinh aro edible and  connate  unuriens (e.g. noffee and            Cion-  Annual Atendanne pee Caita pen Year - Bssed on the number ot
tea are eoncluded)  . Aggregate production of oath country is based 00                  nih-  sold during the                                     di-ii.e..
nationtl avNeage producer print weights: 1961-h5, 1970  and 1979 dana.                  and   sold duins    t
Per -apita supl  of ualories (peren.t at requtreennts) - Compared from
energy equi-ule-t of net fond supplies av.ilable in cunotry per uapita           LAigR PFRCE
per day.  Aailable supplies  -onpriso dosnaic production, timppcta lest             Total Labor Forno (fhousandI) - Etonoomially scums peostns, including
exports, and changes it snauk.  Net sopplies nunidoal teed, seeds,                    armed foruns and unemployed but oxnlading housewinet, students, retr.
qme=tnos usetiad I  food cuy    i -  an g   uises  in dDinttrobatin    Requi-         Dtfinitionsinovariousncuntries are non nomparahlri  1960, 1970 atd
menes onto eon mated ho PiG bate~~dPon phnicinl -a eds fur norma  ac-         1979 d.la 
city and hea'th uonsidering eon-conmental compecature, body weights, ago            porale (Fencent) - Fnm.le laboe force on pt..ereage  .f total labot fame.
and se-  dour ibotion of popiation, and alloving iC perunen  for -anto st
household laol:; 1961-65, 1970, and 1977 data.                                        fithiog an petcennags  f notol i bnr  tom; 190 r97f anting dat
Per capita supplb of protein (gra-s perday) -         Protein  -ntennt of per capita  Indu-try (peroene-     - labor farce in =iniog, construction  mamufainunita
-nt supply of food par day. Ntt s_pply of food is defined as ahove.  Re-              an  ecici v  oanr and  gas as  lerumniage of total labor force; 1960.
ia_retrnio fur all couneries established bh  U5DA p-onide for yini.u=                 1971and 7    ada Ptta,    e
ailowane of 63 gra=s of total prctein per doy end  b grams of nimaal and            Pareiairldon Rane (portent) - tonei, maIn, and fomole - Pariticpatlao  or
pulse protein, of which 10 gruct  snould be  Inimal pro_e_n.  Chese stand-            antivity rates aro co=puted an natal, male, and fe=ale labor force as
ards are Iower than thos-  of 75grams o  tocal prgnsln and 13 gras of                 -er-entaget of total. male atd female populatio  of oil aget respectively;
sinial protein an an average for thIe orld, propound by PAO iu the Third              l96T, i97f, aod 1970 data.  These ate -IOn p-otlulpnttottatesrefle-ting
Acrid road Surnny,  1961-h5, 197f and 1911 data.ag                                           t sc         n   th        -    en long r
Pee orlda  roteun suny trot anol and p-ule-Prota supply of fo d de-                     magtese asr      -         t pp      n, P      g ti=   rnd.  A ft    si-
rivd  from  esitals and pulsos i  grams per day  1961-6b,  970 and 1917 daa-             . =al       e       i  - Rti. of  p       i      d   15   d 65   d
Child (ages 1-4) Ourtaliy Rnote (pcr tlousand) - Annusl deaths per thoiusnd i0                the  oto1  .bahr foro..
age group 1-4 yease, no nhildren it this age group; for =ont dtvelop ingucon-
tries data denied iros life  tablet; 196f, 1910 ani 1977 dunn.                      INCOKE DISTRIBUTION
Percentage of Prinate lorome (both in -snh and kind) - Received hy roinest
HEALTH                                                                                       5 pertent i,r  h-    0p-=-,1pr l  a..d pooes _40percen
life Etoennancy at Birth (yeArs)I -Avrnagenunbrr o: yesr  of litfe re=aining                  h poe.       e        r           n          u       dr
at birth; ly6C. 19t0 and 1978 dta,.
Infant Hortaitny ease (rn thbosar.d) - Antroal do-hs of infonts undor one year   POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
of age per bthetand  iot bortbs -isttE atad Abh-'lte Pountn lDonin  (aiS  net isvt-                                                                 -urban a   rural -
Nuber of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable across to oafe                 nntrietonalln atequate diet plus essential not-food reqotre=eots in tot
mater mupply f(ncludes treated so surfe  ..er. on untreeted but mnaonaslnaned            affordable,
nater sunh as that from protected bhreoles-, springs, snd sanitary wells) as           Estimated tReanive Poverty Income Levnl CDI cocapita)  - urban and rural -
porcentages of  beir renpectivo populsti.ons   In an  urban  area a pIb"li               Rural reistove poverev inone leoot is one-third af anerage par  tapITa
fountain or staodpust located nont mart nfan TO motors ir- a house mup bh               perronal income of tho country.  Crban loon  is derived froe the rural
-onsidered as bhing within reaonabshe access cf than houso.  In rural area.              lie0f oith adjustment Far higher cost of liineg in  -rbae areas-
o    ..sonable a_erss ould imply that the hounevife or memberr  nf the tousrhnlc       Cotlmtted Population Erlom  Absolute Ponertr In eeLennl lerces -ubt
do not hane no spend a dimproportionate punt of tho day in fetching tho                  and erol - Percent of population (orbam and rural) who aee "absolute poor".
family'sn saner nneds.
AccessatnouEreta Disposalnnorntntncf on ulanion-tonad, urban. and
rmal - Yuaber of people (total, urban, and rural) snroed by noureno
disponsal as percentages of theirrespectivor populations. - Coert  dis-                                                Ptono=ic and Sonial Dlat Division
posol eay include the colleAciot and disposul , vith no ounbuuutreaemeon                                          iconomlo Analysis and P-o)entione eDeptent
of bu=tan ecceena and saten-woter hby uater-bnroor nysnru  or th.e ute of           .                                                Aoril, 1990
yin prinies ond si=ilar intrallaotions.-



- 29                              A~~~~~~~~~~.NNEX I
29-Page 4 of 6 pages
Population    : 8.3 million (mid-1979)
GNP Per Capita: US$559 (1979)
CAMEROON - ECONOMIC INDICATORS /a
Amount                                 Annual Growth Rates (%)
Indicator                   (million US$ at
current prices)                Actual                           Projected
1979         1975   1976   1977   1978   1979/-. 1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic products/b            5,321         - 1.7    5.7    7.9    6.7    8.5    5.8    5.9    5.9    5.9    5.9
Agriculture                        1,720          1.2    1.3    1.3    4.7    6.o    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5
Industry                             891          3.0  13.2  14.8    2.8   10.0    7.9    8.o    8.0    8.o    8.o
Services                           2,710        - 5.0    5.1   10.4  10.4    9.6    6.o    6.o    6.o    6.o    6.o
Consumption                          4,260        - 1.8    7.6   11.7    5.4    8.7    4.6    4.8    .8   5.9    7.3
Gross investment                     1,203         17.5  - 5.2  29.3  26.2  14.1  12.5   5.5    6.1    1.4    4.9
Exports of GNFS                      1,237        -10.2   15.8  -15.1  10.1   2.5   25.4  11.6   8.a    6.7    3.5
Imparts of GNFS                      1,483          4.1    3.0  14.6  i6.8    7.7  21.8    7.2  - 3.8    2.7    6.4
Gross national savings                 908            .8  -10.6  - 9.7   34.4  -  .3           -      -      -      -
PRICES
GDF deflator
Exchange rate
Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)               Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices) L/                  (at constant 1975-77 prices)
1965   1970   1975   1980   1985   1990   1965-70  1970-75  1975-80  1980-85  1985-90
Gross domestic Droduct           100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  64.5        4.8      7.2      5.9      6.0
Agriculture                     35.2  36.4  35.3  30.1  28.2  26.2    5.3            3.9      3.7      4.5      4.5
Industry                        14.6   14.8   14.8  16.8   18.5  20.3    5.6         3.8      9.3      8.0      8.0
Services                        50.2   48.8   49.9  53.1   53.3   53.4    3.7        5.7      8.8      6.0      6.o
Consumption                       87.2   80.5  84.9  32.3  79.9  84.8    4.3           3.4      7.8      5.1      7.2
Gross investment                  13.4  17.0   21.5   27.3  25.8  25.1    .8           7.0    15.5       4.5      5.3
Exoorts GNFS                      25.4  28.7  24.3  25.5  26.1  22.2    4.8            3.0      4.7      6.4      2.5
ImoDrts GNFS                      26.0  26.1  27.4   35.1   31.8  32.1    3.7           .8    12.3       3.3      6.1
Gross national savings            11.1   19.2  14.6  15.7  18.8  13.8    9.9          10.8      -        -         -
As ol f GDP
fi           ~~~~~1961    1970   1975
PUBLIC FINANCE
Carrent revenues                                              11.4   15.5   14.4
Current expenditures                                       . 11.9    12.9  12.2
aurplus (+) or deficit (-)                                      .5     2.6    2.2
Capital expenditure                                             -      1.7    1.4
Foreign financing                                             n.a.    n.a.    -
1069-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
CTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (%)                              4.1        4.3       7.2       6.1       6.o
GNP per capita growth rate (%)                   2.3       2.2        4.7       3.5       3.5
Energy consumption growth rate (%)               4.o        4.o      10.2       5.9       6.o
ICOR                                              3 9  d    4.8       3.2       4.5       4.3
Marginal savings rate                              .2 Zd     .4        .1        .4        .03
Import elasticity                                 .8        .2        1.8        .6       1.0
/a Fiscal year (July-June) data.
At market prices:  components are also expressed at market prices;  fiscal year (July-June) data.
c Projected years at constant prices.
Z 1965-70.
/ Estimate.
October 15, 1980



- 30 -
AM=E I
g      of 6 pageo
P  ulation        8.3 million (mid-1979)
Per Capita:  UE$559 (1979)
CAIUOON - ETZ!UAL TRADE
Asount             '                       JNWfl MOes B    j
Indicator                   (million Us$ at                        (at constant 197I -77 prioes)
current prices)                  Actual                                Prolactsd
1979           1973*  1976   i977   1978   1         1980   1981   1982   1983    1984
XTMZRNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports                     918          *14.8   U1.0  -12.2   11.3  - 1.7    33.1   13.0    8.7    6.8    2.9
Primary                              886          -14.5   10.7  -12.8   12.6  - 1.3    34.6   13.3    8.8    6.9    2.8
Manufactures                          32          -20.0   17.3    1.1  -13.5  -12.2        8.9    2.0    4.0    5.6    5.4
Merchandise imports                  i,156            22.5  - 8.5   23.8   19.6   14.9    25.5    7.6  - 5.2    2.4    6.7
Food                                  78          - 3.4    2.4   19.3    8.5  - 1.0        1.8    1.9       ,1    2.4    3.0
Petroleum                            102           31.2  -23.7   46.6   22.6   12.0    12.2    9.2  -70.2  - 5.7    5.-
Machinery and equipment              363           52.3    3.0   21.0   33.2    4.1    11.5    5.3    6.o          .9    4.7
Others                               613           13.9  - 8.5   24.0   12.8   19.1        8.3    7.7  ' 7.4    7.8    8.1
PRICES
Ex,)ort price index                    149.6         16.3  - 5.3   63.5    6.4    6.o    23.5    7.7    6.7   12.2    9.5
Import parice index                    119.9         29.0    7.5   11.0    4.0    5.3    15.9   13.6    4.4    7.1    7.5
Terms of trade index                   124.8        - 9.8  -12.0   47.3    2.3        .7     6.6  - 5.2    2.2    4.7    1.8
Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)                 Average Annual Increase (%)
(at currmnt ortcea)                          (at consatnt 1975-77 trices)
1ges _- 170 lQ71 _ 19 O loS _9r _-    1970-o  1                      90- 10
Exports                            100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0. 100.0  100.0        3.1       2.9       5.1       6.4      1.6
Primary                           98.6   96.4   96.o   97.2   97.5   98.0        2.4       2.8       5.4      6.5       1.4
Manufactures                       1.4    3.6    4.0    2.8    2.5    2.0    47.4          5.8      -3.0       4.7      5.8
Imports                            100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0         3.3      1.4      14.1       3.0      6.4
Food                              12.4    9.5    8.7    7.3    6.8    5.8        3.2      -3.3      16.3      2.0       3.0
Petroleum                          4.7    4.5    9.3    8.2    2.7    2.6    15.4          6.3      14.8    -21.2       6.3
Machinery and equipment           20.4   26.7   25.6   27.2   28.3   26.7    -6.o         -1.7      15.7      4.2       5.2
Others                            62.5   59.3   56.4   57.3   62.2   64.8        6.2       2.8      12.6       7.3      8.2
Share of Trade with           Share of Trade with           Share of Trade with
Industrial Cotntrie,a          Vioppn agCountriesJ+         Capital Surplu  Oil Exporters ()
1960     197,0       1975    1960         7        1975       1960        1970       1975
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                           93        91          73       6         7          19         0           0          O
Prinary                         97        95         77        1         2          1          0           0          0
Manufactures                    23        11         23       77        89          77         0           0          0
Imports
/e Estimate.
October 15, 1980



- 31 -
ANNEX I
eo bof 6 pages
Population: 8.3 -iion (mid-1979)
3NP Per Capita,:  US$559 (1979)
rANuMM  -   Vi    0r PAYIE, UMAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(mllions ui$ at current prices)
Indicator                                                    Actnul                                       PWOe Oted
1970 1975   197-   1977  197W   1979II  19W    19bl  1952  1903  1914  l96   1990
BALANCE 0  PAYX    /
Exports of good and services                310   640   71    835  1,226  1,335    1,929  2,328  2,704 3,225  3,665  4,358  6,277
Of which: merchandise f.o.b.              232   511    553    687    994 1,092    1,%4  1,904 2,209 2,648  2,982  3,434  4,892
Imports of goods and serwiceas              409   793    867   966  1,3o7 1,i14    2,289  2,756  2,840  3,116  3,534  4,600  7,353
Of which: merchandise f.o.b.              265   534   559   676.  899  1,156    1,740  2,126  2,105  2,308  2,649  3,504  5,711
Net trans ers                                18    32    56       54    35    24        62    68    69    30    81    8O    92
Current account balance                     -80  -121    -96   -77    .49  -296        -296  -356    -60    190   215   -132  -907
Private direct investment                    10    24    25       6     17    54        65     74    85    91    113    150    2cl
ML Loar.s (net)                              40    59    140    237   273   353        237    344   199   132    118    177    1-1
-OfTic Iai                                  30    37    68   104   159   229          180   236    272    277    272    308    40,
Private                                    10    22    79   132   1114   124          57   157   .53   -155   -167  -1.24    -40
Other capital                                15      8    -82   -176  -193  -159        -17   -17    --4    -3      -      -       -
Change in reserve                            46    46    12    12   -54    48            10  -105  -240  -1408  -432  -201    230
International reserves                      175   112    100      88    139    91        81    187    427   835  1,267  1,842  1,706
of which: Gold                                                   1      3     6
Reserves as months itports                    5.1    1.7   1.4   1.1   1.3    .8           .4    .7   1.6    3.1    4.2   4.6    2.5
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT / 
^roas disbursements
Officisl grants                            10    20    24       23     11    18       55    60      60      70    70    6^       65
Concessionsl loans                         31    45    55    122    130   185        107    136   159    165    157   169   182
DAC                                      13    12    32    40    53    98           70    81    96   103    96   lOb    124
OPEC                                     -      6       3    13      6      20      14    13    12    12    14    15           15
IDA                                       6     16    18    21    19    20          16    28       35    32    24       i6      3
Other                                   12       6      2     48    52    47         7    14      14    19      24     32      40
Ion-concessional loans                      40    83   123    194   187   321         234    440   320   244   272    39g   561
Official export credits                  13      1      9     19    12    75        66     80     86    86      93   110    l5j
IBRD                                      3    22       8    15    37    30         24    47    66       79    98    153    300
Other multilateral                        4      4      1      3     21    10       14    16    16    15        17    22       30
Private                                  20    56   105    157   117   206         130   297   152    64        64   106      72
External Debt
Debt outstading and
disbursed                                  236    372   515    837 1,157 1,634   1,872  2,275  2,496  2,617  2,721  3,034  4,395
Official                                 195   293    346   507    709   996   1,177  1 424 1,697  1,972  2,245 2,842  4,334
Private                                  141    79   169    330   448   638         695    854   798   644   487    192        61
Undisbursed debt                             194   351    486   540   769   989          977   988    955  1,000  1,087  1,399  1,994
Debt service
Total service payments                      15    36    39    52   103   126          212    298    421   464   504   561    629
Interest:                                  6     15    19    28    43    64         108   125    163   177    179   183    252
Pazments ans % exports            -         4.9   5.6   5.5   6.2    8.4   9.4    11 0  12.8  15.6  14.4  13.8  12.9   9.6
Average interest rate on new loans (%)         5.9   5.0    4.5   6.3   5.6   9.0    p.4.8   7.8   6.2   6.5    6.5    6.9    6.8
Offizial                                   3.6   2.5    3.9    4.7   4.4   6.4         -      -      -      -      -      -
private     o                             8.Q   9.2    7.6   8.3  10.2  12.5           -
Average maturitY or new ioamsnJ (yer          15.   21.3  25.3  17.2  17.6  16.6    37.9  19.2  23.2  21.1  23.2  20.0  19.9
Official                                  30.3  32.0  24.8  21.2  28.5  20.0           -0 0
Private                                  12.7  10.0   9.2    6.8  11.4  10.5           -      -      -      -      -      -
As % of Debt Outstanding
at Znd of Mbst Recent
Year (1979)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                            47.0
Maturities due within 10 years -                                            I
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                            6.6
/a   Fiscal year (July - June) balance of payents data and calendar Year external capital and debt data
/ b Estimate.
October 15, 1980



- 32-                      ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of August 31, 1980)
Loan or                                                        US$ million
Credit                                                   Amount (less cancellations)
Number    Year  Borrower    Purpose                      Bank    IDA/1  Undisbursed
Nine Credits and nine Loans have been fully              80.31   115.4        -
disbursed
320-CM    1972  Cameroon    Education II                           9.0       2.68
983-CM    1974  Cameroon    Livestock                    11.6                0.53
1039-CM   1974  Cameroon    Cocoa                         6.5                0.91
575-CM    1975  Cameroon    DFC - Small- and Medium-
Scale Enterprises                   3.0      1.38
1245-CM   1976  Cameroon    Education III                17.0               11.53
1321-CM   1976  NPAC         Second Douala Port          15.0                2.06
672-CM    1976  Cameroon    Plaine des M'Bo
Rural Development                     2.0      0.35
673-CM    1977  Cameroon    Technical Assistance                   4.5       2.61
723-CM    1977  Cameroon    Rural Development Fund                 7.0       5.29
1391T-CM  1977  Cameroon    Second SOCAPALM               7.0                3.59
1392-CM   1977  Cameroon    Second SOCAPALM              18.0                9.21
749-CM    1977  Cameroon    Feeder Roads                           6.5       3.26
1494-CM   1977  Cameroon    Feeder Roads                  4.6                4.60
1508-CM   1977  Cameroon    Second CAMDEV                15.0                7.18
776-CM    1978  Cameroon    Zapi East Integrated
Agriculture                         8.5      5.70
784-CM    1978  Cameroon    Western Highlands
Rural Development                 13.0      10.97
1512-CM   1978  Cameroon    Second SEMRY Rice            14.5                7.28
1515-CM   1978  Cameroon    Third Highway                16.5                0.70
926-CM    1979  Cameroon    Fourth Highway                        10.0       9.13
1723-CM   1979  Cameroon    Fourth Highway               38.0               38.00
936-CM    1979  Cameroon    Fourth Railway                        20.0      18.55
1734-CM   1979  Regifercam  Fourth Railway               27.0               25.17
1753-CM/2 1979  Cameroon    Second Water Supply          21.0               21.00
975-CM   1980  Cameroon    Hevecam II                            15.0      15.00
1791-CM   1980  Cameroon    Hevecam II                   16.5               16.50
1010-CM/2 1980  Cameroon    Livestock II                          16.0      16.00
TOTAL                                  308.51   229.90   239.18
of which has been repaid              14.09     5.63
TOTAL now outstanding                  294.42   224.27
Amount sold                   7.72
of which has been repaid   7.02        0.70
TOTAL now held by Bank                              -
and IDA /1                           293.72   224.27
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                      148.26    90.92   239.18
/1   Prior to exchange adjustment.
7i   Not yet effective.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8 pages
B.   Statement of IFC Investments (as of August 31, 1980)
Investment Fiscal
Number     Year   Obligor      Type of Business       Amount in US$ millions
Loan    Equity   Total
311-CM      1975    BATA          Shoe Factory            -       0.38     0.38
355-CM      1977    SAFACAM I   Rubber Plantation         -       0.81     0.81
430-CM      1979    SAFACAM II  Rubber Plantation         -       0.41     0.41
452-CM      1979    ALUCAM       Non-ferrous metal    7.00       0.93      7.93
Total gross commitments                                 7.00      2.53     9.53
Less cancellations, terminations, repayments
and sales                                               -      0.25      0.25
Total commitments now held by IFC                       7.00      2.28     9.28
Total undisbursed                                       7.00         -     7.00
C.   Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. No. 320    Second Education Project:  US$9 million Credit
of June 28, 1972; Effectiveness Date:
February 27, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
All project-financed institutions are in operation, except for
the adult vocational training center (CENAFOP) in Douala, which is expected
to open in late 1980. The preinvestment studies have been completed.
Project implementation is about three years behind schedule due to delays
in construction and in the legal establishment of the CENAFOP.
Loan No. 983   Livestock Project:  US$11.6 million Loan of May 14, 1974;
Effectiveness Date: September 16, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Physical implementation is progressing satisfactorily, although
delays in implementation as well as unanticipated price increases have led
to cost overruns. The tsetse-fly eradication campaign has cleared about
500,000 of the originally planned total of 800,000 ha and spraying would
continue under the second project. The credit scheme has exceeded the
appraisal target of 150 loans, and the rate of repayment is good. Slaugh-
terhouse construction although nearing completion has been halted because of
a conflict between SODEPA and the contractor over financial claims by the
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8 pages
contractor. Government is assessing its options, one of which is to under-
take the completion of the facilities itself. Additional training of slaugh-
terhouse managers is under consideration. The SODEPA ranches have become the
least successful of the project components, in spite of completed physical
development. Lower than expected technical performance, as well as delayed
implementation and rising cattle prices have cast doubt on the continued
financial viability of these ranches. Alternate means of dealing with SODEPA's
financial situation are being analyzed with Government.  The second project
would help Government expand the successful components of this project.
Loan No. 1039 Cocoa Project: US$6.5 million Loan of September 18, 1974;
Effectiveness Date: February 26, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Following Bank's recommendations, Government contracted a management
consulting firm to review SODECAO. SODECAO is being reorganized and most of
the key posts have been restaffed. Project accounts have now been audited
up to 1979. Disbursements were suspended in November 1979, and are being held
in abeyance until Government finalizes SODECAO's reorganization (now almost
completed with SODECAO indicating that this will be soon finalized) and make
acceptable proposals as far as its credit program is concerned. The Ministry
of Agriculture promised the latest supervision mission that solving the
credit issue would be given first priority. We would consider resuming
disbursement of the remaining US$0.9 million after the above issue has been
resolved. We have advised SODECAO that emphasis should be placed on new
plantings rather than disease control.
Cr. No. 575    Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project:
US$ 3 million Credit of July 1, 1975; Effectiveness
Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
The line of credit is almost fully committed and disbursements
have reached 77 percent. A second line of credit is under consideration.
Loan No. 1734 Fourth Railway Project: US$27 million Loan of
Cr. No. 936    August 23, 1979; Effectiveness Date:  January 22, 1980;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1983 and US$20 million Credit of
same date; Effectiveness Date: August 23, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983.
The bidding and contracting phase of the project is in progress.
The contracts for civil works for the New Douala Station have been finalized
and the earth works are proceeding satisfactorily. Detailed engineering
studies for the workshop remodelling and the new maintenance depots in Yaounde
are in progress and are on schedule. Bids for civil works in workshops and
the depots are now being called. Procurement of equipment and materials is
nearing completion; approximately 60 percent of contracts have been finalized.
Plans have been finalized for remodelling the training school; equipment is
under procurement.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8 pages
Loan No. 1245-T      Third Education Project:  US$17 million Third
Window Loan of July 2, 1976; Effectiveness Date:
December 31, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Bids have been invited for all project construction, but awards
have been held up pending a Government decision on possible items to be left
out of the project because of cost overruns. Government has decided to
increase its share of project costs to cover part of the overruns and major
decisions on construction awards have been taken and agreed by the Bank.
Project implementation is proceeding. However, weak project management,
which was a cause of delays that contributed to the cost overrun and to
confusing rather than resolving the subsequent issues, remains a concern.
Ln. No. 1321   Second Douala Port Project:  US$15 million Loan
Cr. No. 657    of September 24, 1976; Effectiveness Date:  June 15,
1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981 and US$10
million Credit of same date; Effectiveness Date:
June 15, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Construction started in December 1976 and is proceeding reasonably
well. Proposals to construct a second container berth and to incorporate
facilities at the container berths to handle increasing volumes of roll
on roll off traffic have been accepted by donors. Although latest cost
estimates indicate a higher total cost for the extended project, this has
been covered by pledges of additional financing from some of the other
donors and Government. Due to sound management, and timely and adequate
tariff increases, the Port Authority's financial situation is satisfactory.
The credit has been fully disbursed. The only remaining work is dredging of
the entrance channel. Siltation is higher than expected at appraisal which
may increase maintenance dredging costs. Next supervision mission will follow
it up.
Cr. No. 672    Plaine des MBo Rural Development Project:  US$2 million
Credit of February 28, 1977; Effectiveness
Date:  August 29, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1980.
Project results show: (i) that fully mechanized rice cultivation
is not economically viable in the conditions of the Plaine; (ii) that
mechanization should be restricted to soil preparation: ploughing, chisel-
ling or puddling; and (iii) that only a project that would involve and
directly benefit farm families coming down from the overpopulated hill areas
could be viable. Farmers would be allowed to grow traditional food crops to
which they would add a plot of rice on seasonally flooded land or in irrigated
schemes. An identification mission is scheduled for November 1980, to identify
an integrated rural development project in the Santchou sous-prefecture
including the development of the Plaine. Government wished to include the
Kekem sous-prefecture in the project area so as to cover the whole Plaine des
M Bo.



-36-                      ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8 pages
Cr. No. 673    Technical Assistance Project:  US$4.5 million Credit
of June 15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: November 14,
1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project's funds are now almost fully committed, primarily in the
areas of agriculture, transport and planning. Project implementation has
accelerated, particularly in the recruitment of long-term advisory consultants.
A training component prepared by the Department of Studies and Projects in the
Ministry of Agriculture has been reviewed by the Bank and began in July 1980.
Cr. No. 723    Rural Development Fund Project:  US$7 million
Credit of August 4, 1977; Effectiveness Date:
January 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The Project-s delayed development continues to accelerate and to
consolidate; standards of physical construction are generally good and the
organization of most sub-projects is greatly improved, as is their planning,
budgeting, accounting and reporting. However, the rate of physical develop-
ment, particularly for dams, boreholes, pump installation and bottomlands,
is still behind schedule. The suitability of project machinery, replacement
of old machines and acquisition of spare parts are among the problems
affecting rate of physical development and reflected in high unit costs.
Development of the irrigated market garden credit scheme is progressing well
and the stall cattle fattening credit program is effective, although loan
recovery efforts will need to be strengthened.
Ln. No. 1392   Second SOCAPALM Project:  US$18 million Loan and
US$7 million Third Window Loan of August 25,
1977; Effectiveness Date: November 23, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
New plantings under the project are satisfactory though implementa-
tion is slightly behind schedule. Production potential from earlier plantings
is not being achieved due to lower than expected yields, labor problems,
inadequate maintenance and processing difficulties. Consequently, SOCAPALM's
revenues from bearing areas are below expectations. In agreement with the
Government appropriate measures have been taken to strengthen the company,
including the recruitment of new staff for certain key posts. Furthermore,
SOCAPALM has been advised to defer certain new investments. Government
recently approved a 5th capital increase. However, in view of SOCAPALM's
financial difficulties, the Government has been advised to: (i) consolidate
existing operations; (ii) reexamine long term plans for oil palm sector
development; and (iii) study in depth the potential of the domestic market.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8 pages
Cr. No. 749    Feeder Roads Project:  US$4.6 million Credit and
Ln. No. 1494   US$6.5 million Loan of December 7, 1977; Effective-
ness Date: March 7, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
About 2000 km of feeder roads will be improved and maintained
under the project. The technical assistance team is working satisfac-
torily; the Central Feeder Roads Unit has been established, and local staff
recruited and trained. Due to administrative delays in equipment procure-
ment, major field operations started in March 1980, about one year behind
schedule.
Cr. No. 763    Second SEMRY Rice Project:  US$14.5 million Credit
Ln. No. 1512   of February 1, 1978; Effectiveness Date:  April 14,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1984; and US$14.5
million Loan of February 1, 1978; Effective Date:
April 14, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1984.
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily and generally
on schedule. Management and organization are efficient and performance
is very good. The main civil works are practically completed and on-farm
works, constructed on force account, are on schedule. The first irrigated
crop was harvested in December 1979. The resettlement of some 6,000
people displaced by the reservoir has been successfully carried out. Costs
have remained within appraisal estimates although there is a US$4 million
shortfall because of currency realignment. There are two outstanding
problems, for which remedies are actively being sought. The first relates
to the main dike of the project which showed localized seepage and erosion
of the upstream slope after the lake was filled in mid-1979. This is
currently under study by consultants and temporary corrective measures have
been taken. The cost of permanent protection works may exceed US$5 million,
thus increasing the total project cost by about 8 percent. The second
problem relates to a slowdown of sales of rice produced under the project
because of imports at lower prices. This problem has been solved by rice
exports to Nigeria which is absorbing available stocks while Government is
taking measures to improve marketing of domestic rice production.
Ln. No. 1508   Second CAMDEV Project:  US$15 million Loan of
February 1, 1978; Effectiveness Date: June 30, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The second CAMDEV project is making satisfactory progress and
development of the new rubber estate at Kompina is proceeding on schedule.
Some reallocation of areas to be planted under the project has been neces-
sary due to a shortfall at Tombel, where some 600 ha have had to be rejected
as unsuitable for industrial rubber plantings, but the physical objectives
are expected to be realized without undue difficulty. All key posts have
been filled and are staffed by personnel acceptable to the Bank. Small-
holders interest in rubber is encouraging but some difficulty has been
experienced in attracting candidates to plant oil palm. Yields from the
company s existing oil palm plantations have been below expectations and this
has resulted in liquidity problems due to a shortage of self-generated funds.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1515   Third Highway Project:  US$16.5 million Loan of
April 3, 1978; Effectiveness Date: October 17, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Construction of the Garoua-Figuil road, the last section of the
Trans-Cameroon rail and road route, was satisfactorily completed in 1979.
Technical assistance to the Ministry of Transportation is helping to carry out
an origin-destination survey. A US$5.6 million cost overrun, mainly due to
exchange rate fluctuations, has been covered by the Government.
Cr. No. 784    Western Highlands Project:  US$13 million Credit
of April 17, 1978; Effectiveness Date:  December 8, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project continues to be under good technical and financial
management, with all major technical assistance and local positions being
filled. Although physical execution is somewhat behind appraisal schedules,
owing to organizational problems encountered during the first project year,
improvements have been made which have allowed procurement and disbursement
rates to increase. Government's contributions to project financing continue
to be regular, but project faces a liquidity problem due mainly to delays in
preparation of withdrawal applications.
Cr. No. 776    Zapi East Integrated Rural Development Project;
US$8.5 million Credit of April 17, 1978; Effective-
ness Date: October 4, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
The project continues to make progress, with processing and
marketing of coffee and cocoa steadily improving, but activities in training
and agricultural production behind schedule. ZAPI staff has been increased
significantly, with all key positions now filled. Coffee processing machi-
nery has been partially installed; vehicles have been purchased; an improved
repair and maintenance system has been instituted; and radio communications
have been established between all ZAPI districts. The building program has
been delayed because of inflation but further progress is expected when
Zapi's financial position is clarified following detailed financial analysis.
Cr. No. 926    Fourth Highway Project:  US$10 million Credit of August 23,
Ln. No. 1723   1979; Effectiveness Date:  November 15, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986; and US$38 million Loan of same date; Effec-
tiveness Date: November 15, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The Government has selected the firm of Lavalin (Canada) to assist
in implementing the extensive training and road maintenance programs. The
Government recently awarded contracts for construction and supervision of
the Bogo-Guirvidig road (34 km) which will serve the Semry II rice project
in northern Cameroon, as part of some 300 km roads selected for rehabilita-
tion by contract. The preinvestment study for the Douala-Yaounde road is
substantially completed. The Bank Group is currently considering, together
with other financing agencies, the financing of the Edea-Yaounde section of
this road under a proposed Fifth Highway Project.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8 pages
Cr. No. 975    Second HEVECAM Project;
Ln. No. 1791   US$15 million Credit of April 18, 1980; Effectiveness
Date: September 16, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983;
and US$16.5 million Loan of same date; Effectiveness Date:
September 16, 1980; Closing Date: January 30, 1985.
The project became effective on September 16, 1980 and is progressing
satisfactorily.



-40 -                  ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
NORTHERN PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: two years
(b)  Project prepared by:  FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program
(c)  Date of first Bank mission to consider the project:  June, 1977
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:  November 10, 1979
(e)  Negotiations completed:  August 4, 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:  March 15, 1981
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III:   Special Conditions
A.   The Government would:
(a) make available to SODECOTON and FONADER all funds necessary to
carry out the project on the basis of half-yearly advances
according to their approved budget (para. 55); and
(b) would maintain appropriate marketing arrangements for the
marketing of cotton fibre and its by-products (para. 63).
(c) would construct or cause to be constructed additional ginneries
sufficient for the entire cotton production of the Northern
Province (para. 64).
B.   Conditions of loan and credit effectiveness would be that:
(a) a coordinating committee for the project (PCC) had been
established with terms of reference and composition satisfac-
tory to the Bank (para. 48); and
(b) a satisfactory Financing Agreement had been signed between
the Government and SODECOTON determining SODECOTON's respon-
sibilities for implementation of the project and the channell-
ing of project funds, including pre-financing and reimburse-
ment arrangements (para. 42).



- 41 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
C.   Conditions of disbursement would be:
(a)  for vehicles and offices for MINAGRI, that transfer of MINAGRI
field staff to SODECOTON required for the project, had been
satisfactorily carried out (para. 44); and
(b) for medium-term credit to farmers for purchase of draft oxen
and agricultural equipment that:
(i) a Credit Administration Protocol had been signed between
FONADER and SODECOTON and approved by the Bank setting out
terms and conditions for administering medium-term credit
to farmers in the project area (paras. 45);
(ii) a satisfactory Financing Agreement had been signed between
the Government and FONADER (para. 45); and
(iii) (for draft oxen credit only) FONADER had reduced arrears
in credit recovery in the project area to less than 25
percent of the aggregate principal amount due (para. 47).






I  B R D  15025
M~~~~t tA N ,,,,tr
MAL0 J  UI~Ifi    j  (H A                 I A KF CIHAD     M
I' S~a, '> A         .
j     -,*Qk4CAjA ME - j                 A C7-
.-iN\,  -  , O -~                                0'Lo  GARC
,   ;;         -    0   t   ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~Ranc  Bie j (  ENOUF   f 4 t ,
_4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
VaZ                     \f__  t<' CHAD . 
MO    R If a  ><\\ 
l   _  ,N | \ 15! N  ZAIf#
MWA
-    S  *~~~~~~~HMeI ~~~~~~~AISQF R       C A  






IBRD 15028
'o                                                                                                                                                                                                               MAY 198D
,Gf. :K
n
'AIER                                                                                                                                                              F
RM
K 0 U 5 5 E RI
-0/                    R A-
R A                            E ST
ATLANTIC
hN
!  17    -M-
V1
0 U"E
pl-l
5
B /d, G 0
'q                                                                                              D.
iL
MU
--CMoKmc                                          A                      -Co
Im                      T   E   T, e,A-1
D---                         'I
N LG f R I A                                                                                                             M A -Q U A
MOKOLO                                                                                                                                                                     U
\.-E S T               MINDEF
E 5 T
Z-
MIND F
Gd
K A R H A Y
\m ... 0 U E S T
N (D R
'b                                            K                                                                         4",*
K
--o             1        G    I   I
D-  ,-II   G  U I D E R                                                             K A E bt                                                A G 0 U A
N 0                                                                        IG-d.,  ,, / "', -,   "                                                 N-
RD                           ------- 0G,-                                                                                             9D.                                            To.-
TOUPOPRi                                 s
--c(m- C., .
Gl       F         F
GUtDER
S L] D      KA.1                                                                    Id'
M     9 I
S, PF
q I Ms
Nmmv
GAPOUA



