;OFFICIAL       LOAN NUMBER 1919 CM
DOCUMENTS     CREDIT NUMBER 1075 CM
Project Agreement
(Northern Province Rural Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SOCIETE DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU COTON DU CAMEROUN
Dated       70A    4 A            , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1919 CM
CREDIT NUMBER 1075 CM
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       O26'r      a 7         , 1981, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(hereinafter called the Association), on the one part, and SOCIETE
DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU COTON DU CAMEROUN (hereinafter called SODE-
COTON), on the other part.
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between United Republic of Cameroon (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that SODECOTON agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank
as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Association, the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to nine million five hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,500,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that SODECOTON agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
(C) by a financing agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and SODECOTON, part of the proceeds of the loan provided
for under the Loan Agreement and of the Credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to SODE-
COTON on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS SODECOTON, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement and the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement, with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in


﻿-2-
the Loan Agreement, in the Development Credit Agreement and in
the respective General Conditions (as so defined in each of said
Agreements) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) SODECOTON shall carry out Parts A (i) and
(ii) and B and, jointly with FONADER, Part A (iii) of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate adminis-
trative, economic, financial, agricultural, engineering and
training practices.
(b) SODECOTON shall assist in the execution of Part C
of the Project by MIDEVIV, Parts D and E (i) of the Project by
IRA, Parts E (ii) and (iii) of the Project by FNFP, Part F of the
Project by MINAGRI and Part G of the Project by MINEP's Northern
Province Economic Division, pursuant to protocols to be entered
into between SODECOTON and each of said parties on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank and the Association.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Association may otherwise
agree, the protocols to be entered into by SODECOTON pursuant to
paragraph (b) of this Section shall provide inter alia:
(i) for the preparation and presentation to the PCC
for approval of a proposed annual work program and
budget regarding the execution of the Parts of the
Project referred to in said paragraph by each of
the respective agencies or services of the Borrower
responsible therefor; in the case of IRA, such
proposed work programs and budgets shall be
reviewed by the subcommittee referred to in Section
3.06 (c) of the Loan Agreement before they are
finalized and presented to the PCC;
(ii) for the submission of such programs and budgets,
upon approval by the PCC and not later than four
months before the beginning of the fiscal year
covered by such programs and budgets, to SODECOTON;
(iii) for the administration by SODECOTON of the funds
to be made available by the Borrower for the


﻿-3-
execution of said Parts of the Project, to be
released by SODECOTON on the basis of the Project
budgets referred to above;
(iv) for the procurement by SODECOTON of all contracts
for the purchase of goods or the carrying out of
civil works which are required for the execution of
said Parts of the Project and are to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan or of the Credit
made available to SODECOTON by the Borrower;
and
(v) for the right of SODECOTON to audit or cause
to be audited the accounts relating to said Parts
of the Project of the respective agencies and
services of the Borrower responsible for the
execution thereof.
Section 2.02. In order to carry out, jointly with FONADER,
Part A (iii) of the Project, SODECOTON shall:
(a) enter into a credit administration protocol with
FONAD9R on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and
the Association (including, inter alia, those specified in
Section 3,03 (a) of the Loan Agreement); and
(b) as agent of FONADER, provide draft animals and
agricultural and artisanal equipment, on credit, to farmers in
the Project Area in accordance with the provisions of the FONADER
Protocol.
Section 2.03. In order to ensure adequate technical standards
and coordination in the execution of Part B (iii) of the Project,
SODECOTON shall enter into an agreement with MINEQ, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank and the Association and not
later than March 31, 1981, establishing their respective responsi-
bilities and providing for appropriate ways of coordination and
cooperation between MINEQ and SODECOTON with respect to the
construction, maintenance and supervision of road works in the
Project Area during the Project period.
Section 2.04. (a) In order to carry out its obligations
under Section 2.01 of this Agreement and without limitation or


﻿-4-
restriction upon such obligations, SODECOTON shall employ addi-
tional qualified local personnel as required for the diligent and
efficient performance of such obligations, including, inter alia,
key staff as provided in Part A of the Schedule to this Agreement.
(b) In order to secure assistance in the carrying out of
its obligations under Section 2.01 of this Agreement, SODECOTON
shall employ specialists whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank and the Association, as provided in Part B of the Schedule
to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. Except as the Bank and the Association shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and of the Credit made
available to SODECOTON shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. SODECOTON shall:
(a) prepare and submit to the PCC for approval, for each
fiscal year until completion of the Project, a proposed work
program and budget for Parts A (ii) and (iii) and B of the
Project;
(b) after approval by the PCC and not later than four
months before the beginning of such fiscal year, furnish such
program and budget as well as the programs and budgets referred
to in paragraph (c) (ii) of Section 2.01 of this Agreement to
MINEP for inclusion in the budgets of the Borrower; and
(c) make such approved work programs and budgets available
to the Bank or the Association at their request.
Section 2.07. (a) SODECOTON undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and of the Credit
made available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to
the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place
of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by SODECOTON to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank and the Association may otherwise
agree, SODECOTON shall cause all goods and services financed out


﻿-5-
of the proceeds of the Loan and of the Credit made available to it
by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.08. (a) SODECOTON shall furnish to the Bank and
the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, contract documents and construction and procure-
ment schedules for Parts A (ii) through G of the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Bank or the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) SODECOTON: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and of the Credit allocated thereto, and to disclose
their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's and the
Association's accredited representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in said Parts of the Project
and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank and the Association at regular intervals all such information
as the Bank or the Association shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of such proceeds and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds, including, without
limitation to the foregoing, quarterly and annual progress reports
on the execution of the Project, to be furnished to the Bank and
the Association within two months after the end of each quarter
and fiscal year, respectively.
(c) SODECOTON shall assist the Borrower in the preparation
of the Project completion report referred to in Section 3.09 (b)
of the Loan Agreement, in particular with respect to Parts A and
B of the Project.
(d) SODECOTON shall enable the Bank's and the Association's
representatives to examine all plants, installations, sites,
works, buildings, property and equipment of SODECOTON and any
relevant records and documents.
Section 2.09. SODECOTON shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions under the SODECOTON Financing Agreement and the FONADER
Protocol. Except as the Bank and the Association shall otherwise
agree, SODECOTON shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving said Agreement or Protocol or any provision thereof.


﻿-6-
Section 2.10. (a) SODECOTON shall, at the request of the
Bank or the Association, exchange views with the Bank and the
Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the
performance of its obligations under this Agreement, the SODECOTON
Financing Agreement, the FONADER Protocol and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan and the Credit.
(b) SODECOTON shall promptly inform the Bank and the
Association of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan and the Credit, or the performance by
SODECOTON of its obligations under this Agreement, the SODECOTON
Financing Agreement or the FONADER Protocol.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SODECOTON
Section 3.01. (a) SODECOTON shall at all times carry on its
operations, manage its affairs, plan the future development of
its business and maintain its financial position in accordance
with appropriate agricultural, commercial, economic, financial and
administrative practices, and under an experienced and qualified
management assisted by competent staff in adequate number.
(b) Without limitation to the generality of paragraph
(a) of this Section, SODECOTON shall operate and maintain its
plants, equipment, properties and facilities, and make all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with
appropriate agricultural and management practices.
Section 3.02. SODECOTON shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory
to the Bank and the Association for, insurance against such risks
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank and the Association may
otherwise agree, SODECOTON shall not sell, lease, transfer or
otherwise dispose of any of its property and assets except in the
ordinary course of business.
Section 3.04. SODECOTON shall at all times take all steps
necessary to maintain its corporate existence and right to carry
on its operations, including its functions with respect to the


﻿-7-
execution of the Project, and shall take all steps necessary to
acquire and to retain such land, interests in land and properties,
and to acquire, maintain and renew such concessions, licenses,
consents, franchises or other rights, as may be necessary or
useful for the conduct of its business and the execution and
operation of the Parts of the Project for which it is responsible.
Section 3.05. SODECOTON shall use its best efforts to take
such measures as may be required from time to time to ensure the
marketing of food crop surpluses resulting from production
increases under the Project and undertakes to seek and mobilize
the funds and other resources required for this purpose.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SODECOTON shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition,
including separate accounts for each Part of the Project.
(b) In order to carry out its obligations under paragraph
(a) of this Section and without limitation or restriction upon
such obligations, SODECOTON shall in particular make improvements
satisfactory to the Bank and the Association in its cost account-
ing system designed to permit a more accurate identification of
the costs pertaining to SODECOTON's various operations and the
recovery of such costs.
(c) SODECOTON shall:
(i) until one year after the Closing Date, retain (A)
all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures for
Parts A (ii) and (iii) and B of the Project on
account of which withdrawals are requested from
the Loan Account or the Credit Account on the
basis of certificates of expenditures and (B) the
documentation submitted by IRA, FNFP, MINAGRI or
MINEP's Northern Province Economic Division for
purposes of such withdrawals on the basis of
certificates of expenditures with respect to Parts
D through G of the Project; and


﻿-8-
(ii) shall enable the Bank's and the Association's
accredited representatives to inspect such records
and documentation.
Section 4.02. SODECOTON shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
,-expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank and the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Bank and the Association as soon
as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditor, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank or the Association shall have reasonably requested,
including, without limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion
by said auditor in respect of the expenditures, records and
documentation referred to in Section 4.01 (c) of this Agreement
as to whether the proceeds of the Loan and of the Credit made
available to SODECOTON and withdrawn from the Loan Account and the
Credit Account on the basis of certificates of expenditures have
been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank and the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of SODECOTON and
the audit thereof as the Bank or the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement and the Development
Credit Agreement become effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Bank and the Association and of SODECOTON thereunder shall
terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Loan Agreement or the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate in
accordance with its terms, provided that the other


﻿of said Agreements shall have terminated there-
tofore or shall terminate on the same date; or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If both the Loan Agreement and the Development Credit
Agreement terminate in accordance with their terms before the date
specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association
and the Bank shall promptly notify SODECOTON of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For SODECOTON:
Sociftf de Dfveloppement du
Coton du Cameroun
B.P. 302
Garoua
United Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:                       Telex:
SODECOTON                           7617 KN
Garoua
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of SODECOTON may be taken or executed by
the Chairman of the Board (Conseil d'Administration) of SODECOTON
or such other person or persons as the Chairman shall designate in
writing, and SODECOTON shall furnish to the Bank and the Associa-
tion sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. As long as any part of the Loan shall remain
unwithdrawn or outstanding and unless SODECOTON has been notified
otherwise by the Association, all action taken, including
approvals given, by the Bank pursuant to the provisions of this
Agreement, shall be deemed to be taken or given in the name and on
behalf of both the Bank and the Association; and all information
furnished by SODECOTON to the Bank pursuant to the provisions of
this Agreement shall be deemed to be furnished to both the Bank
and the Association.


﻿- 11 -
Section 6.04. For purposes of the rights and obligations
of the Association under this Agreement, all references in this
Agreement to the provisions of the Loan Agreement shall be
understood as references to these provisions as incorporated by
reference into the Development Credit Agreement, unless otherwise
agreed between the Association and SODECOTON.
Section 6.05. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /sf   P. Sa44. E% %- -0%-4
F?c44k Regional Vice President
Western Africa
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By           s(t.s ;  r2
facA2 Regional Vice President
;V           Western Africa
SOCIETE DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU COTON DU CAMEROUN
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE
Key Staff and Technical Assistance
(Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement)
Except as the Bank and the Association may otherwise agree,
SODECOTON shall in particular employ the following key staff and
specialists:
A.   Key Staff
1.   1 deputy technical director (agronomist);
2.   1 deputy training director;
3.   3 agricultural training officers;
4.   1 industrial training officer;
5.   1 agronomist (for Part A (ii) (d) of the Project);
6.   1 deputy director of public works (for Pcrt B of the
Project);
7.   1 deputy head of the garage/workshop (for Part B (iii)
of the Project);
8.   1 mechanic (for Part B (iii) of the Project);
9.   2 road foremen; and
10.   1 veterinarian.
B.   Specialists
1.   1 development coordinator;
2.   1 director of public works (civil engineer) (for Part
B of the Project);
3.   1 Project financial manager;
4.   2 agricultural training officers;
5.   1 industrial training officer;


﻿- 13 -
6.   1 manager, road construction unit;
7.   1 head of the garage/workshop (for Part B (iii) of the
Project);
8.   1 mechanic (for Part B (iii) of the Project);
9.   2 road foremen; and
10.   1 livestock specialist.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
198 L.
FOR SECRETARY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this oZ:Z      day of         198.
FOR SECRETARY


