Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21856 CO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$35.47 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FORA
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT II
February 26, 2001
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Colombia, Mexico, Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela CMU
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 02/25/2001)
Currency Unit = Colombian Pesos (Pesos)
I Colombian Peso = US50,000443
US$I = 2,556 Colombian Pesos
FISCAL YEAR
January I December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASYCUDA    -         UNCTAD's Automated System for Customs Data
BPIN          -      Banco de Proyectos de Inversi6n Nacional (National Investment Projects Bank)
CAS           -      Country Assistance Strategy
CGN           -      Contador General de la Naci6n (National Accountant General)
CGR           -      Contraloria General de la Republica (Comptroller General of the Republic)
COCOR         -      Comite de Coordinacion (Project Coordination Committee)
COMEX         -      Automated System for Processing Imports and Exports
CUN           -      Cuerita Unica de la Nacion (Unique National Account)
DNP           -      Departamento Nacional de la Planeacion (National Planning Department)
DIAN          -      Direcci6n de Impuestos y Aduanas Nacionales (Directorate of National Taxes
and Customs)
DIN                  Direcci6n de Impuestos (Directorate of Taxes)
DAN           -      Direcci6n de Aduanas (Directorate of Customs)
DANE          -      Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadisticas (National Statistics
Department)
ESW           -      Economic and Sector Work
GDP           -      Gross Domestic Product
GOC           -      Government of Colombia
GTZ           -      German Technical Assistance Agency
IBRD          -      Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB           -      Intemational Competitive Bidding
IDA           -      Intemational Development Association
IDB           -      Inter-American Development Bank
IMF           -      International Monetary Fund
LACI          -      Loan Accounting Change Initiative
LCR           -      Latin America and Caribbean Region
MHCP          -      Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito Pablico (Ministry of Finance and Public
Credit)
MIS           -      Management Information System
MSA           -      Management Services Agreement
NBF           -      Not Bank Financed
NCB           -      National Competitive Bidding
NDP           -      National Development Plan
NPV           -      Net Present Value
OSI           -      Oficina de Servicios Informaticos (Office of Informatic Services)
PAD           -      Project Appraisal Document
PCD           -      Project Concept Document
PEM           -      Public Expenditure Managemnent
PFMP          -      Public Financial Management Project
PMU           -      Project Management Unit
PMR           -      Project Management Report
POA           -      Programa Operativo Annual (Annual Operational Program)
RA            -      Revenue Administration
SLAT          -      Sistema Informatico de Administracion Tributaria
SICAT         -      Sytem for Selection of Cases for Tax Audit
SINERGIA    -        Sistema Nacional de Evaluaci6n de Gesti6n y Resultados
SIPAC         -      System for Recovery of Tax Arrears
SOE           -      Statement of Expenses
SIIF          -      Sistema Integrado de Informaci6n Financiera
(Integrated Financial Management Information System)
TOR           -      Terms of Reference
VAT           -      Value Added Tax
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager/Director:    Ernesto May
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Jit Bahadur S. Gill



COLOMBIA
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT II
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 11
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                11
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      15
3. Benefits and target population                                                     15
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      15
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          19
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         20
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           20
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   21
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        21
E. Summary Project Analysis
I. Economic                                                                          21
2. Financial                                                                          21
3. Technical                                                                          22
4. Institutional                                                                      22
5. Environmental                                                                      25
6. Social                                                                             25
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 26
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     27
2. Critical risks                                                                     27
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     28



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           29
2. Other                                                                             29
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        29
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        30
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         31
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   38
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        47
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary          48
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Sunnary   50
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      52
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    60
Annex 8: Docunents in the Project File                                                  61
Annex 9: Staternent of Loans and Credits                                                62
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           64
Annex 11: Plan de lmplementacion para Fortalecimiento de la Administracion Financiera del  66
Proyecto
MAP(S)



COLOMBIA
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT II
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSPS
Date: February 26, 2001                           Team Leader: Jit Bahadur S. Gill
Country Manager/Director: Olivier Lafourcade      Sector Manager/Director: Emesto May
Project ID: P040109                               Sector(s): BF - Public Financial Management, BI -
Institutional Development, BY - Other Public Sector
Management
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SU,)  Theme(s): Public Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[Xl Loan     [ ICredit     1 Grant      [ lGuarantee     [] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 35.47
Proposed Terms: Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 5                                Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.85% for the first 4
years, 0.75% thereafter.
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan:    Source                                    Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                       23.41           0.35         23.76
IBRD                                                            1.56          33.91         35.47
Total:                                                         24.97          34.26         59.23
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND PUBLIC CREDIT; DNP
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Address: Bogota, Colombia
Contact Person: Mr. Federico Renjifo, Vice Minister
Tel: 571-350-1204/1205                Fax: 571-209-6242, 571-286-4156                Email:
Other Agency(ies):
Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n - Subdirecci6n General
Address: Bogota, Colombia
Contact Person: Mr. Tomas Gonzales, Sub-Director
Tel: 571- 341-9868              Fax: 571-334-0221                Email:
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$M:
FY ,       2001       2002       2003       2004       2005
Annual    2.50       14.40       8.85       5.69       4.03
Cumulative    2.50       16.90      25.75      31.44     35.47
Project implementation period: 05/01/01 to 04/30/06
Expected effectiveness date: 05/01/2001  Expected closing date:  10/31/2006
OPADFP...M.duX






A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
a. Strengthen the institutional capacity of the Direcci6n de Impuestos y Aduanas Nacionales (Directorate
of National Taxes and Customs- DIAN) to foster voluntary compliance; collect revenues efficiently,
effectively and equitably; and combat tax evasion and smuggling, so as to enable it to mobilize adequate
tax revenues to finance public expenditures.
b. Strengthen public expenditure management at the central government level, to facilitate achievement of
fiscal and national development objectives, improve cost effectiveness of public services, and increase
transparency and accountability.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
a. Revenue Administration
*     Improvement in the effectiveness of the DIAN as indicated by:
*  5% increase per annum in the proportion of total tax declarations filed voluntarily and on time.
*  5% increase per annum in the proportion of total tax revenues paid voluntarily and on time.
*  0.5% decrease annually in the Value Added Tax (VAT) compliance gap.
* 1% decrease annually in Income Tax and Business Profit Tax compliance gap.
*  i% decrease annually in the ratio of contraband to total imports.
*     Improvement in the efficiency of the DIAN as indicated by 1% decrease per annum in the ratio of
the annual recurrent budget of the DLAN to total revenue collected by it.
*     Improvement in the perception of taxpayers, traders and other stakeholders regarding the
efficiency, effectiveness, and integrity of the DIAN as indicated by annual surveys.
b. Public Expenditure Management
*     Increased accountability of public entities for achievement of performance objectives, spending of
public resources, and procurement of goods and services, as indicated by results of evaluations
done through the Sistema Nacional de Evaluaci6n de Gesti6n y Resultados ((National System for
Evaluation of Management and Results - SINERGIA).
*     Increased value for money in public procurement and contracting in pilot agencies.
*     Increased transparency and enhanced civil society capacity to monitor public sector performance,
as indicated by the quantity, quality and timeliness of information, pertaining to public sector
performance and expenditures, available to the public.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex I)
Document number: R-99201          Date of latest CAS discussion: 11/18/99
The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy has the objective of supporting poverty reduction, social
development and sustainable growth. To address these objectives it targets six areas of strategic
importance: (i) promoting peace and development; (ii) promoting rural development; (iii) developing human
capital; (iv) attaining public sector responsiveness and efficiency; (v) improving infrastructure services; and
(v) ensuring sustainable development. These objectives have been reaffirmed in the latest CAS Update
discussed by the Board on November 18, 1999.
-2 -



The Public Financial Management Project - H (PFMP-II) would support the goal of attaining public
sector responsiveness and efficiency by building on the improvements made in Revenue Administration and
Public Expenditure Management at the national level, through the ongoing Public Financial Management
Project (PFMP) financed by the Bank (Project ID: CO-PE-6889, closing on March 31, 2001). This
follow-on project would further enhance the ability of the DIAN to collect adequate revenues on a
sustainable basis, thereby assisting the government to reduce the fiscal deficit and better respond to the
socio-economic needs of the public. At the same time, the project would support continuing institutional
reforms and capacity building in public expenditure management, thus enabling the government to better
manage the difficult fiscal situation; achieve national development objectives; and increase the
cost-effectiveness of public sector operations.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
I. Macroeconomic Issues
Macro-Economic Performance: Following the sharpest recession in its history, the Colombian economy
has recently begun to show signs of recuperation, with GDP growing at an estimated 3% (annualized) in
2000, a balanced current account, and a fiscal deficit that has been reduced to 3.6 percent of GDP.
Economic performance had deteriorated sharply in the late 1990s, affecting nearly all areas of the economy:
(i) GDP fell by an unprecedented 4.3% in 1999; (ii) the fiscal accounts of the non-financial public sector,
which were roughly balanced in the early 1990s, showed a deficit of 4.6 percent of GDP in 1998, which
rose to 6.4% percent of GDP in 1999; and (iii) the current account of the balance of payments reached a
deficit of 5.7 percent of GDP in 1998, although it fell to 1. I percent of GDP in 1999 as a result of a sharp
decline in imports and an increase in oil revenues. Economic decline has been accompanied by a steep rise
in unemployment, which in urban areas now stands at about 20 percent. Restoring medium term fiscal
sustainability is essential if Colombia's efforts at poverty reduction and more rapid and sustainable
medium-term growth are to be realized. It is also crucial for nursing a fragile financial sector back to
health.
In addition to a deteriorating domestic economy, Colombia's external environment also worsened
substantially throughout 1998 and into 1999. The country was hit by severe shocks: (i) a trade shock
in 1998 due to the drop in oil and coffee prices, estimated at 1.5 percent of GDP; and (ii) events in
international credit markets which increased the cost of borrowing and decreased the availability of
external finance for both the public and private sectors. With the virtual closing of international credit
markets to developing economies and the skyrocketing cost of external credit, Colombian authorities
had to turn to the domestic market to finance a growing deficit, putting pressure on domestic interest
rates that resulted in a marked increase in the debt burden of the private sector. Repeated pressure
against the peso trading band ensued, causing the Central Bank to initially react by further increasing
interest rates, followed by a devaluation of the peso. Pressure on the currency continued, however,
leading to the eventual abandonment of the trading band for the peso and the floating of the currency.
Although general extemal conditions have improved, due to the heightened internal conflict in the country,
the deep recession highlighting structural problems of the Colombian economy and the removal of
Colombia's investment-grade status by three major credit rating companies, extemal financing has become
increasingly limited and costly. Table I and Table 2 provide the fiscal accounts of the Combined Public
Sector and the Central Administration, respectively from 1996 to 2002.
- 3 -



Government Strategy: The Government has made reducing the fiscal deficit one of its key macroeconomic
objectives. During the first year of its administration, the present Government took several measures to
enhance revenues and reduce expenditures, including instituting measures to fight tax evasion and
smuggling, increasing gasoline surcharges, and widening the VAT base and improving tax collection.
However, due to the outlays needed to rebuild the areas affected by a devastating earthquake that hit the
country in January 1999, shore-up an ailing financial sector, and fund additional relief to mortgage holders,
the deficit continued its increase in 1999 to 6.4% of GDP. In order to consolidate its stabilization program,
the Government, towards the end of 1999, requested a three-year Extended Fund Facility from the IMF,
aimed at supporting its efforts to restore growth, further reduce inflation and achieve a sustainable external
position. The stabilization program calls for a sharp reduction of the Non-financial Public Sector deficit to
3.6% of GDP in 2000 and to 2.6% in 2001, and is underpinned by strong tax enforcement, better
management of resources under the fiscal decentralization system and economic recovery. The
restructuring of the financial sector is another of the Govermnent's major objectives, and a number of
measures have been taken to help re-capitalize viable private entities, restructure public banks and restore
their solvency in preparation for their divestment, and to alleviate the debt burden of mortgage holders.
The success of the fiscal policy initiatives mentioned above depends, to a considerable extent, on the ability
of the public sector entities, engaged in revenue administration and public expenditure management at the
national level, to translate the policy into results. These are the focus of this project.
Table 1: Combined Public Sector (% of GDP)
1996     1997      1998      1999      2000'    2001'    2002'
Total Revenue                      27.0      27.4      26.7      27.3      28.8      28.7      28.1
Tax Revenue3                     16.8     17.7      17.5      16.8      17.5      19.5      19.5
Non-tax Revenue                  10.1      9.8       9.2      10.4      11.3       9.2       8.6
Total Expenditure & Net Lending    29.8      31.4      30.7      33.2      32.3      31.3     29.9
Current Expenditure              20.6      21.8      22.7      24.4      24.8     23.9      23.4
Wages and Salaries              6.6       6.7       7.0       7.7      7.6       7.3       7.0
Goods and Services              3.5       3.7       3.5       3.6       3.5      3.2       3.0
Interest                        2.7       2.6       3.3       3.8       4.4      4.6       4.5
Transfers and Other             7.8       8.9       8.9       9.4       9.4      8.8       8.6
Capital Expenditure               9.1       9.6       7.9       8.6       7.5       7.5      6.6
Net Lending                       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.1       0.0       0.0      0.0
Non-financial Public Sector        -3.0      -3.9      -4.6      -6.4      -3.6      -2.6      -1.8
Balance
-4 -



Table 2: Central Administration (% of GDP)
1996      1997      1998      1999      2000'     2001'     2002'
Total Revenue                       11.8      12.6      11.9      11.9      13.2      14.7      14.4
Tax Revenue                       10.1      10.8      10.5      10.0      11.3      13.1      12.9
Tax on Income and Profits       3.8       4.4       4.3        4.2       4.6       5.3       5.0
Taxes on Goods and Services     5.3       5.3       5.0       4.9        5.0       5.7       5.8
Value Added Tax               4.7       4.8       4.5       4.4        4.6       5.2       5.3
Gasoline Tax                  0.6       0.5       0.5       0.5        0.5       0.5       0.5
Taxes on International Trade    0.9        1.0       1.2      0.9        1.0       1.2       1.2
Financial Transactions Tax      0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.6       0.8       0.8
Stamp Duty and other Taxes      0.0       0.1        0.0      0.0        0.1       0.0       0.0
Non-tax Revenue and Transfers      1.7       1.8       1.4       1.9       1.9       1.7        1.4
Total Expenditure & Net Lending     16.8 1   16.3       17.2      19.4      19.2      18.9      18.1
Current Expenditure               11.8      12.0      13.9      15.0      16.1      15.5      15.1
Wages and Salaries              2.5       2.5        2.7       2.9       3.1       3.0       2.9
Goods and Services               1.3       1.6       1.4      1.43       1.4       1.3       1.3
Interest                         1.1       1.2       1.9       2.1       2.7       3.2       3.2
Transfers and Other             7.0       6.9        8.3       8.7       8.9       8.1       7.8
Capital Expenditure               4.46       3.6      3.42       3.8       2.5       3.0       2.7
Net Lending                        0.4       0.2       0.2       0.6       0.5       0.4       0.3
Overall Balance                     -5.0    -3.47       -5.4      -7.4      -6.0      -4.1      -3.7
Source: DNP.
1. Projected; 2. Excludes proceeds of the financial transaction tax in 1999 from revenue and expenditure.
Note: Some totals in Table I and Table 2 may not add up due to statistical discrepancies or rounding off.
II. Revenue Administration Issues
Revenue administration is the responsibility the DIAN, which collects Income Tax, VAT, Customs Duty,
Transactions Tax and Stamp Duty. It also monitors foreign exchange transactions. The total revenue
collected in 1999 was 15,554 billion Pesos, which amounted to 10.0% of GDP. Trends in tax collection
from 1996 to 1999 show that total tax revenues at the central level have fluctuated between 10.0% to
10.8% of GDP. Tax revenues are projected to increase to 12.9% by 2002. The DMAN manages about
1,040,000 taxpayers and processes approximately 3.85 million tax and customs declarations annually. It
has eight Regional Directorates and forty three local offices. There are also four Special Administrations:
Large Tax Payers Administration, Bogota, Legal Entities Administration, Bogota, Customs Directorate,
Bogota, and Eldorado Airport, Bogota. The staff strength is about 6,800.
-5 -



Since 1994, with the assistance of the Bank's Public Financial Management Project (PFMP), the GTZ and
the IDB, the DIAN has undertaken significant capacity building initiatives. These are summarized in
Annex 2. Institutional and organizational deficiencies that still need to be addressed are discussed below.
(i)    Organization and Management:
While major efforts have been made to strengthen the organization and management of the DIAN in the last
ten years, many weaknesses remain. There is a history of instability at top management levels, with ripple
effects down the line. Accountability systems do not fully match the high degree of autonomy enjoyed by
the DIAN. Formal planning, budgeting, evaluation and monitoring systems exist, but there is a need to
increase their credibility and effectiveness. Communication, coordination, control and supervision
mechanisms need improvement. The remuneration structure has become non-competitive with the private
sector, affecting D"AN's ability to recruit and retain staff with appropriate skills. This poses a particularly
severe problem in the context of the introduction of sophisticated infonration systems that require higher
level technical skills. The administrative career is too rigid and promotion avenues are limited, causing
frustration amongst staff. Recently, improvements have been made in the design of the administrative
career to strengthen the link between promotion and professional qualifications. However, institutional
arrangements for the transparent implementation of the new system are yet to be implemented. Business
processes need to be streamlined to increase operational efficiency and reduce the risk of corruption.
Internal control and anti-corruption systems are still weak. There is a need to develop a corporate
information management strategy and imnprove the capacity of the central Informiatics Unit, to manage,
maintain, safeguard and continually update the information infrastructure. Also, management of
notifications, correspondence and paper records requires improvement. Relationships with external actors,
such as the legislature, the judiciary, the Prosecutor General, commercial banks collecting taxes, taxpayers,
business, industry and professional associations, other government departments and foreign tax
administrations, need to be strengthened to increase the DIAN's ability to enhance the positive effect of
environmental influences on its performance and reduce their negative impact. Finally, considerable
management training is required at different levels of the organization.
(i)    Voluntary Compliance:
The DLAN has made serious efforts to facilitate voluntary compliance. There is, however, a need to extend
some of the recent initiatives and intensify efforts to create a tax compliance culture. The system for
electronic filing of tax returns, introduced in 1999, needs to be expanded to cover medium and small
taxpayers. Also, the functionality of the system has to be enhanced to provide additional electronic
services, such as payment of taxes and submission of claims for tax refunds. To further reduce compliance
costs, integrated taxpayer assistance units, dealing with both tax and customs matters, need to be
established. The Office of the Taxpayer Ombudsman, created recently needs to be made operational to
provide quick redress to taxpayers' problems. The quality of taxpayer education materials and interactive
tools requires to be enhanced. Complementing these efforts to raise compliance in the near term, a longer
term initiative to build a stronger social consensus in favor of tax compliance needs to be undertaken, by
reaching out to future taxpayers while they are still in schools and colleges.
(iii)   Routine Processing of Tax Declarations and Payments:
While the DIAN now possesses a complete suite of systems to manage tax declarations and payment
information, some of the older systems, namely the Unique Taxpayer Register and the system for
accounting of tax and customs receipts need to be updated. Also, a second generation version of the
system for control of refunds and credits needs to be developed to enhance its functionality. Finally, a
-6-



system for assessing taxes payable by small and medium taxpayers, covered under a special tax regime, is
required.
(iv)   Routine Processing of Cargo, Customs Declarations and Payments:
The routine processing of cargo, customs declarations and payments has various deficiencies. Although a
new system for processing customs declarations (COMEX) has been commissioned on a pilot basis, as yet,
it covers only regular import transactions. Additional modules to deal with imports under special regimes,
goods in transit and exports have yet to be developed. Thereafter, the system needs to be extended to other
customs locations in the country. Due to a lack of a national level communication network for transfer of
customs information, there are significant delays in transmission of data regarding customs operations
between border posts and head quarters and amongst border posts. Further, most customs declaration
processing stations are not linked electronically to ports, warehouses and banks. This creates
discontinuities in information flows related to different stages of cargo processing, causing control
weaknesses. The process of valuation and classification of goods and assessment of customs duties needs
significant improvements. The physical infrastructure at customs posts, including weigh-bridges and
closed circuit TV systems, requires enhancement. Also, customs facilities need to be reconfigured to
minimize the interaction between customs staff and clients, which increases the risk of corruption. Finally,
the monitoring and control of private bonded warehouses is weak.
(v)    Enforcement:
The extemal environment of the DTAN has become very difficult. The opening up of the economy has
increased the complexity of business transactions that need to be dealt with, while creating additional
avenues for tax evasion. Taxpayers and customs users have become more sophisticated. The narcotics
trade has also contributed to the growth of the informal sector.
Even though the performance of the DTAN in tackling tax evasion shows steady improvement in recent
years, enforcement continues to be a relatively weak area. There are various reasons for this. The DIAN
receives voluminous tax related information from third parties. However, there are major deficiencies in
the classification, dissemination and effective use of this information. A system to improve management of
external information relating to taxes is under development This needs to be extended to cover information
relating to customs and foreign exchange violations. The DTAN does not have adequate systems and
organizational arrangements to collect covert intelligence about tax evasion and smuggling. While the new
system for selection of cases for tax audit (SICAT), developed under the PFMP, has shown encouraging
results, its functionality and risk analysis capacity needs to be enhanced. Similar improvements are needed
in the system for selection of customs cases for audit (SIFARO). The monitoring and evaluation of audit
performance are weak. There is inadequate follow up of cases in the post-audit stages, such as objections,
appeals and payment of additional tax liabilities. As a result, a high proportion of cases (40.2% in 1997)
are decided against the DIAN leading to a major reduction in assessed tax liabilities (53.2% or 149,330
rnillion pesos in 1997) [Source: Colombia: Medidas para Aumentar las Eficacia de la Administraci6n de
Impuestos, March 1998, IMF]. There is inadequate coordination between the audit (Fiscalizaci6n),
assessment (Liquidaci6n) and legal (Juridicas) branches of the DIAN. Second order improvements in the
fumctionality of the tax recovery system (SIPAC) and the system for monitoring filing of returns and
payment of taxes need to be done. Lastly, as the final outcome of enforcement actions depends on
decisions at the appellate stage, the DLAN's capacity to effectively represent cases before appellate
authorities needs to be strengthened.
-7 -



(vi)   Policy and Legal Framework of Revenue Administrafion
Since 1990 there have been five Tax Reforms (Law 49 of 1990, Law 6 of 1992, Law 223 of 1995, Law
383 of 1997 and Law 488 of 1998). In addition, in 1995, through Law 218 of 1995 a series of income tax
exemptions were granted to attract investment to a region affected by natural disaster. A new Customs
Statute was decreed in 1999 and became effective in July 2000. A new tax reform package was passed by
Congress in 2000. These tax reforms have mainly focused on increasing tax collections through widening
of the tax base, levying temporary surcharges and encouraging the declaration of concealed transactions
and income. They have also sought to modify the powers of the DIAN as well as administrative
procedures, to facilitate compliance and enforcement. The frequent amendments to the tax laws have,
however, increased their complexity. Also, the concessions granted to encourage disclosure of past tax
evasion have had the unintended effect of discouraging voluntary compliance by building expectations of
more such concessions in the future. In addition, weaknesses continue to exist in certain procedural and
enforcement provisions of the tax and customs statutes. There is, thus, a need to carry out a systematic
review of the tax structure and tax laws with a view to optimizing the tax burden, reducing distortions,
lowering compliance costs by simplifying procedures, and strengthening enforcement. The costs and
benefits of measures to induce declaration of evaded taxes also need to be properly evaluated.
Government Strategy: The government is seeking to support the modernization of the DLAN through a
multi-pronged strategy. On the legislative side, Law 488 of 1998 was passed to increase revenue
collections and make major organizational changes in the DLN. In 1998, the government agreed with the
IDB on the implementation of an Action Plan to reform tax and customs administration, in the context of
structural adjustment loan: Programa Inter-Americano de Reforma de las Finanzas Pziblicas (Loan No.
11 66-OC-CO). Budgetary allocations amounting to a total of about US$12 million, spread over 4 years,
are being made to the DIAN for the purpose of implementation of the Action Plan. Meanwhile, the
government has continued to support modernization of the DIAN through the PFMP. It is relying on the
PFMP-II to carry the process further.
UIL Public Expenditure Management Issues
During the last decade, various steps have been taken to strengthen public expenditure management.
Extensive assistance to improve institutional capacity in this area was provided to the Ministry of Finance
and Public Credit (Ministerio de Hacienda and Credito Publico - MHCP); the National Planning
Department (Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n - DNP); the Office of the National Accountant General
(Contador General de la Naci6n) and the Comptroller General of the Republic (Contraloria General de la
Republica - CGR) by the PFMP, as discussed in Annex 2.
As in the case of revenue administration, however, the process of institutional strengthening in public
expenditure management also needs to be continued, so as to complete some of the reforms initiated by the
PFMP and to deal with other weaknesses that were not covered by that project. The main areas requiring
attention are discussed below:
(i)    Macro-programming, Formulation and Monitoring of the Budget:
The following deficiencies continue to reduce the effectiveness of the processes of macro-programming and
budget formulation:
* There is a lack of clarity about the role of national, regional and local governments. In many cases,
ministries and agencies at the national level continue to perform, and budget for, functions that have
been devolved to local and state authorities. There is also a need to clarify the roles and responsibilities
- 8 -



of entities that participate in different stages of expenditure management at the national government
level, i.e. the MHCP, DNP, CGR, CGN and the sector ministries. For instance, the DNP spends a
considerable amount of its time on technical and financial evaluation of programs and projects
proposed by sector ministries because the ministries do not provide it with the results of such
evaluations. Also, agencies monitoring public spending impose multiple reporting requirements on line
agencies, often calling for the same information. Besides increasing the compliance overload of the
agencies, this leads to proliferation of mutually inconsistent information that affects the quality of
programming and budgeting decisions.
*   In recent years, there has been constant pressure to increase public expenditures. Many factors have
contributed to this trend, including decentralization, the need to improve income distribution, efforts to
enhance the credibility and legitimacy of the state, increased involvement of citizens in public decision
making and an aversion amongst most politicians to saying no. Thus, in the last decade, fiscal results
of the central government have changed from a surplus of 0.5% of GDP in 1990, to an estimated
deficit of 6.4% of GDP in 1999. Total gross public expenditure for all programs increased from 24%
of GDP in 1990 to 31% in 1998.
* Partly due to political incentives and partly due to deficiencies in tools to accurately forecast economic
trends, revenues and expenditures, there is a tendency to overestimate revenues and underestimate
costs. The consequent relaxation of the budget constraint allows low priority prograns and projects to
be included in the budget. The situation is worsened by the inadequacy of systems to evaluate
programs and projects and by deficiencies in the capacity of the sector ministries to carry out such
evaluations effectively. The MHCP and DNP also suffer from lack of reliable information about per
unit cost of inputs and outputs of different sectors. This affects their ability to properly evaluate
budget requests.
3   Due to unrealistic budget estimates as well as macro-economic shocks, the government has been unable
to execute a significant portion of budgeted expenditures due to non-availability of resources. Until
recently, unexecuted spending commitments and unpaid bills were automatically rolled over to the
following year and were financed out of that year's revenues. The effect was to reduce the government'
s ability to properly match public expenditures to strategic priorities of a particular year. The problem
was particularly felt at the time of change of government. For a significant part of its tern an
incoming government continued to spend money based on the priorities of the previous one. Fiscal
arrears have more than tripled from 1.0% of GDP in 1990 to 3.3% in 1999 and are a major concern of
the current government. To begin to tackle this problem, the budget law of 2000 provides that
commitments carried over to the next year be subtracted from the budget appropriations of the
concerned entity for that year.
*   Constitutionally mandated transfers to territorial entities have increased from 29% of total revenues in
1990 to 39% in 1998 and are targeted to increase to 38.1% in 2000. Mineral royalties are also
earmarked. These entitlements, when combined with mandatory expenditures on salaries and debt
service, cover close to 85% of the national budget. As a result, the degrees of freedom available to the
Central government to implement its policy priorities through changes in expenditure patterns are
extremely limited.
*  The DNP is in charge of formulation of the National Development Plan and the budget for capital
expenditures. The MHCP is responsible for the preparing the recurrent budget. This division of
responsibilities has led to problems in integration of investment and recurrent expenditures, although,
recently, efforts have been made to improve coordination between these two entities as well as with the
CGR, through an inter-institutional agreement.
*   The norms for formulation and execution of the budget need to be consolidated and streamlined.
-9-



(iU)    Budget Execution, Treasury, Public Credit and Accounting:
Current deficiencies in the field of budget execution, treasury, public credit and accounting are the
following:
*   As mentioned above, when actual revenue collections do not come up to expectations, the govemment
has to frequently resort to cash-flow driven cuts in expenditure. In effecting these cuts, it suffers from
the same information deficiencies that affect decisions at the planning and budget formnulation stage.
As such, budget cuts are often made in an arbitrary manner without full knowledge of their economiuc
costs.
*   The Integrated Financial Management Information System (SIIF) developed with the assistance of the
PFMP needs to be extended to the regional offices of central government entities. The functionality of
the system needs to be enhanced based on user feedback Also, to increase the coverage of the budget
by the system, a modified version of the system needs to be developed for implementation in
decentralized entities that receive funds from the national budget. Further, in order to eliminate the
proliferation of accounting systems used by different projects funded by extemal donors and increase
control over funds executed by these projects, a new module of the SIIF needs to be developed that
would allow both the execution of project funds through the system as also compliance with reporting
requirements of donors.
o   The Treasury manages various investment portfolios. However, its current portfolio management
system is inadequate and needs to enhanced to improve control of investment transactions and optimize
returns on investment.
* The debt management system of the Directorate of Public Credit (DPC) also needs to be replaced.
While the system has adequate information about extemal debt, it suffers from various deficiencies,
including the inability to connect with the SIIF and the lack of the functionality to allow debt service
and cash flow projections.
*   In the area of accounting, there is a need to improve the quality of accounting information generated by
public entities, especially those not covered by the SIIF; strengthen the informnation systems of the
Office of the CGN to improve its capacity to consolidate accounting information pertaining to the
national, decentralized, and territorial levels; and provide additional training to public officials in the
evolving accounting norms and practices.
(iii)   Evaluation of Results of Public EXpenditure:
Colombia has pioneered a comprehensive National System for Evaluation of Results of Public Sector
Performance (SINERGIA) to institutionalize systematic evaluation of government policies, programs,
projects and entities. While considerable progress has been made, given the major paradigm shift being
pursued, not surprisingly, progress has been slow. The uncertainty of budgeted funds remains a major
impediment in enforcing compliance with agreed performance targets. Further, performance is still not
linked to specific incentives or penalties. The current version of the information system supporting
SINERGIA also needs to be improved. At present it monitors performance only with respect to investment
expenditures. It needs to be extended to cover recurrent expenditures as well. Further, the system needs to
be extended to public enterprises and territorial entities. Furthermore there is a need to systematically
analyze and design incentives faced by public sector managers in executing the budget, so as to develop
insights that would help promote achievement of organizational objectives. Efficiency standards for
different sectors need to be developed. In addition, it is important to improve the dissemination of public
policy objectives, performance evaluation and budgetary results of public entities to civil society and the
public, to improve transparency and accountability.
- 10 -



(iv)   Government Procurement and Contracting:
One of the areas that was not included in the PFMP, but has a major impact on the results of public
expenditure is govermment procurement and contracting. A draft Country Procurement Assessment Report
(CPAR, September 2000) highlights the strengths and weaknesses of the Colombian legal and
administrative framework for public procurement and makes specific recommendations for its
strengthening. The legal framework, consisting of Law 80 of 1993 and around 80 regulatory decrees and
other laws, over-regulates public procurement and has introduced opportunities for corruption.
Over-regulation and the high concern with corruption has in turn led to an environment of mutual distrust
between the government and those doing business with it. There is a lack of institutional leadership in the
area that makes it difficult to develop and improve the putlic procurement framework on an ongoing basis.
Also, there is no system to monitor and evaluate procurement practices. Finally, the government is yet to
develop a capacity for disseminating procurement opportunities, bidding documents and contract awards to
the public via the internet, or to carry out procurement transactions on-line.
Government Strategy: The government is taking various steps, in addition to those mentioned above to
improve public expenditure management. A number of major reforms have been undertaken including a
Fiscal Responsibility Law to reduce the level of recurrent expenditures at the local and departmental level,
a bill to amend the constitution to freeze, in real per capita terms, future transfers to local governments, and
a law authorizing lottery and gaming activities to contribute resources to pension and health insurance
funds. In addition, the Government plans to submit to Congress legislation which aims to complete the
reform of social security, including the elimination of several special regimes and an increase in the
retirement age. With regard to public procurement, before the CPAR was completed, the Government
submitted to Congress a bill amending Law 80. The proposed bill would, however, benefit from further
improvements, which the Government is inclined to make. The DNP is promoting a series of meetings with
the parties concemed to review the bill and propose changes. At the operational level, the governnent
proposes to use the resources provided by this project, to continue improvements in national public
expenditure management and deal with the capacity deficiencies discussed above. For strengthening
financial management capacity at the territorial level, the government is being assisted by the IDB.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will support the government's efforts to improve the fiscal situation and strengthen the
institutions that develop and implement revenue and expenditure policies.
In the area of revenue administration, the project would address the aforesaid institutional deficiencies, by
supporting activities aimed at improving the organization and managernent of the DIAN; promoting
voluntary compliance; increasing institutional capacity to handle routine work flows as well as enforce tax,
customs and foreign exchange laws effectively; and enhancing the policy and legal framework for revenue
administration. Strategic choices made in developing project activities for revenue administration include
the adoption of a well-rounded approach that not only deals with weaknesses in technical functions, but
also with deficiencies in organization and management; giving greater emphasis to strengthening of customs
administration to enable it to catch up with the tax administration; and ensuring complementarity between
project initiatives and actions being taken by the DIAN under the Action Plan agreed with the IDB.
In the field of public expenditure management, the project would complement and supplement assistance
being provided under the PFMP. While recognizing that political considerations and macro-economic
conditions will always have an important impact on public spending decisions, the project would seek to
- 11 -



enhance the quality of these decisions by improving the relevant norms, analytical tools and information
systems. The project would also improve the control of the government over actual spending by extending
the coverage of the SIIF; improve the management of investment and public credit portfolios; and
strengthen accounting. Further, it would seek to institutionalize the incipient emphasis on results by
strengthening the national evaluation system and facilitating dissemination of information relating to the
objectives, achievements, performance evaluation and expenditures of the public sector to the public.
Finally, the project would assist in improving procurement and contracting practices to increase
transparency and value for money. In designing the public expenditure management component of the
project, strategic choices have been made in selecting a small number of high value added activities, that
would have an immediate benefit for practitioners in this complex field. Also in order to keep the project
within manageable limits, and given the IDB's involvement in improving financial management capacity at
the territorial level, the scope of the project has been limited to the national government level.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Amnex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project would provide consulting services, training and goods to support activities under three
components: Revenue Administration, Public Expenditure Management and Project Management.
a.    Revenue Administration: US$36.02 miffion
Sub-component 1: Strengthening Organization and Management of the DIAN: $13.64 million: This
sub-component would support activities aimed at strengthening critical areas of the organization and
management of the DIAN, including strategic planning and management, personnel management and
professional development, prevention and control of corruption, information management, managemnent of
notifications, official correspondence and archives, and change management.
Sub-component 2: Facilitating Voluntary Compliance: $6.50 million: This sub-component would help
promote voluntary compliance by supporting the setting up of Integrated Taxpayers Education and
Assistance Centers; training external stakeholders in tax and customs policy and procedures; expanding the
reach and scope of electronic interaction between the DLAN and its clients; making the Office of the
Taxpayer Ombudsman fully operational; and fostering a tax compliance culture
Sub-component 3: Improvng the Effectiveness of the DIAN in Managing Routine Processing of Tax
Declarations and Payments; $ 1.23 million: This sub-component would assist in increasing the
efficiency and productivity of routine tax administration operations by supporting the updating and
enhancement of systems for registration of taxpayers, accounting of revenue collections and control of
refinds and credits. It would also help develop and implement a system for assessment of small and
medium enterprises covered under a special tax regime.
Sub-component 4: Improving the Effectiveness of the DIAN in Managing Routine Processing of
Cargo, Customs Declarations and Payments: $9.61 million: This sub-component would support the
improvement of routine customs operations, such as cargo processing, processing of customs declarations
and payments, release of merchandise, monitoring and control of warehouses and sale of confiscated goods.
It would also assist in enhancing the taxpayer current account to include customs transactions.
Sub-component 5: Strengthening the Capacity of the DIAN in Enforcement Operations. $4.57
million. This sub-component would support the building up of the enforcement capacity of the DIAN by
- 12 -



strengthening economic studies, management of external information, intelligence operations, risk analysis,
audits, investigation and inspections, monitoring of filing of declarations and payments, control of VAT
invoices, recovery of tax arrears and legal and appellate functions.
Sub-component 6: Improving Policy and Legal Framework of Revenue Administration: $0.45 million:
This sub-component would support the review and revision of tax and customs policy, laws and
regulations, and strengthen the ability of the DIAN to participate in international tax treaty negotiations.
b.    Public Expenditure Management: US$ 18.51 million
Sub-component 1: Improving Macro-programming and Formulation and Monitoring of the Budget:
$6.09 milion: This sub-component would (a) assist in clarifying and adjusting the roles and
responsibilities of different entities that participate in the programming, budgeting, execution and
evaluation of public expenditures; (b) develop, enhance and implement models and information systems for
(i) medium term and long term macro-economic projections and simulations, (ii) evaluation of expenditure
and revenue policies to assist in decisions regarding reformns in the fiscal structure, (iii) generation of
consolidated economic, fiscal and budgetary accounts of the public sector, (iv) classification of budget
execution information contained in the SIIF according to economic categories, and (v) monitoring of public
sector finances, to improve macro-programming; (c) develop, improve and implement methodologies and
systems for (i) analysis of budget programming, (ii) quantification of expenditures earmarked by different
laws and development of options for reforms aimed at reducing earmarking, (iii) projection of revenues,
with interfaces with information systems of the DIAN, (iv) calculation of unit costs of inputs and outputs,
initially for the Transport Sector and the Judicial Branch and, subsequently, for the Education and Health
Sectors, (v) formulation and monitoring of the investment budget of the central government (vi) analysis of
public policies, programs and projects, (vii) projection of cash flows of the non-financial public sector, and
(viii) financial monitoring of the budget; (d) improve interfaces between the information systems of the
Budget Directorate of the MHCP and those of the sector ministries, to improve budget formulation and
monitoring; and (e) implement existing inter-institutional agreements between the MHCP, DNP and CGR
to reduce the costs of monitoring of budgetary expenditures, by identifying shared information needs,
eliminating duplicate reports, establishing primary sources of information and developing systems to
provide access to these sources.
Sub-component 2: Strengthening of Budget Execution, Treasury, Public Credit and Accounting:
$9.70 million: This sub-component would provide assistance to (a) extend and enhance the Integrated
Financial Management System (Sistema Integrada de Informaci6n Financiera - SIIF) by (i) implementing it
in 145 regional offices of central government entities; (ii) developing a modified version of the system for
decentralized entities partially funded by the central budget and implementing the system in I I major
entities that spend about 12% of the national budget; (iii) enhancing the functionality of the system in
accordance with user feedback and increasing its capacity to include additional users; and (iv) developing a
module of the system to allow execution and accounting of externally funded projects through the system;
(b) develop and implement a system to improve the capacity of the Treasury to better manage its
investment portfolios; (c) develop and implement a new system for management of the public debt
portfolio; and (d) improve the quality of accounting information in public entities by (i) enhancing
mechanisms for the registration and reconciliation of accounting records covering income, debt
transactions, expenditures and physical assets; (ii) supporting dissemination, advisory services and training
to improve accounting practices; and (iii) strengthening the information systems of the Office of the
Accountant General of the Nation, to capture and integrate accounting information at the national,
decentralized, and territorial levels.
- 13 -



Sub-component 3: Improving the Evaluation of Results of Public Expenditure: $ 0.73 million: This
sub-component would support (a) the enhancement the National System for Evaluation of Results of Public
Sector Performance (SINERGIA) by (i) improving the evaluation system to, inter alia, include recurrent
expenditures in the evaluation process; (ii) developing new modules for strategic evaluations of different
sectors and evaluation of performance of territorial and decentralized entities; (iii) developing and
implementing an incentive model linked to public policy outcomes in two pilot ministries, namely the
Ministry of Foreign Trade and the Ministry of Economic Development; and (iv) updating the information
system supporting SINERGIA; (b) development of a systematic methodology for identification of inputs
and outputs of different sectors to establish efficiency standards pertaining to delivery of public policy
outcomes for each sector; and (c) design and implementation of dissemination strategies to provide
information to the public on performance targets for different policies, programs, projects and public sector
entities, evaluation of the actual results achieved and the amount of money spent in the process.
Sub-component 4: Strengthening Public Procurement and Contracting: $ 1.99 million:
This sub-component would provide assistance to (a) develop legislation and regulations to support
modifications to the Procurernent and Contracting Law (Law 80) with a view to improve the legal
framework for public procurement; (b) design and implement institutional arrangements, including the
possibility of establishing a national body, for developing and regulating public procurement and
contracting policy; standardizing and disseminating procedures, bidding documents and contracts; and
assisting central and territorial entities in procurement and contracting matters on an ongoing basis; (c)
develop and implement a system for monitoring and evaluation of procurement and contracting practices in
the public sector, piloting the system in two central level entities, one decentralized entity and two territorial
entities; (d) design and implement an internet based public procurement information system aimed at
disseminating all information regarding procurement notices, bidding documents and contract awards to
interested parties and the public, thereby setting the basis for online public procurement; and (e) carrying
out a survey to determine procurement training needs and developing a pedagogical system aimed at
providing public sector personnel with learning tools relating to the conceptual, technical, legal and
procedural aspects of public procurement and contracting.
c.    ProjectManagement: $ 4.35 million
This component will finance consulting services, equipment and training for the staff of the two Project
Management Units, one at the MHCP and the other at the DNP; communication of project objectives and
activities to stakeholder; and surveys to collect data on key performance indicators and obtain stakeholder
feedback
Indicative            Bank-      % of
component                   Sector        costs      % of    financing  .ank-
._____________W (USWM)   Total            l US$M)  fiancing
A. Revenue Administration          Institutional       36.02      60.8     21.70       61.2
Development
Public Expenditure Management      Institutional       18.51      31.3     11.15       31.4
Development
Project Management                 Public Financial     4.35       7.3      2.62        7.4
Management
Total Project Costs                  58.88       99.4     35.47     100.0
Front-end fee                    0.35        0.6      0.00        0.0
Total Financing Required                    59.23     100.0      35.47     100.0
- 14-



2. Key policy and insfitutional reforms supported by the project:
In Revenue Administration, the project would seek to (a) strengthen organization and management
capacity to increase operational effectiveness; (b) create a more favorable environment for voluntary
compliance; (c) implement second generation reforms in tax admninistration; (d) overcome institutional
deficiencies in the ability of the customs administration to collect trade taxes with minimal interruption
of trade flows; (e) strengthen enforcement capacity and (f) improve policy, laws and regulations
relating to taxes and customs, to broaden the tax base, reduce distortions, increase equity, simplify
procedures and facilitate enforcement.
In Public Expenditure Management, the project would aim to (a) strengthen planning and budget
formulation by clarifying institutional roles and responsibilities at different levels of government and
among institutions involved in budget planning, improving budgeting norms and enhancing the quality
of information and tools required for strategic expenditure decisions; (b) improve budget execution by
extending the coverage and capacity of the SIIF to a wider set of public entities, enhancing investment
and debt management capacity and improving accounting of public expenditures; (c) sharpen the focus
on results by improving evaluation capacity, initiating the process of linking incentives to performance
and facilitating monitoring of public sector performance by civil society; and (d) improve government
procurement and contracting by revising the relevant normnative and institutional framework,
streamlining processes and implementing modernized infornation systems.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project would improve the ability of the Government of Colombia to collect due taxes to finance
public expenditures. At the same time, it would benefit taxpayers, traders, brokers, clearing agents, tax
lawyers and accountants, by simplifying tax and customs procedures, providing additional taxpayer
assistance services and reducing compliance costs. Improvements in public expenditure management
would enable the government to allocate public funds to priority areas; maintain macro-economic
stability; and enhance the cost effectiveness of its operations. Greater emphasis on results,
strengthened evaluation mechanisms and increased information availability to civil society would help
improve accountability in the public sector and the quality of public services. Improvements in public
procurement and contracting would benefit suppliers of goods and services to the government, by
leveling the playing fields and increasing the transparency of the associated decision-making processes.
It would also increase the value for money derived by the public. At the organization level, the project
would benefit the DJAN, the MHCP, the DNP and the CGN by providing them with technical
assistance, information systems, equipment and training, thus enabling them to better perform their
fumctions.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
A.    Project Management:
Since project activities relate to multiple, autonomous organizations, it would be very important to
ensure effective coordination. For this purpose a high level Project Coordination Committee (Comite
de Coodinaci6n - COCOR) consisting of the Vice Minister, MHCP as Chairman; the Sub-Director,
DNP; and the Director General, DIAN will be set up to provide leadership and oversight to the project.
A senior, highly qualified professional will be recruited to act as the Secretary of the COCOR. In this
capacity he will assist the COCOR in implementing and coordinating the activities of the project as
whole. The COCOR will review the progress of the project, resolve implementation problems and
- 15-



bottlenecks, approve the "Programa Operativo Anual" (POAs) and project budgets and reallocate funds
between components and activities as needed. The COCOR will meet at least once every three months.
The project management arrangements will broadly follow the arrangements that have been
successfully employed for the ongoing Public Financial Management Project (PFMP). Project
activities will be divided into two clusters. Cluster 1, covering activities related to the MHCP, DLAN
and CGN will be managed by Project Management Unit - MHCP (PMU-MHP) and cluster 2, covering
activities related to the DNP, will be managed by Project Management Unit - DNP (PMU-DNP).
PMU-MHCP will consist of the following staff:
*   Secretary of the Coordination Committee, responsible for overseeing the activities of the
PMU-MHCP, in addition to assisting the COCOR in implementing and coordinating the project.
*   Technical Coordinator - DLAN, responsible for executing activities related to revenue administration,
in close coordination with the management and staff of the DIAN.
*   Technical Coordinator - Public Expenditure Management, responsible for executing activities
pertaining to expenditure management in collaboration with the management and staff of the MHCP,
CGN and DNP.
3   Technical Coordinator - SIIF, responsible for the enhancement and expansion of the SIIF. He will
work closely with the Technical Coordinator - Public Expenditure Management.
3  Project Administrator, responsible for developing the Annual Operational Program (Programa
Operativo Anual - POA); managing procurement, accounting, financial reporting, disbursements,
audits and project reporting.
3  Procurement Team consisting of a Procurement Officer and an Informatics Specialist, responsible for
canrying out the selection and recruitment of consultants and the procurement of goods and other
services required for the project in accordance with the relevant Bank Guidelines. The team will work
closely with the procurement specialists at the UNDP who would, inter alia, ensure adherence to Bank
Guidelines, invite bids, finalize contracts, clear goods through customs and make payments to suppliers
and consultants.
*  Financial Management Specialist/Accountant, responsible for accounting, disbursements, financial
reporting, auditing and adherence to Bank guidelines for project financial management. The Financial
Management Specialist will also assist the PMU-DNP as needed and will be responsible for
consolidating the accounts of both the PMUs into comprehensive project accounts. He/she will also
coordinate disbursement and accounting activities with the UNDP.
*   Two Secretaries.
PMU- DNP will consist of the following staff:
*   Technical Coordinator/ Project Administrator, responsible for coordinating public expenditure
management activities within the DNP and with the MHCO and CGN, developing the Annual Program
of Operations (Programa Operativo Anual - POA); managing procurement, accounting, financial
reporting, disbursements, audits and project reporting.
*  Project Officer, who would assist the Technical Coordinator! Project Administrator in the discharge of
his/ her functions.
*   Financial Management Specialist, responsible for disbursements, financial reporting, auditing and
adherence to Bank guidelines for project financial management. He/she will also coordinate
disbursement and accounting activities with the UNDPand the PMU-MHCP.
*  Accountant.
- 16-



*   Secretary.
To ensure coordination at the technical level, two Technical Coordination Committees (TCCs) would
be established. The Technical Coordination Committee - DIAN will be headed by the Director
General, DIAN and will have the Director of Taxes, the Director of Customs, the Secretary General,
DIAN, Secretary General - Institutional Development, the Head of the Office of Information Systems,
the Secretary of the COCOR and the Technical Coordinator - DIAN (Member-Secretary). This
Committee will deal with technical issues related to the implementation of project activities in the
DLAN.
The Technical Coordination Committee - Public Expenditure Management will consist of the
Directors of Macro-programming, Budget, Treasury and Public Credit, MHCP; Heads of the
Macro-programming, Public Investment and Finance, Evaluation Units of the DNP; representatives of
the Fiscal Council (Consejo Fiscal- CONFIS), the Office of the National Accountant General and the
Office of the Comptroller General of the Republic; the Secretary of the COCOR, the Technical
Coordinator/ Project Administrator - DNP, the Technical Coordinator - SIIF and the Technical
Coordinator - PEM, MHCP (Member- Secretary).
As with the ongoing PFMP, in order to ensure smooth flow of project funds and timely and efficient
execution of procurement contracts, GOC will engage UNDP under a Management Service Agreement.
Since UNDP cannot enter into a competitive selection process as required by IBRD guidelines, the
administrative fees paid to it would be financed out of counterpart funds.
B.    Financial Management Arrangements:
a.    Accounting and FinancialReporting : While the PMUs in charge of the project have gained
experience in project accounting through the execution of the ongoing Public Financial Management
Project since 1994, the current financial management system needs to be reinforced and expanded in
line with the new financial management requirements of the Bank. In compliance with the conditions
outlined in the Bank's Project Financial Management Manual (February 1999), a Financial
Management Specialist carried out the required project financial management assessment to determine
the capacity of the PMUs to observe present Bank financial management standards during project
implementation (see Annex 6). An Action Plan to deal with observed deficiencies was agreed with
project management. A follow up visit by a Financial Management Specialist and the progress made
by the PMUs in meeting the requirements of the Action Plan indicate that the project meets the Bank's
minimum financial management standards. A revised Action Plan has been prepared to further
strengthen project financial management capacity. An Action Plan to enable the PMUs to produce
Project Management Reports will be implemented within six months of effectiveness.
Within the GOC counterpart contribution, there is an amount of US$8.5 million which will be shown in
the national budget as the investment budget of the DIAN and not of the project. This amount will
finance some of the activities included in the Revenue Administration component of the project, which
will be directly executed by the DIAN, in line with the Action Plan agreed with the IDB. Since the
funds will be spent in accordance with the National Budgetary and Procurement laws, special
arrangements for monitoring of these funds have been agreed. These are: (i) the monitoring of the
activities and the expenditures incurred will be carried out ex-post by the PMU and Bank supervision
missions; (ii) the DIAN will submit quarterly reports showing the scope of activities carried out,
categories of expenditure, physical progress achieved and the impact of such activities; and (iii) on that
basis, the PMU financial specialist will consolidate the information and prepare all the required reports
- 17 -



for the IBRD, national authorities and audit.
b.    Procurement: The PMU-MHCP will have a procurement team consisting of a Procurement
Officer and an Informatics Specialist, who would look after procurement and contracting activities
related to the project. In the PMU-DNP this function will be performed by the Technical Coordinator!
Project Administrator and the Project Officer. UNDP will be hired through counterpart funds to
provide procurement management support and will work closely with the PMUs.
Procurement of goods under the proposed project will be carried out in accordance with the latest
version of Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits". Procurement of
information systems would be carried out using the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for the
Supply and Installation of Information Systems. Consultants will be recruited in accordance with the
latest version of "Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as
Executing Agency". A procurement capacity assessment has been carried out, with procurement risk
being rated as "average". Procurement methods and thresholds for prior review have been agreed
(Annex 6).
c.    Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements: The project would be implemented on the basis
of an annual work program called "Programa Operativo Anual" (POA). The POA is being used by the
ongoing project. The POA for each calendar year would be submitted to the Bank by the preceding
October 31 for approval. The POA would contain details of activities to be executed during the year
and the resources required, source of financing, time table, performance indicators and institutional
responsibility for each activity. Further, in keeping with Bank financial management guidelines,
(OP/BP) 10.2., project management reports (PMRs) would be submitted. The PMRs would comprise
of financial reports, progress reports, and procurement reports. The format of these reports will closely
follow the guidelines in the Project Financial Management Manual (IBRD, February 1999). The
reports will reflect all project financing and expenditures, including those expenditures that are financed
outside of the PMU. It was agreed, that the PMUs will prepare quarterly PMRs, to be consolidated by
the PMU - MHCP for review by the COCOR and the Bank. The project would be supervised by the
Bank on an ongoing basis, with at least two field supervision missions each year. A mid-term review
of the project would be carried out in the third year of project implementation.
d.    Auditing Arrangements: The Comptroller General of the Republic (CGR) by law conducts
the audits of public sector programs, including IBRD projects. Accordingly, this project would also be
audited by the CGR. Audits of accounts and the financial statements of the project, including a
separate opinion on Statements of Expenditures, would follow accounting and auditing procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. All supporting records would be maintained at least one year after the
completion of the project. A consolidated audit report would be submitted to the Bank no later than
four months after the end of each fiscal year. The audit would cover project expenditures until such
time as the loan has been closed. To ensure timely submission of the audit reports to the Bank, the
CGR will be asked to submit within six months after loan effectiveness its report on the review of
Project Internal Controls. Arrangements will also be made with the CGR to ensure its involvement in
project audit early in the fiscal year, thus, enabling it to complete the audit process in a timely manner.
The use of Bank guidelines on project audits and the terms of reference of Auditors will be agreed
before negotiations.
e.    Disbursement Arrangements: GOC will sign Management Service Agreements (MSAs) with
UNDP, similar to the MSAs currently in place under the on-going project, to manage both loan and
counterpart funds. The MSAs would have the advantages of allowing the project a more predictable
- 18-



access to funds due to budgetary regulations governing this type of agreement. UNDP also has ample
experience in international procurement and has tax exemption status. Under the MSA arrangement,
IBRD will make disbursement directly to the General Account of the UNDP in New York. Payments
will be made out of this account by UNDP in dollars or in local currency. The PMUs would still have
full responsibility for the financial management, monitoring and reporting of the project and for
preparing all aspects of the processes related to the procurement. UNDP will act as an intemal auditor
by guaranteeing that all procurement rules and guidelines are followed. It will also review all contracts
executed under the project from the legal point view. UNDP will sign all contracts and pay the
beneficiaries of the contracts. It will transfer all goods purchased to the executing agencies. In the
future, GOC may engage another agency to perform the functions that would initially be performed by
the UNDP, subject to the agreement of the Bank and under terms and conditions satisfactory to it.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Revenue Administration: One of the alternatives proposed in the early stages of project design was to
limit this component to investments in Information Technology. This would have had the advantage of
focused project interventions, precise outputs and easier project implementation. However, this alternative
was rejected, because it would not have resulted in sustainable improvements in the DIAN's performance.
While IT investments are important, it is equally important to address non-IT institutional deficiencies in
organization, management and operations. Therefore, an integrated modernization strategy, including both
IT and non-IT interventions, was developed after a comprehensive institutional and organizational
diagnosis.
Public Expenditure Management: The initial strategy considered for this component was (a) to focus on
extending the SIIF and (b) addressing expenditure management problems relating to the education and
health sectors that account for a major proportion of public spending. Regarding the latter it was felt by
GOC that deficiencies in information relating to physical inputs and outputs linked to expenditures in these
sectors made it very difficult to take well-considered budgetary decisions. After several rounds of
discussions with different agencies, a consensus emerged that a broader, more holistic approach dealing
with continuing deficiencies at different points of the expenditure cycle would yield more sustainable
improvements. Therefore a broader reform strategy was adopted covering macro-programning, budget
formulation and monitoring, budget execution, management of investment and debt portfolios, evaluation,
and procurement and contracting. As regards the education and health sectors, discussions with
counterparts revealed the existence of serious sector-specific issues, such as private versus public provision
of education and health services, financing of health care and the performance of agencies engaged in health
insurance and provision of health services. Such issues need to be dealt with in order to imnprove
expenditure outcomes in these sectors. It was felt that these were beyond the scope of this project and
would best be addressed through other sectoral reforms. However, to address issues related to budgetary
information pertaining to these sectors, they were included as pilot sectors for developmnent of information
relating to per unit costs of inputs and outputs.
Adaptable Program Lending vs. Specific Investment Loan: In view of the institution building nature of
the project, the alternative of designing the project as an Adaptable Program Lending (APL) operation was
also discussed with the government. However, considering that the project is itself the second stage of the
process of strengthening public financial management that began in 1994 and, on its completion, a modem
institutional infrastructure for revenue administration and public expenditure management is expected to be
in place, this option was not pursued. The government also indicated that it does not envisage the need for
- 19-



additional loans for public financial management after the end of this project.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
.                           T    Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                  (PSR) Ratings
(Bank4inanced projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Public Financial Management, Tax    Public Financial Management      S             S
Administration, National Evaluation   -CO
System
Capital markets, public debt, pension,  Financial Markets Development  S           S
banking                            TA - CO
Other development agencies
Strengthening of financial management IDB- Strengthening of the
in regional entities               Regional Information System -
FOSIT
Technical Assistance in training and    GTZ
development of organizational strategy
of the DIAN
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
A number of lessons learned in the course of implementation of the PFMP and similar projects have been
incorporated in the project design. These include the following:
-   A project dealing with fundamental reforms in Revenue Administration (RA) and Public Expenditure
Management (PEM) can succeed only if it has strong borrower commitment. In order to achieve this,
it has been ensured that the project addresses real Borrower needs in both the areas and is in line with
the Borrower's strategic priorities. Also, different agencies of the Borrower have been closely involved
in preparation of the project, so as to build ownership of the proposed reforms.
*   While computerization is necessary to improve efficiency and effectiveness in RA and PEM, it is not
sufficient. It is imperative to address underlying institutional weaknesses in order to achieve lasting
results. Therefore, a well-rounded institutional development approach has been adopted. While
supporting extensive information technology investments, the project would also deal with issues
relating to the normative framework, incentives, human resources, organizational arrangements,
management systems, business processes and training.
*   In addressing institutional weaknesses, it is not enough to focus on formal rules of the game. The
informal rules must be taken into account. Consequently, informal rules have been specifically
examined while diagnosing both RA and PEM, and to the extent possible project interventions have
been designed to address problems related to both formal and informal rules.
*   In reforming organizations, it is important to take into account the environment in which they operate.
Accordingly, enviromnental factors of both the RA and PEM have been examined in detail at the
diagnostic stage and an attempt has been made to design project activities that would strengthen the
positive effects of the environment and reduce its negative influences on the targeted organizations.
*   Institutional development is an iterative multi-year process. For this reason, the project has been
- 20 -



designed to support second generation reforms, building on the progress made under the PFMP.
*   Competent leadership of the project is essential. The project leader should have adequate authority to
overcome inter-organizational hurdles and push reforms. For this purpose, the project will be headed
by the Vice Minister, MHCP. It would also have a Secretary to the COCOR of sufficient stature to
lead day to day implementation activities.
* Due to their regular responsibilities, it is very difficult for line managers and staff to devote adequate
attention to longer term modernization activities. Yet their inputs are crucial to project success.
Therefore, it is essential to create a dedicated group of individuals who are devoted full time to
implementation of project activities, but work closely with line staff. To address this need, Project
Management Units, consisting of consultants and regular employees, have been designed to coordinate
project activities with line agencies and facilitate implementation. Also a high level Project
Coordination Committee and two Technical Coordination Committees have been created to ensure
smooth inter-institutional cooperation and an synchronized approach in activities involving more than
one organization.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Given the serious fiscal situation faced by Colombia, reforms in revenue administration and public
expenditure management are amongst the top priorities of the government. This is reflected in the high
priority attached to the project in programming discussions with the Bank. The project has been
extensively discussed with the Borrower, it has been designed to address manifested needs and different
agencies of the Borrower have invested considerable time and effort in developing the project. The
government's commitment to the project is also indicated by the provisions it has made for the project in
the FY 2001 national budget, in spite of the very tight fiscal situation.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has been actively involved in supporting public financial management reforms in Colombia for
the last six years. In the process it has acquired considerable country specific knowledge of the issues that
need to be dealt with. This, coupled with the its international and regional experience in similar projects,
would help the Bank provide high quality assistance to the Borrower, enabling it to consolidate the reforms
initiated by the PFMP and dealing with deficiencies that remain to be addressed. Also, as has been the
experience with the PFMP, as a disinterested party focused on achieving the development objectives of the
project, the Bank would be able to help overcome inter-institutional boundaries and catalyze cooperation
between different counterpart agencies in areas that require concerted action.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
* Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
Economic impact of project to be evaluated.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ rnillion; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Inpact:
- 21 -



3. Technical:
In order to identify issues in revenue administration and pin-point areas of project assistance, a
comprehensive diagnosis of the DLN was carried out, based on "A Diagnositc Framework for Revenue
Administration ", Jit B. S. Gill, World Bank Tecnical Paper 472, 2000. First a preliminary examination
of the DIAN was conducted using Indicators of Nature and Scope of Operations; Indicators of
Effectiveness; and Indicators of Efficiency. Thereafter, a detailed institutional and organizational analysis
was carried out. Four major Inputs of the DLAN, namely its Environment, History, Resources, and
Organizational Strategy were examined. Thereafter, Transformation Processes, through with inputs are
converted into outputs were analyzed, with reference to both organization and management tasks as well
as technical tasks related to tax and customs administration. For each task the formal organizational
arrangements, the informal organization and the individuals performing the task were studied. Finally,
Outputs at the individual, unit and organizational level were examined. In the whole analysis, the focus
was on finding out as to where and why different pieces of the DIAN's system do not fit each other, thus
causing performance problems. Once the causes of inadequate performance were identified, appropriate
remedies were developed to deal with them.
Similarly, a detailed analysis of public expenditure management institutions in Colombia was carried out,
following an enhanced version of the diagnostic methodology outlined in the Public Expenditure Handbook
(The World Bank, 1998). In addition, reports produced by the Commission for the Rationalization of
Public Expenditures and Finances (Comisi6n de Racionalizaci6n del Gasto y de las Finanzas Publicas)
were used to supplement the diagnosis.
Both diagnoses were validated through consultations with concemed GOC managers and staff. Activities
finally included in the project were those that the clients identified to be high priority and doable. They take
into account the current level of technological and functional sophistication of the DLAN, MHCP, DNP and
CGN and their capacity to absorb planned project inputs. Project costs are based on best judgement
estimates, guided by the implementation experience of the PFMP.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
MHCP, DNP and DIAN
4.2 Project management:
As mentioned above, this project will broadly follow the project management arrangements that have been
successfully employed for the PFMP. The executing agencies for the project will be the DLN, for the
Revenue Administration component, and the MHCPand the DNP, for the Public Expenditure Management
component. The DIAN is an administratively autonomous entity closely linked with the MHCP, while the
MHCP and DNP are part of the central government. Inter-agency coordination will be ensured through a
high level Coordination Committee and two Technical Coordination Committees. The executing agencies
will be supported by two PMUs, that are currently managing the PFPM in the MHCP and DNP. The
PMUs will have the assistance of the UNDP for management of project funds and procurement processes.
The PFMP is broadly similar in magnitude and complexity to this project. The satisfactory implementation
experience of the PFMP indicates that the executing agencies have the capacity to execute the new project
with equal success. While the range of project activities may appear to be very broad at first blush, it is
- 22 -



important to note that these would actually be apportioned between various functional units. In the revenue
administration component, activities relating to organization and management would be led by the
Secretary General and Secretary General (Institutional Development) of the DIAN; while those related to
tax administration, customs administration and informatics would be managed by the Directorate of Taxes,
Directorate Customs and the office of Informatics Services, respectively. Similarly, in the public
expenditure management component, the oversight of activities relating to macro-programming and
formulation and monitoring of the budget would be shared between the Macro-programming Directorate
and the Budget Directorate of the MHCP and the Investment Budget Unit of the DNP; the expansion of the
SIIF would be managed by the existing SIIF unit in the MHCP, while the development of the systems for
management of investment portfolios and debt management would be led by the Treasury and Public Credit
Directorate, respectively. Activities concerning accounting would be managed by the National Accountant
General's office. Further, activities relating to improvement of evaluation systems would be undertaken by
the Evaluation Unit of the DNP, while those related to improvements in public procurement and contracting
by another team in the DNP. Consequently, the burden of implementing project activities would be evenly
distributed and would not excessively strain the institutional capacity of any one functional unit.
As the experience of the PFMP has shown, the quality of staff involved in implementation of project
activities in various units of the DIAN, MIICP, DNP and CGN is, generally, very good. This would
ensure that there is constant client involvement in the design and implementation of project initiatives and in
ensuring that project outputs meet client needs. Frequent rotation of personnel at senior positions in the
DIAN, MHCP and DNP is, however, expected to continue, as was the case during implementation of the
PFMP. While this will no doubt have some impact on the pace of the project, it is not seen as a major
impediment. During the irnplementation of the PFMP, it was noticed that officials replacing incumbents
are usually of the same high caliber. After an initial period of familiarization with the project, they tend to
support it strongly on account of the improvements that the project can make to performance in their
respective areas of responsibility. There has also been some rotation of staff in the PMU of the MHCP.
This will be sought to be reduced through contracts extending over more than one year.
All the executing agencies and the PMUs have gained considerable knowledge and experience in public
fmancial management reform and Bank procedures during the implementation of the PFMP. UNDP also
has experience with the PFMP and other Bank projects.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Regarding procurement under Bank projects, the CPAR states that while procurement problems have in
some instances caused delays, a more frequent cause has been the lack of adequate and timely counterpart
funding. Bank financed projects are exempted from the national law on procurement (Law 80), therefore,
procurement under those projects is carried out in accordance with the Bank Guidelines. By and large,
implementing agencies consider procurement under Bank projects easier and more transparent than that
under national procedures. There have been no instances of mis-procurement in the recent past. The main
procurement related problems found in project implementation are due to: (i) limited knowledge of Bank
policies and procedures and wrong interpretation of the Guidelines; (ii) lack of qualified and experienced
staff, particularly among decentralized projects and new agencies; and (iii) lack of standard documents for
NCB. Procurement and inspection agents are not used in Bank projects. However UNICEF, UNDP and
IICA have been hired as project administrators because of their experience in the field and their ability to
assist with the resolution of administrative problems primarily related to budget management. The general
risk assessment is that while Public procurement in Colombia entails high risk both for the Government and
for those doing business with the Government, procurement under Bank projects, where the Guidelines are
reasonably enforced, is apparently free of major risk and corruption.
- 23 -



This project, as a part of its Public Expenditure Management Component, includes a subcomponent aimed
at (i) improving the legal and the institutional framework for public procurement; (ii) developing public
procurement information systems and (iii) developing and implementing a procurement training program.
A procurement capacity assessment of PMUs in the MHCP and the DNP was conducted and procurement
risk for the project was assessed as "average". Procurement activities will be handled by the PMUs in
conjunction with the UNDP. In the PMU-MHCP, the Project Administrator has been trained in
procurement at the Bank. In addition, a Procurement Team consisting of a Procurement Officer and an
Informatics Specialist has been created. In the PMU-DNP, procurement matters will be dealt with by the
Technical Coordinator/Project Administrator and the Project Officer. Additional training in Bank
procurement guidelines will be provided to PMU staff through the Project Launch Workshop and
subsequent courses.
4.4 Financial management issues:
According to the Country Financial Management Assessment (CFMA- September 1998), the general
framework for financial management at the country level is already in place, legislated for both the private
and the public sectors. The National Accounting Office (CGN) is the executing agency for governmental
accounting and the controlling institutions in charge of monitoring compliance are the Superintendencies in
charge of overseeing economic sectors as well as the CGR. Financial management in Colombia is based on
Article 334 of the Constitution. The CFMA indicates that overall Colombia does not lack laws and
regulations concerning financial management or the practice of the accounting profession. The main issues
relate to the fact that financial management needs to be more closely linked to service of national goals.
The recommendations of the report focus on improving the financial management systems to facilitate
control of expenditures, allow centralized and decentralized monitoring of expenditures and permit
performance assessment and the establishment of a results-oriented public sector. It should be noted that
the current Public Financial Management Project I has made inroads in meeting these objectives by the
implementation of the SIIF system, the strengthening of the CGN and the implementation of the
SINERGIA. The follow on project will further strengthen these systems as detailed above.
According to the CFMA, the hurdle most encountered by Bank projects in the country is the frequent
budget cuts, along with inefficiencies in the flow of funds to the projects that affect project implementation.
The use of UNDP as the fund executing agency in the project helps alleviate the flow of fund problems
caused by the bureaucratic process at the central level as the funds are committed in the annual budget and
deposited in the UNDP account. However, fiscal problems have led to smaller than planned budget
approvals causing a shortage, sometimes, of both counterpart and loan funds. This issue will need careful
attention during the yearly budget approval process.
A financial management assessment of the current PMUs in the MHCP and DNP was conducted. The
PMUs were observed to have various strengths including, (a) ample experience of staff in project
management, (b) defined organizational structures, (c) established culture and procedures with regard to
planning, budgeting and monitoring of activities, (d) knowledge of Bank guidelines and (e) experienced
extemal government auditors. Weaknesses detected included the need for documentation of policies and
procedures, a computerized integrated financial management/accounting system and quarterly project
management reports. An Action Plan to deal with the observed deficiencies was agreed with project
management. Since then, considerable progress has been made (see Annex 6). As a result, the rating for
the project has been raised to "4-B". A revised Action Plan has been agreed to further strengthen project
financial management.
All project funds will be managed directly by the UNDP. Project accounts will be maintained by the two
-24 -



PMUs and will be consolidated by PMU-MHCP. These will be audited by the CGR, who has the legal
responsibility in this regard. The reports of the CGR have been found to be generally satisfactory, in the
case of the PFMP. However, occasional delays, not always attributable to the CGR, have been
experienced in receipt of audit reports. Remedial measures will be taken to reduce the delays, including
agreeing with the CGR to start audit activities early in the fiscal year concerned. Some additional training
to PMU staff would be needed in the new financial management guidelines of the Bank. This will be
provided through the Project Launch Workshop and other courses.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project is classified as Category C and has been cleared by LCSES on October 6, 2000.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not applicable.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
Not applicable.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not applicable.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Not applicable.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The project's main social development outcome is more responsive, accountable and transparent
governance.
Stakeholders within the public sector who would benefit from the project include officials responsible for
economic management, revenue collection, expenditure management and preparation and auditing of
national accounts. These stakeholders would benefit from the improved norms, processes, systems and
skills implemented through the project, that would help them take better decisions and implement them
more effectively. External stakeholders who would gain form the project consist of law abiding taxpayers;
traders, brokers and clearing agents; tax lawyers and accountants; suppliers of goods and services to the
government; civil society organizations interested in strengthening citizen's voice in government affairs and
in fighting corruption. Stakeholders who stand to lose from project initiatives would include corrupt public
officials unable to earn rents due to reduced discretion, increased transparency and improved
accountability; tax evaders and smugglers thwarted by improved enforcement capacity of the DIAN and
corrupt vendors affected by more transparent procurement procedures and greater competition.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Preparation    Implementation
- 25 -



Beneficiaries (Executing Agencies)       IS, COL       IS, COL
Beneficiaries (Taxpayers)                CON           IS, CON
Intermediary NGOs                                      CON
Other Donors                             COL           COL
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
During project preparation taxpayers were consulted on issues related to voluntary compliance and
interaction with the DIAN. In the course of project implementation, it is planned to carry out surveys of
taxpayers, traders, brokers, clearing agents as well as their representative associations, to determine the
improvement in their perception regarding the efficiency, effectiveness, integrity and quality of service of
the DIAN. Also surveys of civil society organizations and suppliers of goods and services to the
government would be carried out to measure improvements in transparency about the objectives, actual
performance, expenditure, procurement and contracting of public entities. Further, in developing revised
regulations for procurement and contracting, consultations with different stakeholders are planned.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomnes?
The project provides for various coordination, consultation and change management mechanisms to build
support for the reforms supported by it. It also makes provision for carrying out a sustained
communication campaign for this purpose. Stakeholder surveys would also be used both to measure the
progress made by the project as well as to fine-tune project interventions in line with the feedback received.
Opposition from corrupt public officials, tax evaders, smugglers and corrupt vendors would be inevitable.
To overcome it, the project would seek to build countervailing support for the proposed reforms amongst
the honest majority of stakeholders. At the same time, it would rely on the declared commitment of the
government to enforce tax laws effectively, empower civil society and combat corruption.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Performance regarding social development outcomes would be monitored through surveys and supervision.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7  Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the proiect?
Policy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           0 Yes * No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)         0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Not applicable.
- 26 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The critical factors on which the sustainability of project benefits would depend include: continuing public
demand for improvements in quality of public services, particularly, in revenue administration, public
expenditure management and public procurement and contracting; sustained commitment of the government
at the political, managerial and technical levels to whole-heartedly implement project activities and support
the updating and maintenance of project outputs after the project closes; the willingness of the government
to base critical revenue enforcement and resource allocation decisions on the objective information
generated by different tools and systems provided by the project, rather than on purely political
considerations; and the effectiveness with which change management strategies are implemented.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Commitment to strengthening of revenue      M         The project would play a central role in enabling
administration and public expenditure                 the government to respond to the difficult
management at the political, managerial               macro-economic and fiscal situation facing the
and technical levels is not sustained.                country. For this reason, continued support
from the political directorate is expected. Also.
while designing the project, significant effort has
been made to make sure that it responds to
critical needs of different functional areas. This
would help secure continued commitment to its
implementation at the operational level.
The government is unable to effect          M         Most institutional changes envisaged under the
institutional changes required to                     project are within the purview of the Executive
successfully implement project outputs.               branch. On account of the active involvement Af
the agencies covered by the projects and their
various operational units in project design,
considerable ownership for the project has been
built up. The process of participation and
consultation will continue throughout project
implementation. Provision has also been made
for effectively communicating the objectives and
benefits of project initiatives to managers and
staff within the government and to external
stakeholders, so as to create a propitious
environment for institutional change.
Decisions relating to enforcement of tax    M         The risk that some decisions in revenue
and customs laws and those relating to                administration and public expenditure
allocation and spending of public funds               management would be based on political
are based on political considerations and             considerations cannot be ruled out. However, it
not on decision support systems developed              is expected that the models, methodologies,
under the project.                                    information systems and skills provided by the
project would equip decision makers with
objective information with which to counter
unreasonable political demands.
-27 -



From Components to Outputs
Managers and staff of the DIAN, MHCP       M         Managers and staff of these agencies have been
and DNP do not take an active interest in            actively involved in the implementation of the
the development, quality control and                 PFMP and the design of this project. They are
implementation of project initiatives.               expected to remain engaged in the
implementation of the project as its outputs
would have a major beneficial impact on the
functioning of their respective organizations.
Coordination between MHCP, DNP,            M         Already these entities have experience in
CGN CGR and other relevant agencies in               coordinating project activities due to the PFMP.
common activities is weak.                           Adequate coordination mechanisms have been
incorporated into the project design (the
COCOR and Technical Coordination
Committees for each component). Coordination
would also be facilitated by the Bank in the
course of project supervision.
Adequate allocation for the project in the  H        Given the importance of the project to the
national budget is not made from year to             critical area of fiscal management, the project is
year and counterpart funds are                       expected to receive high priority in budget
inadequate.                                          allocations, as has been the case with the PFMP.
Nevertheless, given the tight fiscal situation
budget cuts for the project cannot be ruled out.
The PMUs would need to be proactive in
ensuring that adequate budgetary provisions are
made for the project.
Management of project activities, finances  M        The PMUs have gained sufficient experience in
and procurement and contracting actions              project management and Bank procedures.
is not effective.                                    Effective project management would be ensured
through staffing of the PMUs with qualified
individuals and providing them with adequate
training and coaching as needed. The
engagement of the UNDP for management of
project funds and procurement would also
strengthen project management.
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
-28-



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*   The Secretary to the COCOR and other staff of PMUs, as indicated in Project Management
arrangements above, appointed.
*   Management Services Agreement (MSA) signed with UNDP.
* All actions under the revised Action Plan for Financial Management completed, including
implementation of the Integrated Project Management Information System.
*   Procurement documents for major contracts to be executed in the first six months of project execution
prepared.
*   Project Operational Manual finalized.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Not applicable.
H. Readiness for Implementation
O I . a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
Z 1. b) Not applicable.
El 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
1 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Details of project activities and sub-activities, type of inputs needed, costs and sequencing and performance
indicators have been agreed. TORs for consultants to be engaged and specifications for goods to be
procured in the first six months of project implementation will be prepared before effectiveness. The same
for activities to be undertaken in the next six months would be prepared in draft outline and would be
further refined closer to the date for inviting bids. The Operational Manual for the project would be
prepared as a condition of effectiveness. Since the Project Management Units would, essentially. be similar
to those PFMP, they are substantially in place. Additional project staff required would be recruited before
effectiveness. Procurement and Financial Management Assessments of the PMUs have already been
carried out and remedial actions to overcome deficiencies found have been initiated. Thus, the project is
substantially ready for implementation.
- 29 -



1. Compliance with Bank PaoiciS
t I. This project complies with aUl applicable Bank policies.
U  2.The following exceptions m Bank policies are wcommneded ic approval. The project complics with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Jit bahAdur   S &/J3   May                                           Olivier Lafoucade
ToW L;Wor                          Moct91 anagwr                   -Country Manager
-30-






Annex 1: Project Design Summary
COLOMBIA: PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT II
Key Perormance
Hierarchy of O4ectives -.        Indteators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical AssumpflOns
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Attaining public sector      *  Improved quality of       * Annual evaluation of   *  Macro-economic
responsiveness and efficiency   public services.             public policies,         stability.
in the delivery of services                                  programs, projects    *  Reduced internal
and agencies by the     conflict.
DNP.
* Service Delivery
Surveys.
*  Reports of the
Comptroller General
of the Republic
(CGR).
-31 -



Key Perfomt ance
0iHierarchy oObjes00 0 t;iv  ;       ;indicator# S       :  *Moitoring &JEvaluation    Critical Assufnptins
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
A. Strengthen the         *Improvement in the           *  DIAN statistical        *  Continued demand for
institutional capacity of the  effectiveness of the DIAN as  reports                  improvement in tax
Directorate of National Taxes  indicated by:            *  DIAN statistical           and customs
and Customs (DIAN) to foster    *  5% increase per         reports.                   administration from
voluntaiy compliance; collect    annum in the           *  Measurement of             the public and othei
revenues efficiently,           proportion of total tax    compliance gaps and        stakeholders.
effectively and equitably; and  declarations filed         contraband by the       *  Sustained comrnitment
combat tax evasion and          voluntarily and on         Economic Studies Unit      of the government to
smuggling, so as to enable it   time.                      of the DIAN.               the modernization of
to mobilize adequate tax     *  5% increase per         *  DIAN budget.               the DIAN.
revenues to finance public      annum in the            *  Stakeholders surveys.
expenditures.                   proportion of total tax
revenues paid
voluntarily and on
time.
*  0.5% decrease
annually in the VAT
compliance gap.
*  1% decrease annually
in Income Tax and
Business Profit Tax
compliance gap.
*  1% decrease annually
in the ratio of
contraband to total
imports.
* Improvement in the
efficiency of the DIAN as
indicated by 1% decrease
per annum in the ratio of
the annual recurrent
budget of the DIAN to total
revenue collected by it.
* Improvement in the
perception of taxpayers,
traders and other
stakeholders regarding the
efficiency, effectiveness,
and integrity of the DIAN
as indicated by annual
surveys.
- 32 -



B. Strengthen public      * Increased accountability of    *  Evaluation reports  *  Continuing demand for
expenditure management at   public entities for           generated by             public expenditure
the central government level,   achievement of            SINERGIA.                reform, transparency
to facilitate achievement of  performance objectives,  *  Reports of the           and accountability from
fiscal and national         spending of public            procurement and           civil society and the
development objectives,     resources, and procurement    contracting monitoring    private sector.
improve cost effectiveness of    of goods and services, as  system.              *  Sustained conmmitment
public services, and increase    indicated by results of  *  Per unit costs data of  for public expenditure
transparency and            evaluations done through      selected sectors          management reforms
accountability.             the Sistema Nacional de       (Transport, the           amongst different
Evaluaci6n de Gestion y       Judiciary, Education     agencies, especially, the
Resultados ((National         and Health).             Ministry of Finance and
System for Evaluation of   *  Surveys of civil society  Public Credit (MHCP),
Management and Results -      and public officials.   the National Planning
SINERGIA).                 *  SINERGIA Reports         Department (DNP), the
* Increased value for money  *  Reports of the CGR on    National Accountant
in public procurement and     social control.          General (CGN) and the
contracting in pilot                                   Comptroller General of
agencies.                                             the Republic (CGR).
* Increased transparency and
enhanced civil society
capacity to monitor public
sector performance, as
indicated by the quantity,
quality and timeliness of
information, pertaining to
public sector performance
and expenditures, available
to the public.
- 33 -



Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
A. Revenue Administration   *  Delivery of project     * Annual Operational        *  Sustained
* Improved norms,            outputs in accordance     Plans (POAs).                commitment to
business processes,       with milestones         *  Project Management          strengthening of
information systems and   established in the         Reports (PMRs).             revenue
infrastructure for        Project Implementation    *  Supervision Reports.      administration at the
strategic planning and    Plan (PIP), as updated  * Mid Term Review              political, managerial
management, personnel     from time to time.     *  Surveys of taxpayers and     and technical levels.
management and         *  Improvement in the        customs users and DIAN    * Ability of the
professional              DIAN's capacity for        officials.                  government to effect
development, prevention   strategic planning,    *  DIAN statistical reports.    institutional changes
and control of            budgeting, personnel                                   required to
corruption, information   management and                                         successfully
management and            professional                                           implement project
records management;       development, prevention                                outputs.
promoting voluntary       for corruption,
compliance; managing      information
routine processing of tax  management and
declarations and          records management.
payments; managing     *  ISO 9000 certification
routine processing of     for business processes of
cargo, customs            the DIAN.
declarations and       *  Increased taxpayer
payments; and             satisfaction with services
enforcement,              provided by the DIAN to
implemented and           promote voluntary
relevant staff trained.   compliance.
*  Reduction in time taken
*  Policy and legal          to process tax and
framework for tax and     customs declaration and
customs administration    payments and clear
systematically reviewed   cargo.
and options for        *  Improved targeting of
improvement presented     cases for investigation
to govemment.             resulting in increased
audit productivity.
*  Reduction in time taken
to initiate action against
non-filers, stop filers
and taxpayers failing to
pay taxes on time.
*  Improvements in tax
policy and legal
framework based on
recommendations
emerging from their
review.
- 34 -



B. Expenditure Management
* Roles and
responsibilities of    *  Delivery of project    *  Annual Operational      *  Sustained commitment
different agencies        outputs in accordance     Plans (POAs).             to strengthening of
involved in public        with milestones        * Project Management          public expenditure
expenditure               established in the PIP,   Reports (PMRs).            management at the
management (PEM) at       as updated from time to   * Project Supervision      political, managerial
the national level        time.                     Reports.                   and technical levels.
revised.               * Greater clarity in roles    * Mid Term Review.     * Ability of the
* Improved norms,            and responsibilities of    * Evaluation of sectors   government to effect
models, methodologies     different entities         and entities carried out  institutional changes
and information systems   involved in PEM at the    by DNP using               required to successfully
to support decision       central level.            SINERGIA.                 implement project
making in the areas of    *  Increased user      *  SIIF reports.              outputs.
macro-programming,        satisfaction regarding  *  Surveys of civil society
budget formulation,       the utility of new norms,  and public officials.
budget execution,         models, methodologies
investment                and information systems
management, debt          in day to day PEM
management, evaluation    activities.
and public procurement   * At least 900/O of the
and contracting,          central budget executed
implemented and           on-line through the
relevant staff trained.   SIIF.
* Additional 145 regional   *  Improvement in the
offices of central        coverage, quality and
government entities and   timeliness of
11 major descentralized   information available to
entities connected on    the public regarding
line to the SIIF.         objectives, actual
*  Information about         performance,
objectives, performance   expenditure and
targets, actual           procurement of public
performance,              entities.
expenditure,
procurement and
contracting of public
entities regularly
available to the public.
-35 -



Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:        (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
A. Revenue Administration    USS36.02 million         * Annual Operational      * Active involvement of
Plans (POAs).            relevant managers and
A: Revenue Administration:                            * Project Management         staff of the DIAN in the
Reports (PMRs).           design, development,
Sub-component 1:           $13.64 million             *  Project Supervision       quality control and
Strengthening Organization                               Reports.                  implementation of
and Management of the                                 * Mid Term Review.           project initiatives.
DIAN.                                                 * Consultant Outputs.     * Effective coordination of
* Procurement documents.     project acfivities
Sub-component 2:           $ 6.50 million.            * Disbursement Reports.      between different
Facilitating Voluntary                                * Audit Reports.             organizational units of
Compliance.                                                                       the DIAN and between
$ 1.23 million                                         the DIAN and the
Sub-component 3:                                                                   MHCP and DNP in
Improving the Effectiveness of                                                     areas of common
the DIAN in Managing                                                              interest.
Routine Processing of Tax
Declarations and Payments.
$ 9.61 million.
Sub-component 4:
Improving the Effectiveness of
the DIAN in Managing
Routine Processing of Cargo,
Customs Declarations and
Payments:
$ 4.57 million
Sub-component 5:
Strengthening the Capacity of
the DIAN in Enforcement
Operations.
$ 0.45 million
Sub-component 6:
Improving Policy and Legal
Framework of Revenue
Administration.
-36-



B. Expenditure Management USS 18.51 million               * Annual             * Active involvement of
Operational Plans   relevant managers and
Sub-comnonent 1:                                            (POAs).              staff of the MHCP,
Improving                $ 6.09 million                   * Project               DNP, CGN and CGR in
Macro-programming and                                        Management          the design, development,
Formulation and Monitoring                                   Reports (PMRs).     quality control and
of the Budget.                                            * Project              implementation of
Supervision         project initiatives.
Sub-component 2:         $11.47 million                      Reports.          * Effective coordination
Strengthening of Budget                                   * Mid Term Review.     between MHCP, DNP,
Execution, Treasury, Public                               * Consultant           CGN CGR and other
Credit and Accounting.                                       Outputs.             relevant agencies in
* Procurement          common activities.
Sub-component 3:         $ 0.73 million                      documents.
Improving the Evaluation of                               *  Disbursement
Results of Public Expenditure.                               Reports.
* Audit Reports.
Sub-component 4:         $ 1.99 million
Strengthening Public
Procurement and Contracting.
C. Project Management    $ 4.35 million              * Annual Operational      * Adequate allocation for
Plans (POAs).            the project in the
* Project Management.       national budget from
Reports (PMRs).          year to year and
* Project Supervision.      availability of
Reports.                 counterpart funds.
* Mid Term Review.       * Effective management
* Consultant Outputs.       of project activities,
* Procurement docunents.    finances and
* Disbursement reports.     procurement and
-   Audit Reports.          contracting actions.
-37 -






Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
COLOMBIA: PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT 11
The Public Financial Management Project - II (PFMP-II) is a follow-on operation to the ongoing Public
Financial Management Project (PFMP) financed by the Bank (Project ID: CO-PE-6889, closing on March
31, 2001), which has supported reforms in revenue administration and public expenditure management at
the national level since 1994. In addition, the government has undertaken various parallel initiatives in both
these areas on its own. The IDB and GTZ have also provided assistance to the DIAN. The PFMP-IT seeks
to consolidate and extend the results achieved so far; undertake second generation reforms in selected areas;
and deal with deficiencies that have not yet been addressed. In order to put the project in perspective, the
progress made in different aspects of revenue administration and public expenditure management to date is
summarized below.
A.    Revenue Administration:
(i)    Organization and Management of the DJAN:
In the last ten years, important initiatives have been taken to strengthen the organization and management
of revenue collection. In 1991, the Direcci6n de Impuestos (DIN) was converted into a Special
Administrative Unit with increased budgetary autonomy and a special regime concerning its staff. Similar
changes were made in the Customs administration, Direcci6n de Aduanas (DAN). In 1993, the DIN and
the DAN were merged to form the Direcci6n de Impuestos y Aduanas Nacionales (DTAN) to exploit
potential synergy between the two functions. This arrangement was partially modified in 1997 to create
separate Directorates for Customs and Taxes under a common Directorate General, while keeping
corporate and support functions unified. In 1998, under powers granted by Law 488 of 1998, the DIAN
was designated as an essential public service, with its own legal personality and administrative autonomy.
Its budgetary autonomy was increased by permitting it to retain proceeds of sale of confiscated goods as
well as of other services provided to clients. Adjustments in the organizational structure were made to
reduce duplication of functions and jurisdictional conflicts. New human resource management policies
were instituted to ensure merit-based recruitment and promotion; facilitate inter-functional mobility; reward
performance for team work, tax audit, tax collection and achievement of national level targets; improve
performance evaluation; encourage professional and managerial development; and strengthen institutional
capacity for HR management. To control corruption, the Office of Disciplinary Investigations was placed
under the Director General and special administrative disciplinary regime was created for expeditious
removal of corrupt employees. With the help of the PFMP, financial management and pay-roll systems
were implemented. Also, a detailed analysis of business processes was carried out to assess corruption
risks therein and identify changes to mitigate the risk. Finally, a major overhaul of the informatics
infrastructure of the DL4N was undertaken. This includes creation of a wide area network, setting up of
local area networks in each regional administration, procurement or upgrade of new communication
systems, servers, PCs and printers. The new systems have empowered regional administrations by
allowing them direct access to corporate databases for planning and execution of their operations,
quickened information exchange between the head quarters and the regions, slashed processing time of
major business processes and improved the quality of information.
(ii)    Voluntary Compliance:
Since voluntary compliance is the bedrock of revenue collection, various steps have been taken to help
taxpayers comply with their legal obligations. These include setting up special units to provide services to
- 38 -



taxpayers, importers and exporters; establishing an Office of Grievances and Complaints; providing
information regarding tax law changes and compliance procedures through publications, TV spots, the
internet and over the telephone; assisting taxpayers in filling declaration forms; and providing information
on specific queries. With the assistance of the PFMP, a system for electronic filing of tax returns has been
made available to large taxpayers in five major regional administrations. Recently, the Office of the
Taxpayer Ombudsman has been created by law. The impact of these efforts is reflected in the increase in
the number of tax and customs declarations filed from 3.85 million in 1997 to 4.1 million in 1999 and a
reduction in the compliance gap for VAT from 32.40 % in 1994 to 23.90% in 1999.
(iii) Routine Processing of Tax Declarations and Payments:
The DLkN processes about 2.88 million tax declarations and associated payments armually. The PFMP
has provided it with sophisticated tools to properly manage this heavy information flow. A new taxpayer
current account system has been developed, along with a system that automatically updates the current
account by incorporating the impact of administrative decisions, such as assessments, penalties, appeals
and refunds on a taxpayer's tax liabilities. Two systems, one for monitoring the performance of
commercial banks that collect tax declarations and payments and, the other, linking their compensation to
the quality of service have been commissioned. At the same time, the period for which banks could retain
tax receipts has been negotiated down from 22 days to 14 days, substantially reducing the cost of services
provided by them. A system for monitoring the deduction and payment of taxes by tax withholders has also
been implemented. Further, a system for controlling tax refunds and credits has been put into use. As
already mentioned, the facility of electronic filing of tax returns has been provided to large taxpayers. So
far 8000 taxpayers, accounting for about 40% of tax payments, use this facility. The number of taxpayers
filing electronically is expected to increase to 47,000 by June 2001. This has improved the timeliness of
receipt of declarations, significantly reduced filing errors and enhanced the DIAN's ability to monitor
compliance by this important segment of taxpayers.
(iv)   Routine Processing of Cargo, Customs Declarations and Payments:
The merger of customs and tax administrations in 1993 created unintended problems for the customs
administration. Following the merger, the number of customs staff was reduced from 5,000 to about
2,000, resulting in a significant loss of expertise both at management and functional levels. The
modernization of customs administration was initially not included in the PFMP. Therefore, it lagged
behind in informatics capacity as well. For the most part, customs has continued to operate with obsolete
legacy systems. In addition, the level of political interference and corruption in customs is perceived to be
higher than that in tax administration. These factors have resulted in a marked weaknesses in the
institutional capacity of the customs administration, both in the routine processing of cargo and collection
of taxes and duties as well as in enforcement. In the meantime, the volume and sophistication of
international trade has increased.
Efforts to deal with the institutional deficiencies of customs were initiated in the last few years. To give
special attention to the needs of customs administration, a separate Directorate of Customs was created in
1993, as mentioned above. Some PFMP funds were reallocated to begin the development of a modem set
of information systems, collectively christened SIGLO XXI (21 st Century), while providing assistance to
update legacy systems for operation in the interim. A pilot of the new system of processing customs
declarations and payments (COMEX) has been commissioned at Bogoti. Also, a system for the
management of sale of confiscated goods (ADA) has been put into operation.
- 39 -



(v)    Enforcement:
In order to improve the enforcement capacity of tax administration, the PFMP has helped develop and
implement an advanced system for selection of cases for tax audit (SICAT) and a system to manage the
recovery of tax arrears (SIPAC). Also a system for automatically generating notices to taxpayers who fail
to file returns on time and/or default on payment of taxes has been implemented. Methodologies for
estimation of the extent of tax evasion in VAT and Income Tax have been developed. To support auditors
in investigation of cases, an input-output matrix for major industries has been created. The impact of these
tools, coupled with other measures taken by the DIAN, on the enforcement capacity of the latter has been
significant. For example, additional tax assessed as a result of tax audits increased from 1.55% of total tax
collections in 1996 to 5.57% in 1999. Also, the gap between potential and actual VAT collections has
dropped from 32.40 % in 1994 to 23.90% in 1999 as mentioned above (the compliance gap for Income Tax
and Business Tax has remained steady around 40%). Additional tax collections as a result of
administrative and enforcement actions increased from US$ 35.8 million in 1995 to US$ 385.9 million in
1999 (Source: DIAN and PFMP). . In the area of customs, an audit selection system (SIFARO) has been
implemented. Finally a study for estimating the volume of contraband has been completed. Under Law
488 of 1998, a Fiscal and Customs Police Directorate has been created to assist the DIAN in curbing tax
evasion.
B.    Public Expenditure Management:
During the last decade, various steps have been taken to strengthen public expenditure management. The
Constitution of 1991 mandated transfer of a significant proportion of public resources to territorial entities;
created the office of the Accountant General of the Nation charged with the responsibility of consolidating
the accounts of all levels of government; changed the role of the Auditor General from ex-ante control to
ex-post audit of government expenditures; and emphasized the establishment of modem financial
administration based on efficiency and effectiveness in public spending. The Organic Budget Law
(Estatuto Presupuestal) was amended four times: Law 38 of 1989, Law 179 of 1994, Law 225 of 1995 and
the Law of the Plan (Law 142 of 1994). Five presidential decrees were also issued to complement the
reforms introduced by these laws. The reforms aimed to strengthen fiscal stability and macroeconomic
coordination; introduce a new planning framework based on increased civil society participation; provide
autonomy in budget execution to operative agencies; and introduce performance management in the public
sector. The current administration is also undertaking structural reforms in various areas of public finance.
During 1999, within the context of the National Development Plan, Congress approved legal amendments
that would improve the fiscal situation in the medium term. These include (i) reform of the resources and
competencies of local governments (Law 60), including increasing efficiency of expenditure in education;
(ii) improving efficiency in public Universities (Law 30); (iii) changes in royalties allocations, to attract
private investment; (iv) legislation that mandates saving of a part of the transfers to local government to
finance local pension funds; (v) law to rationalize territorial government finances by limiting their current
expenditures; and (vi) reforms to reduce earmarking and improve the allocation of local expenditures.
Complementing these reforms, the PFMP has focused on strengthening the institutional capacity of the
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (Ministerio de Hacienda and Credito Puiblico - MHCP); the National
Planning Department (Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n - DNP); the Office of the National
Accountant General (Contador General de la Naci6n) and the Comptroller General of the Republic
(Contraloria General de la Repuiblica - CGR). The contributions made by the project to improving public
expenditure management are as follows:
-40 -



(i)    Macro-programming, Formulation and Monitoring of the Budget:
The PFMP financed the work of a multi-party Commission for the Rationalization of Public Expenditures
which carried out a detailed review of public expenditure management issues. The recommendations of the
Commission have been an important input into policy reforms undertaken by the government in various
areas, such as pensions, territorial transfers and privatization. To strengthen the capacity of the MHCP
and the DNP in macro-economic analysis for the purpose of macro-programming, the project assisted in the
development of methodologies for production of quarterly national statistics and GDP estimates,
monitoring of real economic activity and preparation of social accounting matrices; models for economic
analysis, including general equilibrium models and a model for fiscal projections; information systems for
generating leading indicators, monitoring of public finances and monitoring of public sector cash flow. It
also supported studies of specific issues relating to public finance, and staff training. In the area of budget
formulation the development of a system for formulation of the investment budget has been initiated. Also
a system to provide online access to budgeting norms was implemented.
(ii)    Budget Execution, Treasury, Public Credit and Accounting:
One of the major outputs of the PFMP has been the development and implementation of an Integrated
Financial Management System (SITF). The system is in operation in 46 central govemnment entities since
January 2000, with over 1000 users. It covers about 80% of the central government budget. The system
has automated the entire process of budget execution by line entities. Payments are now made through a
single national account. This has already resulted in a reduction in idle cash balances by about US$ 45
rnillion per month on average. The SIIF generates accounts based on transactional information. Its
database is available to the CGR, for real time audit of central government accounts, and to the CGN, for
preparation of national accounts. In addition to the SIIF, the project has also supported the development of
a treasury planning module. In the area of public credit, the PFMP has provided assistance in developing
methodologies for risk management and in identification of options for the replacement of the existing debt
management system. A decision to implement the UNCTAD's debt management system has been taken
recently. The project supported the establishment of the Office of the Accountant General of the Nation
(CGN). The CGN has since developed and implemented new accounting norns, a new chart of accounts
and trained officials at all the three levels of govemment. National accounts are being published by the
CGN since 1995. The PFMP also provided support to the CGR for training its staff. Besides training in
financial audits, assistance was provided in developing methodologies and skills in management and
performance audits. Currently the project is supporting the CGR's efforts to implement a system of social
control, by involving civil society in oversight and audit of public expenditures.
(iii) Evaluation of Results of Public Expenditure:
With the assistance of the PFMP, the govermnent embarked on an ambitious initiative to introduce results
oriented management in the public sector. A National System for Evaluation of Results of Public Sector
Performance (SINERGIA) has been implemented in all 16 sector ministries and 170 public entities. Under
this system Indicative Plans (IPs) are established for each sector and entity for each year. In the case of
sectors, the IPs include the strategic objectives of the sector and specific indicators relating to the actual
results to be achieved, along with targets for minimum, satisfactory and excellent performance. In the case
of public entities, besides sector objectives, the objectives of the entity are also included. The system has
been in operation since 1997. Performance evaluations of the sector ministries are carried out by the DNP.
The entities carry out auto-evaluation and are also evaluated by their respective ministries. An information
system to manage the evaluation system has also been implemented. The IPs are being used now as the
main information source for evaluating performance in the context of the National Development Plan. The
-41 -



SINERGIA has also changed the tenor of annual reports presented by the DNP to the Economic and Social
Policy Council (CONPES), by focusing attention on strategic objectives, performance indicators and actual
performance. At the entity level, they have helped clarify the key results areas of each entity and the results
expected of it. Based on the SINERGIA, the DNP and MHCP have also started the practice of signing
Efficiency Agreements with specific ministries and public entities. In exchange for commitments regarding
availability of funds made by the DNP and MHCP, the ministry or public entity concerned commits to
deliver specific outputs.
Notwithstanding the aforesaid substantial achievements made in strengthening revenue administration and
public expenditure management, much remains to be done as described in detail in Section 2: Main sector
issues and Government strategy. In order to address the persisting deficiencies, the project would
undertake the following activities falling under three components.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$36.02 million
Revenue Administration: This component will have the six sub-components. The main activities to be
supported under each sub-component are indicated below:
Sub-component 1: Strengthening Organization and Management of the DL4N - $13.64 million:
*   Strategic Planning and Management: Develop and implement a Management Information System at
the Centmal, Regional and Local levels of the DLAN; develop a project bank to facilitate better
formulation, execution, monitoring and evaluation of strategic initiatives; implement an information
system regarding inter-institutional and intemational agreements; and improve quality of business
processes by implementing ISO 9000 standards.
*   Personnel Management and Professional Development: Design and implement an information
system for the administration of the career path and professional development of DLN staff; provide
training to 3000 staff in basic functions of tax and customs administration and to 250 staff in advanced
technical functions; design and implement a Virtual Training School that will allow DLAN staff at all
locations to enhance their professional skills, through conveniently paced self-learning, so as to qualify
for promotions along the career path.
*   Prevention and Control of Corruption: Provide specialized training to staff of the Office of
Disciplinary Investigations at the national level to enable them to carry out effective investigations into
allegations of corruption; strengthen intemal audit; modify business processes of the DLAN, in
accordance with the risks highlighted in the Corruption Risk Maps developed under the PFMP to
reduce the possibilities for corruption; carry out a sustained campaign to sensitize DIAN staff to the
professional ethical standards expected of them and the institutional and personal consequences of
corruption.
*   Information Management: Review and enhance the central information system of the DLAN (Sistema
Informatico de Administraci6n Tributaria - SIAT) to ensure its ability to handle new technologies and
modes of reception of infornation; strengthen the capacity of the DIAN in Internet and Electronic
Commerce technology; strengthen the capacity of the Office of Informatics Services (Oficina de
Servicios Informaticos - OSI); consolidate servers to eliminate current proliferation of application
servers; re-dimension the network administration infrastructure to connect 29 additional local
administration online with the corporate systems; improve system security and contingency
arrangements; train staff in new technologies and specialized tools; and measure and enhance the
quality of corporate information.
-42 -



*   Management of Notifications, Official Correspondence and Archives: Develop and imnplement
systems for management of official notifications; correspondence and archives and improve record
storage facilities.
* Change Management: Facilitate institutional change by carrying out a sustained communication
campaign to explain the objectives and implications of the modernization of the DIAN to internal and
external stakeholders, in order to sustain support for the reforms.
* Sub-component 2: FacUitating Voluntary Compliance - $6.50 million:
* Establish Integrated Taxpayers Education and Assistance Centers to guide and assist taxpayers and
customs clients in complying with their legal obligations.
* Develop and disseminate educational materials and interactive tools to educate and inform current and
potential taxpayers.
*   Extend the system of electronic filing of tax declarations, currently available to large taxpayers, to
small and medium taxpayers and add functionality to the current system to enable taxpayers to interact
with the DIAN online in other matters, such as payment of taxes and submission of claims for tax
refunds.
*   Make the Office of the Taxpayer Ombudsman fully operational.
3 Train external stakeholders, such as firms providing advice in customs and trade matters, importers
and exporters, in tax and customs policy and procedures.
* Foster a tax compliance culture through outreach programs aimed at school and college students.
Sub-component 3: Improving the Effectiveness of the DIAN in Managing Routine Processing of Tax
Declarations and Payments: $1.23 million:
* Update, expand and improve existing information systems for registration of taxpayers; accounting of
tax and customs duty collections and control of refunds and credits.
D Develop and implemnent a systemn for assessment of taxes of small and medium enterprises covered
under a special tax regime.
Sub-component 4: Improving the Effectiveness of the DIAN in Managing Routine Processing of
Cargo, Customs Declarations and Payments: $9.61 million:
* Cargo Processing: Strengthen cargo processing infrastructure, by acquisition and installation of
weigh-bridges and other equipment; design and implement systems to prevent unauthorized access to
restricted areas; and train staff engaged in cargo clearance.
* Processing of Customs Declarations and Payments: Implement the External Commerce (COMEX)
module of the SIGLO XXI customs information systems throughout the country for automatic
processing of regular imports; design and implement additional modules of the COMEX to cover
exports, imports under special regimes and cargo in transit; implement filing of digitally signed
customs declarations and other documents; and train staff.
* Release of Merchandise: Train staff in classification and valuation of merchandise and assessment of
customs duties; and equip customs laboratories for effective and timely testing of materials.
* Monitoring and Control of Warehouses: Design, develop and implement a system for electronic
marking of cargo to facilitate tracking.
* Sale of confiscated goods and other services through electronic commerce: Develop and implement
a system for sale of confiscated goods and other services (such as sale of statistical information
regarding foreign commerce, forms and tax literature etc.) through electronic commerce.
* System to Capture Administrative Decisions of Customs Administration: Develop and implement a
- 43 -



system to capture administrative decisions of customs administration (GESTOR ADUANERO); and
enhance the Taxpayer Current Account to include customs transactions.
Sub-component 5: Strengthening the Capacity of the DIAN in Enforcement Operations: $4.57
million:
*   Economic Studies: Optimize the system for the production of foreign trade statistics; refine
methodologies and systems for measuring tax evasion and contraband; extend the datawarehouse to the
regional administrations.
* External Information: Develop a system for collection of external information needed to support
enforcement of customs and foreign exchange laws; Train 250 auditors in the use of the newly
developed system of external information required for enforcement of tax laws.
*   ntelligence Operations: Review, improve and implement norms, procedures, organizational
arrangements and information systems pertaining to intelligence operations conducted by the DIAN and
train staff in this area.
*   Risk Analysis for Selection of Cases for Tax Audit: Design and implement a system for organization
of statistical information required for selection of cases for tax audit; and develop additional modules
of the current system for selection of cases for tax audit (SICAT).
*   Tax Audit and Investigation: Develop manuals on tax audit and investigation techniques and train
staff.
*   Risk Analysis for Selection of Cargo Consignments for Inspection: Develop and implement a risk
analysis system for selection of cargo consignments for physical inspection; and train staff in the use of
the system.
*   Post-release Customs Audits: Enhance existing customs audit systern; and train staff
*   Monitoring of Filing of Declarations and Payment of Taxes: Enhance the current system for
monitoring of filing of declarations and payment of taxes.
*   Control of VAT Invoices: Develop and implement a system to integrate VAT invoicing via the
internet, with the systems of the DIAN.
*   Coercive Recovery of Tax Arrears: Enhance the current system for recovery of tax arrears (SIPAC)
by developing and implementing additional modules for recovery of tax arrears through
inter-institutional agreements and recovery of arrears from legal representatives.
- Legal and Appellate Functions: Expand the existing legal information system for taxes and customs;
organize joint seminars with the Consejo del Estado to exchange experience between the appellate
authorities and the DIAN, with a view to improve the quality of DIAN's decisions, fill deficiencies in
its representation of tax cases before appellate authorities and streamline disposal of appeals; and train
staff working in legal and judicial areas.
Sub-component 6: Improving Policy and Legal Framework of RevenueAdministration - $0.45
milion:
* Review and revise tax and customs policy, laws and regulations to expand the tax base and reduce
economic distortions, simplify substantive and procedural provisions to reduce compliance costs and
improve the legal authority of the DLAN to enforce tax and customs laws.
* Strengthen the ability of the DIAN, through staff training, to participate in international tax and
customs negotiations.
- 44 -



Project Component 2 - US$18.51 million
Public Exwenditure Management: This component will have four sub-components. The main activities
to be supported under each sub-component are as under:
Sub-component 1: Improving Macro-programming and Formulation and Monitoring of the Budget:
$6.09 million:
0   Institutional Roles and Responsibilities: Clarify the roles and responsibilities of entities that
participate in the programming, budgeting, execution and evaluation of public expenditures i.e. MHCP,
DNP, CGN, CGR and Sector Ministries; develop and implement regulations to give effect to the roles
so defined; delegate analysis of sectoral policies, programs and projects to sector ministries to enable
the DNP to focus on planning and evaluation; and train relevant officials in their new roles;
*   Macro-programming: Develop models and systems for (a) medium term and long term
macro-economic projections and simulations, (b) evaluation of expenditure and revenue policies to
assist in decisions regarding reforms in the fiscal structure, (c) generation of consolidated economic,
fiscal and budgetary accounts of the public sector, (d) classification of budget execution information
contained in the SIIF according to economic categories, and (e) monitoring of public sector finances;
and train staff in the use of these models and systems.
*   Budget Formulation: Develop, improve and implement methodologies and systems for (a) analysis of
budget programming, (b) quantification of expenditures earmarked by different laws and development
of options for reforms aimed at reducing earmarking, (c) projection of revenues, with interfaces with
information systems of the DIAN, (d) calculation of unit costs of inputs and outputs, initially for the
Transport Sector and the Judiciary and, subsequently, for the Education and Health Sectors, (e)
formulation and monitoring of the investment budget of the central government (e analysis of policies,
programs and projects, (g) projection of cash flows of the non-financial public sector, (h) financial
monitoring of the budget; and improve interfaces between the information systems of the Budget
Directorate of the MHCP and those of the sector ministries to improve analysis of budgetary needs and
performance of the sectors.
O  Rationalization of information flows: lInplement existing inter-institutional agreements between the
MHCP, DNP and CGR to reduce the costs of monitoring of budgetary expenditures, by identifying
shared information needs, eliminating duplicate reports, establishing primary sources of information
and developing systems to provide access to these sources.
Sub-component 2: Strengthening of Budget Execution, Treasury, Public Credit and Accounting:
$9.70 million:
*   Integrated Financial Management System (Sistema Integrada de Informaci6n Financiera - SUF):
Extend the SIIF to 145 regional offices of central govermment entities; develop a modified version of
the system for decentralized entities partially funded by the central budget and implement the system in
11 major entities; enhance the functionality of the system in accordance with user feedback and
increase its capacity to include additional users; and develop a module of the system to allow execution
and accounting of externally funded projects through the system.
*   Treasury: pevelop and implement a system to improve the capacity of the Treasury to better manage
its investment portfolios.
* Public Credit: Develop and implement a new system for management of the public debt portfolio.
* Accounting: Improve the quality of accounting information in public entities by supporting
mechanisms for the registration and reconciliation of accounting records covering income, debt
transactions, expenditures and physical assets; support dissemination, advisory services and training to
-45 -



improve accounting practices in public agencies; and strengthen the information systems of the Office
of the Accountant General of the Nation, to capture and integrate accounting information at the
national, decentralized and territorial levels.
Sub-component 3; Improving the Evaluation of Results of Public Expenditure: $ 0.73 million:
*   National System for Evaluation of Results of Public Sector Performance (SINERGIA): Enhance
the SINERGIA by improving the evaluation system to, inter alia, include recurrent expenditures in the
evaluation process; developing new modules for strategic evaluations of different sectors and
evaluation of performance of territorial and decentralized entities; developing and implementing an
incentive model linked to public policy outcomes in two pilot ministries, namely the Ministry of
Foreign Trade and the Ministry of Economic Development; and updating the information system
supporting SINERGIA.
*   Efficiency Standards: Develop a systematic methodology for identification of inputs and outputs of
different sectors to establish efficiency standards pertaining to delivery of public policy outcomes for
each sector.
*   Transparency: Design and implement dissemination strategies to provide information to the public on
performance targets for different policies, programs, projects and public sector entities, evaluation of
the actual results achieved and the amount of money spent in the process.
Sub-component 4: Strengthening Public Procurement and Contracting: $ 1.99 million:
*   Procurement and Contracting Regulations: Develop legislation and regulations to support
modifications to the Procurement and Contracting Law (Law 80) with a view to improve the legal
framework for public procurement.
*   Regulation, Monitoring and Evaluation of Procurement and Contracting Practices in the Public
Sector: Design and implement institutional arrangements, including the possibility of establishing a
national body, for developing and regulating public procurement and contracting policy, standardizing
and disseminating procedures and bidding and contract documents, and supporting central and
territorial entities on an ongoing basis. In addition, develop and implement a system for monitoring and
evaluation of procurement and contracting practices in the public sector, piloting the system in two
central level entities (INYVIAS and Ministry of Mines and Energy), in one decentralized entity (
ECOPETROL) and in two territorial entities (Antioquia and Arauca).
*   Dissemination of Procurement and Contracting Information and E-Commerce): Design and
implement an intemet based public procurement information system aimed at disseminating all
information regarding procurement notices, bidding documents and contract awards to interested
parties and the public, thereby laying the basis for online public procurement.
*   Training: Carry out a survey to determine procurement training needs and develop a pedagogical
systern aimed at providing public sector personnel with learning tools relating to the conceptual,
technical, legal and procedural aspects of public procurement and contracting.
Project Component 3 - US$ 4.35 million
Proiect Management: This component will finance consulting services, equipment and training for the
staff of the Project Management Units; communication of project objectives and activities to stakeholder;
and surveys to collect data on key performance indicators and obtain stakeholder feedback.
-46 -






Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
COLOMBIA: PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT 11
Local       Foreign        Total
Proct Cost By Component                   US $mIlion    US $million   US $million
Revenue Administration                                     12.35         21.87         34.22
Public Expenditure Management                               7.27         10.32         17.59
Project Management                                          4.11          0.02          4.13
Total Baseline Cost                                        23.73         32.21         55.94
Physical Contingencies                                     0.70          0.97          1.67
Price Contingencies                                        0.54          0.73          1.27
Total Project Costs              24.97         33.91         58.88
Front-end fee                     0.35          0.35
Total Financing Required               24.97         34.26         59.23
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                 US $million     US $"mIlion   US $rni11ion
Goods                                                         5.58          17.04        22.62
Services                                                     12.56          15.16        27.72
Training                                                      6.83           1.71          8.54
Other                                                         0.00           0.00         0.00
Total Project Costs     24.97          33.91         58.88
Front-end fee                     0.35          0.35
Total Financing Required      24.97          34.26         59.23
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (USSm) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 59.23 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 59.89% of
total project cost net of taxes.
-47 -






Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
COLOMBIA: PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT 11
Summary of benefits and costs:
The qualitative benefits in the area of revenue administration would consist of improved client services to
help law abiding taxpayers to comply with tax and customs laws more easily and at lesser cost; improved
management of the routine documentary information and trade flows, leading to greater control over
revenue collections, reduced processing times, quicker movement of imports and exports and overall
efficiency gains; better targeting of tax evasion and smuggling activities, so as to maximize the deterrent
impact of enforcement actions; greater organizational effectiveness, through improved strategy formulation,
planning, monitoring, evaluation, personnel management, professional development and information
management; prevention of corruption, through re-engineering of business processes, reduced discretion
and strengthening of disciplinary mechanisms; and enhanced employee morale in the DIAN.
The qualitative benefits of improving public expenditure management would include enhanced
accountability for achievement of performance objectives, spending of public resources, and procurement
of goods and services; increased value for money in public spending; increased transparency; and enhanced
civil society capacity to monitor public sector performance. At the operational level, the project would
contribute towards clarifying inter-institutional roles and equipping decision-makers with the tools,
information systems and skills needed to take well-informed decisions about allocation, use, control and
evaluation of public expenditures.
Many of the qualitative improvements mentioned above, would also be accompanied by financial gains to
the government, either as a result of increased revenue flows or savings in expenditures. These financial
gains are, however, subject to a number of variables, many outside the scope of the project. Also, they are
difficult to quantify ex-ante, especially in the area of public expenditure management.
Be that as it may, an attempt was made to quantify the potential benefits of the project in revenue
administration. First, additional revenue likely to accrue, through a combination of easier voluntary
compliance and stronger enforcement, was estimated. Second, savings from increased administrative
efficiency, resulting from introduction of modern technologies and other operational improvements were
estimated.
Estimates made by the DIAN indicate a current compliance gap of 23% in VAT and 40% in Income and
Business Profit Tax. Also, contraband is estimated to be 18% of total imports. Assuming a reduction of
0.5% per annum in the VAT compliance gap, a reduction of 1% per annum in the Income Tax and
Business Profit Tax compliance gap and a reduction of 0.5% per annum on contraband, the potential
additional revenue collection, from 2001 to 2005, would total 4,544 billion pesos. Further, assuming an
improvement of 1% in the ratio of annual recurrent expenditure of the DIAN to total revenue collected, a
saving of 79 billion pesos is estimated. The net present value, of the combined benefits of additional
revenue collection and budgetary savings of 4,623 billion pesos, comes to 2,500 billion pesos assuming a
discount rate of 18%. As against this, project costs for the revenue administration component, over the
same five year period, including incremental recurrent costs at 10% of investment costs, would come to
102.5 billion pesos in nominal terms or 66.5 billion pesos in NPV. The benefit to cost ratio for this
component would therefore be 40.4.
-48 -



Main Assumptions:
See above.
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
-49 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
COLOMBIA. PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT 11
Years Ending
2005
l Year1 I   Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5  | Year 6         Year7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            7.5      23.1        13.9       8.6        5.8        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.2        0.8        1.1        1.3        1.5        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs           7.7       23.9       15.0        9.9       7.3        0.0       0.0
Front-end fee     0.3        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing               8.0       23.9       15.0        9.9       7.3        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   2.5       14.4        8.8        5.7        4.0       0.0        0.0
Government                 5.5        9.5        6.1        4.2        3.3       0.0        0.0
Central                 5.5        9.5        6.1       4.2        3.3       0.0        0.0
Provincial              o.o        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              o.o        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User FeeslBeneflciaries    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      8.0       23.9       14.9        9.9       7.3       0.0        0.0
I Year I     Year 2  I Year 3      Year 4    Year 5  1 Year 6      Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs           1.5        1.5        1.5        1.5        1.5
Total Project Costs          1.5        1.5        1.5        1.5        1.5       0.0        0.0
Front-end fee    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Financing              1.5        1.5        1.5        1.5        1.5       0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Govemment                 1.5        1.5        1.5        1.5        1.5       0.0        0.0
Central                1.5        1.5        1.5        1.5        1.5       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User FeeslBeneflclaries   0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     1.5        1.5        1.5        1.5        1.5       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
1. Annual recurrent costs in a particular year have been estimated @2.5% of the cumulative investment made
up to that year.
- 50 -






Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
COLOMBIA: PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT 11
Procurment
Procurement Capacity Assessment: A procurement capacity assessment of the MHCP and of DNP was
conducted in February 2000. The procurement risk assessed as "average". A Procurement Action Plan
(PAP) to improve procurement management was developed as part of the assessment. This included the
(1) establishment of a central PMU, led by a Project Coordinator and including a Procurement Specialist
prior to loan negotiations; (2) establishment of a Project Management Information System, including
procurement actions, prior to loan effectiveness; (3) hiring of the UNDP as a Project Administration
Agency prior to loan effectiveness; (4) preparation of an Operational Manual, prior to loan effectiveness,
that would include a description and organization of the project, the responsibilities of different staff of the
PMU, TOR for key staff, and summary of key operational, administrative, procurement and financial
requirements; (5) preparation of a procurement plan prior to loan negotiations with annual updating; (6)
use of Bank standard procurement documents for International Competitive Bidding and acceptable model
documents for National Competitive Bidding (NCB), to be agreed upon prior to the issuance of the first
NCB, and (7) inclusion of adequate segments for procurement training in the Project Launch workshop.
Various actions have been taken to advance the PAP. The organization structure of the project has been
agreed. There will be two PMUs, one located at the MHCP and another one at the DNP. The
PMU-MHCP will have a procurement team consisting of a Procurement Officer and an Informatics
Specialist, who would look after procurement and contracting activities related to the project. In the
PMU-DNP this function will be performed by the Technical Coordinator/ Project Administrator and the
Project Officer. UNDP will be hired through counterpart funds to continue procurement management
support under this project and will work closely with the PMUs. A draft Operational Manual has been
developed. A Procurement Plan relating to project activities has been prepared. Also the use of Bank
standard bidding documents has been agreed. Training of PMU staff in Bank procurement will be included
in the Project Launch workshop.
Pre-eminence of Bank Guidelines: Law 80 of 1993 and regulatory decrees, especially Decree 172/95
constitute the regulatory framework for procurement in Colombia. The Law embraces public competitive
bidding as the preferred procedure for contracting and constitutes an important instrument for achieving
efficiency in public procurement. The Law has areas conflicting with the Bank rules, especially regarding
confidentiality, previous registration of contractors and procedures for hiring consultants. Any bidder has
the right to obtain copies of the offers of other contractors. Frequent resulting claims, however, do not
produce suspension of the procurement process. Article 22 of the Law establishes the requirement for all
firms, including foreign firms, to register in a national system. According to the Law, the bidding process
for the employment of consultants is the same as for any other type of contracts. These deviations from
Bank Guidelines would, however, not affect the project, because the Law also establishes the precedence of
the Bank procurement guidelines over Colombian legislation, although its Art 40 limits the precedence of
the Guidelines "to the extent that they are not contrary to the constitution or the law." This matter has been
solved by Decree 1721, where IBRD procurement has been excluded in the applicability of Article 40.
- 52 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
The following paragraphs provide information on the methods for procurement of goods, hiring of
consultant services and training. The procurement methods are summarized in Tables A and B. The
project does not envisage financing of civil works.
Goods
Procurement of goods will follow the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA credits",
dated January 1995 (revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999). Procurement
of information systerns would be carried out using the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for the Supply
and Installation of Infornation Systems. Goods estimated to cost US$250,000 or more will be procured
through International Competitive Bidding. Goods estimated to cost less than US$250,000, but more than
US$ 100,000, will be procured through National competitive bidding (NCB), up to an aggregate of
US$1,000,000. Finally, goods estimated to cost US$100,000 or less will be procured through international
or national shopping procedures, up to an aggregate of US$1,500,000.
International competitive bidding (ICB) will follow World Bank standard documents. NCB will use
documents acceptable to IBRD. According to national procurement policy, bidders have access to bids
presented by other bidders, contractors are required to register prior to bidding, and consultant services are
considered as restricted procurement of services. To deal with these deviations from the Bank's Guidelines,
the Loan Agreement specificies that, (i) all bids will be kept confidential throughout the evaluation, and (ii)
foreigners who wish to participate in national biddings should not be required to pre-register. The first
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) will be subject to the IBRD's prior review, irrespective of the
estimated amount of the contract.
Consultant Services and Training
Employment of consultant services will follow the "Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (dated January 1997 and revised September 1997 and January
1999).
Firns: Consultant and training services from firms will be procured through Quality and Cost Based
Selection (QCBS). Other methods are not envisaged, but may be considered by the Bank at the request of
the borrower with adequate justification.
Individuals: Individual consultants will be hired following procedures established in Section V of the
Bank's Consultant Guidelines.
World Bank standard model request for proposal (RFP) and contracts will be followed. Table Al provides
a breakdown of selection procedures for consultant services.
- 53 -



Main packages of goods and services to be procured under the project:
Revenue Administration component: US$ 2.7 million in electronic processing equipment for customs;
US$ 0.34 million of laboratory equipment for customs; US$3.0 million of hardware and US$ 2.0 million in
consulting and training services for expanding the electronic declaration and payment system to medium
and large taxpayers; US$ 0.8 million for database servers for DIAN.
Public Expenditure Management component: USS 1.9 million of computer equipment for SIIF
(approximately 946 PCs), US$ 1.8 million for the adaptation of the SIIF in the decentralized entities; and
US$0.98 million for the development and implementation of the Treasury's system for managing its
investment portfolio; US$ I million for hardware and software (servers, firewall and licenses) for the
development of a web-based procurement system for the GOC; and US$ 2.5 million for the design and
implementation of a debt management system for the Directorate of Public Credit.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Pwourqm,nt Method
E-penditure Catgory            .-iB me's                               N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
.______ _  i(0.00)   (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                         15.71          1.00          1.50          4.41        22.62
(15.04)       (0.50)        (1.50)        (0.00)       (17.04)
3. Services                       0.00          0.00         23.31         4.41         27.72
(0.00)        (0.00)       (17.15)       (0.00)       (17.15)
4. Training                       0.00          0.00          8.54          0.00         8.54
___________ (0.00)  (0.00)  (1.28)       (0.00)       (1.28)
5. Front-end fee                  0.00          0.00          0.00         0.35          0.35
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                         15.71          1.00         33.35          9.17         59.23
(15.04)       (0.50)       (19.93)        (0.00)       (35.47)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
v Includes goods to be procured through national and international shopping, consulting services and
training.
ICB: International Competitive Bidding
NCB: National Competitive Bidding
NBF: Not Bank Financed.
- 54 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms           15.16     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      1516
(12.13)   (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (12.13)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      8.15      4.41     12.36
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (5.02)    (0.00)    (5.02)
Total  15.16     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      8.15      4.41      27 72
1 (12.13)   (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (5.02)    (0.00)    (17.15)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 55 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Prior review thresholds for the applicable procurement methods are identified in Table B. Approximately
US$33.87 million of the procured goods and services (95% of loan amount) will require the Bank's prior
review. Terms of references for critical tasks, irrespective of the amount of the contract, will require the
Bank's prior review and approval. The critical tasks will be identified in the POA and will be reviewed
annually.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                                Contracts Sublect te.
Threshold              Procurement              Prior Review
Expenditure Catsoory      (US$ thousands)             Method                (US$ nitfions)
1. Works
2. Goods                        > $250                   ICB                      15.71
< $250 and > $100             NCB                        1.00
Below $100        Shopping (International or
National)
3. Services
Firms                           > $100                  QCBS                      15.16
Individuals                    > $50                                              2.00
Training
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   33.87
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
In addition, project procurement activities will be supervised during each supervision mnission. This
would include ex-post reviews of procurement actions and agreement on a revised procurement plan, as
may be necessary.
'Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 56 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The project is estimated to be disbursed over a period of 5 years, in accordance with the Table in Annex 5
laying out the disbursement schedule of IBRD funds. The proceeds of the Loan would be disbursed against
100% of foreign expenditures of goods and equipment and on consultants and training and against 85% of
local expenditures of equipment and materials through Management Service Agreements with UNDP. An
advance under the contract to cover 3-4 months of IBRD financing of expenditures will be deposited in
UNDP's general account. Funds will be spent and reimbursed by JBRD though this account.
Retroactive Financing
Under the Public Financial Management Project (PFMP), the World Bank has provided a no objection to
the Government of Colombia to sole source with UNCTAD for the purchase of a public debt management
information system - SIGADE. The first phase of the contract is expected to be financed by the PEMP
(U$105,000), while phases II and III would be financed by PFMP-IE (US$580,099). However, if the
Borrower incurs eligible expenditures, after the closure of PFMP-1 (3/31/2001), but before the date of
signing of the Loan Agreement, these expenditures will be financed retroactively by PFMP-II up to an
aggregate amount of US$500,000.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
1x ed 0 i ture Categor          Amounf0;RS0 1t in U8miIo  f t0fFXinanci  Percen00
1. Goods                                   17.04          100% of foreign expenditures and 85%
of local expenditures
2. Consultant's Services and Training      18.43                        100%
0.00
Total Project Costs                        35.47
Front-end fee         0.00
Total                                      35.47
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursement applications will be submitted on the basis of Statements of Expenditures
for:
(a) contracts whose value does not exceed the equivalent of:
*     US$ 250,000 for goods;
*     US$ 100,000 for consulting firms; and
*     US$ 50,000 for individual consultants.
(b) all local training programs
All other expenditures will be fully documented when submitted to IBRD. All consolidated documentation
relevant to SOEs, will be available at the PMUs for review by Bank missions and auditors for one fiscal
year after the year in which the last disbursement occurs.
- 57 -



Once the Action Plan to enable the PMUs to produce Project Management Reports has been implemented
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, the Borrower will have the option to request withdrawals from the
Loan Account on the basis of Project Management Reports, such withdrawals to be made under terms and
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Financial Management Arrangements
GOC has decided to sign Management Service Agreements (MSAs) with UNDP to manage both loan and
counterpart funds. The MSAs would include a clause that would allow anyone of the implementing entities
to contract out of such an agreement and use the direct payment option as allowed by the Bank, whenever
this is deemed more convenient by the authorities. Since UNDP cannot compete, as required by Bank
procurement rules, the MSA would be financed entirely out of counterpart funds.
The MSAs would have the advantages of allowing the project a more predictable access to both loan and
counterpart funds due to budgetary regulations governing this type of agreement. UNDP also has ample
experience in international type of procurement and has tax exemptions status. Under this arrangement the
responsibilities of the PMUs and UNDP would be divided as follows. The PMU would have the primary
responsibility for: (i) financial management, monitoring and reporting of the project; (ii) dealing with all
aspects of the processes related to procurement under the guidelines applicable to each source of funds i.e.
technical specifications, TORs, no objections, draft contracts etc.; (iii) authorizing UNDP to pay for such
services or goods that have been received satisfactorily; and (iv) preparing withdrawal applications and
sending all required documentation to the IBRD for reimbursement. The UNDP would have the
responsibility for- (i) acting as an internal auditor by guaranteeing that all applicable procurement
Guidelines are adhered to; (ii) reviewing the contracts to be signed, from the legal point of view; (iii)
signing all contracts and paying the beneficiaries of the contracts and (iv) transferring all goods purchased
to the executing agencies; (iv) at the end of each month, sending all payment vouchers and a statement of
expenses to the PMU for accounting purposes. In addition, for the management of counterpart funds,
UNDP would play a fiduciary role in accordance with its procurement guidelines. Under these guidelines,
UNDP sets thresholds for prior review by either a local committee or a committee in New York. Presently
those thresholds are > US$30,000-99,000 for review by the local committee and > US$100,000 by the
committee in New York.
In the future, GOC may engage another agency to perform the functions that would initially be performed
by the UNDP, subject to the agreement of the Bank and under terms and conditions satisfactory to it.
Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
A Financial Management Assessment of the PMUs was carried out in February, 2000. It was noted
that through the execution of the ongoing Public Financial Management Project since 1994, the PMUs
responsible for the new operation have gained experience in accounting, disbursements, financial report
preparation and management of the project audit process. The strengths of the PMUs include (a) ample
experience of staff in project management, (b) defined organizational structures, (c) established culture
and procedures with regard to planning, budgeting and monitoring of activities, (d) knowledge of Bank
guidelines and (e) experienced external government auditors. However, in the light of certain
deficiencies found at the time, the project was rated 4-C and an Action Plan for strengthening the
financial management capacity of the PMUs was agreed. Since then, the PMU-MHCP has prepared a
- 58 -



draft of the Operation Manual, including an organization chart, Chart of Accounts and TORs for PMU
staff. It has also contracted consultants for designing a project financial monitoring system. The
system will integrate project procurement with budgeting and accounting. It will also include an
inventory module. Thus, the requirements of the revised Bank financial management policies and
procedures (OP/BP 10.02) have been met substantially. As a result of these actions and review of the
progress by the FMS, the PMUs' financial management capacity rating has been raised to 4-B.
Certain enhancement actions described in Annex 11 will be carried before project effectiveness. An
Action Plan to enable the PMUs to produce Project Management Reports will be implemented within
six months of effectiveness.
Audit Arrangements
The Comptroller General of the Republic (CGR) by law conducts the audits of public sector programs,
including IBRD projects. Accordingly, this project would also be audited by the CGR. Audits of accounts
and the financial statements of the project, including a separate opinion on Statements of Expenditures,
would follow accounting and auditing procedures satisfactory to the Bank. All supporting records would
be maintained at least one year after the completion of the project. A consolidated audit report would be
submitted to the Bank no later than four months after the end of each fiscal year. The audit would cover
project expenditures until such time as the loan has been closed. It is noted that during the ongoing project
there have been some delays in the submission of the audit reports by the CGR. To ensure timely
submission of the audit report to the Bank, the CGR will submit within four months after loan effectiveness
their report on the review of Project Internal Controls. Further, arrangements will be made with the Office
of the CGR to ensure its involvement in project audit early in the fiscal year, thus, enabling it to complete
the audit process in a timely manner. The use of Bank guidelines on project audits and the tenns of
reference of Auditors have been agreed.
- 59 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
COLOMBIA: PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT 11
Project Schedul*                                  Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      22                           28
First Bank mission (identification)             09/07/98                     09/07/98
Appraisal mission departure                     10/10/2000                   10/10/2000
Negotiations                                    02/13/2001                   02/13/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   05/01/2001
Prepared by:
MHCP, DIAN, DNP, CGN and Bank Project Team
Preparation assistance:
BB Budget
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Narne                                   Speciality
Jit B. S. Gill, LCSPR             Task Team Leader/ Sr. Public Sector Management Specialist
John Pollner, LCSFPSI             Sr. Financial Sector Specialist
Carmen Machicado, LCSPR           Operations Analyst
Jaime Roman, LCOPR                Principal Procurement Specialist
Luiz Gazoni, LCOPR                Senior Procurement Specialist
Norma Rodriguez, LCSPR            Procurement Analyst
Emilio Rodriguez                  Consultant - Procurement Specialist
Livio Pino, LCOPR                 Senior Financial Management Specialist
Manuel Vargas, LCOPR              Financial Management Specialist
Issam Abousleiman, LOAEL          Senior Disbursement Officer
Marie Khoury                      Consultant - Disbursement Specialist
Jose Augusto Carvalho, LEGLA      Senior Counsel, Country Lawyer
Mariana Montiel                   Counsel
Natalia Gomez, Resident Mission   Project Officer
Zeinab Partow                     Country Economist
Sharon Spriggs                    Program Assistant
Eduardo Fernandez                 Consultant - Public Expenditure Management
Fernando Medina                   Consultant - Revenue Administration
Ronald Myers                      Peer Reviewer
Michael Engelschalk               Peer Reviewer
Vinaya Swaroop                    Peer Reviewer
- 60 -






Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
COLOMBIA: PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT 11
A. Project Implementation Plan
* Project Implementation and Procurement Plan
* Matrix of Project Costs
B. Bank Staff Assessments
*   Diagnosis of Institutional and Organizational Weaknesses of Revenue Administration in Colombia,
October 1999.
*   Diagnosis of Public Expenditure Management, October 1999.
*   Country Procurement Assessment Report, July 28, 2000.
*   Procurement Capacity Assessment, March 2000.
*   Financial Management Capacity Assessment, February 2000.
C. Other
3 Colombia: Medidas para Aumentar las Eficacia de la Administraci6n de Impuestos, Marzol998, IMF.
3   Modernizaci6n de la Administraci6n Aduanera Colombiana, Julio 1998, IMF.
3   Reports of the Commission for the Rationalization of Public Expenditures and Finances (Comisi6n de
Racionalizaci6n del Gasto y de las Finanzas Publicas).
v   Solicitud de Donaci6n (Proceso de contrataci6n y adquisiciones en el estado) entre la Repuiblica de
Colombia y El Banco Mundial, DNP.
e   Diagnostico, Acciones para Detectar, Prevenir y Compartir los Posibles Casos de Enriquecimiento
Ilicito, Sintesis, Conclusiones y Recomendaciones, August, 1998.
9   Analysis economic benefits of the project in revenue administration.
*Including electronic files
-61 -






Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
COLOMBIA: PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT II
Feb-2001
tNfference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                         IBRD          IDA                           Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig   Fnn Rev'd
P044140         200 CARTAGENAWATERSUPPLY&SEW. ENVIRO                    85.00       0.00                             0.00      75.75      12.05       0.00
P050578        2000 CO- RURAL EDUCATION                                 20.00       0.00                             0.00      19.80       1.95       0.00
P057326        2000 SIERRA NEVADA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT                5.00       0.00                            0o00        4.77       -0.23      0.00
P063643        2000 CO-FSAL                                            506.00       0.00                             0.00     212.99       0.00       0.00
P065263        2000 EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY                                225.00       0.00                             0.00     103.86       -2.81      0.00o
P068762        2000 CO- COMMUNITY WORKS (MANOSALAOBRA)                 100.00       0.00                             0.00     100.00      11.67       0.00=.
P039082        1999 TOLL ROAD CONCESSION                               137.00       0.00                             0.00     100.00     100.00       0.00
P050576        1999 CO- YOUTH DEVELOPMENT                                5.00       0.00                             0.00       3.18       2.35       0.00
P053243        1998 PEASANT ENTERPRISE Z                                 8.00       0.00                             0.00       3.46       1.63       0.00
P046112        1998 CO- PASTo EDUCATION                                  7.20       0.00                             0.00       4.28       262        0.00
P006891        1998 CO- ANTIOOUtA EDUCATION                             40.00       0.00                             0.00      31.71      16.56       0.00
P006861        1998 URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE                                75.00       0.00                             0.00      57.32      14.49       0.00
P040102        1997 REG.REF.TA                                          12.50       0.00                             0.00       6.77       4.27       0.00
P006884        1997 FINANCIAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT                       15.00       0.00                             0.00      10.52       9.62       0.00
P039291        1996 URBAN ENVIRONMENT TA                                20.00       0.00                             0.00       3.39       3.39      -1.20
P006887        1998 POWER MARKET DEVELOPMENT & ENERGY (TA)             249.30       0.00                             0.00      19.00      14.83       1.54
P006872        1998 URBAN TRNSPRT                                       65.00       0.00                             0.00       4.16       3.00       0.16
P006894        1996 SANTAFE I (WaredSupp(y)                            148.00       0.00                             0.00      64.87      62.70       0.00
P006880        1995 AGRICULTURETECHNOLO                                 36.00       0.00                             0.00      15.95      13.35      -4.75
P006893        1995 ENERGY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                         11.00       0.00                             0.00       0.47       0.47       0.00
P006866        1994 CO- SECONDARY EDUCATION                             90.00       0.00                             0.12       0.06       0.18      -3.76
PD08854        1993 CO- MUNICIPAL HEALTH SERVICES                       50.00       0.00                             2.12       0.09       1.39       2.22
P006889        1994 PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT                         30.00       0.00                             0.00       1.94       1.94       0.00
Total:     1904.00        0.00                             2.24      842.41     273A8        4.80
- 62 -






COLOMBIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Feb-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1969/85/88/93/95   CF del Valle                   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1963/90            Coltejer                       6.02    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.02    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995/99            Corfmsura                     25.00    0.00   25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   25.00    0.00
1999               Harken                        30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987               PRODESAL                       0.00    0.59    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.59    0.00    0.00
1977189/92/94196   Promigas                       6.88    0.00    0.00   14.58    6.88    0.00    0.00   14.58
1994/95            Promisan                       0.00    0.23    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.23      0.00    0.00
1996               Proyectos                      0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
1997               Suleasing                     24.82    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.25    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               Surenting                      0.00    5.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.50    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        92.72    10.92   25.00    14.58    15.15    8.32   25.00   14.58
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2001              Tolcemento                     3333.33      0.00      0.00  10666.67
2001              CHMC                              0.00  10000.00  30000.00      0.00
2001              Cementos Caribe                4047.62      0.00  10000.00  12952.38
Total Pending Commitment:     7380.95  10000.00  40000.00  23619.05
-63-






Annex 10: Country at a Glance
COLOMBIA: PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT II
Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          America   middle-
Colombia   & Carib.  income       Developmnsnt diamond'
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                       41.5       509     2,094                 Life exspectancy
GNP per capita lAtlas method, US$)                   2,170     3,840     1,200
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      90.0     1,955     2,513
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population M%)                                         1.S       1.6       1.1      G
Labor force (%)                                        2.7       2.5        1.2      p                              Gross
per                       -   primary
Moat recant estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                               capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national povertv line)   21
Urban population (% of total population)                73        75        43
Life expectancy at birth (Years)                        70        70        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live birthas)              23         31        33
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               8         8        15                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)       78        75        86
illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    9         12        16
Gross Drimary enrollment (% of school-ape populaion)   113       113       114              Colombia
Male                                                 113                 114              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                              112                  116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1998      1999
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                           27.9     39.5      99.1      86.6
Grossdomesticinvestment/GDP                  18.2     18.5      19.5      13.0                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP            15.2     18.0       15.0     17.8
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   19.9     22.7      13.6      11.0
Gross national savings/GDP                   19.2     19.8      12.3       9.0
Current account balancetGDP                   1.4     -0.5      -5.3       -1. 1      m
Interest paymentslGDP                         0.9      4.0       1.6       2.1      Domestic                    Investment
Total debt/GDP                               21.0     42.7      33.6      39.9      Savings
Total debt srvicel/xports                    14.3     48.4      30.5      43.2
Present value of debt/GDP                                       32.7      45.1
Present value ofdebt/exports                                   216.5    255.6
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998      1999   1999-93
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  3.4      3.4      0.5      -4.3       2.6            -Colombia
GNP per capita                       0.8      1.6     -0.9       -7.1       1.0         ----Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        5.8      5.8      5.9        4.7      3.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998      1999      Growth of investment and GOP (%)
(% of GDP)
Acriculture                                  22.0     16.6       13.3      12.2
Industr"                                     30.3     38.2      25.7      24.8    so
Manufacturing                              23.0     21.6       14.2      12.9 2
Services                                     47.7     45.1      61.0      62.9 o
Private consumption                          70.7     68.1      67.5       67.9    40                                 _
General government consumption                9.3      9.2       18.9     21.1 1GD                              GDP
Imports of coods and services                13.5     13.8      20.9       19.5
(average annual growth)                   197989  1989-99       1999      1999     Growth of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                   2.5     -2.1        0.6      -0.2    40
Industry                                      4.7      1.9      -1.8      -11.0
Manufacturing                               2.8     -1.7       -0.3     -12.4    20
Services                                      3.0      5.3       -5.5      -0.7
Private consumption                           2.6      3.5       0.8       -5.1     o                       9I7
General qovernment consumption                4.3      8.4       0.9        4.3           94   96   96
Gross domestic investment                     2.3      5.7      -5.7      -301     20
Imports of aoods and services                 0.8     13.2      -2.8    -13.5                   Exports      lmports
Gross national product                        2.9      3.6        1.0      -5.5
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-qroup average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 64 -



Colombia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989      1998      19"      Inflatlon (%)
(% change)                                                                      30
Consumer prices                            24.7    26.1       16.7      9.2    20
Impicit GDP deflator                       24.1    24.7       15.5     12.5
10 
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                             0
Currentrevenue                               ..    10.2       11.9     12.6            94   96   96   97   98
Current budget balance                       ..      1.2      -3.1     -4.7           -GDP deftor  _CP
Overall surplus/deficit                      ..    -0.5       -5.3     -8.5
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1979    1989       1998     1999     Export and Impon levels (USS rnill.)
Total exports (fob)                       3,441    6,031    11,494   12,044    20,000
Coffee                                   2,005    1,476    1,896    1,325
Petroleum                                 146    1,400      2,333    3,761    15000,
Manufactures                             1,224    2,145    6,588    3,922    IC
Total imports (cif)                       2,978    4.558    14,836   10,311    10,0DO
Food                                      254      219      1,655    1,415     SOD
Fuel and enerqy                           322      316       158      270
Capital goods                            1,077    1,595    5,522    3,651       0o          .E__ _ _ _    _ 
93  94  96  96  97  98  99
Exportpricmindex(1995=100)                    5      36        112      117
Importpriceindex(1995=100)                    4      43       116       116                HExports     aImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                   123      82         96      101
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                             1979    1989       1998     1999     Currant account balance to GOP (%)
Exports of goods and services             4,532    7.330    13.560   13,959     0
Imports of goods and services             3,919    6.411    17,542   13,595
Resource balance                            613     919    -3.982       363
Net income                                 -277   -2.019    -1,735   -2,123
Net current transfers                        66     898       444       796
Current account balarnce                    402    -201    -5,273      464    -4_        _         
Financing iterms (net)                     -487     350      6,663    1,387
Changes in net reserves                      85    -149    -1.390      -423    .s
Memo:
Reserves induding gold (USS millions)        ..        .     8,741    8,103
Conversion rate (DEC, loclUS$)             42.5   382.6   1,426.5  1,757.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989      1998      1999
(USS millions)                                                                  ComnpositIon of 1998 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      5,869   16,886    33,263   34,519
IBRD                                      838    3,808     1,740    1,958                    A: 1,740
IDA                                        22      15         9         8           G0:2,801
Total debt service                          703    3,905     4,585    6.596                                  E: 1,397
IBRD                                      124     640       347       391
IDA                                         0       1          1        1
Composition of net resource flows
Offidal grants                             10      37        61
Official creditors                        137     102        107      923
Private creditors                         542     -10       56C       995
Foreign direct investment                 127     576      3,038    1,008
Portfolio equity                            0       0         26      663                       F: 21,084
World Bank program
Commitments                               331     330        227      591     A - lsRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                             139     361        184      499     B-IDA    D-Othermultilateral  F-PrPvate
Prinipal repaVments                        52     333        233      271     C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                  87      28        -48      228
Interestpaytnents                          73     308        115      123
Net transfers                              14    -280       -164      105
Development Eoonomics                                                                                           8/29/00
- 65 -



Additional
Annex 11
Plan de Implementacion para Fortalcimiento de la Administracion Financiera del Proyecto
Concepto                           Responsable (1)    Fecha            Seguimiento
1.  Personal Calificado
Contrataci6n del personal:         DNP/MHCP           Antes            Todo el personal de
- Terminos de Referencia                              Negociaciones    presente proyecto se
- No objeci6n del Banco Mundial                                        mantiene; se ainadira a
- Firma de contratos                                                   otra persona en MHCP
- Inicio del trabajo                                                   que formara parte del
equipo de
contrataciones
Implementacion de sistema de       DNP/MHCP           Antes
evaluaci6n                                            Efectividad
2. Responsabilidades
Preparacion de descripci6n de cargos   DNP/MHCP       Manuel           Terminos de referencia
incluyendo areas t6cnicas                             Operativo        han sido preparados e
Inclusi6n de Manual Operativo                                          incluidos en el Manual
Operativo
Elaboraci6n del manual operativo.  DNP/MHCP           Antes            Manual Operativo ya
- Borrador                                            Negociaciones    esta en preparaci6n
- Revisi6n                                                             muy avanzada, una
-Aprobaci6n                                                           copia del contenido de
este se envio al FMS
- Definici6n mecaDismo de manejo de
fondos                             DNP/MHCP           Antes            Ya esta definido se
- PNUD: contrato                                     Negociaciones    utilizara un MSA con
- Cuenta especial                                                      PNIJD
- Procediniiento de tesoreria, flujo de               Antes
fondos                                                Efectividad
Ates             Ya estan definidos el en
Negociaciones    manual de operaciones
Apertura de Cuenta Especial                           Antes            N/A
Efectividad
Apertura de Cuentas en moneda local                   Antes            N/A
Efectividad
-66-



3. Salvaguardias para los activos
Mejoramiento del registro auxiliar de   DNP/MHCP      Antes            Se esta disefiando un
activos                                               Efectividad      sistema de integrado de
administraci6n del
proyecto que mcluye un
modulo de registro de
inventarios. El sistema
esta contratado y segun
el cronograma se
espera terminarlo en
diciembre
4. Sistems de Contabilidad
Preparaci6n del Manual de          DNP/MHCP           Antes            Ya esta listo
Contabilidad                                          Negociaciones
Actualizaci6n de Plan de Cuentas   DNP/MHCP           Antes            Ya esta listo
Negociaciones
Instalaci6n software sistema de    DNP/MHCP           Antes            El sistema de
informaci6n financiera MHCP                           Negociaciones    informaci6n financiera
- Revision                                                             ya ha sido contratado.
-Aprobaci6n                                                           El sistema unira el
-Instalaci6n                                                           sistema de
- Prueba                                                               adquisiciones con la
parte financiera
(incluye desembolsos,
contabilidad). Tambi6n
incluyera un modulo de
inventarios y producira
todos los reportes de
monitoreo acordadas
durante la evaluaci6n
5. Informes Peri6dicos
Mecanismos para consolidaci6n      DNP/MHCP           Antes            Formaran parte del
mensual de estados financieros                        Efectividad      sistema de contabilidad
descrito arriba
-67 -



Implementaci6n de PMRs (I)         DNP/MHCP           Antes            Formaran parte del
- Definici6n de formatos                              Efectividad      sistema de contabilidad
- Presupuestos indicadores fisicos                                     descrito arriba. Ya se
basados en PAD                                                         definieron los formatos,
- Sisterna de informaci6n                                              dentro del manual de
implementado                                                           operaciones
- Borradores
- Revisi6n
- Aprobaci6n
6.  Auditoria Externa
Acuerdo para uso de Guias de       DNP/MHCP/CGR   Antes                De acuerdo a leyes
Auditoria.                                            Negociaciones    nacionales CGR
continuarA efectuando
las auditorias del
proyecto
Coordinaci6n de visitas intemas    DNP/MHCP/CGR   Antes
Efectividad
(1) DNP - Departamnento Nacional de Planeaci6n, MHCP - Ministerio de hacienda y Credito Publico,
CGR - Contraloria General de la RepuTblica
(2) De acuerdo con los nuevos requisitos de informaci6n financiera del Banco Mundial, los proyectos
producen Informes de Administraci6n de Proyectos en periodos trimestrales (PMRs), lo cual le permite al
Banco Mundial y al ejecutor el monitoreo fisico, financiero y de adquisiciones en forma simultanea. Los
reportes mencionados sirven ademas para la realizaci6n de desembolsos del Prestamo al proyecto (debe
especificarse en el contrato legal).
- 68 -






IBRD 26153.
COLOMBIA                                                       -   i...,, S:# 
mSMm vsjt.                                                      nC8OMBIAt  - >
c7l,~~~1
ATLANTI                          0                                        o  0  :-
BRAZIL
;      \XC E SAR                 L.
ROLIVIA   t
-,PANAMA                    W>/A\[        t<,
PANANkA! o 0                   NORTE                                  4     The boundaries, colors, denominations
< e  \                                   i                                               an/CORDOB  .C    J  and any other information shown on
j                                           4~~ '- ~~ c                                             this map do not imply, on the part of
IL7 i        / g _\>c  l \    ;t i    3        GbThe World Bank Group, any judgment
on telglsauofnyterritory or
A N T 1Q  A oSANTA N                                   ARAUCA    . VENEZUELA
7 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Puerto
Carrton
~ ASANR
W ,,  ARAWA.                                                    N ARE'  
< c e c . b ! st*},; 9g^fi-< i c ~~~~~~V I C H A D A- 
-IE    g*mIc                             >~ /TOLI A
TOLlt/, .PJS                M E T A |
-,          G                                   ~      7~RTA                           I A       AGUA IN    P Aero
- ~~>   <;   /              \\        :G    ~~~~U  A  V  I A  R  E._-,,, 
N A R I Nt k y e~~~~Flonencb   ia\- 
NA~~~~~~~~~~~~fN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
%%%,\    NARlN           5,'>\(C  A  Q  U (E  T A                                              V 
A U P E S
'E C  U  AD  OR                                                          >                                                      MILES
'0              -~~~~~~~~~~~~      '5 ~   ~  ~  0                         s
0      2          50  100  150
0   50  100  150  200  250
0                ~~~~~~KILOMETERS
AMAZONAS
BR A  Z I L
ELEVATION ABOVE 1000 METERS                                                          /
*     NATIONAL CAPITAL
*    DEPARTMENT CAPIALS
'RNERS                                    -P  E  R  U/ j J<
-  DEPARTMENT BOUNDARES                                                        ./             -
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                     -|
7,tA                                                                       199k 4-
74'    2            -         =                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUGUST 19944



