                                            Colombia
                          SecondPublic FinancialManagement Project
                                        (Loan 7049-CO)
                          Proposed Amendment of the Loan Agreement


Summary

    This memorandum seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to amend the Colombia
    Second Public Financial Management Project (Ln.7049-CO)             by revising the internal
    structure of the project components,introducingnew categories of eligible expenditures,and
    establishing an new implementation arrangementsto better integrate the tax administration
    component into its implementing entity. Although no changes are being proposed to the
    project's development objectives or its basic structureof two components(tax administration
    and public expenditure management),BankManagement            considers that the scope ofthe
    proposed changes justifies the submission of this request for approval by the Executive
    Directors.

2. The tax administration component is currentlydivided into six sub-componentscovering the
    areas of organizationalreform, promotion of voluntary compliance, improvement of routine
    tax administration operations, improvementof         customs operations, strengthening the
    enforcement capacity, and supportto the revision of tax and customspolicies. The proposed
   revised structureof this component would call forgroupingthe activitiesinto only two areas:
    Improving the overall institutional efficiency and effectiveness of the tax administration
    authority, and promoting voluntary compliance with tax, customs, and exchange rate policy
   obligations.

3. The proposed changes to the public expenditure management refocus the activities towards
    supporting recent initiatives for legal reforms in the budgeting and procurement areas, not
    foreseen originallyby the project. In addition, work related to improvements of the current
    integratedfinancialmanagement systemwould be taken one step furtherto developa second-
    generation web-based platform andanewcomponentwould              be created to support pre-
    investmentinitiatives at the sub-nationallevel.

4. The amendment request adds non-consultant services andcivilworks             as new eligible
    categories of expenditure with loan proceeds, in addition to the two current categories of
    goodsand consultant services. These new categories are consistent with the new country
    financingparameters for Colombia.

5 . Finally, a new project managementscheme is proposed tomanage the tax administration
   component independently,which would be fully and seamlesslyintegrated into the structure
    of the Directorate of Taxes and Customs dian This would better align the project with
    the entity's institutional developmentplans and increase its oversightand accountabilityover
   project activities and outcomes. This component is currently implemented through the
   project management unit at theMinistry of Finance, which is also responsible for part of the
   public expenditurecomponent.

Background

6. The US$35.470.000 loan was approved onMarch22,2001 as afollow-up operation to the
    successfulPublic Financial Management Project (Pp06889), which closed on June 30, 2000.

    The secondphasewasdesigned to achieve two developmentobjectives: (i) strengthenthe
    institutional capacity of DIAN to foster voluntary compliance; collect revenues efficiently,
    effectivelyandequitably;andcombattaxevasionandsmuggling,                  so as to enableit to
    mobilizeadequatetaxrevenues         to financepublicexpenditures,and      (ii) strengthenpublic
    expenditure management at the central government level, to facilitate achievement of fiscal
    andnationaldevelopmentobjectives,improvecosteffectivenessofpublicservices,and
    increasetransparency and accountability.

7 . Thecurrentproject closing date is October 1, 2006,althoughtheborrowerhassignaled               its
    intention to consider requesting an extension later this year. To date, US$11.9 million have
    beendisbursed,whichrepresents          34% of loan
                                                  the           amount,     Althoughthepaceof
    disbursements has been low, the project's ratings in terms of achievement of development
    objectives and implementation progress are satisfactory, as are those related to its financial,
    administrative, and procurement performance.

Implementation Environmentand Rationalefor Approving the Loan Amendment

8. The loan agreementfor the Project became effectiveon July 7,2001, seven months before the
    presidential elections and one year before the inauguration of Alvaro Uribe as President. As
    is common for projects that begin implementation during the last year of an administration,
    the pace of execution was slow and disbursements considerably below the forecasted levels.
    Furthermore,theUribeadministrationbeganitsmandatewithaclearstrategyforfiscal
    modernization, which wasfully consistent with the Project objectives but different in terms of
    the implementation strategy.

9. Over the last year, the Bankhas carried out a number of in-depth technical discussionson the
    meritsoftheproposed          new government'sstrategy.      The Bankreachedthefollowing
    conclusions regarding tax administration: (i) the strategy being proposed by the government
    wasfundamentally sound, andwasactuallyaconceptualimprovementovertheoriginal
    Project's design; (ii) the strategy would allow for all the original results to be achieved, and
    would even go farther in some key areas; and (iii) the loan agreement was extremely detailed
    andtailored    to theformergovernment'sreformstrategy,becomingahindrance                   to the
    effective implementation of the component under the new leadership.

10. In terms of the public expenditure component, adjustments were neededto better reflect areas
   where the current administration has placed priority (such as legal reforms to the budgeting
    and procurement frameworks and improving the quality of pre-investmentat the sub-national
    level) while eliminating some specific activities that are no longer necessary. The proposed
   new activities have been duly appraised and are technically sound and fully consistent with
    the Project's development objective.

1l. The proposed creation of a project management scheme inside DIAN respondsto the desire
    ofboththeborrowerandtheBank               to bringprojectimplementationinto         the entities
    themselvesinsteadofkeeping        it detachedatautonomous project units.Furthermore,the
    magnitudeandpaceof         the tax administrationcomponentandthefactthat            d i a n is an
    administrativelyautonomousagencygive          the proposedschemegreaterimportance.The
    Bank assessed the institutional capacity of DIAN and reached the conclusion that it is well
    suited to implement the tax administration component independently.

Key Follow-Up Activities

12. TheBank has carried out a recent supervision of the project andhas obtained revised
    implementation and procurement plans consistent with the proposed new structure. In
    addition, the Borrower has submitted a revised set of impact and performance indicators,
   which are fully consistent with the Project's development objectives and follow on
   recommendationsby       the Quality of Supervision Assessment 6 panel     on     necessary
    improvements to the current set of indicators. All relevant agencies are fully prepared to
    continue project implementation under the revised implementation framework proposed
   herein.

Audit

13. An unqualified audit was submitted ontime       for the period ending December2004.
    Accordinglythere are no outstandingaudits under thisproject. All previous auditshave been
    issued with unqualifiedopinionsandno accountabilityissueshave beenidentified.

