Page  1
\08
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7049-CO
Loan Agreement
(Public Financial Management Project II)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 18, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 7049-CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 18, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) upon the terms 
and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Page  2
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"DIAN" means Dirección de Impuestos y Aduanas Nacionales, the Borrower's 
Directorate of National Taxes and Customs;
(b)
"DNP" means Departamento Nacional de Planeación, the Borrower's National 
Planning Department;
(c)
"MHCP" means Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público, the Borrower's 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit;
(d)
"PMU-DNP" means the unit established in DNP for the purposes of 
coordinating and managing the carrying out of certain components of Part B of the 
Project;
(e)
"PMU-MHCP" means the unit established in MHCP for the purposes of 
coordinating and managing the carrying out of Part A and certain components Part B of 
the Project;
(f)
"Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in Section 5.01 (a) of 
this Agreement;
(g)
“Project Administration Agent” means the UNDP or any other legal entity 
with procurement and administrative experience and qualifications acceptable to the 
Bank;
(h)
“Project Administration Agreements” means the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(i)
“Project Coordination Committee” means the committee referred to in 
Section 3.04(b) of this Agreement, composed by: (i) the Vice-Minister of Finance; (ii) 
the Sub-Director of DNP; and (iii) the General Director of DIAN;  
(j)
"SIIF" means Sistema Integrado de Información Financiera, the Borrower's 
integrated financial management information system; 
(k)
“SINERGIA” means Sistema Nacional de Evaluación de Gestión y Resultados, 
the Borrower’s national system for evaluation of results of public sector performance;  
and
(l)
"UNDP" means the United Nations Development Program, an agency of the 
United Nations.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to thirty-five 
million four hundred seventy thousand Dollars ($35,470,000), as such amount may be 
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
Page  3
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, consultants' services and training activities required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be October 31, 2006 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  Such fee shall be payable not 
later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty-five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 (b) 
of the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; 
and (ii) seventy-five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.06.  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, 
pay interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV 
of the General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount 
of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to 
a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or 
any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said 
Variable Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions 
of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that, unless otherwise notified by the Borrower 
in accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each 
Interest Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for 
the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of 
Page  4
the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through DNP and MHCP with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and 
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the Borrower 
shall: (i) not later than October 31 of each year during the execution of the Project, 
furnish to the Bank, for approval, a plan containing a detailed list of the activities 
to be carried out and expenditures to be incurred, in respect of each of the Parts of 
the Project, during the immediately following calendar year; and (ii) carry out the 
Project in accordance with each such plan, as approved by the Bank, and the provisions 
of the Operational Manual.
Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03.  (a) The Borrower, through DNP and MHCP shall enter into 
agreements with a Project Administration Agent, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank (the Project Administration Agreements), whereby: (i) the 
Borrower will authorize the Project Administration Agent to undertake, on behalf of 
the Borrower, the procurement of goods and services under the Project in accordance 
with the procedures set forth or referred to in this Loan Agreement, and the bidding 
documents and requests for proposals prepared by the Borrower; (ii) the Project 
Administration Agent will undertake to keep separate records and accounts in respect 
of such goods and services, and to assist the Borrower in all other aspects of the 
carrying out of the Project and in complying with the Borrower's obligations under 
this Loan Agreement; and (iii) the Borrower will undertake to transfer to the Project 
Administration Agent the proceeds of the Loan and the counterpart funds as required 
for the Project Administration Agent to effect the payments of goods and services 
under the Project.
(b) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights, and comply with its obligations 
under the Project Administration Agreements in such a manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Project, 
and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate, waive or fail to enforce such agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain, during the execution of the Project, the PMU-MHCP and the 
PMU-DNP with a structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, and staff with terms 
of reference, qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, such staff as 
specified in the Operational Manual.
(b)
appoint and maintain during the execution of the Project, a Project 
Coordination Committee, with membership satisfactory to the Bank, to be responsible 
for the overall implementation and coordination of the activities under the Project.   
(c)
employ, during the execution of the Project, a professional, with 
qualifications and experience, and under terms of reference, satisfactory to the Bank 
(the Secretary of the Project Coordination Committee), responsible for supporting the 
Project Coordination Committee in implementing and coordinating the activities of the 
Page  5
Project. 
Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in 
________the Operational Manual, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about the 35th month after the Effective Date, a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, on the 36th month after the Effective Date, or such 
later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 3.06. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
continuing achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain financial 
management systems in the PMU-MHCP and the PMU-DNP, including records and accounts, 
and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures of the Borrower related to the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance 
with auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than 
four months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited, and 
(B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and 
the report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and 
in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
Page  6
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank 
may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure or Project Management 
Reports, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure or 
Project Management Reports, as the case may 
be, submitted during 
such year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to 
the Bank for the strengthening of the financial management systems referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than six 
months after the Effective Date, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to 
prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected 
sources and applications of funds for 
the Project for the six-month period 
following the period 
covered by said report, and (B) shows separately 
expenditures 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the period 
covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
(B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; 
and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a report for such period as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 4.03.  The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, not later than four 
Page  7
months after the Effective Date, a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall request, by the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) above on the 
internal financial management controls of the PMU-MHCP and PMU-DNP.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the Project Administration Agent 
shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project Administration 
Agreements.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness:; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement, within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has adopted a manual, satisfactory to the Bank (the 
Operational Manual), containing the detailed procedures for the carrying out of the 
Project, such as the responsibilities, structure and staffing requirements of the 
PMU-MHCP and the PMU-DNP, the mechanisms for coordination of the activities of such 
units, the procurement procedures (including standard bidding documents and contracts) 
and the financial management procedures for the Project, and the indicators for the 
monitoring and evaluation of the Project;
(b)
the PMU-MHCP and the PMU-DNP have been staffed as provided in Section 
3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
(c)
the professional referred to in Section 3.04 (b) has been employed;
(d)
the financial management systems referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this 
Agreement have been strengthened in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
(e)
the Project Administration Agreements have become effective; and
(f)
the Borrower has prepared the drafts of the documents for international 
and national competitive bidding procedures for the procurement of goods, and the 
requests for proposals in respect of consulting firms' services to be undertaken 
during the first six months of Project execution.
(f)  The financial management system referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this 
Agreement has been established in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 6.02.  The date July 18, 2001, is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
Page  8
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Palacio de los Ministerios
Plaza San Agustín
Carrera 7aA, No. 6-45, Piso 3
Santa Fé de Bogotá
Colombia
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
MINHACIENDA
43289 MHAC CO
(571) 3509344
With copies to:
Departamento Nacional de Planeación
Subdirección General 
Calle 26, No. 13-19, Piso 14
Santa Fé de Bogotá
Colombia
Facsimile:
(571) 3340221
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By  /s/ Juan Esteban Orduz
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  9
By  /s/ David de Ferranti
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
  17,040,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% of local 
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 
85% of local 
expenditures for other items 
procured locally
(2)
Consultants' services
  18,430,000
100%
   and training
TOTAL
  35,470,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
any expenditure under any of the Categories in the table in paragraph 1 
above, unless and until the Borrower shall have paid to the Bank in full the front-end 
fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement; and
(b)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in the aggregate amount of $500,000, may be made on account of 
payments made for expenditures incurred within one year from the date of this 
Agreement, but not before March 1, 2001.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditures for expenditures for training, and under contracts for 
goods and consultants' services that are not subject to prior review by the Bank 
pursuant to Part D.2 of Section I and Part D.2 of Section II of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
5.
Once the action plan referred to in Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement has been 
completed in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, the Borrower will have the option to 
request withdrawals from the Loan Account on the basis of Project management reports, 
Page  10
such withdrawals to be made under terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to strengthen DIAN's institutional 
capacity to foster voluntary compliance by taxpayers with tax laws and regulations, to 
collect revenues efficiently, effectively and equitably, and to combat tax evasion and 
smuggling so as to enable DIAN to mobilize adequate tax revenues to finance public 
expenditures; and (b) to strengthen the Borrower's public expenditure management 
policies and practices at the central government level in order to facilitate 
achievement of fiscal and national development objectives, improve cost effectiveness 
of public services, and increase accountability and transparency of public 
expenditures.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A - Revenue Administration
Provision of technical assistance (including acquisition of goods and provision 
of training in connection therewith) in:
(a)  
the strengthening of critical areas of DIAN's organization and 
management, such as strategic planning and management, personnel management and 
professional development, prevention and control of corruption, information 
management, and management of notifications, official correspondence and archives;
(b) 
the promotion of voluntary compliance with tax policies, laws and 
regulations by supporting the setting-up of integrated taxpayers education and 
assistance centers, training external stakeholders in tax and customs policies and 
procedures, expanding the reach and scope of electronic interaction between DIAN and 
taxpayers, establishing and putting into operations the Office of the Taxpayer 
Ombudsman, and fostering a tax compliance culture;
(c)
(i) the increase in the efficiency and productivity of routine tax 
administration operations, by updating, expanding and improving the systems for 
registration of taxpayers, taxpayer current account, accounting of tax and customs 
duty collections, control of tax refunds and credits, and monitoring of filing of tax 
declarations and payments, and (ii) the development and implementation of a system for 
assessment of presumptive taxes for small and medium size enterprises;
(d) 
(i) the improvement of routine customs operations, such as cargo 
processing, processing of customs declarations and payments, release of merchandise, 
monitoring and control of warehouses, and sale of confiscated goods, and (ii) the 
enhancement of taxpayer current accounts to include customs transactions;
(e)  
the strengthening of DIAN's enforcement capacity, by improving its 
capacity to carry out economic studies, to manage external information, to carry out 
intelligence operations, risk analysis for selection of cases for tax audits, tax 
audits and investigations, risk analysis for selection of cargo consignments for 
inspection, and post-release customs audits, to control value-added tax (VAT) 
invoices, and to recover tax arrears, and by strengthening DIAN's legal area; and
(f)  
the review and revision of tax and customs policies, laws and 
regulations, and the strengthening of DIAN's ability to participate in international 
tax and customs negotiations.
Page  11
Part B - Public Expenditure Management
Provision of technical assistance (including acquisition of goods and training 
in connection therewith) in:
1.  the improvement of macro-programming and formulation and monitoring of the budget, 
through:
(a) 
clarification and adjustment of the roles and responsibilities of 
different entities that participate in the programming, budgeting, execution and 
evaluation of public expenditures;
(b) 
development, enhancement and implementation of models and information 
for: (i) medium-term and long-term macro-economic projections and simulations, (ii) 
evaluation of expenditure and revenue policies to assist in decisions regarding 
reforms in the fiscal structure, (iii) generation of consolidated economic, fiscal and 
budgetary accounts of the public sector, (iv) classification of budget execution 
information contained in the SIIF according to economic categories, and (v) monitoring 
of public sector finances;
(c) 
development, improvement and implementation of methodologies and systems 
for: (i) analysis of budget programming, (ii) quantification of expenditures earmarked 
by different laws and development of options for reforms aimed at reducing earmarking, 
(iii) projection of revenues, with interfaces with DIAN's information systems, (iv) 
calculation of unit costs of inputs and outputs, initially for the Borrower's 
transport sector and the Borrower's judiciary and, subsequently, for the Borrower's 
education and health sectors, (v) formulation and monitoring of the investment budget 
of the Borrower's central government, (vi) analysis of public policies, programs and 
projects, (vii) projection of cash flows of the non-financial public sector, and 
(viii) financial monitoring of the budget;
(d) 
improvement of interfaces between the information systems of the Budget 
Directorate of the MHCP and those of the sector ministries; and 
(e)
implementation of existing inter-institutional agreements between MHCP, 
DNP and the Borrower's Controller's General Office to reduce the costs of monitoring 
budgetary expenditures, by identifying shared information needs, eliminating duplicate 
reports, establishing primary sources of information and developing systems to provide 
access to these sources;
2.
the strengthening of budget execution, and the treasury, public credit and 
accounting activities, through:
(a) 
expansion and enhancement of the SIIF by: (i) implementing it in about 
145 regional offices of the Borrower's central government entities, (ii) developing a 
modified version of such system for decentralized entities partially funded by the 
central budget and implementing the system in 11 major entities that spend about 12% 
of the national budget, (iii) enhancing the functionality of such system in accordance 
with user feedback and increasing its capacity to include additional users, and (iv) 
developing a module of such system to allow execution and accounting of externally 
funded projects through the system;
(b) 
development and implementation of a system to improve the capacity of the 
Borrower's treasury to better manage its investment portfolios;
(c) 
development and implementation of a new system for management of the 
public debt portfolio; and 
(d) 
improvement of the quality of accounting information in public entities 
by: (i) enhancing mechanisms for the registration and reconciliation of accounting 
records covering income, debt transactions, expenditures and physical assets, (ii) 
Page  12
supporting dissemination, advisory services and training to improve accounting 
practices, and (iii) strengthening the information systems of the Borrower's 
Accountant General Office, to capture and integrate accounting information at the 
national, decentralized, and territorial levels; 
3. the improvement of the evaluation of results of public expenditure, through:
(a) 
the enhancement of SINERGIA by (i) expanding its evaluation module to 
include, inter alia, recurrent expenditures in the evaluation process, (ii) developing 
new modules for strategic evaluations of different sectors and evaluation of 
performance of territorial and decentralized entities, (iii) developing and 
implementing, on a pilot basis, an incentive model linked to public policy outcomes in 
the Borrower’s Ministry of Foreign Trade and the Ministry of Economic Development, and 
(iv) strengthening the information system supporting SINERGIA; 
(b)
development of a systematic methodology for identification of inputs and 
outputs of different sectors to establish efficiency standards for the delivery of 
public policy outcomes for each sector; and
(c)
design and implementation of dissemination strategies to provide 
information to the public on performance targets for different policies, programs, 
projects and public sector entities, evaluation of the actual results achieved and the 
amount of money spent in the process;
4. the strengthening of public procurement and contracting policies and practices, 
through:
(a)
drafting of legislation and regulations proposals for modifications to 
the Borrower's Procurement and Contracting Law (Ley 80) with a view to improve the 
legal framework for public procurement;
(b) 
design and implementation of institutional arrangements, including the 
possibility of establishing a national body for developing and regulating public 
procurement and contracting policy; standardizing and disseminating procurement 
procedures, bidding documents and contracts; and assisting central and territorial 
entities in procurement and contracting matters on an ongoing basis; 
(c) 
development and implementation of a system for monitoring and evaluation 
of procurement and contracting practices in the public sector, piloting the system in 
two entities of the Borrower at the central government level, one decentralized entity 
and two territorial entities;
(d) 
design and implementation of an internet based public procurement 
information system aimed at disseminating all information regarding procurement 
notices, bidding documents and contract awards to interested parties and the public, 
thereby setting the basis for online public procurement; and
(e) 
carrying out of a survey to determine procurement training needs, and 
development and implementation of a pedagogical system aimed at providing public 
sector personnel with learning tools relating to the conceptual, technical, legal and 
procedural aspects of public procurement and contracting. 
Part C - Project Management
Strengthening, through the provision of technical assistance, equipment and 
training, of the capacity of the PMU-MHCP and the PMU-DNP to manage the Project, to 
disseminate the Project objectives and activities to stakeholders, to collect data on 
Project monitoring indicators, and to obtain stakeholder feedback.
Page  13
***
The Project is expected to be completed by 2April 30, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn 
as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by 
the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as 
of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies.
Installment Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each  February 15 and August 15
Beginning August 15, 2006
 through August 15, 2017
4.17%
On February 15, 2018
4.09%
2.
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the 
Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all 
remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after 
such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the 
Page  14
Loan to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that 
shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank 
under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank 
so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate 
component of the Screen Rate.
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto, regarding preference for domestically manufactured goods, shall apply to 
goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount of $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines regarding 
national competitive bidding procedures.  Bidding documents, acceptable to the Bank 
and in a standardized form for the Project, shall be used in the procurement under 
this Part C.1.  Without limitation to any other provision of this Schedule or the 
Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement of goods to be undertaken 
pursuant to this Part C.1:
(a)
All bidders, irrespective of whether they are foreigners or Colombians, 
will be treated equally and, particularly, no preference will be granted to any bidder 
or group of bidders for bid evaluation purposes. Bidders shall be allowed to submit 
their bids by hand or through the post office or private mailing services. There shall 
not be any requirement for any bidder to show evidence of the bidder's registration in 
any public registry, chamber of commerce or similar entity, whether in Colombia or 
elsewhere, or to appoint a representative domiciled in Colombia, unless and until such 
bidder is awarded the corresponding contract.
(b)
Bids shall be opened in a public meeting to which bidders and their 
Page  15
representatives shall be allowed to attend if they so wish. Date, time and place for 
the opening meeting shall be set forth in the bidding documents. Bid opening shall 
coincide with, or take place promptly after, the final date and time of the period for 
bid submission stipulated in the bidding documents.
(c)
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to the 
responsive bidder who meets appropriate technical and financial standards of 
capability and whose bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid. Such 
determination shall be made exclusively on the basis of the specifications, conditions 
and evaluation criteria stipulated in the bidding documents. If any factor additional 
to the amount or amounts of each bid is to be considered in bid evaluation, such 
factor or factors and the quantified manner on which they will be applied for purposes 
of determining the lowest evaluated bid shall be precisely stipulated in the bidding 
documents. For purposes of bid evaluation and comparison, the only bid amount or 
amounts to be used as a factor shall be the bid amount or amounts as quoted in the 
corresponding bid, including correction of arithmetic errors.
(d)
The provisions of paragraph 2.46 of the Guidelines shall fully apply and, 
more specifically, bids shall not be disclosed to persons other than the persons 
officially charged with the task of comparing and/or evaluating the bids while they 
are performing their official duties, without the corresponding bidder's written 
authorization. Moreover, bidders shall not be required to provide such authorization 
as a condition to be entitled to bid. This confidentiality requirement shall apply 
until the award of contract is notified to the successful bidder. Thereafter, 
confidentiality of the bids shall be limited to those bid portions for which 
confidentiality has been specifically requested by the bidder in question.
2.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount equivalent to $1,500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitation to bid for contracts during any year of 
Project implementation, the proposed procurement plan for the Project during such year 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods 
and works during any such year shall be undertaken in accordance with the 
corresponding procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) the contracts for goods to be awarded pursuant to the 
provisions of Part B of this Section I; and (ii) the first contract for goods to be 
awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part C.1 of this Section I, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part D, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Page  16
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Annex.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The short-list of consultants for services to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in paragraph 1 above, estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Individual Consultants
Consultants' services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded 
to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals during any 
year of Project implementation, the proposed plan for the selection of consultants 
under the Project during such year shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services during any such year 
shall be undertaken in accordance with the corresponding selection plan as shall have 
been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply, provided, however, that the terms of reference for the respective assignments 
Page  17
shall be subject to the Bank’s prior review and approval.
