FILL '
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 287a-YAR
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF THE SANA'A WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
January 14, 1974
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region.
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            -  Yemeni Rial (YR)
US$ 1                     -  YR 4.5
YR 1                      -   US$ 0.222
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
kilometer (km)      2               -   0.62 mile
square kilometer (km )              -   0.386 square mile
hectare (ha)                        -   2.47 acres
millimeter (rm)                     -   0.03937 inch
centimeter (cm)                     -   0.3937 inch
meter (m)                           - 39.37 inches
cubic meter (m3)                    - 264 US gallons
cubic meters per second (m3/sec)   -  22.8 million US gallons per day
liter (1)                           -   0.264 US gallon
liters per second (1/sec)           -  22,800 US gallons per day
liters per capita per day (lpcd)   -   0.264 US gallon per capita per day
milligram per liter (mg/1)          -   1.0 parts per million
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVALTIONS
CPO       -  Central Planning Organization
MPW       - Ministry of Public Works
NdSA      -  National Water and Sewerage Authority
UNADP     -  United Nations Development Program
UNICE'    -  United Nations Children9s Fund
USAID     -  United States Agercy for InTernational Development
WH{O     I- orld Health Organization
YAR       - Yemeni Arab Reimblic
Nl'ISA9s FISCAL YEAR
JU-Jy 1 to June 30



YMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
APPUAISAL OF THE SANA'A WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..........................           i-ii
I.   INTRODUCTION  e G C ............ .o ... .*.. ......
II.   THE    SECTOR   ...................................              1
General        ...    . *,...  , e *** , . *.......**.*       1
Water Resources   ......................           . .        2
Sector Organization    .. .. ..... ...... ...                 2
Sector Needs and Development         ...................      3
Sana'a Water Supplies ....... . ................              3
III.   THE PROJECT ................. .. * ...........**..               4
Background .................. ........ . . ... .              4
Project Description . .............. *                        5
Cost Estimates ................ 0 .... ........ 0             6
Project Financing.                                            7
Procurement and Disbursement ......       ........            7
Administration of the Project ..................              8
Compulsory Acquisition and Water Rights                       9
Ecological Aspects ........        .........9......... ..     9
IV.   JUSTIFICATION ............         .................             9
V.   THE BENEFICIARY .................... ..............             10
Organization and Management ................ ..              10
Accounting and Billing                    .                  11
Sania'a Development Board System      .       .12
Training and Operating Assistance ....... .....   ..         12
Audit   ..........o............13
l             ~~~~VI.   FINANCE ..........* .................. o ........            13
Financing Plan ...... .............                          13
Tariffs and Rate of Return ...................    ..         14
Government Accounts . . .. ...... . ..*  .... ... ..15
Debt Service             ..................... 0             16
VII.   RECOMMENDATION ................                                 16
This report is based on the findings of an IDA mission consisting of
Messrs. Hayden and Al-Khafaji which visited the Yemen Arab Republic
in June, 1973.






LIST OF ANNEXES
Annexes
1    Present Water Supply Situation
2    Population and Water Demand Projections
3    Projections of Population and Water Production (Chart)
4    Description of the Project
5    Cost Estimates and IDA Allocations
6    Construction Schedule
7    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
8    Organization Chart of the National Water and
Sewerage Authority
9    Estimated Income and Expenditure Accounts
10    Estimated Cash Flow Statements
11    Estimated Balance Sheets
12    Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
13    Economic Analysis
Map    Sana'a Water Supply Project






T'EN ARA REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF I=E -SkNAA WATER SUPPLY `PROJECT
Summpary and Conclusions
i.        Water supply in the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) needs immediate atten-
tion.  Existing facilities are inadequate, shortages are widespread, most wells
are contaminated, and the water table is lowering continually.  Further, the
Ministry of Public 'Works (MPW), which is responsible for planning and executing
Government projects in the water supply sector, is neither adequately staffed
nor financed for effective action. Sana'a, the capital, is suffering acutely
from these deficiencies. The inadequate water supply facilities and lowering
water table there have resu.lted in serious water shortages and health hazards
as well as substantial expenditures on stop-gap measures to provide minimuum
supplies. Urgent improvements are needed to prevent living conditions from
becominig intolerable.
ii. OA recent World Bank/World Healch Organization (WHO) sector mission
proposed a tentative US$47 million program for water sector development betLween
1973 and 1982.  Severe budget constraints will limit Government participation
in implementing this program. Progress depends on support from external agen-
cies.  Consequently, the Association has agreed to consider granting a credit
for a water supply project. This initial Bank Group investment in the YAR
water supply sector is intending to provide Sana'a with its first public water
supply system and to establish a competent National Water and Sewerage Author-
i-ty (NWSA) for water development in the main urban centers, including Sana'a.
iii.      The project forms part of a 10-year water supply development program
for Sana'a (1974-84). Its major elements are: development of a well-field;
construction of headworks, a transmission line, and a distribution system;
and completion of about 6,000 house-connections.  The project also includes con-
sultantst services for operations and maintenance, training of NWSA staff and
final engineering for the Hodeida water supply system.  Because most staff
have limited experience, training is a vital part of the project and will be
specified in the equipment suppliers' and engineering consultants' contracts,
In addition to the training under the project, the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP) and the United States Agency for International Development
(USAID) will provide training.
iv.       The Government will be the recipient of the proposed US$6.25 million
credit, covering about US$5.23 million of the foreign exchange costs and about
US$1.02 million of the local costs, or 91% of the US$6.84 million project cost.
A Government capital contribution and internal cash generation will finance
tile US$1.1 millior. balance recuired for the project and for working capital.
T1he Government will relend NVSA US$3.5 million of the credit amount at an
annual interest rate of 7-1/4% for 25 years, including 5 years' grace, and
will provide NWSA with a capital contribution made up of the remaining US$2.75
million and US$300 ,000 equivalent of Government funds,  This contribution is
essential to ensure the financial viability of the new authority.



Consutan 6ss _i,anrced by the UNDP/WEO are preparing detailed designs
a-cd tender docuivients. Te-ser documents for construction contracts will be
combined whinerever practicable to encourage bids from foreign contractors.
xcept for some minor -works, all construction and equipment contracts will
be put to tender on the basis of international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with the Bank Groun's Guideli nes on Procurement. Construction is expected
to begin in late 1974 and to be completed by June 1977, with a limited supply
of water a-vailable  in 975. v one of the equipment is manufactured localtly so
no aargin of Dreference for local suppliers was requested for bid comparison.
vi.       N0AWSA  a newly established autonomous authority, initially will ad-
minister the project and subsequently will be responsible for construction and
operation of urban water supply and sewerage systems. This authority is ex-
pected to assume responsibility for the limited Sana'a water facilities pres-
ently operated by the Sana'a Development Board. When the project has been
completed, most existing obsolete and contaminated facilities will be aban-
doned. The small distribution pipes will be reused in rural areas.
vii.      The Government has no alternative but to proceed with this project
if the basic water supply needs of the present Sana'a population are to be met,
a health hazard is to be removed, and future development of the city is to be
provided for. The major elements of the project represent the least cost
solution chosen from several alternatives. Using incremental revenues as a
measure of benefits, the economic rate of return on the 1974-84 investment
program is estimated at 10%.
viii.     Financial pro4ections indicate that NWTSA should earn a rate of return
on net fixed assets of 1% in 1979 rising to 5% in 1984.  These relatively low
rates are the natural consequence of establishing a new water supply system
reflecting low utilization of equipment, slow rate of growth, and high oper-
ating costs per unit producec during the initial years.
ix.       The estimated average water charge of YR 1.2 per m3 (US$1.01 per
1,000 gal) is one of the highest in the Middle East. But it is considerably
less than the current water cost in Sana'a and reflects the long-term mar-
ginal cost of water discounted at a 10.6% rate. A concessional rate would
be provided for low income families and water would be available for the very
poor from public taps at the mosques.
X.        Agreement having been reached on the principal issues, the project
is suitable for an IDA credit of US$6.25 million on the usual terms.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF THE SANA'A WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
I. Introduction
1.01      The Government of the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) has requested an
IDA credit of US$6.25 million to help finance a project for the construction
of a water supply system for Sana'a - the Capital City. The project, esti-
mated to cost US$6.84 million, forms part of a 10-year (1974-1984) water sup-
ply development program for Sana'a and will provide the city with its first
public system. Feasibility studies, financed by UNDP, were prepared by
Italconsult (Italy) with WHO as executing agency and the Ministry of Public
Works (MPW) as counterpart agency.
1.02      In September, 1972, an IBRD/WHO mission visited YAR to prepare a
water supply and sewerage sector study. The Sector Report, issued in April,
1973, identified the development of the Sana'a water supply as a high prior-
ity project for IDA financing.   A preappraisal mission visited Sana'a in
March, 1973 to review progress on the UNDP/WHO feasibility study and agreed
on the scope of the project, its basic design criteria and proposals for the
establishment of the National Water and Sewerage Authority (NWSA).
1.03      An appraisal mission composed of Messrs. Hayden and Al-Khafaji
appraised the project in June, 1973. Following review by the mission of the
program of works prepared by the consultant, the project components were de-
fined, construction program rescheduled and cost estimates revised. This
report is based on the consultant's feasibility reports, on information sup-
plied by the Government and on the findings of the mission.
II. The Sector
General
2.01      The YAR, located in the southwest corner of the Arabian Peninsula,
occupies a largely mountainous area of about 195,000 km2. It is bordered
on the north and northeast by Saudi Arabia, on the southeast by the People's
Democratic Republic of Yemen, and on the west by the Red Sea. The country
has three distinct geographical regions; the highlands, covering most of the
interior; the coastal plain, extending about 70 km inland along the Red Sea
and the eastern plateau, which has a desert climate and little vegetation.
2.02      A census has never been taken in YAR.  Tax collection records put
the population in 1971 at 5.9 million with an annual growth rate estimated
at 2.2%. Most of the people are settled tribesmen who live in small towns
and villages scattered throughout the highlands and the coastal plains with
husbandry and farming as their main occupation. Only about 10% of the popu-
lation can be regarded as urban, residing primarily in the three main cities



-2-
of Sanaeaa  Taiz and Hodeida.  Demographic studies 1/ estimate the population
of Sana'a at 90,000 and Hodeida's population at 50,000. The population of
Taiz has not been covered by a recent study and estimates vary from 100,000
to 150,000.
Water Resources
2e03      The country relies solely on groundwater for its water supply as
t'aere are no permanent sources of surface water. Some of the wadis 2/ have
heavy flows during the summer rains, but none contains running water through-
out the year. There are springs in and around Sana'a and Taiz, but they do
not yield sufficient water to supply these cities. In most areas the ground-
water is moderately mineralized. In the highlands the alkalinity and hard-
ness are fairly high (250 to 450 mg/l), while in the coastal zone the salt
content is high (2,000 to 3,000 mg/l).
2,04      Presently, most of the people in the YAR obtain their water sup-
plies from shallow wells and water vendors. In the main urban centers limited
piped water supply is provided by local cooperative organizations and private
enterprises. The villages and rural areas depend primarily on hand dug wells.
The existing water supply facilities are inadequate, water shortages are wide-
spread and most wells, particularly hand-dug wells, are contaminated. Con-
tinual lowering of the water table, due to limited recharge and increasing
extraction for both agriculture and domestic uses, is being experienced by
many communities particularly in the Sana'a area.
2.05      Hydrological studies have beea undertaken for the main cities of
Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeida and potential groundwater sources to meet their
long-term requirements have been located. There is very limited hydrological
data available for the rest of the country. However, recent country-wide
drilling experiences indicate that water supplies for most of the rural com-
munities can be assured by deep boreholes reaching the underlying cretaceous
sandstones some 200-300 m below.
Sector Organization
2.06      The Ministry of Public Works (MPW) is presently responsible for
planning and executing all Government projects in the sector. It has two
main sections - Municipal and Rural Affairs and Rural'Water Supply. The
latter section was established in 1972 and is responsible for all rural water
supply schemes and for coordinating external assistance for such schemes.
I/   Part of the UNDP/WHO water supply and sewerage studies for Sana'a and
Hodeida.
2/ Wadis are old river valleys.



2.07      MPW is not adequately staffed or financed to enable it to play an
effective role in the sector. The Ministry has two qualified water engineers
responsible for both urban and rural water supply schemes and there are no
trained managerial or finance personnel. As a result, sector work at the
national level lacks direction and the roles of agencies active in the sector
are not coordinated.
2X08      In the main centers, the piped water supply systems are operated
by Socal authorities and private enterprises.  The Taiz Cooperative Organl
zation operates the Kennedy Memorial Water Supply Systen, which was built in
1964/1965 and was the city's first piped water supply project. The Port
Authority of 'Hodeida operates a water supply system which was originally in
tended to serve the needs of the harbor but has since been extended to serve
public standpipes as well as some buildings and households.
Sector Needs and Development
2.09      The main obstacles to sector development have been shortages of
manpower and finance, institutional weaknesses, lack of a national policy
for the sector and inadequate data on needs and resources, To provide for
development in the urban centers, the Government has established the Nationel
Water and Sewerage Authority (para. 5.02).  Rural water supplies will continuz-
to be organized separately within the MPW.
2.10      The IBRD/WHO sector mission proposed a tentative program of invest-
ment which calls for an estimated US$47 million expenditure in the next 5 to
10 years, US$32 million for the three main urban centers and US$15 million
for rural areas.  The Government has given top priority to the Sana'a project
because of the present critical situation and further assistance has been re-
quested for the Hodeida water supply project. Feasibility studies for the
Hodeida system are being prepared under a UNDP/WHO assistance and funds for
final engineering are included in the proposed credit for the Sana'a project,
A rural water development program is already under way with assistance from
WHO, UNICEF and bilateral agencies. A grant of US$3.0 million from Abu Dhabi
has been used to acquire drilling equipment for this program. IDA has an in-
tegrated rural development project scheduled for FY75 which will include pro-
vision for water supply facilities for villages in part of the southern high-
lands. Because of severe Government budget constraints, progress on imple-
menting the water supply program will depend very largely on the support given
by external agencies.
Sana'a Water Supplies
2.11      The present water supply situation in Sana'a is very unsatisfactory.
The city derives its supply from wells sunk into the shallow aqui£fer under-
Lying the city. The recharge capacity of the aquifer (about 3 million m3 ner
year) is about half the current extraction rate which has resulted in a steadY
drop in the water table of about 3 m per year in the last two to three years,
As a result, the frequency of wells drying up has increased markedly in recent
years and the city has been experiencing acute water shortages. The city has
no sewerage system; wastewater is dispersed in the ground and rapidly reaches



-4-
the aquifer from which drinking water is abstracted. Bacteriological analysis
of the water has shown a high level of pollution in most wells and all taps.
2.12      Sana'a's residents obtain their water supplies from small distribu-
tion networks, private wells and water vendors. The principal supply is
operated by the Sanata Development Board V. This network supplies intermit-
tently about 2,000 households, mosques and a few public taps. Houses have
water for only 15 minutes to 2 hours per day depending on location. Private
distribution systems supply a limited number of buildings and water is avail-
able for brief periods. About 45% of the population depend on water vendors
and public taps. Details of the present water supply situation in Sana'a are
given in Annex 1.
2.13      Domestic water consumption in Sana'a ranges from 9 liters per capita
per day (lpcd) to 33 lpcd with an average consumption of 22 lpcd. This low
consumption can be attributed mainly to the lack of supply and the high cost
of water. The Sana'a Development Board charges a connection fee of YR 150
plus a monthly fixed charge of YR 10 to YR 15. 2/ The capital cost of a
private well averages about YR 6,000 and annual operating costs are about
YR 500; mainly for well deepening. Water vendors charge rates equivalent to
about YR 20 per m3 (US$16.8 per 1,000 gal.) for water delivered to householders.
III. The Project
Background
3.01      The grossly inadequate water supply facilities of Sana'a and the
continual lowering of the water table have resulted in serious water shortages
and consequential health hazards. To locate a reliable source, the Govern-
ment in 1971 requested UNDP assistance for a hydrological study. A satis-
factory source of water supply was found in the sandstone aquifer outcropping
to the north of the city. The water quality is good and the recharge capacity
of the aquifer is estimated at 22 million m /year which is adequate to meet
the projected requirements of Sana'a in 2000. Further UNDP assistance was
provided to prepare a feasibility study, master plan and proposals for es-
tablishing a water authority.
3.02      Consultants have prepared a feasibility study and preliminary en-
gineering for a program of works needed to meet the city requirements until
1985. The proposed project represents about 60% of the total program invest-
ment. The major elements of the project represent the least-cost method of
meeting the requirements, chosen from among several alternatives.
I/   The Sana'a Development Board is also responsible for streets sanitation,
parks and other municipal functions in Sana'a.
2/ Using average per capita consumption, the price of this water is es-
timated at YR 2.5 to YR 3.8 per m3 (US$2.1 to US$3.2 per 1,000 gal.).



-5-
PrG7ect Der° tion
3.33      Thie objectives of the project are to provide Sana'a with its first
adequate water supply system and to establish a competent National Water and
Sewer-ige Authority (NWSA) for water development in the urban centers, includ-
ing Sana'a. The principal elements of the project are detailed in Annex 4
and summarized below:
(i) Development of a well-field located some 5 km north of Sanala
including completion of eight production wells (providing an
estimated safe yield of 200 lls) with associated pumping
installations, electric power supply, transmission pipelines
and pump houses. Four wells have already been drilled as
part of the hydrological study.
(ii)  Construction of headworks including a 4,500 m3 chlorination
and regulation tank, two electric pumps, three small air
tanks and a building to house the pumps and related equip-
ment. Also, a 5e6 km transmission line to convey the water
from the well field to the headworks.  rWater qualicy is
good and other than chlorination, no further treatment is
necessary.
(iii) Construction of a distribution system to cover areas of the
city expected to be densely urbanized in 1976. The network
will include 17 km of water mains (200 mm to 600 mm), 175
km of distribution lines (80 mm to 150 mm) and about 6,000
house-connections.
(iv)  Supply and installation of equipment for operation and
maintenance of the system. This includes meter testing
and repair equipment, maintenance vehicles and office
furniture and equipment.
(v) Engineering services to assist NWSA in the evaluation of bids,
to make recommendations for award of contracts and to under-
take supervision of construction of the project works. The
project also includes provision of engineering services for
final engineering and preparation of tender documents for the
Hodeida water supply system.
(vi)  Training for technical, financial and adminiistrative staff
locally and abroad and consultants' services to assist in
operating and maintenance during the initial years.
3.04      Headquarters for NWSA will be provieed in the new MPW building.
Power will be obtained from the Sana'a Electric Power Company, but trans-
formers and electric transmission lines for the well-field and headworks
are included in the project.



Cost £-scisates
3.05      The estimated costs of the project are detailed in Annex 5 and
s-ummarized below:
% of
Item                   Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total         Total
------YR(0O0)-----  ----US$(000)---    Expenditure
Well-Field                187     913   1,100       41     203      244        4
Transmission Lines        302   1,609   1,911       67     357      424        6
Head Works                403     644   1,047       90     143      233        3
Distribution System   2,978  10,529  13,507    662   2,340   3,002            44
House-Connections         747     846   1,593    166       188      354        5
Furniture, Equipment
and Vehicles             103     350      453     23       78      101        1
Sub-Total            4,720  14,891  19,611  1,049   3,309   4,358          63
Physical Contingencies  708   2,234   2,942    157         497      654       10
(15%)
Price Increase            762   3,050   3,812    169       678      847       12
(6% per annum)
Land                      200     -        200     44      -         44        1
Engineering Services    572   2,293   2,865    128         509      637        9
Training and Operation
Assistance             270   1,080   1,350       60      240      300       5
Total Project Cost    7,232  23,548  30,780  1,607   5,233   6,840          100
3.06      The cost estimates were prepared by the consultant on the basis of
pre ±sminary designs and were updated during appraisal.  The estimates are de-
rived from June, 1973 quotations for equipment and materials. Allowances were
made for a reasonable increase in contractors' prices due to the remoteness
of the YAR in which few contractors have past experience. Taking account of
the special conditions of the city of Sana'a (the good nature of the soil and
the absence of a surface aquifer) asbestos cement pipes are proposed for the
main lines and P.V.C. pipes for the distribution lines. Taxes are not included
in the cost estimates as NWSA is exempted from all custom duties and taxes.



-7-
3G07      Physical contingencies of 15% have been added for both materials and
c5vi wor'.is costs to cover unforeseen conditions which may arise during detailed
cessign and construction of the project. The price contingencies - an average
annual increase of 6% - reflects the world wide trend of increasing prices of
materials and equipment.
L,`stt-   In estimating the foreign exchange component, it is expected that
al_r materials and equipment for the project will be imported.  All large civil
works contracts, including those for i-nstallation of water mains and distribu-
tion lines, are likely to be won by foreign contractors in view of the limited
capacity of the Yemeni construction industry.  Since YAR is a net importer of
cement, steel and petroleum, the cost of these materials is included in the
estimated foreign exchange component of civil works contracts.
Project Financing
3.09      An IDA credit of US$6.25 million is proposed to cover all of the
project's foreign exchange costs (US$5.23 million) and part of the local
costs (US$1.02 million), The Government will relend to NTWSA US$3050 million
cf the IDA credit at an annual interest rate of 7-1/4% for a period of 25
years including five years grace and the balance of 'che credit (US$2 75 mil-
lion) and Government funds will be provided as a capital contribution.  The
proposed project financinr, wou'ld be:
TUS$ million    _
Proposed IDA Credit                 6.25          91
Government/Local Resources          0.59           9
6.84        100
Procurement and Disbursement
3.10      All equipment supply and civil works contracts, except minor con-
tracts for maintenance, office equipment and contracts for installation of
house-connections (amounting in total to about US$300,000), would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Association's Guidelines for Procurement. No margin of preference for local
suppliers was requested as none of the equipment is manufactured locally.
3.11      Tender documents for construction contracts will be combined as far
as graot1 0bl e to encourage bids from foreign contractors.  Local firms will
,< used for instal.ation of- house-connections and are also expected to obtain
several sub-contracts.
z @12   The proposed IiDA credit would be disbursed as follows:
ki) Civil Works
35% of the cost of construction contracts.



91 r ,J  .,; \  ar.4 ' K ter- al
a-*a,  Th.E       cost of inported equipment;
'('D)   5. of- the cost of locally procured imported equipment; and
kc,  t.;e ex-factory cost of localIy-produced equipment, if any.
(i i    Constng Sarvi-ies aaiand Training
1   o~ of-he tota_ costs of consulting services for
engineering, accounting and training.
The percentage disbursement on civil works would be subject to revision by
IDA up to a maximum of 100% in order to disburse in total US$6.25 million.
3.13      A proposed allocation of the IDA credit is shown in Annex 5 and a
quarterly disbursement forecast is shown in Annex 7.  On completion of the
project, any undisbursed amount should be used to finance further extension
of the system subject to prior approval by IDA.
Ad3L-nstration of the Project
3,14      Detailed designs and tender documents are presently being prepared
by consultants financed under UNDP/WH0 assistance.  As NWSA will not have
adequate qualified staff to administer the project, it will be necessary to
engage engineering consultants for contract administration and supervision of
construction.  Terms of reference for these services, prepared by IDA staff,
are being considered by the Government. During negotiations agreement was
reached that NWSA will, prior to award of construction contracts, engage
engineering consultants satisfactory to IDA for the administration and super-
vision of construction contracts,  Agreement was also reached that NWSA will
employ engineering consultants satisfactory to IDA to prepare final engineer-
ing for the Hodeida water supply system.
3,15      Under the proposed organization ('Annex 8), NWSA's Chief Engineer
would in the future be responsible for supervision of expansion programs.
As project preparation is at present underway, it is essential that a suit-
abq y qualified Zeifmeni engineer is recruited  as soon as possible to parti-
cipate 4in Dro-1ect administration arnd to take advantage of the training
provLced in the consultants  contract,  Agreement was reached during nego-
tiations that within three months of the date of effectiveness of the credit
Y,.-WSA will appoint a qualified Yemeni engineer to the post of Chief Engineer.
3.16      Prov'-sion has been madce in the cost estimates for engaging con-
S utants to assist NXSA ir operation, maintenance and training during the
.nitiai years (,oara 5.11).
3>,7 -7.ae c'n.-iBCt c:-a  0o  ot is scheduled to commence in late
,974 and to b'e CGL iatCeC b7y June, 0977, A limited supply of water should be
available in 197.  ThFe construction schedule is shown in Annex 6.



-9-
Compulsory Acquisition and Water Rights
3.18      Under Moslem Law, the Ruler has the right of eminent domain,  i:
ever, in the YAR there are no substantive rules in force which would erasu"e
that the Government can compulsorily acquire land, right of way and wayliazes,
iri order to systematize the traditional rights and to provide specific a torn
ity, provision has been made in the law establishing NWSA (para 5.022 
itp ower to compulsorily acquire land, right of way and wayleaves.
3.19      The Government has enacted a law to protect the water resources iiu%
the Sana2a arsa from pollution and to regulate pumping of such resources for
agricultural1 use.  During negotiations assurance were obtained that the Gow
erlment wili take all measures necessary to protect the water resources es
the Sana'a area.
a3o10gcal  Aspects
3.20      The project is expected to eliminate the major water shortages
which have plagued Sana'a in past years.  The existing contaminated sourse
of water will be abandoned which should decrease the incidence of water-
borne diseases in the city. In addition, more water will be available foer
public and domestic cleaning.
3.21      In parts of the old city of Sana'a, a congested section compris-lag
about 20% of the city area, occasional overflowing of cesspools and scatterzed
accumulation of wastewater are evident, particularly after rain. The problem
may be due to the inadequate construction and maintenance of cesspools or the
slow rate of infiltration in this area.  If left unattended, the problem £s
likely to deteriorate in sections of this area where water consumption will
increase substantially. A UNDP/WHO feasibility study to examine the preselnt
situation is scheduled to commence in 1974. An improved design of cesspools
or limited sewerage facilities are likely to be recommended.
IV. justification
4.0      The present water supply position in Sana'a is critical.  Most of
the wells are contaminated, the water table is steadily falling and substan-
tial expenditure is being incurred for stop gap measures to provide mini rul:
supplies. Unless urgent measures are taken to improve the situation, livin.
conditions will become intolerable.  The YAR Government has no alternative
but to proceed with this project if the basic water supply needs of the
present population of Sana'a are to be met, a health hazard removed and -c-ro
vision made for the future development of the city.  The proJect when cou-
pleted will provide over 100,000 residents of Sana'a with either indivi&.
house-connections or easy access to piped water.
4.02      As a census has never been taken in Sana'a, the consultant un6ertook
a sample socio-demographic study to estimsate the necessary vital statisties.
The population growth was projected at average annual rates of 6.5% (253%



- 10 -
ntural increase and 4.0% migration) for the period 1972-1984, and 5.2% (2.2%
natural increase and 3.0% migration) for 1985-1989. Water demand projections
were made for domestic and non-domestic usages (Annex 2). The average domestic
demand for the connected population was esi:imated at 50 lpcd in 1976 rising to
'00 Lpcd in 1985.  Population connected was projected at 40% rising gradually
to 75% in the same period. Services for the poor will be provided at the
nimerous mosques throughout the city. Public and commercial establishments
within the area served by the project are expected to be connected in the
initial years. Because of the absence of reliable income distribution data
it was not possible to determine the percentage of each income group which
will benefit from the project investment.
4Q03      The hydrological survey of the Sana?a basin established that the
only reasonable solution for the water supply of the city was to develop a
new well field about 5 km to the north where stone fracturing is intensive
and agriculture development is limited (Annex 4). The investment program for
1974-1984 was chosen from several alternatives and is the least cost solution
at discount rates of 6% to 14%. The project elements were selected from this
program as being the most suitable to achieve maximum immediate benefits by
providing services to the densely populated areas.
4.04      The rate of return on the water supply investment program (of which
the project is the first and major component) is estimated to be 10% if benefits
are measured by incremental revenue attributable to the program (Annex 13).
However, this excludes the social benefits of providing an adequate supply of
safe water to a large segment of the urban poor at tariffs matched to their
ability to pay and does not fully reflect the health benefits from a safe water
supply. The rate of return is moderately sensitive to changes in benefits;
rising to 13.6% with a 25% increase in benefits and falling to 5.6% with a
25% reduction.
V. The Beneficiary
5.01      The Government of the Yemen Arab Republic will be the borrower of
the proposed credit. Under a subsidiary loan agreement, the Government
would relend part of the proceeds of the credit and make an equity contri-
bution of the balance to the National Water and Sewerage Authority (NWSA).
Organization and Management
502      NWSA was established in November, 1973 as an autonomous agency to
carr-y out the project, and eventually assume responsibility for the develop-
ment and operation of urban water supply and sewerage systems in the YAR.
it is also responsible for supervising the preparation of the UNDP-financed
feasibility studies for the Hodeida water supply system and for waste water
disposal in Sana'a and Hodeida. A national organization was selected to
ensure optimum utilization of the very limited managerial and technical
talents available. The legislation establishing NWSA is satisfactory and
provides the Authority with the powers and responsibilities appropriate for
a public utility including the power to borrow funds,



G,,<    Control o' NWSA is vested in a seven-mar Board consisting of the
'i1-nser of Publ-ic Works 'Chairman), Director General, Deputy Minister of
Mnic-ioalities, Deputy Minister of the Treasury and three members representing
-lacai. government and the private sector.  The Board is responsible to the
Councl of Ministers in accordance with the general rule governing public
autLtorities in YAR. The approval of the Council of Ministers will be re-
cUir2  for establishing water rates and other charges.
5OQ3.     The proposeed organization chart of NNWSA is 4n Annex 8.  The Director
C-neral ia res-,onsible to the zoard for the operation of the Authority.  Report-
directly to the Director GeneraL are the Branch Managers and three central
de3artments for Administration, Firance and Engineering.  The day-to-day oper-
ation of each system will be under the control of the Branch Manager.  The
central departments will be responsible for the construction of facilities,
provision of technical and managerial assistance and for general supervision
of the Branches. During negotiations agreement was reached that NW4SA will
at all times be under the supervision or a competent Director General and
other senior officers and that any material change in the structure of NWSA
would be made only after consultation with IDA.
5.05      As detailed design and preparation of tender documents is at
present being undertaken by Italconsult (Italy), it is important that early
Yemeni input to the project be available. A suitable Director General was
appointed and has assumed siis post.  The appointments to the posts of Chief
Engineer and Finance Manager are provided for in para. 3.15 and para. 5.07
respectively.
Accounting and Billing
5.06      NWSA will have to adopt a financial accounting system appropriate
for a revenue earning authority. The system must be basic and tailored to
the qualifications of local staff. A limited amount of local experience in
the field is available; an office equipment manufacturer has a representative
in Sana'a and the Taiz Water Cooperative has a mechanical billing system in
operation. Provision has been made for NWSA to contract with a public utility
or consultants to establish a tariff structure and design and supervise the
implementation of an accounting system.  During negotiation agreement was
reached that within three months from the data of effectiveness of the credit
NNWSA will engage consultants, acceptable to IDA, to prepare a tariff structure
and to design and implement financial accounting, customer billing and stock
control systems.  Agreement was also reached that NWSA will submit to IDA for
cowment within nine months from the date of effectiveness of the credit details
af their proposed financial accounting, customer billing and stock control
systems.
5 07       in order for QJSA to fully benefit from the consultants' training
services and to assum.e primary responsibility for administration of the ac-
counting system, a Yemeni Finance Manager should be appointed.  During nego-
tiations agreement was reached that NWSA will appoint an experienced accountant
as Finance Manager within three months from the date of effectiveness of the
credit.



-proposes to acquire the limited water supply facil-
.es o~ t'se -a.na' a ai_ve`;Dnenn- Board, pay the necessary compensation and
r-.~e-res-1,v13-l56-'6 r to INUAo  This transfer -s desi-rable to enable NWvSA
to make some 5 t-eri.orarv  1 mp fovamezts in the exist3ing facilities, gain operat-
4 n    p =11 &Lsur-   a-   e syste. &i m   :  be discontinued when an alter-
-n aLi%ZS SPS-X#F  g *-- va 1 ;-R      'ng negoti at ons agreemaent was reached that
ghe transfer of he  Sanala Decvlo<=ment 'aoard water zacilities to NWSA would be
completed within tth-ee -mon ths o- the date of effectlveness of the credit and
that N-WSA will appoint a Branch Manager for this system before the transfer
takes place.
T-raining and Operatirng Assistance
5.09      NWSA is authorized by law to establish competitive salary scales
and no major difficulties are anticipated in recruiting staff.  However,
training needs will exist for all levels of staff. A preliminary training
program was established during appraisal.  For senior management and technical
personnel, UENDP funds are available for 6 man/months of foreign training and
an additional 40 man/months are included in the project costs.  No further
U-NTDP funds are presently available for training. Provision will also be in-
cluded in the engineering consultantts and equipment suppliers' contracts for
the training of PNWSA's personnel,  Most of the training is expected to be
undertaken in neighboring Arab states because of language problems.
5.10      Training for office personnel will be prov'ded irt Sana a under a
UNDP Public AdmInistration Projec. presently being established.  USAID has
expressed its willingness to provide for the training of skilled workers
under their ongoing program at Taiz.  Somr.e "on-the-job"' training for office
personnel wil1 also be provi ded.  During negotiations agreement was reached
that NWSA will submiat to !DA for commnent a detailed training program for its
managerial, technical and clerical staff withlin six months from the date of
effectiveness of the credit.
5.11      In addition to the training program, it will be necessary to secure
thqe services of an experieniced water engineer and technicians to assist in
operating the systei,i during the initial years until the local personnel have
gained sufficient experience to take full responsibility.  Provision has been
made in the cost estimates for these services. Because of the nature of the
work and the lan-uase Droblems  it is desirable that this assistance be con-
tractald for with a wa               to  cOnsUltants operating in Arabic speaking
couantries.  Durin  neot> iazina agreement - was reached that within twelve months
toftre ca~.. .. _.:c <:2ea s of   e cr .t NWSA w4I1 engage consultants, accept-
a6-xe to I'i.  u :1mvt ':a-tL. _           ttoe aed training.
'.4i   Saivaged  ipeo wil] be uec    rural areas.



- 13 -
Audit
5.12      NWSA's legislation provides that its accounts and financial affairs
will be audited annually by qualified auditors. Independent commercial au-
ditors are presently employed in Sana'a. Agreement was reached during nego-
tiations that an annual audit will be made of NWSA's accounts by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA and that NWSA will send the auditor's report and
the annual accounts to IDA not later than four months after the end of each
fiscal year.
VI. Finance
Financing Plan
6.01      The capital requirements of NWSA total YR 34.97 (US$7.77) million,
of which 80% will be financed by the proposed IDA Credit, 9% by Government
Funds (including interest during construction) and 11% from NWSA's own re-
sources as outlined below.
Period 1974-1977
Sources of Funds                         YR (000)    US$ (000)    %
Proposed IDA Credit
Loan              15,750
Equity            12,375             28,125        6,250       80
Interest Capitalized                       1,721          382        5
Government Equity                          1,461          325        4
Internal Cash Generation                   1,306          290        4
Customer Contributions                     1,608          357        5
Current Liabilities                          750          167        2
34,971       7 771      100
:===
Application of Funds
Project Expenditure                       30,780        6,840       88
Operating Expenses Capitalized               790          176        2
Interest Capitalized during
Construction                             1,721          382        5
Current Assets                             1,680          373        5
34 97         7 771     100
_ ~=
Details of the projected sources and application of funds for the project
construction period, 1974-1977 are shown in Annex 10.



- 14 -
6.02      This financing plan is based on the proposal that US$3.50 million of
the IDA credit will be relent to NWSA and that the balance of the credit (US$2.75
million) and Government funds will be provided as a capital contribution. The
Government contribution is essential to ensure the financial viability of the
new authority. During negotiations agreement was reached that US$3.50 million
of the IDA credit will be relent to NWSA at an annual interest rate of 7-1/4%
for a period of 25 years including five years grace and that the balance of
the credit, US$2.75 million, together with Government funds as are required
for working capital and completion of the project will be provided as a cap-
ital contribution.
6.03      In addition to the construction of the Sana'a project NWSA, as a
national authority, must also provide staff for the UNDP/WHO feasibility
studies for the Sanaa wastewater and the Hddeida water and wastewater. In
the financial projections the salaries of the central departments' staff al-
located to this work were capitalized. During the construction period, it is
estimated that NWSA's income should meet operating expenses due in part to
the income received from the cooperative system (para 5.08). After completion
of the project, the return on net fixed assets is projected to rise gradually
from 1% in 1979 to 5% in 1984. The projected financial statements of NWSA for
the fiscal years 1974-1984 are shown in Annexes 9-11 and the assumptions for
the projections are in Annex 12.
Tariffs and Rate of Return
6.04      A water charge of YR 1.2 per m3 (US$1.01 per 1,000 gal) and a con-
nection charge of YR 350 was estimated for the average connection. A higher
connection charge will be made for larger connections. As these rates are
high 1/ the Government has agreed to provide concessional charges for lower
income families by either providing an orifice controlled connection or in-
stituting a stepped tariff scale. As the concessional charge will be in ex-
cess of the marginal cost of production, this service will not be subsidized.
For the very poor, water will be available at public taps situated at the
mosques. The advantages of an orifice are that a meter is not required, main-
tenance and billing are simplified and the customer knows in advance the amount
of his bill. However, the Government has indicated that as there are no pro-
perty tax records and the size of dwellings in Sana'a is not a measure of
wealth, it might be difficult to establish eligibility for an orifice connec-
tion. A stepped tariff scale providing a concessional rate for low consumption
and graduated rates for higher consumption would then be considered as an al-
ternative. Some deferment of connection charges would also be needed. This
question will be thoroughly investigated by the tariff consultant (para 5.06)
and proposals made for implementing the concessional charges. During negotia-
tions agreement was reached that NWSA will submit a proposed tariff structure
to IDA for comment no later than nine months from the date of effectiveness of
the credit and that t-he agreed tariff will be introduced within fifteen months
from the same date.
1/   For comparison, the average charge for other cities are as follows:
Istanbul, Turkey               US$0.47 per 1,000 gal.
Rabat, Morocco                 US$0.57 per 1,000 gal.
Amman, Jordan                  US$0.80 per 1,000 gal.



- 15 -
6.05      The estimated average water rate of YR 1.2 per m3 is one of the
highest in the Middle East. However, this rate is considerably less than the
estimated rate of YR 2.5 to YR 3.8 per m3 presently charged by the Sana'a
Development Board (para 2.13) and it reflects the long-term marginal cost of
water sold discounted at a rate of 10.6% (Annex 13). Even with this high
charge the projected rate of return on net fixed assets (para 6.03) is rel-
atively low. This is attributed to the following:
(i)  The present domestic consumption is estimated at 22 lpcd
(para 2.13) and few of the houses have internal plumbing
l- ess than 6% of households have flush toilets.  This
low consumption is due to the present lack of supply and
the high cost of water in the city. In this environment
projected per capita consumptions and percentage connec-
tions must be conservative as it will take a considerable
period after the water is available for a normal demand
pattern to develop. This results in low utilization of
the system and high operating cost per unit produced during
the initial years;
(ii) Sana'a is a heterogeneous city - households which car. afford
to immediately connect to the system are not concentrated in
any particular section of the city. The distribution system
will thus need to cover the entire city. This results in a
higher capital cost per household connected;
(iii) The proposed project is part of a program to meet the
city requirements to 1985. Following completion of the
project NWSA will still have a substantial investment
program to extend the system into the outskirts of the
city resulting in continuation of the initial development
problems for some time; and
(iv)  In addition to NWSA's responsibility for the Sana'a
project the Authority must employ staff, undertake
training and incur development costs for projects in
other urban centers (para 5.02).
During negotiations agreement was reached that NWSA will adjust its
tariffs as necessary to insure a positive rate of return in 1978 gradually
rising to not less than 5% in 1984, 7-1/2% in 1987 and thereafter.
Government Accounts
6,06      Water will be suDpp-ed So the very Door of Sana&'a through public
taps at the city mosques. As about 50O of  WSrz s water sales in the initi.a1
years will be to local an2d central government agencies, it is essential that
satisfactory financial relations be established. During negotiations agree-
ment was reached that the Government through its Ministry of Awkaf "religious
trusts) will be responsible for payment at the standard rate for water supplied
to mosques and that all water accounts for local and central government agen-
cies will be paid promptly.



- 16 -
Debt Service
6.07      As NWSA will require substantial borrowing in the future to finance
the extension of the Sana'a water supply system and to construct the Sana'a
sewerage and the Hodeida water supply and sewerage system it is necessary
that a debt limitation covenant be provided. During negotiations agreement
was reached that NWSA would not incur debts without IDA's consent unless
net income before interest and depreciation is at least 1.5 times the max-
imum debt service in any future year including service of the debt to be
incurred.
VII. Recommendation
7.01      Agreement having been reached on the principal issues, the project
provides a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$6.25 million to the Govern-
ment of the Yemen Arab Republic.



ANN1EX I
Page 1 of 4 pages
Y&EN ARAB REPUBLI C
SANA'A WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PRESENT WATER SUPPLY SITUATION
General
1.        The estimated 90,000 inhabitants of Sanala derive their water
supplies entirely from wells sunk within the city limits. Most wells
serve one or a few buildings and there is no effective distribation
system. About 55% of the population obtain water from their own wells,
private distribution networks and the Sanata Development Board (para 5).
The remaining 45% depend on water vendors, public points of sale and
public taps.
2.        About 300 wells are currently in use in Sanaia. The wells are
generally hand-bag, one meter in diameter, masonry lined in the upper part
and about 40 m deep. A few drilled wells (50 m to 75 m deep) are used by
the Sana'a Dewelopment Board and by private enterprises.
3.        The present water supply situation is highly unsatisfactory.
The most serious drawback is the steady drop in the water table of about
3 m per year. This is to be attributed mainly to the rapid increase in
extraction both in the urban area (for domestic use) and in the plain
around the city (for irrigation). The hand-dug wells, which reach a very
shallow depth below the static water level, mast continually be deepened
and pumps have to be shifted or substituted. The frequency of wells dxying
up has increased markedly in recent years and the city has been experiencing
acute water sbortages agravated by increased demand and three years of
unusual drought.
4.        In addition to the technical and economic sbortcomings of the
present situation, there are serious health hazards. Sana7a has no sewerage
system; older buildings usually have seepage pits while the more modern ones
often have septic tanks. Sewage is dispersed in the ground and rapidly
reaches the aquifer in the same area from which drinking water is abstracted.
Bacteriological analysis of twentythree sanples of water collected in 1972
from various parts of the city has shown a high level of pollution in most
wells and all taps.



A NEX 1
Page 2 of 4 pages
Sana a Da omnt a
The Sana'a Development Board is a public body which presently operates
a small water system in the city.@' It has five wells3& (drilled through
bilateral assistance) which feed a distribution network covering parts of
the city and about 2000 house-connections. The water from the wells is
umnped to five separate distribution networks, sometimes through small tanks
(2-10 m,3)  The distribution networks are constracted of galvanized threaded
pipes with a maximum diameter of 100 mm buried to depths of about 30 cm,
though frequently pipes can be seen exposed on the sides of the roads.
6.        The pumps operate from 8 to 12 hours and water is distributed for
shorter periods. Depending on their location, some houses have water for
about 2 hours daily, and some for 15 minutes only; network pressure is low
and in most cases water cannot rise to the roof of the giound-floor. For
this service, consumers pay a connection fee (YR 150) plus a monthly fixed
charge (YR 10-15).
Supplies from Private lWells
7.        A survEy was conducted in 1972 to obtain some idea of the characteris-
tics and of the service provided by private wells. Three categories of private
wells are currently used in Sana'a;
- Wells serving single households
- WHells with small distribution networks andVor
points of sale for water
- Wells for public and indistrial use, supplying
hospitals, establishments, etc.
8*        Households with their own wells usually have one or more roof tanks
serving more than one family. Capital investment for a complete private well
supply facility ranges between YR 5000 to YR 7000. Annual operating expenses
of YR 500-600 are currently incurred by householders as most wells have to
be deepened twice or three times a year. A large number of these wells have
been abandoned because of the high maintenance and operating expenses or
because they dried up.
9.        Private distribution systems only supply a very limited number of
buildings. Water is available for brief periods (maximm one hour) once or
twice a day and each consumer fills his tanks with sufficient water to last
the whole day. For this service, the consumer pays a connection fee of
YR 150-500 and a fixed monthly charge of YR 10-20.
The Sana'a Development Board is also in charge of parks, streets, sanitation,
and other manicipal functions.
i/Three additional wells were drilled recently but have not been connected
to the distribution network.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4 pages
10.        When the water is sold through public points of sale, the
consumers come along with various types of containers to collect their
requirements, pzying a fixed monthly charge irrespective of the quantity
they take. In many cases the buyers are water vendors who go around with
water-carts holding about 400 liters to serve shops and private houses
lying some distance away from the points of sale.
11.        Public buildings, industries and commercial organizations of any
importance have one or two wells of their own. Mosques, apart from supplying
their own needs, give excess water to the general public through public taps.
Present Water Consumption
12.        There are no records relating to the water consumption in Sanala.
Present consumption was assessed mainly on the basis of two surveys; the
first was undertaken during the demographic investigations (March 1972) to
estimate domestic consumption by interviewing about 10% of the population of
Sana'a and the second survey undertaken shortly after, to detenmine public,
commercial and industrial consumptions. Results of the survey are summarized
below:
Consumption        jo2f
Category                            lpcd        Total
Domestic Consumption          1,740        22        31
Pablic Consumption           1,860         __        33
Commercial Consumption          240        --         4
Industrial Consumption       1,81          -         32
Total           5,650         72       100
13.        Domestic consumption in the various zones of Sanala varied from
9 lpcd to 33 lpcd. This low consumption is attributed to the present diffi-
culties of water supply and consequently results in a low level of sanitary
and hygienic services.
14.        Public consumption includes water taken by Government buildings,
mosques, hospitals and schools. About half of the consumption attributed to
Government buildings goes for watering internal gardens, washing streets and
sprinkling public lawns. Consumption by mosques is of particular importance
in Sanata.  Beside having large tanks and facilities for satisfying the re-
ligious requirements of the faith, mosques distribute water free to the public.
Some 1500 households were supplied in 1972 by the mosques.
l/Of which 1,300 m3/day is for the textile factory which has its own wells.
E/If the consumption of the textile factory is deducted, the overall sonsumption
will be 56 lpod.



ANN 1
Page 4 of 4
15.       The major indUstrial instjl ation in Sana'a is the textile  .
factory which consumes about 1,300 vrr/day. The factory has recetly
completed construction of water supply facilities and will probably
delay connection to the public water supply system for several years.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SANA'A WATER SUPPLY PROJBCT
POPULATICZN AND WATER DEIM2ND PRWECTIONS
Month of ?&ximum Consuption
Domestic                                              Non Domestic                                     Total                             -Annusal Volumes (=3Y
Per-capita                        Absolute                                                                  21
Population                    Requirement   Net Demand          Requirement         %         llet nm Net Demrnd  et Demand    GrosE Demand           Dometic       Non Doestic        Thtal
yEAR        End of Year    Connections         (ipcd)       (si3/dey)           (m /day)    Connections      (m3/day)                           ((m/day)               Net             Net           Gross
1972            82,320                           22           1,740                                            3,910              5,65C
1973            87,700
1974            93,270
1975            99,030           20              50             990               4,550           30           1,365             2,355           2,943                74,250          102,380         220,790
1976           105,080           40              50           2,102               4,800          50           2,400              4,502           5,627               451,430          549,690       1,251,400
1977           111,350           45              57           2,856               5,080           57           2,896             5,752           7,190               723,870          773,220       1,871,360
1978           117,900           50              63           3,714               5,380          64           3,443              7,157           8,946               959,220          925,490       2,355,890
1979           124,670           54              69           4,645               5,68o          70            3,976             8,621          10,776            1,220,410         1,083,170       2,879,470
1980           131,720           58              75           5,730               6,ooo          75            4,500            10,230          12,787            1,514,750         1,237,500       3,440,310
1981           139,150           62              81           6,988               6,320          79           4,993             11,981          14,976            1,856,830         1,385,980       4,053,510
1982           146,9C0           66              86           8,338               6,680          82            5,478            13,816          17,269            2,237,600         1,528,770       4,7o7,96o
1983           155,030           69              91           9,734               7,000          85            5,950            15,684          19,604            2,638,510         1,668,490       5,383,750
1984           163,480           72              96          11,300               7,375           88           6,490            17,790          22,237            3,070,960         1,816,240       6,109,000
1985           172,320           75             100          12,924               7,850          90           7,o65             19,989          24,986            3,536,700        1,979,030        6,894,660
A populatiun cenisus has not be^.. made for Sana'a. A socio-desoraphic sample survey undertaken by Italconsult in March 1972
was used as the basis for the population and water demand projections.
Actual.
23  it is expected that tlhe supply w11l start in August 1975.
4J  The textile factory, located ouitside the area to be tcrved by the project distribution network, has recently constructed new
eater supply facilities and is expected to delay havilnd   r-course to the public water supply system for a number of years.
21  Total gross was calculated by increasing net demandn by 25% to In,clude the unaccounted for water.
6The anpeal volu-es are calculated from the aver&4s, day coyio,m.tion rhich Is equal to the maximum daily consumption divided by 1.25 .nr' ar0r tiased on  Widyear awvirailuu.
O!ctoaer b, 1.'73






ANNEX 3
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SANA'A VATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROJECTIONS OF POPULATION AND WATER PRODUCTION
200  _                                   j-
8.0         1    l                                1                                 II
I~ ~~~ i     !               Ij        RJC  OMLTO    
50
E ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~YA
o                                                                                      B0
z10
z-J     0a-
z  ~~~  00
DEOG1RAPHIC STUDIEiS
2.0-
1972  1973  1974 1975 1976  1977  1978 1979  1980  1981  1982  1983 1984  1985
YEAR
World Ban k-7927






Ta3g'e 1-L 3 pages
S3. A  WATER STPPLY PROJECT
n:escrpt±o of 'the ,rojeo
e.       Ihe project is part of a iqaster Plan for t.he extraction, conveyance,
regulation and distriXbutino of water to supply Sanala in the period 1975-2000.
The Master Plan was prepared in 1971-1973 by italconsult of Italy under
a UNID?P/H0 technical assistance program.  Feasibility stady and preliminary
engineering were prepared for works needed to meet the city requirements by
1985. The project works, representing the initial phase of the 1985 program,
amonmt to more than 60% of the total investment required daring the period
1974-1985. Details of the project works are described below.
Well Field
2.       The well field is located to the north of Sana'a in the plain border-
ing the escarpment formed by the outcropping sandstones. Four test produ'ction
wells were drilled during the UNDP/W,JO water resource stucr and their yields
were estimated as follows:
ST 1        28 1/s
ST 5        15
ST 6        45
ST ?        10
Total     98 2/s
To meet the city requirenents by 1985 (300 I/s) new production wells to be
drilled will have to yield about 200 l/s.  Considering the average well yield
and the necessity of stand-by wells, it wilL be necessary to complete a filrther
10 to 12 production wells The project includes com.pletion of eight prodclction
wells, of which four alread;y drilleds, with relevant pumping installations1
electric power supply, transmission pipelines and pamp houses.
3        The fouar test pomduction  eLl. lreary bDored point to the non-homogeneous
natare of the aquifer d8ue to ita fractured characters  Only tbose wells which hit
ell-developed, open fracture system give high yields.  in order to improve the
£L r"otured character of t1he aau'fer and ncrease well yield, explosives were
eaptoy ad in one of the teat W6s7<, Howv-emr, no cleaning or retesting of the
well was made to aoseas the success of the operation.  Tne Govemnment agreed to
Rzorrida -nds for the Aut0horit<yt to =idaztake clearing-up of this well and for
emlrlo-,ent of ex-losi,ves azad clean ig of a second well.  Supervision of such
,zideraiSmg and retetlg will be  lada by ItalconsuLt under the present UNDPAWHO
z sa t):! ea  An  tct.ion,1- vb  -ncluded in the tender documents for employment
Cof?    c.san*n           e nc re,ating  '- hte axesting as well as the proposed
wtLa anda -ewlI 6e takea Uz -i fustIfied by the result 'us ol' the retesting.



4
Page 2 of 3 pages
.tr&IIs Masion line to convey the. water from the well field to
(a za ;> zis a 5.6 im pipe i two sections: 4.4 km of 500 
. m  ~/f   muLO   diameter. In sizing the line. two possible
&La--tMat'ivS Wa:~- - I-: n eda and -he investment cost of the line and pumps
a z=  as t. ralev.nt r-= ning and maintenance costs were determined for
each a:ltemative,
Headwor'ks
5.       The head-works include a 4,500 m3 chlorination/regulation tank,
two electrically operated pumps delivering 150 1/sec each and three 4i.5  3
ai r tanks each with pressure switches for automatically starting and stopping
the pumps. A third pump delivering 300 I/s is planned for 1980.  Thne pumps
will be installed in a reinforced concrete and masonry building which can
house all the pumps required to meet the city needs until the year 2000. For
the location of the headworks, a site has been  U1osei on a bill northwest of
the city.
6.       Power will be obtained from the Sanala Electric Power Company. The
necessary transformers and transmission lines for the headworks and well field
are included in the pmject.
Distriblation $yst- n
7.       The project incades all mains and distribution lines which will be
installed in the period from i974 to 1976 and as summarized below:
Category                               _Uit      5
Main ines (230 am to 600  Km)                  Km         17
Distribution Lines (80 mm to i50 mm)                     l75
House-connections                              NO      6000
The existLng 600 m3 steel tank and the 2.4 km supplying main (constructed in
1969 with JSAID assistance) will be incor-porated into the new network. Costs
of repair and rehabilitation of these facilities were included fin the project.
8.       Tkne di6tribution network  eill cover the areas expected to be urbanized
in 1976 '6  ha plus 200 ha c0  green zones).  Gradaal extbension of the distri-
E>i5 1      nk       th, I43  o,' i  cifl     y to cover ±tie piojected urban limits
br onD r,3    L4to   e- ''t3-    s 3emof "6G110
9i.           T    jy C.es-s for WI-- main lines have been established according
to -thae rsairU    Ej          t   ?ler is Pl''m.i  i ie network essential for the yea  1985
was identifLed an  *a L        i  pier onibaanc  was checked for the two hyptheses
of min:Lmm ar' a        discarge that are for seen in 1985, Map 1 shows the



sage  .L. OL 3 pages
SA.NAIA WATER STPPLY PROJECT
DSe v-.3-to  of -rho. Project
1       The project is part of a Master Pian for -,he extraction, conveyance,
eagulattion and distrioution of water to  uyply Sana?a in the period 1975-2000.
Tne Master Plan was prepared in 1971-1973 byIalconst of tay under
a uWDPfwtHO technical assistaznce program.  Feasibility study and preliminary
engineering were prepared for works nseded to meet the city requirements by
1985. The project works., representing the 'nitial p-hase of the 1985 program
amount to more than 60% of the total investment requiLred diring the period
1974-1985. Details of the project worKs are described below.
Well Field
2.       The well field is located to the north of Sanata in the plain border-
ing the escarpment forled by tne outcropping sandstones.  Four test prodaction
wells were drilled during the UDP/WH0  water resource stucr and their yields
were estimated as follows:
ST 1        28 l/s
ST 5        15  It
ST 6        45  "
ST 7        10  2'
Total     98 l/s
To meet the city requirements by 1985 (300 2ls) new production wells to be
drilled will have to yield about 200 l/s.  Considering the average well yield
and the necessity of stand-by wells,, it will be necessary to complete a further
10 to 12 production wells.  The project includes comipletion of eight prodcotion
wells, of which four already drilled, with relevant pumping i-nstallations,
electric power supply. transmission pipelines and pump bouses.
3        2The four test production wells  reaa- bored point to the non-bimogeieous
nature of the aquifer due to its fractured character. Only tbose wells which hit
well-developed.< open fracture system give high yields.  In order to improve the
.iac  red c_.aracter o- t.>e aenaifer and increase well yield, explosives were
emol oyed in one of the teat we'l_.   Ow9e;3<^^ r, no cleaning or re'testing of the
well was made to assess the slCocess of the operation.  The Ovenment agreed to
Provde flunds for zthe Authority to un dartake cleaning-up of this well and for
iploj-M.ernlt of explosiaves a=d    anin  of a second vrell,  SupesVision of such
nd.er>ngand r& atest4ink  Vi  be made - by  talconlat under the present UNDP/MHO
a;itanca. i p 2 tion -wv        i ncluded in the tender documents for employment
eot7 e<paiv     claanin gd r         of the existing as well as the proposed
was wand -gril  bDe taker u-X if Bustifed 'by the results of the retesting.



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3 pages
'!.  traSasjon line to convey the water from the well field to
C-4&n>W  r-aara 5' Is a 5.6 k  pipe in two sections: -4.4 km of 500 mm
an"    ica 3f 4.OG emi dli am.eter. in sizing the line, two possible
-natmavs 'e:-e sX    ed c a rid- -the investment cost of the line and pumps
as  elL as the rale'evt  nang and maintenance costs were determined for
each,^ alte =ative
Headwo rk-s
The headworks include a 4,500 m3 chlorination/regulation tank
two electrically operated pumps delivering 150 I/sec each and three 4.5 m3
air tanks each with pressure switches for automaticaUly starting and stopping
the pumps. A thIrd pump delivering 300 I/s is planned for 1980. The pumps
will be installed in a reinforced concrete and masonry building which can
house all the pumps required to meet the city needs until the year 2000c For
the location of the headworks a site has been chosen on a hill northwest of
the city.
6.       Power will be obtained from the Sana'a Electric Power Company. The
necessary transfonmers and transmission lines for the headworks and well field
are included in the project.
D-i s 't-rim t i on Sye-
7.       The project inclcudes all mains and distribution lines which will be
installed in the period from  1974 to 1976 and as sumarized below:
Catego                                 Unit        ly
Main Ines (230 nm to 600 rm)                  KM         17
Distribution Lines (80 mm to 150 mm)          KM       175
House-connections                             No      6000
The existing 600 in3 steel tank and the 2,4 km supplying main (constructed in
1969 with JSAID, assistance) will be incorporated into the new network. Costs
of repair and rehaboilitation of these facilities were included in the project.
8.      .1dTh  listy4 ii co  nt-rk. -will cover the areas expected to be urbanized
in 1976 (64Z  ha pplua 2    05 'f gzeen zones). Gradual exension of the distri-
'tior: tnor.'iiS d    tzva thc  xr    'fhe city to c over the projected urban limits
for 1 9 ,  si3   -1 z.:i G 'aOi -  Zf,Ir '6, < D   0 d1  @8 0- 1  85
9t       Pl       .y d-ig-  `--  ze  ar _in s have been established according
o the reqjiremr st-s of -thae 3ter KLan,r  The network essential for the year 1985
was identiflead  anb, -tS   2-_      oarnce was checked for the two hypotheses
of mininmn ad m               rischLe t-iat are for seen in 19850 Map I shows the



Page 3 of 3 pages
7a7outt of the main and secondazy lines to be executed during the project
Construction period and those planed until 1985.
iO<      Desigr criteria for the distribution system are straightforward.
Xt *Xz and miniimm pressures for the network are to be 60 m and 28 m re-
az Q^X}eand t he m-,-n pe tiameter is 80 mnI  Taking account of the
s;i-  conditi.onas of' t'V-he cty of Sa&-a?a 'the good nature of the soil, the
J.aance of a L Xzace aqa-Lfz-a    d th.. liaht ta.ffio 2zads)  asbestos cament
p -pas are  roposed fo. the mann lines  diamevers 20 m  X to 600 zma) ancd
3.V.G. pies for the distratsion lines (diameter 80 .mr to l50 mm), Cost
estimates of the pmject were prepared on such basis. However, bid prices
for other types of pipes will be requested in the tender documents and con-
sideration wi11 be given during bid evaluation to the possible use of ductile
iron or steel pipes.
Uo       About 6000 house-connections will be executed during the period
974h-1976 and are included in the project.  Samzple designs for typical house-
connections including one where an orifice is used in lieu of a meter will be
prepared by the consultant.
Operational and Maintenance Equipment
12.      The project includes the supply of equipment to assist the Authority
in the operation and maintenance of the system. This includes office machines,
meter repair and testing equipment, leak detection equipment, maintenance
vehicles and office furniture.
Training
13.      Training for the technical., financial and administrative staff either
locally or abroad is included in the project. Seven senior employees would go
abroad for periods of up to nine months for theoretical and practical training
in their specialities. Most of this training will be done before the system
is put into operation. Six expatriate staff (one water engineer, one accountant
tariff structure adviser and four technicians) will be recruited for a period
of 18-24 months to assist the Authority in the operation and maintenance of the
system. The expatriate staff are expected to be recruited from established
water authorities or consulting finms in the region as the knowledge of the
Arabic lanmgage is essential.
l1i      Training locally for clerks, secretaries and mechanics will be
*  vlded oy UlDP and USAID tho,ugh existing training institutes currently
operated by these agencies.






:::I -            _V _LK4:
COST !N=IAT119 i Th  ZOAIO
--Pzoposed iLllocation  f-.
<~~~~~~~~~ s  --<-N6t zitimateys -------------------- ~     ~     D   Credit-----
IE TEF              ID&I1    Foreigz    Total      Local    ?oreiFm    Total       Percntage   Azwunt      Amunt
~~Y-~-...-.-.~~~-.-.  'Z~~~.4J  - ~basis    YR (000)   U§j(000)
e1-i- d                     172       473       645          38               1        0 5 143  85        548       122
'rani-.iss;-on Lins         216        86       302         '467                               85         257        57
.<a Wion.s
Reservoir                 289       289        578         614       64       128            85         491       109
i'uraning Station          69        69       138          16        16        32            85         117         27
Power Supply                9         6        15           2         1         3            85          13         3
Distribation Sstem
Main Lines                404       162        566         90        36       126            85         481       107
Distribution Lines      1,953     2,228     4,181         434       495       929            85       3,554        789
.ouse-Gonnections        _675          -         675        150    _            150            85     _ 74           12?
Sab-tot3a1 (I)          3,787     3,313     7,100         842       736     1,578                     6,035    1341
IL ~2J~iq4l MATERieds
'W:-Yie1d                   15        440       455          3        98        101                      440          98
Transmission Line            86     1,523     1,609          19       339       358                     1J523        339
ffead do rks
aeservoir                  13        66         79          3        15        18                        66         15
Pumping Station            19       158       177           4        35        39                       158         35
Powsr Supply                4        56         60          1        12        13                        56         12
Diet.r bution System
Main Lines                162     2,866      3,028         36       637       673                     2,866        637
Distribation Lines        459     5,273     5,732         102     1,172     1,274                     5,213      1,172
HousesConneotiona            72       846        918         16       188       204                       846        188
Punuiture and Equipment      60       100        160         13        22        35                       100          22
Mtachinexy and Vehicles      43       250        293         10         5        65           2/ 25
sb-Total (II)             933    11,578    12,511         207     2,573     2,780                    11,578      29573
Sub-%tal (I and II)    4,720    14,891    19,611 11      0349        09     ,                        17,513      3,914
708     2,234     2,942        i57        497       654                     2,700        600
'5'>./Z            762     3,050     3812          1         683        347          -         3,597         799
_. V1                         200         -        20          44        -          44                       -           -
C-S;tzction              314     1,392      1,974D        78      309         387         10         1,743         387
(iiDdsidaj               224       901     1,125          50      200         250         100        1,125         250
11=             W;-ea_-_____ _   270n    1,080     1,350         60       240        300         100         1,350        300
TT.Ii,ALZM2T G6T         7,232    23,38      3070         ,0      5,33         ,                       28,125      6,250
_2 =bI z  e     A1



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SANA'A WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
PROJECT COMPONENTS                    1974                    1975                     1976                     1977
WELLS                 11             1 S 11         M   m   mm
ELECTRO MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT
WJ<tell PuLmps * E                      11%m M   WMma     E la  now
Power Lines                lull             mmmi  m w  _
PLAmping Station                                mm m   m   MAIN mm=
BUILDINGS & STRUCTURES
P rmp Houses          s                 OA      M  OIMM El
Headworks                                                       K=1 
WA rER PIPES
Transmnissiooi Litnes          Somil2           mm mm Kim WZ Y-m I1__
MAains                      li aminl  J  A0._ 11_Z_
Distribution Lines ag   YlGl ':V            __                  _
HOLUSE CONNECTIONS         tillY polls                                                                     BD 1 1M.M
tlhEhulhElilUlEI DESIGN
_         _    TENDERING AND CONTRACT AWARD
SUPPLY, INSTALLATION OR CONSTRUCTION                                                                  World Bank-7926
IO>C



Am 7
yahm ARAB RUP1LIC
SAKAI A WTM  SUPLY PROJECT
ESTIATED SC0HULE OF DISBURSEDSTS
DA Fiscal                                     Cumlative Disabuaement
Year and Quarter                                     at end of Quarter
US  000
197 
1st quarter ending September 30, 1974                     100
2nd quarter ending December 31, 197 h
3rd quarter ending March 31, 1975                       1,000
iith quarter ending June 30, 1975                       1,600
1976
1st quarter ending September 30, 1975                   2,200
2nd quarter ending December 31, 1975                    3,000
3rd quarter ending Marob 31, 1976                       3,800
4tb quarter ending June 30, 1976                        4,s60
1977
lst quarter ending September 30, 1976                   5,200
2nd quarter ending December 31, 1976                    5,4OO
3rd quarter ending March 31, 1977                       5,600
4th quarter ending June 30, 1977                        5,800
1978
1st quarter ending September 30, 1977                   6,000
2nd quarter ending December 31, 1977                    6,250



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SANA'A WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Organization Chart of The National Water and Sewerage Authority
I     BOARD OF DIRECTORS
GENERAL DIRECTOR
__ ___                          ______                                        .    I IIr   
ADMINISTRATIVE             FINANCE                 CHIEF              SANA'A BRANCH                 BRANCH        I |       BRANCH
MANAGER                  MANAGER                ENGINEER                MANAGER                   G             L    MANAGER  -
MAINTENANCE        OPERATING           BRANCH             BRANCH
FOREMAN           FOREMAN          ACCOUNTANT       ADMINISTRATOR
World Bank-7925(R)
ao



YOM ARAB REPUTLIC                                        ANNEX 9
SANA A 'TER SPPEY PROJECT
3Sr2:DWED INCc; A1I £SYPEDITURE ACCOXJWTS
YVR. ENI JZN  30th         1974    197C      1976       1977   1978      1979      1980      11        1982     1983    1984
7otal. Population        90,000   96,000  102,000   108,000  114,000   121,000  128,000   135,000   1430OOO  151,000  159,000
.&mber of Connections       -        -      4,500     6,700    8,000      9,300    10,600   12,000   13,400   14,800   16,200
'dater Produced nm3000)     -        -        800    1,600      2,150     2,700     3,250     3,750     4,400    5,100    5,750
r,;ter Sa' es Kr3oo0)       -        -        640    1,280      1,720     2,160    2,600     3,000      3,520    4,080    4,600
' Unaccojn-ed 'Wvater       -        -         20        20        20       20        20        20        20       20       20
------------------------------------------- YR 000 ------------------------------------------------
Water 3ates              -        -        753    1,492    2,004       2,513     3,035     3,500     6,180    4,765    5,373
Other Revenue            120      315      479       374       201       184       196       219      232       245     260
rotal                 120      315    1,23.2    1,866     2,20 5    2,697     3,231     3,719     4,412    5,010    5,633
O?IRATLM. COSTS
Salaries and Wages       215      473      713       783       854       886      925       993    1,030    1,065    1,11l
Maintenance Material      -       -         25        88       138       176       190       207       220      235      248
Power Costs              -        -        106       208       280       351       423       488       572     663       748
Other Expenses            40       80      140       148       154       160       166       176       186      196      206
Less Salaries Capitalized(100)    (200)   (230)      (260)    (270)    (280)    (290)    (300)    (310)   (320)   (330)
Lotal                 155      353      752       967    1,156      1,293    1,616     1,564     1,698    1,839    1,986
.Surplus before Depreciation  (35)    (38)    480       899    1,049      1,604    1,817     2,155     2,714    3,171    3,647
Depreciation                -        -        326       655       911    1,060     1,152     1,240     1,320    1,402    1,472
Surplus before Interest     (35)    (38)      154       244       138       3h6       665       915    1,396    1,769    2,175
Interest                    _ -          -         -              -         708     1,400     1,368    1,333    1,296    1,257
Net income                  (35)     (38)    154        244       13 8     (364)    (735)    (453)         61      473      918
Rate of Return on Averag    -        -        1.8%       1.14      0.4%    1.0%      1.8%        2.3%    3.Js%   4J.2%    5.0%
Net FXxed Assets
October 20,1973



YWDN ARAB REPULIC                                                         A2Nd J1
SAN5'A WATER SUPPLY PROJET
ESTIMATED CASH FLOW STATIMNS
Y  R         JZ.  jUNE 30th    19714   1975    1976    1977  f 1974/77    1978    1979    1980    1981        1982      1983     1984
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,____________________. ,3R. 000 ---------------------------------------------- w
ZepraciaQion  (35)    (38)    480      899      1,306    1,049   1,404   1,817  -2,155    2,714    3,17        3,617
Zustomers' Contributions      -       240    8140    528       1_60        312     312      312     336       336      336       336
otal                      (35)    202   1,320   1,127      2,914    1,361   1,716   2,129   2,h91    3,050    3,507    3,983
roans and i4uity Contributions
IDA Credit
Loan                       168   4,270   7,700   3,612    15,750        -       _        _       _         _        _         _
Equity                     120   3,050   5,500   3,705    12,375        -       _        _          _     _         _
aTnterest Capitalized           6     157     571      981     1,721    1,249      600
Goverrment Equity             427     345      530     159     1,461       -       -
Other Loans                   -       _        -       -          -      1,839     585   1,463   1,751    2,652    1,707    1,291
Total                      721   7,822  14,304   8,J60    31,307    3,088   1,185   4,463   1,751    2,652    1,707    1,291
ILcrease (Decrease)in
Current Liabilities         50     650      630    (580)      750      (220)  1,Q30      240     -         200      -        100
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS    736   8,674  16,254   9,307    34,971       1 4,229   3,931   6,832   4,242    5,902    5,2114    5,374
APPLICATION CF FUNDS
Capital Expenditure
Project Expenditure           530   8,0147  14,560   7,6143    30,780
Operating Expenses
Capitalized                  100     200      230     260       790       270     280      290     300       310      320       330
Other Capital Expenditure    -        -        -       -          -      2,300   1,600   3,700   1,800    2,800    1,900    2,000
Total                      630   8,247  14,790   7,903    31,570    2,570   1,880   3,990   2,100    3,110    2,220    2,330
Debt Service
Amortization
IDA Credit                 _       _        _                 _         _       213      442     474       509      546       585
Other Loans                -       -        -                  _        -       -        -       -         -        562      562
Intenest
IDA Credit                   6     157     574      984     1,721    1,249   1,308   1,400   1,368    1,333    1,296    1,257
Total Debt Service           6     157     574      984     1,721    1,249   1,521   1,842   1,842    1,842    2,404    2,4014
Increase (Decrease) in Current
Assets  excluding cash    -        120      710     370     1,200       400     350      900     250       900      450       500
TOTAL APPLICATION OF      -636   8,524  16,074   9,257   3491    4219   3,751   6.732   4192   5&852    5,07.4   _234
Net Cash Generation           100     150      180      50      1a80       10      180      100      50        50      1480      140
Cash Balance at end of year  100      250      430    1480        -       490      670      770     820       870    1,01.0   1,150
Debt Service Coverage         -        -       -       -                   0.8     0-9      1.0     1.2       1.5       1.3      1.5
October 26, 1973



TESEN ARAB BZ?iJLIC
SA11 :t W',TER  JUPF?Y PROJECT
I24APET.M BALAECE SHEIS
_ <   -1974  1975  1976    1977      1978     1979     198      9          1962    1983     1904
e----------------------------------------R ooo-------------____-_-_ --_-_-_-_-__
F- :xec .iSisa s5            -        -     17,504   28,791   36,310   39,090   42,580   45,180   48,190   50,710   53,040
- d9S L-<= eciat-on  -        -         326      981    1,892    2,952    L,104    5,314    6,664    8,O66    9,538
F& TiXed Assets          -         -     17,178   27,810   346418   36,138   38,476   39,836   41,526   42,646   43,502
Wcorx in ?rogress            636    9,0o,0   6,900   'Li, 500     600      500    1,000       500      600      300       300
CUORRZE`T ASSETS
inventories                 -         -         30      200      300       350      450      '0C      600       650      750
Accounts Receivable         -         120      800    1,000    1,300    1,600    2,400    2,600    3,400    3,800    4,200
Casb                        100       250      430      180       490      670      770       820      870    1,010    1,150
Total Current Assets     100       370    1,260    1,680    2,090    2,620    3,620    3,920    4,870    5,460    6,100
TCTiAL ASSETS            736    9,410   25,338   33,990   37,305   39,258   43,096   44,256   66,996  68,404   49,902
LIABILITIES
Equity                      547    4,182   11,052    15,466   15,756   16,068  16,380    16,716  17,052   17,388   17,724
Retained Surplus             (35)     (73)      81       325      463       99      (636)  (1,089)  (1,028)    (555)      363
Total                    512    4,109   11,133   15,769  16,219   16,167   15,744    15,627  16,024   16,833  18,087
LONW TERM DEBT
IDA Credit                  174    4,601   12,875   17,471   18,720   19,107   18,665   18,191   17,682   17,136   16,551
Other Loans                 -         -        -        -      1,839    2,424   6,887    8,638   11,290   12,435   13,164
fotal                    174    4,601   12,875   17,471   20,559   21,531   25,552   26,829   28,972   29,571   29,715
Deposits                     -        -        130       250      330      400       500      600      700      800       900
cURRE.EV LIABILIT'IrES
Accounts Payable              50      700    1,200      500       200    1,160    1,300    1,200    1,300    1,200    1,200
TOTAl. LIABILITIES       736   9q,10   25,338   33,990   37,308   39,258  63,096   14,256  66,996   4,8404   49,902
Debt: Equity Ratio            25:75   53:47    54:46      53:47    56:44    57s43   62:38    63:37    64:36    64:36    62:38
October. C, I  S






ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 3 pages
Y,M ARAB REPUBLIC
SANAIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ASSUMPTIONS. FOR F "AqNCIAL FORECASTS
Incone and Rjenditure Statements
Water Sales
1       Details of the estimated water sales are showr. in Annex 3
Revenue
2.       It was assumed that 80% of the connections would be metered and that
an average water rate of YR 1.2 per m3 would be charged.  The remaining 20%
of connections were assumed to be contmlled by orifices to provide 5 in3 of
water per month at a fixed monthly charge of YR 5.0. Bad debts were estimated
at 2% of water revenue.
3.       Other revenues of the authority are as follows:
FY      1974  1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984
----------------YR 000 ------
,.Weter Rent         -     -     24    54    71    84    96   109   122   135   150
Co.-z-ection Charge   -    75   200   132    78    78    78    84    84    84    84
Co-operative Water 120   2'40   240   170    30            -     -        -         -
.. Lscel&aneous      -     -     15    18    22    22    22    26    26    26    26
120   3l5   479   374   201   184   196   219   232   2h5   260
These revenues were based on the following:
(a) A meter rent of YR 1.0 per month will be established;
(b) 20% of the connection charge will be allocated to overheads
and profi-ts and;
(c) the authority will take over the Sana!a Development Boardts water
system on January l' 1974 and t'hat the system -dill be abandoned
in I978.
OpertingCosts
4e       Salaries and wages were based on projected staffing and pay scales
and were increased by 3,p per annum to cover anmual increments,



ANNEX 12
page 2 of 3 pages
5e       Maintenance material was estimated at 0.5% of the gross value of
fixed assets at the beginning of the year.
6.       Power costs were based on consumption of 0.65 kwh per m3 of water
produced at a cost of YR 0.2 per kwh.
7.       Other expenses include office rents, stationery, etc.
8e       About 2/3 of the salaries and wages of the head office departments
were capitalized as the main function of the staff in the first four years
will be to plan and supervise constxuction of the Sanata Water Project.
After the Sanala Project is completed the staff will be engaged on the
Sanala Sewerage and the Hodeida Water and Sewerage Projects.
9.       The depreciation rates used were as follows:
Well Field                    4.0
Connection Lines             2.5
Headworks                    4.0
Power Supply                 3.0
Main and Secondary Lines    2.5
Distribution Lines           2.5
House Connections            5.0
Vehicles and Equipment      10.0
Land                         nil
Cash Flow Statements
10.      It was assumed that customers would be required to pay a connection
charge of YR 350 for a meter connection and YR 100 for an orifice connection.
Eighty percent of this fee was credited to equity and twenty percent to re-
venue.
11.      Capital requirements from 1978 onwards, in excess of net internal
cash generation, are assumed to be financed by loans. No interest was charged
on these funds.
12.      Other capital expenditure represents projected expenditure for
future expansion.
Balance Sheets
13.      Tne assets acquired from the Sana'a Development Board were not included
in fixed assets as this system will be abandoned when the project is completed.
Inteueot during the five years grace period and house-connection costs were
capi II 6e3.
14.      Accounts receivable were estimated at 50  of water revenue in 1976
rising to 75% in 1984. This amount is high for a new authority but it is



Arnex 12
PaZge 7f 3 pages
anticipated that the Government Departments will be slow in settling accounts.
It was also assumed that the customers connection charges would be collected
over a two-year period.
15e      Deposits were estimated at two months water sales.
16,      Accounts payable were projected at about one month's expenditure
dxring the initial years rising to about three months expenditure in later
years when local contractors and suppliers will be used.






'AN:U' EX ~i 
Page 1 of 4 pages
=' ARB REP-uBLIC
S.LNATA WATER SUPPIY PROJECT
ErconomiLC AnalyVsis
Thne Prg-am
1        iThe project is part of an investment program to meet the long
tenr needs of Sanafa.  The full benefits of several of the project elenrients
can only be reached after complementary investment has been made outside
thie project, e.g. in further distribution system expansion and additional
wells. The project must thas be seen as an integrated part of a larger
program and cannot be given a meaningful independent justification.
2.       The appiopriate prmgram, the merits of which must be established,
is the one that will begin in 1974 and comprises all investments needed to
utilize fully the capacity of the new facilities. The next major investment
for transmission and distribution facilities is scheduled for 1985 and 1984
is therefore taken to be the last year for investments to be included in the
program,  Capacity of the 1974-84 investment program is assumed to be fully
utiLized by 1990.
P-ogram Costs
3,      The capital costs of the pmgram are the best available estimates
of the investment expenditure to be incurred by NWSA. House connections
are excluded from the analysis as they will be paid for directly by the
consumers.  Interest during construction, price increase and part of IWSA1s
central departments' operating cost., attributed to other projects, are also
excluded. 1No correction for indirect taxes or duties was necessary as NWSA
will be exempted fomm most taxes. No shadow pricing of labour was used as
there is full employment in the construction industry.
Benefits
The benefits of the program are threef old3 benefits which individual
co-suTmers -iJil derive from the available water, cost savidngs to consumer by
3co'v u4g expenditure they no-w incur to get water and benefits to society
aftz,cuted to the availability of adequcate supply of safe water,  Because of
t.le absen-ce of reliable data, no attempt, -was made to quantify the full benefits
of the pmgram; and NEWSAs revenuas were used as a minimum measure of the benefits
of the piogram.



AiEN
Page 2 of 4 pages
Using the above costs and benefits, the rate of return on the
704 -8=a ines'tmient pro-ran, is 1OG/ (Table A)e KHowever, *his excludes the
.soeial bernef` s of npr-nodcrg an adequate suppiysr of safe water to a large
ci 't iroan p oor   at tariffs    h    o t ei_ abiity  o pay an
does not               'Ghy -z:eso  uric health bena-fits rom a safe water supply.
6.      2The rate of retuam is moderately sensitLve to chges in benefits.
if benefi.l-s increase by 25/o, the rate of retumn would be 133.6%
and if they decrease by 25it the rate would be 5.6
Loong Teni  Larginal Cost
7.       Tne consultanffs Master Plan details an investment program to meet
the projected water supply needs of Sanata for thoe period 1974-2003. The
caDital cost,s were adjusted as in paragraph 3 above anrd operating costs were
projected to 2003. Benefits were assumed at projected revenue - sales at
YR 1.2 per m3. The long tem. inargiaal cost of water sold is equal to the
proposed wfater rate of YR 1.2 per mi  at a discount rate of 10.6%  (table BJ 



Page 3 of 4 Pages
Tab'le A
Rate of Return on the
WIater Supply investment Program 1976-84
(YR Million)
Year   Capital Cost        Current CostLs          Total Costs   Benefits
1974          .50            .16                    .66            .12
1975,        6.91            .35                   7.26             .32
1S6        11.75             .75                 12.50            1.25
° 77        6*8             .97                   5.82            1.87
19 73        1.88           1.16                   3.06            2.20
. °79        1.19           1.29                   2.h6            2.62
l190         3.20          1.61                    4.67            3.23
1951i        1.32           1.56                   2.88            3.72
1J982        2.29           1.70                   3.99            6-.1
1983        1.41            1.86                   3.25            5.00
1986         1.68           1.99                   3.47            5.63
19 85         -             2.30                   2.30            6.60
-             2.50                   2.50            7.10
1Q87          -             2.60                   2.60            7.60
1988          -             2.65                   2.65            8.00
9S           -             2.70                   2.70            8.5c
199S0-200 3    -            2.75                   2.75            8.90
Rate of Return  9.96%



ANNEX 13
Page 14 of 4 Pages
TABLE B
DISCOIU.MT RIATE AT 7.EICH LONG TERl YARSIN.ATL COST
EAUALS PROPOSED TARIFF-C OF YA 1.2 r,er m3
(YR Mlillion)
Years         Capital             Operating Costs               Total Costs  Benefits
19717           .50                      .1S                         .66         .12
1975           b.91                      .35                       7.26          .32
1976          11.75                      .75                      12.50        1.25
1977           4.85                      .97                       5.82        1.87
1978           1.88                     1.16                       3.01        2 .20
1979           1.19                     1.29                       2.48        2.62
1980           3.26                     1.41                       L.67        3.23
1981           1.32                     1.56                       2.88        3.72
1982           2.29                     1.70                       3.99         4.41
1983           1.11                     1.84                       3.25        5.00
1984           1.48                     1.99                       3.47        5.63
1985           1.00                     2.40                       6.40        6.60
1986           4.00                     2.60                       6.60        7.70
1987           h.00                     2.80                       6.80        8.60
1988           1.30                     2.90                       4.20        9.40
1989           1.40                     3.10                        4.50      10.40
1990           4.80                     3.20                       8.0o       11.20
1991           1.50                     3.40                       1.90       12.20
1992           1.60                     3.50                       5.10       13.00
1993           4.80                     3.70                       8.50       14.00
19914          5.00                     3.80                       8.80       14.90
1995           1.80                     3.90                       5.70       16.00
1996           1.80                     1.10                       5.90       17.00
1997           1.80                     4.20                       6.oo       18.00
1998-2003       -                       4.40            -4.4o                 19.00
Discount Rate =10.6



IBRD 10639
OCTOBER 1973'
'00  <%t 7                      X   '4<    2                 RAWDDA                YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SANAA WATER SUPPLY
PROJECT
< 2325-{=@0)                                                                       m \ 7 1 } - Project water mrains (1974-76)
....... 4\Proposed wuter mains (0977-84)
'!  Existing  wells
/     Proposed sites for new  wells
Built-up areas, 1971
-2250-Contour lines in meters
Exioting roads
275~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~25
C  9(-1Xt      =            \/~~~~~~~~~~ ~~                   ~ ~~ST-1 \A l, 
N A~~~~~~OAYwNAABr4nnCw
MAR~~~~~~OAI
tXX   <   X  /  >-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D'AiA<
\\ X  Vi---<   X   X  V . /                          J              /   i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RA



