DPFP: Environmental Analysis, Executive SummarylAvaliag5o Ambiental, Sumbrio Executivo  E760
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY                                                       May 2003
This report presents the findings of an Environmental Analysis (EA) of the Decentralized
Planning and Finance Project (DPFP), a five year program funded by the World Bank.
The project concept shares much in common with the Bank-funded Municipal
Development Project (MDP) regarding EA focus on small-scale civil works.
The DPFP concept document identifies the environment as requiring special attention
within the overall framework of the project. A critical assumption is that in general the
project will bring about improved infrastructures and services in rural areas and
improved capacity of District Administrations to manage all aspects of small-scale civil
works.
The DPFP is divided into two components;
), Decentralized Planning, Finance and Investment
This component of the project aims to (i) develop public sector capacity for district
planning and plan implementation that is accountable, and (ii) develop capacity among
rural communities to effectively participate in district planning and ensure local
administration accountability for plan implementation.
> Local Investment Grants in capacity building activities for financial and works
management
This component will build the capacity for decentralized management of district level
infrastructure investments and will finance a gradually expanding program of such
investments across the four target provinces. The objective is to develop a mechanism
whereby the GoM intergovernmental transfer system can be extended to finance
territorially determined annual investment plans at the district level. This component will
develop procedures and capacity for district administrations to determine and allocate
budget for small infrastructure investments as well as build capacity for basic financial
and works management.
In the first instance the DPFP will be implemented in selected districts of the four central
provinces viz., Zambezia, Tete, Sofala and Manica Provinces.
The overall focus of the present analysis is technical capacity building to ensure effective
environmental monitoring of the civil works component of the DPFP, and specifically to:
* Assess district level capacity to conduct environmental assessments of the proposed
range of civil works sub-projects component of the DPFP.
* Make recommendations concerning the level of capacity building required to ensure
appropriate environmental assessment of civil works.
* Develop screening guidelines for pre-defined civil works sub-project categories that
can be used to establish the environmental assessment requirements of individual
sub projects.



DPFP: Environmental Analysis, Executive Summary/Avalia go Ambierntal, SumArio Executivo
Develop a framework environmental management plan encompassing all LIG
projects and define the scope of monitoring related aci:ivities.
This analysis generated the following major outputs:
1. According to World Bank operational guidelines for environmental assessment (EA),
the construction envisaged for the civil works program are best provisionally
classified as category B projects, which typically have reversible site specific impacts
that can be prevented or mitigated. Consequently a mechanism for screening sub
projects to determine the level of Environmental Assessment required has been
developed (for example, road and bridge construct on and small-scale irrigation
schemes may require environmental impact assessment according to both
Mozambican legislation and Bank policy). Any project not captured by the screening
process will be expected to adhere to the Environmental Assessment guidelines and
the environmental management plan framework (ino luding monitoring protocols)
developed in this report.
2. In our opinion this initial environmental analysis estabiishes that the majority of LIG
projects will not require mandatory environmental assessment and that the contents
of this report should be sufficient to implement sound environmental management at
an acceptable level (as per defined environmental standards). Irrigation projects and
possibly road and bridge construction are exceptions to this generalization and may
require mandatory EA. Guidelines are provided to facilitate this process.
3. The impacts and prevention/mitigation measures< associated with each LIG sub-
category of projects are summarized in chapter 5 aind presented together with costed
monitoring requirements as more detailed matrices in Annex Ill. This information
together with detailed design documents for LIG sub project will be sufficient to
complete the screening process outlined in Chapter 6 and further elaborated in
Annex V. The screening process captures projects that may require some level of
mandatory EA (e.g. small scale irrigation schemes, roads and bridges) and identifies
environmental and social issues that require incorporation in sub project design
according to the environmental assessrnent guidelines cleveloped in this report.
4. A framework environmental management plan is preserted in chapter 7 while Annex
VI provides a comprehensive list of specifications that may warrant inclusion in a sub
project EMP. The first part of the framework EMAP describes the protocol to be
followed for project approval and the roles and responsibilities of District and
Provincial level DPFP personnel in this process. Given the lack of capacity for
environmental management at both Provincial and especially District level, the
Technical Advisor recommended for appointment to the project (see section 9.2.3) is
envisaged as playing a key backstopping role in this critically important process.
5. Chapter 8 elaborates the monitoring plan and defines roles and responsibilities
distinguishing between the routine monitoring of LIC sub projects and annual
monitoring (audit) of the framework EMP. Routine monitoring focuses mainly on
construction supervision and awareness raising in the contexts of human health and
safety and environmental protection. Annual audits will evaluate a sample of sub-
projects to determine overall performance and to improve future environmental
management. Routine monitoring requirements are defined according to potential
impacts and recommended mitigation rneasures and are presented as a series of
ii



DPFP: Environmental Analysis, Executive Summary/Avalia,co Ambiental, Sumario Executivo
matrices in annex Ill. Where applicable monitoring costs are estimated and roles and
responsibilities for monitoring are also defined as precisely as possible (project
personnel, government departments, NGOs, local communities etc).
6. The capacity to conduct environmental assessments is discussed in chapter 9. It is
concluded that capacity is weak at Provincial level and almost non-existent at district
level. This is regardless of between province and district variation in technical staff
complement, and range and level of academic qualifications. However, these are not
considered to be critical selection criteria for training in EA. The knowledge required
is more of a practical nature (common sense), and the most suitable candidates are
those that have a working knowledge of civil works and/or have a management role
during construction (as well as new appointments at district level under the DPFP).
7. A one-week training workshop is recommended as the best approach to developing
district-level capacity to ensure effective EA of the civil works program. The
workshop will include training of trainers to work at community level with the same
objective of building capacity for EA. Biannual refresher workshops are also
recommended where trained personnel can reflect on lessons learned and share
experiences.
The workshop curriculum will encompass:
> Case studies (where possible developed by the workshop participants) based on
the scope of work of the civil works program that can be used to demonstrate the
basic principles of EA.
> Workshopping the screening guidelines developed and presented in section 7
> An    overview  of environmental assessment (scoping, screening,  EA
methodologies, impacts and mitigation measures, public participation, monitoring
and evaluation)
>  Review of relevant environmental legislation
>  Review of MICOA regulations regarding EIA
> Designing effective public awareness campaigns
> Training of trainers to work with EA at community-level
The appointment of a part-time Technical Advisor for the duration of the project is also
recommended. His/her main responsibilities would include but not be limited to technical
backstopping during all stages of LIG sub project development (from design to
approval), providing further guidance and additional training for DA technical staff, and
assisting with the routine monitoring of LIG projects.



DPFP: Environmental Analysis, Executive Summary/A valiag5o Ambient9l, Sumnrio Executivo
SUMARIO EXECUTIVO
Este relat6rio apresenta os resultados de uma Analise Ambiental (AA) do Projecto de
Planeamento e Financiamento Descentralizado (DPFP), um programa de cinco anos
financiado pelo Banco Mundial. 0 projecto partlilha urn conceito comum ao Projecto de
Desenvolvimento Municipal (MDP) financiado pelo Banco Mundial em rela,ao ao foco
da AA nos trabalhos de engenharia civil de pequena escala.
O documento de concep,co do DPFP identifica o meio ambiente como necessitando cle
uma aten,co especial dentro do quadro geral do projecto. Uma suposi,co critica 6 que,
no geral, o projecto trar6 infrastruturas melhoradas, seri,cos nas 6reas rurais e urm
melhoramento da capacidade das administrag6es distritais em gerir todos os aspectos
dos trabalhos de engenharia civil de pequena escala.
O DPFP esta dividido em duas componentes;
); Planeamento, Financiamento e Investimento Descentralizado
Esta componente do projecto tem como objectivos (i) desenvolver a capacidade do
sector publico para o planeamento distrital e planificar a implernentac,o de forma
responsavel, e (ii) desenvolver a capacidade das comunidades rurais para participarern
efectivamente no planeamento distrital e assegurarern a responsabilidade da
administra,co local na implementa,co do plano.
> Investimentos Locais por Ernpr6stirno (LIG) em actividades de capacita,ao para
gestao dos trabalhos e financeira
Esta componente ira desenvolver a capacidade para a gestao descentralizada dos
investimentos em infra-estruturas a nivel distrital e ira financiar um programa de
expansao gradual de tais investimentos atrav6s clas quatro provincias. 0 objectivo 6 de
desenvolver um mecanismo pelo qual o sistema de transfer6ncia inter-governamental
do Governo de Mocambique possa ser expandido para financiar planos de investimento
anuais de determinados territ6rios a nivel distrital. Esta componente ira desenvolver
procedimentos e capacidades para as administrag6es distritais serem capazes de
determinar e alocar or,amentos para investimentos de pequenas infra-estruturas assim
como desenvolver capacidades para a gestao dos trabalhos e de financiamento basico.
Na primeira circunstancia o DPFP sera implementado enm distritos seleccionados das
quatro provincias do centro do Pais, Zarnb6zia, Tete, Sofala e Manica.
O foco geral da presente analise 6 o de desenvolver as capacidades t6cnicas para
assegurarem um monitoramento ambiental eficiente da componente dos trabalhos de
engenharia civil do DPFP, e especificamente para:
* Avaliar o nivel das capacidades do distrito de orientar avaliac6es ambientais da
proposta s6rie de trabalhos de engenharia civil dos ccmponentes sub-projectos do
DPFP.
iv



DPf:P: Environmental Analysis, Executive Summary/Avaliag5o Ambiental, Sumario Executivo
*  Dar recomenda,6es a respeito do nivel de desenvolvimento das capacidades
necessaria para assegurar uma avalia,co ambiental apropriada/adequada dos
trabalhos de engenharia civil.
*  Desenvolver directivas de avalia,co para categorias dos sub-projectos de trabalhos
de engenharia civil pre-definidas que possam ser usadas para estabelecer os
requisitos das avalia,6es ambientais dos sub-projectos individuais.
*  Desenvolver um esquema de plano de gestao ambiental envolvendo todos os
projectos LIG e definir o ambito das actividades relacionadas com o monitoramento.
Esia analise gerou os seguintes principais resultados:
1. Segundo as directivas operacionais para avalia,co ambiental (AA), a construcao
prevista para o programa dos trabalhos de engenharia civil s3o provisoriamente
melhor classificados como projectos de categoria B, que tipicamente possuem
impactos  reversiveis  que  podem   ser  prevenidos  ou   mitigados.
Consequentemente, o mecanismo para a avalia,co dos sub-projectos para
determinar o nivel de Avalia,co Ambiental exigida foi ja desenvolvido (por
exemplo, a constru,co de estradas e pontes e m6todos de irriga,co de pequena
escala podem exigir estudos de impacto ambiental de acordo com ambas a
Legisla,co Mo,cambicana e Politica do Banco Mundial). Espera-se que qualquer
projecto n3o identificado pelo processo de avalia,co, adira as directivas de
Avalia,co Ambiental e um esquema de plano de gestao ambiental (incluindo
protocolos de monitoramento) desenvolvidos neste relat6rio.
2. Na nossa opiniao esta analise ambiental inicial estabelece que a maioria dos
projectos LIG nao exigirao uma avalia,co ambiental obrigat6ria e que o
conteudo deste relat6rio deve ser suficiente para implementar uma gestao
ambiental segura num nivel aceitavel (conforme padr6es ambientais definidos).
Projectos de regadio e possivelmente construc6es de estradas e pontes sao
excep,oes a esta generaliza,co e poderao necessitar de uma Avaliaq,o
Ambiental. As directivas sao fornecidas para facilitar este processo.
3. Os impactos e medidas de preven,co/mitiga,co associados com   cada
subcategoria LIG dos projectos encontram-se sumarizados no capitulo 5, e
matrizes detalhadas no Anexo 111. Esta informa,co juntamente com documentos
detalhados do projecto serao suficientes para completar o processo de pr6-
avalia,ao destacado no capitulo 6 e posteriormente elaborado no Anexo V. 0
processo de triagem apreende projectos que podem necessitar algum nivel de
EA obrigat6rio (p.ex. sistemas de rega de pequena escala, estradas e pontes) e
identifica aspectos ambientais e sociais que precisam ser incorporados na
concep,co de sub-projectos de acordo com as directivas de avalia,ao ambiental
desenvolvidas neste relat6rio.
4. Capitulo 7 6 apresentado um esquema de piano de gestao ambiental enquanto o
Anexo VI fornece uma lista abrangente de especificag6es que podem justificar
serem incluidas no PGA de sub-projectos. A primeira parte do esquema de PGA
descreve os passos que devem ser seguidos para a aprovar,co de projectos e as
fun,6es e responsabilidades dos quadros das DPFP, ao nivel distrital e
provincial, neste processo. Dada a falta de capacidade de gestao ambiental,
V



DPFP: Environmental Analysis, Executive Summary/Avaliagao AmbientE 1, Sum6do Executivo
tanto a nivel provincial como, especialmerite, a nivel distrital, 6 esperado que o
Assessor T6cnico recomendado para ser afecto ac projecto (veja seccao 9.2.3)
preste apoio t6cnico neste critico e importante processo.
5. 0 Capitulo 8 elabora o piano de monitoria e define fun,6es e responsabilidades,
distinguindo entre monitoria de rotina dos sub-projectos LIG e monitoria anual
(auditoria) do esquema de PGA. A monitoria de rotina foca principalmente a
supervisao de constru,6es e a consciencializaccio no contexto da saude e
seguranga das pessoas e da protec,co ambiental. As auditorias anuais avaliarao
uma amostra de sub-projectos para determinar o seu desempenho global e para
melhorar a gestao ambiental no fLuturo. As necessidades de monitoria de rotina
sao definidas de acordo com os impactos potencia s e as medidas de mitigacao
recomendadas e sao apresentadas como uma s6rie de matrizes no anexo 111.
Onde aplicavel, sao estimados os custos da monitoria e tamb6m sao definidas,
com a precisao possivel, as fun,6es e responsabilidades da actividade
(funcion6rios do projecto, departamentos governarmentais, ONG's, comunidades
locais, etc.).
6. A capacidade para conduzir estudos ambientais 6 discutido no capitulo 9.
Conclui-se que a capacidade a nivel Provincial 6 fraca e quase inexistente a
nivel distrital. Isto existe independentemente das varia,6es entre as provincias e
os distritos na totalidade de pessoal t6cnico, e nivel das classifica,6es
acad6micas. Contudo, estas nao sao consideradas como crit6rios de selec,co
criticos para um treino num Estudo Ambiental. A sabedoria necessaria 6 mais de
uma natureza pr6tica (bom senso), e os candidatos mais apropriados sao
aqueles que no seu trabalho adquiriram um ccnhecimento de trabalho de
engenharia civil e/ou possuem um papel de gestao durante a construcao (assim
como novas nomea,6es ao nivel distrital dentro da DPFP).
7. Um workshop de treino de uma semana 6 recomendado como a melhor forma
de desenvolver as capacidades a nivel distrital para assegurar um EA eficaz do
programa de trabalho civil. 0 workshop incluir6 a instrucao de treinadores para
trabalharem ao nivel das comunidades com o mes,mo objectivo de desenvolver
as capacidades para um EA. Workshops bi-anuais de revisao, sao tamb6m
recomendados, aonde o pessoal treinado poder6 reflectir nas lic6es aprendidas
e partilhar experi6ncias.
0 curriculo do workshop envolver6:
> Estudos de caso (aonde possivel, desenvolvidos pelos participantes dos
workshops) baseados nos limites de trabalho do programa de trabalho civil que
poder6 ser usado para demonstrar o principios b6sicos do EA.
> Discuss6es a cerca dos padr6es de pr6-avaliac;5o desenvolvidos e apresentados
na sec,co 7.
>  Uma visao geral do Estudo Ambiental (campo de accao, pr6-avaliacao,
metodologias do EA, impactos e medidas de mitigacao, consulta publica,
monitoramento e avaliacao)
> Revisao de legisla,ao ambiental relevante
> Revisao dos regulamentos do MICOA relativos a EIA
> Desenhar campanhas eficazes de consciencia pOblica
>  Instruir os treinadores para trabalharem com EA a niveis comunit6rios
vi



DPFP: Environmental Analysis, Executive Summary/Avalia,co Ambiental, Sumario Executivo
E tambem recomendada a afectag,co em part-time de um assessor t6cnico para toda a
dura,co do projecto. As suas responsabilidades principais incluirao, mas nao se
limitarao a, apoio tecnico durante todas os estagios de desenvolvimento do sub-projecto
LIG (desde a concep,co a aprova,co), fornecendo orienta,co posterior e treino
adicional para o quadro tecnico do DA e apoiando na monitoria de rotina.
vii



I .



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
LIST OF ACRONYMS
ANE          National Roads Administration
BD          Building Department
CBNRM       Community-Based Natural Resource Management
CSIR        Council for Scientific and Industrial Research
CSP         DPFP Provincial Steering Committee (Comite de Supervisao Provincial)
DA          District Administration
DA          Department of Assistance to Districts
DCC         District Consultative Council
DDADER      District Directorate of Agriculture and Rural development
DEP         Provincial Department of Roads and Bridges
DNA         National Directorate for Water
DNAH        National Directorate for Agricultural Hydraulics
DNAL        Directorate of Local Administration
DNE         National Directorate for Energy
DNDR        Directorate of Rural Development
DNFFB       National Directorate of Forestry and Wildlife
DNPO        National Directorate for Planning and Budgeting
DNOT        National Directorate for Land Planning
DNPA        National Directorate for Environmental Promotion and Education
DNPF        National Directorate for Physical Planning
DPAC        Directorate of "Support and Control"
DPADER      Provincial Directorate of Agriculture and Rural Development
DPAIA       Provincial Directorate of Environmental Impact Assessment
DPCOA       Provincial Directorate for the Coordination of Environmental Affairs
DPF         Department of Planning and Budget
DPFP        Decentralized Planning and Finance Project
DPPF        Provincial Directorates of Planning and Finance
DPO         Department of Public Buildings
DPOT        Department of Territorial Planning and Organisation
DPOPH       Provincial Directorate of Public Works and Housing
DR          Rural Development "Sector"
DRH         Department for Human Resources
EA          Environmental Assessment
EA TA       Local Environmental Assessment Specialist Technical Advisor
(recommended for appointment to the DPFP
EDM         Electricidade de Mocambique
EIA         Environmental impact assessment
EMP         Environmental management plan
FAO         Food and Agriculture Organization
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GOM         Government of Mozambique
GT          DPFP Technical Group
HIPC        Highly Indebted Poor Country
IDA         International Development Association
INPF        National Institute of Physical Planning
LIG          Local Investment Grant
MADER       Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
MAE         Ministry of State Administration
MDP         Municipal Development Project
MICOA        Ministry for the Coordination of Environmental Affairs
MISAU       Ministry of Health
MPF         Ministry of Planning and Finance
MOPH        Ministry of Public Works and Housing



DPFP. Environmental Analysis
NCSD         National Commission for Sustainab e Development
NEMP        National Environmental Management Programme
NGO          Non governmental organization
NSC         DPFP National Steering Committee (Comite de Supervisao or CS)
ORAM         Rural Organisation for MutLial Assistance
PARPA       action plan for the reduction of absolute poverty
PDD         District Development Plans (Plano Distrital de Desenvolvimento)
PDPF        Provincial Directorate of Planning and Finance
PEPA        Environmental Quality Standards of Mozambique Projects
PLPP         Provincial level project personnel (with monitoring responsibilities)
PPU          Provincial Project Unit
PROAGRI      National Agricultural Sector Prograrnme
PRS          Poverty Reduction Strategy
PTIP         Three Year Investment Plan (Plano Trienal de Investmentos)
SPFFB        Provincial Services of Forestry and Wildlife
ToR          Terms of Reference
TFCA         Transfrontier Conservation Area
UCA         Coordination and Support Unit
WHO          World Health Organization
ZVSDI        Zambezi Valley Spatial Development Initiative



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I   PROJECT CONCEPT ........................................................6
1.1   BACKGROUND ...................................6
1.2   NATIONAL STRATEGY FOR POVERTY ALLEVIATION ...................................9
1.3   PROJECT DESCRIPTION ..................................    11
1.4   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ..................................  14
1.5   ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS ..................................  16
2   BIOPHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS OF THE TARGET PROVINCES .............. 18
2.1 TOPOGRAPHY .......................................................  18
2.2   GEOLOGY  AND  SOILS  .......................................................  18
2.2.1 Geology .......................................................  18
2.2.2 Soils .......................................................  19
2.3   CLIMATE ................................. .               19
2.4   HYDROLOGY ................................. .             19
2.5   VEGETATION TYPES        ................................. 20
2.6  INDIGENOUS PRODUCTION FOREST/WOODLAND   .     ............................. 20
2.7   FAUNA .................................. .                22
2.7.1 Terrestrial Mammals .22
2.7.2 Birds .22
2.8 PROTECTED AREAS          ..22
2.8.1  Gazetted Protected Areas .22
2.8.2  Transfrontier Conservation Areas (TFCAs) .23
2.8.3 Areas of Outstanding Biological Value .23
2.9 SUMMARY             ..24
2.10 CURRENT LAND USE PATTERNS                .     .     .     25
2.10.1  Small-scale family farming sector .26
2.10.2 Commercial Sector .27
2.10.3 Other Land Uses .27
2.11  MAIN LAND USES IN EACH PROVINCE           .    .     .    27
2.11.1 Sofala Province .27
2.11.2 Manica Province .28
2.11.3 Tete Province.                                         28
2.11.4 Zambezia Province .28
2.12 LAND USE SUMMARY             .      .      .29
2.13  POTENTIAL CONSTRAINTS FOR PROJECT PREPARATION   ...29
3 LEGAL AND INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK FOR ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT IN MOZAMBIQUE .31
3.1   NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROGRAMME (NEMP) ...    31
3.2 THE FRAMEWORK ENVIRONMENT LAW .32
3.3 THE LAND POLICY             .       .       .33
3.4   MINISTRY FOR THE COORDINATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL AFFAIRS - MICOA ...34
3.4.1 Central level .34
3.4.2 Provincial level .38
3.5  INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRAINTS               .     .      .     41
4   REVIEW OF SELECTED WORLD BANK SAFEGUARD POLICIES .................. 43
4.1   ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (OP AND BP 4.01) ......................................... 43
4.2   FORESTRY (OP 4.36) ..............................................  45
4.3   NATURAL HABITATS (OP & BP 4.04) ..............................................  45
4.4  INVOLUNTARY RESETTLEMENT (OP & BP 4.12) .............................................. 46
4.5   SAFETY OF DAMS (OP & BP 4.37) ..............................................  46
4.6   RECOMMENDED APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT ......................... 47
3



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
5   THE CIVIL WORKS PROGRAM ........................................................  48
5.1  IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS      ........................................ 48
5.2   OVERVIEW OF SUB PROJECTS     ........................................... 48
5.3   DESCRIPTION OF LOCAL INVESTMENT GRANTS (LIG) . ...................................... 49
5.4   DESCRIPTION OF SUBPROJECT CIVIL WORKS, IMPACI S AND MITIGATION  ... 50
5.4.1 Basic infrastructures in urban and peri urban environments ..................... 51
5.4.2  Buildings (including markets) ......... ............................................... 52
5.4.3 Roads and bridges ........................................................  53
5.4.4   Water utilization and management ........................................................ 54
5.5   RECOMMENDATIONS ........................................................ 59
6   SCREENING ......................................................... 60
6.1   THE SCREENING FRAMEWORK       ........................................... 60
6.2   CASE-BY-CASE SCREENING TOOLS     ....................................... 61
6.2.1 The Checklist ........................................................ 61
6.2.2 Interpreting the Results ........................................................ 61
7   FRAMEWORK ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN ............................... 62
7.1   ENVIRONMENTAL PLANNING, REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF SUB PROJECTS ......... 62
7.2   ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT OF SUB PROJECT INIPLEMENTATION ................ 63
7.3   PROPONENT COMMITMENT ..................................................... 64
7.4   ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT AND QUALITY MANAGEMENT ............................. 65
7.5   USING THE EMP AS A MONITORING TOOL .................................................... 66
7.6   RECOMMENDATIONS ....................................................  66
8   MONITORING ............................                        67
8.1   OBJECTIVES OF MONITORING        .      .     .......................... 67
8.1.1  Monitoring sub project EMPs ............................ 67
8.1.2 Monitoring the framework EMP for the DPFP .67
8.2   MONITORING ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES        .   .    .    67
8.3   MONITORING RELATED RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE DPFP  ...69
8.3.1 Monitoring the Framework EMP for the DPFP .69
8.3.2 Monitoring sub project EMPs .70
8.4  IMPLEMENTING ROUTINE MONITORING PROGRAMS        .   .   .   71
8.5   RECOMMENDATIONS     ................... 71
9 CAPACITY AND ACTIONS OF DISTRICT ADMINISTRATIONS TO ADDRESS
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS .72
9.1   COMPARATIVE ANALYSIS OF TECHNICAL CAPACITY  . .72
9.2   TECHNICAL SUPPORT TO THE DPFP    ..72
9.2.1 Project planning, implementation and managernent responsibilities . 72
9.2.2 Technical support .72
9.2.3 Additional recommended technical support .73
9.3 TRAINING NEEDS ASSESSMENT       ..73
9.3.1 Community-level training needs assessment .74
9.4 WORKSHOP DESIGN           ..74
9.4. 1 Follow-up training .75
9.5 COSTING             ..75
10 BIBLIOGRAPHY             ..77
11 ANNEXES              .             .79
ANNEX I MOZAMBIQUE DECENTRALIZED PLANNING AND FINANCE PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS TERMS OF REFERENCE .80
ANNEX Il A SUMMARY ANALYSIS OF KEY ENVIRONMENTAL PROBLEMS IN MOZAMBIQUE 83
4



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
ANNEX IlIl SUMMARY OF KNOWN ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND MITIGATION MEASURES,
COSTED MONITORING REQUIREMENTS, ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES FOR LIG PROJECTS
................................................................................................................................ 84
ANNEX IV FICHA DE PRE-AVALIAQAO ...........................................................   100
ANNEX V ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SCREENING FORM .......................................... 105
ANNEX VI A SUMMARY CHECKLIST OF POSSIBLE COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR
DEVELOPING SUB PROJECT EMPS ...........................................................  111
5



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
1   Project Concept
1.1 Background
The Decentralized Planning and Finance Project (DPFP) is a five-year World Bank
project funded by the International Development Association (IDA) and has been
formulated as a contribution to the National Decentralized Planning and Finance
Program under policies defined in the PRSP/PARPA and Public Sector Reform
Strategy'. At present, the National Program consists of a DPFP strategy and a
common methodological framework which are being gradually developed and
approved as guidance to field implementation. In the first instance the DPFP will be
implemented in selected districts of the four central provinces viz., Zambezia (16
districts), Tete (11 districts), Sofala (12 districts) and Mlanica (9 districts) - see Figures
1.1 and 1.2. The project contributes, therefore, to the continuing development of the
National Program and to its implementation in the provinces and districts of the central
2
region .
MPF 2001. Action Plan for the reduction of absoiute poverty (2001-2005) (PARPA). Final Version
Approved by the Council of Ministers, April 2001, Ministry of Planning and Finance. Maputo,
2 Mocambique.
DPFP implementation arrangements. Draft Report



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
j                  0       ~~~~~~~~NIASSA  t  AODELGADOX
V-- 'i^M:^ ^ v-; R 9 8 ~~NAMPULA 
_ | l l l m ZA MBEI
1  l rSOFALAv               
. l   t               ~      ~     ~~~0 16SO Km
INHAMBANE
GAZA      A 
Figure 1.1 Location of the four target provinces
7



DPFP: EnvironmentalAnalysis
C GAO-It  <                 C UOOCU
A ARlNOU. CAIA  AUPETA  MAWR
j                               t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUEQ\.SUOE
t 3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Distrlcts 
0            160 Km
Figure 1.2 The Districts of the four target provinces
As a decentralization project, the fundamental principal of DPFP implementation is
local responsibility. The province is the key level foir DPFP operational organization,
resource management capacity building and reporting while the district is the
operational level at which participatory planning and decentralized investment
management will be carried out. Project supported relorm and capacity building
activities based in each province will strengthen district administration and, in their
relation to district planned and managed initiatives, rLIral community institutions.
Central-level structures, both conventional and project-specific, provide guidance,
technical support, and monitoring for the provincial structures and activities which in
turn provide the institutional base for promoting change at local level via district
planning and management3.
In the context of environmental assessment, the project concept shares much in
common with the Bank-funded Municipal Developrnent Project (MDP), which was
developed as a possible remedial intervention mechanism for the widespread
inadequacies of urban infrastructures and services throughout Mozambique. This
intervention serves to tackle the widespread decay of urban infrastructure systems and
the unsustainable exploitation of natural resources, notably fuel wood, in peri-urban
environments. The government launched the Municipal Development Project (MDP), a
long-term (10-15 years) program of urban/nnunicipal government strengthening;
targeting policy, legal, financial and institutional issues affecting three key areas:
a Municipal governance and management
3 IBID
8



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
* Municipal provision of infrastructures and services
* Municipal finance and fiscal decentralisation
Here the goal is empowerment of municipal administrations thus reducing their reliance
on central government for decision-making.
In common with the MDP, the empowerment of provincial and district administrations
requires a similar transition from the traditional thinking that is largely reliant on central
government for decision-making. Hence, the DPFP is similarly targeting policy, legal,
financial, and institutional issues and has the overall of objectives of:
* Financing sustainable small public investments in rural areas; and
* Starting a long-term effort to build capacity of the district administrations in
planning, public finance, and works.
To achieve these objectives requires capacity building and support towards:
* Strengthening the capacities of district and provincial administrations to:
o Plan and manage the provision of rural infrastructures, and
o Assist central government ministries and agencies to develop national laws,
regulations and guidelines for the decentralised management of
infrastructure investment programs, and
* Mobilising the participation of civil society and communities in the planning and
implementation of rural infrastructures and services.
The types of investments envisaged would include but not be limited to:
* Public and semi public infrastructures such as primary schools, health posts, rural
water supply and sanitation, small-scale irrigation, feeder roads, bridges,
electrification, and rural markets.
* Social and cultural sub-projects such as sanitation for schools and health posts,
community centres, day care centres, houses for teachers and health workers, and
sports facilities.
* Special investments targeting poor and vulnerable groups (victims of mines and
HIV/AIDS-affected populations)
1.2  National strategy for poverty alleviation4
In 1995, Mozambique for the first time defined specific poverty reduction policies by
formulating the Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS). The Strategy's main objectives
were to improve living conditions in rural areas; to invest in human capital; to improve
social protection networks; to formulate a population policy and to improve national
capacity for analysing and monitoring poverty. However the strategy was limited by two
main factors. First, the objectives were of a global nature and did not contain specific
activities for the co-ordination and collaboration of the key people involved in poverty
alleviation, and second, poverty estimates were based on extrapolations thus allowing
for great inaccuracy.
4 Adapted from: Common Ground Consulting and Impacto 2002. Poverty and the environment: an analysis
of the linkages and driving forces in Mozambique. On behalf of DIFD
9



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
In 1996-1997, the first national survey called Household Survey of Living Conditions
(HS 96/97) provided the necessary database to define and measure poverty thus
overcoming the latter limitation. The first limitation was overcome by the development
of an action plan for the reduction of absolute poverty 2001 -2005 (PARPA). This action
plan emphasises measures that benefit the poor in the short, medium and long term
through policies that sustain rapid and broad based economic growth. According to
PARPA 2001,
"rapid growth is an essential and powerful tool for poverty reduction ... without growth,
the objective of increasing the capacities and expanding the opportunities for the poor
will continue to be severely constrained by the lack of public and private resources".
In tackling the objectives of the PRS, the action plan specified six fundamental areas of
action that have both deep and broad impacts: Education; Health; Agriculture and rural
development; Basic infrastructure; Good governance End; Macro economic and
Financial management.
* Education
The main objective in this area is to guarantee access lo primary education for all
children with special emphasis on higher enrolment by girls and in the rural areas. This
will therefore increase employment opportunities and promote greater social, regional
and gender equity.
* Health
The main objectives are the promotion and provision of good quality and sustainable
health care making it accessible to the population, especially the less privileged groups
such as women and infants and in rural areas. Furthermore, the objectives include the
prevention of the main endemic diseases affecting children through immunization and
the improvement of health and health knowledge of young people.
* Agriculture and Rural Development
The main objective is to increase income-generating opportunities through agronomic
advances and access to markets, especially for the family sector. Rural extension
programmes based on specific crops and technologies as well as improvements in the
financial system will aid this expansion in the production of agricultural produces.
* Basic Infrastructure
Lack of basic infrastructure throughout the whole country is one of the major factors
hindering development and poverty alleviation. The main priorities regarding basic
infrastructures improvement are the road network, which will permit better access to
markets thus decreasing transportation costs and provision of water and energy. Areas
with highest population levels and largest levels of poverty will be given priority
regarding development of infrastructures.
* Good Governance
State Institutions provide public services that benefit the poor thus being a critical factor
in achieving sustainable economic growth. Good governance of these institutions is
therefore essential for the success of the PRS. To achieve this the action plans
proposes policies promoting decentralization and devolution of public administration
thus bringing government closer to the people, reforms of public institution including the
10



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
simplification of bureaucratic procedures, strengthening of the capacity and efficiency
of the legal and judicial system and reduction of corruption at all levels.
* Macro-economic and Financial management
To obtain a stable economic growth, an economy needs financial and macro-economic
management with policies such as fiscal, monetary and exchange rate that stabilize
low inflation rates, that improve management of public expenditure and mobilize
additional budgetary resources equitably and efficiently, that promote international
trade and strengthen the management of domestic and foreign debts, among others.
Complementary activities were also included in the action plan to target the less
fundamental but still important areas of intervention. These included policies that
increase income generating activities and job opportunities, programmes that reduce
vulnerability to natural disasters, policies on housing and policies that support
sustainable growth such as environmental management.
Clearly, the objectives of the DPFP compliment those of Mozambique's poverty
reduction strategy both of which recognise the critical importance of establishing
linkages between economic development and decentralised planning and management
as the key to achieving poverty reduction through focused economic growth and social
development in the country's historically marginalised rural areas.
1.3  Project description5
The DPFP is divided into two components;
Project Component 1 - Decentralized Planning, Finance and Investment
This component of the project aims to (i) develop public sector capacity for district
planning and plan implementation that is accountable, and (ii) develop capacity among
rural communities to effectively participate in district planning and ensure local
administration accountability for plan implementation.
The rationale is to support the district administrations to prepare and implement
territorial and multi-sectoral development plans with full participation of civil society and
rural communities. This process will enable district administrations to combine different
sources of funding (Government, non-government organizations and donors) available
and mobilize resources for the district to implement an agreed district development
plan that is owned by the district. This component will focus on capacity building of
district administrations and communities in Mozambique to engage in participatory
planning while component two provides the learning-by-doing mechanism of district
investment grants for strengthening financial management and works management
capacity (see below).
District plans that result from planning activities are:
(i)   District Development Plans (Plano Distrital de Desenvolvimento or PDD) - a
five-year strategic plan setting out an agreement by stakeholders in the
district on the vision for the future and the long term development strategy.
The GOM has published guidelines for the development of these PDDs.
SAdapted from: World Bank 2002. PAD Project Description (DRAFT): Mozambique: Decentralized
Planning and Finance Project



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
(ii)  Three Year Investment Plan (Piano Trienal de Investmentos or PTIP) -
made on the basis of the PDD and consists oF a list of public investment
initiatives with or without approved funding for a period of three years.
PTIPs are currently undertaken for mediuin term expenditure purposes by
the GOM.
(iii)  Annual Investment Plans (Plaino Annual) -- provides details on investment
projects to be implemented in current year. Prepared one year in advance to
enable inclusion in government budgeting proce'ss. Items to be financed by
sector and provincial discretionary budgel: funcis as well as DPFP district
investment grants.
Districts to be included in the planning component will be determined through a
combination of demand and supply, with all districts eligible by end of project. District
Administrations programmed by the provinces to qualify for the District Investment
Grants will receive priority attention for training in Annual Plan development under this
component. Other District Administrations requesting support but not yet eligible for
grant funding, will be accommodated as far as pcssible. All districts will be provided the
opportunity to attend provincial training in the development of PDDs.
This component of the DPFP has three subcomponents:
(i)   capacity building of district administrations to undertake participatory planning
and accountable plan implementation
This subcomponent will result in a better undersianding and ownership of the planning
process by the District Administrators and key sector colleagues at district level. It will
also support the District Administrator and Conselho Executivo in selecting the
Technical Team (Grupo Tecnico or GT) and train this team to prepare PDDs and
Annual plans according to the district planning manual and government budget
timetable.
(ii)  capacity building for civil society and rural communities to effectively participate
in planning  and  ensure local administratior  accountability for plan
implementation.
This subcomponent will provide non-government organizations and communities with
guidelines and training needed to catalyze the establishme!nt and functioning of district
structures for consultations between district administrationis and their constituents. It
should result in the facilitation of forums at the locality level where community
representatives can discuss priorities for their economic development.
(iii)  establishment and support for effective use of accountability mechanisms in the
district
This subcomponent will result in greater public awareness of and access to,
information regarding participatory planning for district plans and accountable plan
implementation.
Project component 2 - Local Investment Grants in capacity building activities for
financial and works management
This component will build the capacity for decentralized rnanagement of district level
infrastructure investments and will finance a gradually expanding program of such
investments across the four target provinces. The objective of this financing is to
develop a mechanism whereby the GOM's intergovernmental transfer system can be
12



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
extended to finance territorially determined annual investment plans at the district level.
This component will develop procedures and capacity for district administrations to
determine and allocate budget for small infrastructure investments as well as build
capacity for basic financial and works management.
A grants mechanism will provide learning-by-doing opportunities in respect of financial
management and works management by district and provincial administrations. It will
provide funds for infrastructure investments in districts, determined through a
participatory planning process, whilst using and strengthening the GOM procedures for
financial management and works management by line administrative institutions at
provincial and district levels.
The component comprises two subcomponents:
(i)   the Local Investment Grants (LIG) Mechanism
(ii)  Works Management and Supervision
> Local Investment Grants Mechanism
The Grants mechanism will finance three types of LI Grants, based on the type of
investments and the respective responsibilities of the district and provinces in the
management of their execution.
LIG 1 will finance District Administrative Infrastructure. This refers to offices and other
administrative buildings in the districts as well as housing for District Administrators and
key district staff identified as necessary for carrying out district responsibilities under
the project. This may include housing, where necessary, for the District Financial
Manager and for the District Technician. This facility is separated from other facilities
in order to ensure that funds used for administrative infrastructure do not detract from
those available for social infrastructure as prioritized by the communities through a
participatory planning process. In addition, administrative planning is a public planning
function and the province will be responsible for determining how funds should be
allocated, in consultation with the Project. A ceiling will be established for this Facility
per province and a clear set of criteria elaborated as the basis for decision-making in
respect of funds allocation to each district. Criteria will include an analysis of existing
infrastructure, staffing and identified needs. This Facility will be the responsibility of the
province to plan, finance and manage.
LIG 2 will finance Socio-Economic Infrastructure in the districts and will constitute the
bulk of grant funds under the component. Investments under this facility will be
selected based upon the operational plans resulting from the participatory planning
processes supported under component 1. The menu of eligible investments has been
determined through a consultative process and will be finite in scope. At the end of
each year MPF, representing the Steering Committee, will propose any amendments to
the menu. It will include primary schools, health posts, rural water supply and
sanitation, small scale irrigations, feeder roads and bridges and rural markets. Works
funded by LIG 2 will be undertaken by small private construction contractors. Ceilings
will be established per district per annum and per type of work. All districts could
qualify for access to this Facility provided they meet the eligibility criteria. However
participation will be extended gradually based on capacity availability. Eligibility criteria
will include the existence of an annual work plan developed through a participatory
process and the existence of human resource capacity in the district to undertake the
financial and technical responsibilities for execution.
13



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
LIG 3 will finance Community Infrastructure Improvements for very small scale
investments (micro-projects) in public infrastructure expansion or improvements. This
will include items such as latrines, improvements to existing infrastructure, durable
goods for use in public facilities etc. A manual of "standard micro-projects" will be
prepared and will be updated yearly to reflect additional types of micro-projects.
Community artisans will be contracted by the District Administration to undertake these
micro-projects.
LIG 3 will be managed at district level in order to, build capacity in basic financial and
works management by District Administrations through learning-by-doing. The amounts
of grants will be under a modest ceiling per district per annum to limit risks of misuse of
funds given weak capacity in the districts. A rigorous monihly reporting process would
be enforced in order to monitor the district's use of funds and capacity to produce the
requirement documentation. In the first year, the amount will be limited to $10,000 per
district per annum and subject to increases depending on performance. Eligibility for
accessing this facility will include an acceptable plan and existence of the district
financial and technical management capacity in the district. It will only be available from
the second year of the project to districts that have been through a participatory
planning process supported under component 1.
LIG Allocation
The provinces will program which districts will have access to LIGs based on assessed
needs, basic management capacity and planning experience. The four provinces will
be phased in over the five years of the project, starting with the provinces of Manica
and Zambezia and expanding to cover Sofala and Tete in years 2 and 3, sequenced
depending on local conditions. This gradual expansion is in order to ensure
management capacity is built in both the provincial governments and project
coordination units to support the districts sufficiently. Approximately six districts will
enter the project in year one and each province will add approximately three districts
each year, leading to all 46 districts in the four provinces being potentially eligible by
year 5.
> Works Management and Supervision
This subcomponent will support the construction of small scale public sector and
community infrastructure improvements financed by the Lccal Investment Grants to an
adequate level of transparency, quality and efficiency.  Once annual plans are
approved and financing is made available through the Local Investment Grants, the
process of works management and supervision follows. This component provides
support for the Public Works Directorates and District Administration in contracting and
managing small scale district works. The division of labor between the private and
public sector is based on government policy that states that all works should be
executed by private contractors with private inspectors while the public sector plans,
finances and supervises these works. The subcomponent will also provide capacity
building activities for private works contractors and community artisans.
1.4 Project implementation6
The project encompasses the organization of structures and functions at three
governmental levels - central, provincial and district - each of which is briefly described
below.
6Adapted from: DPFP implementation arrangements. Draft report
14



DPFP. Environmental Analysis
CENTRAL LEVEL
The Implementing Agency for the DPFP is the Ministry of Planning and Finance (MPF).
Within the MPF, line responsibility for the DPFP is delegated to the National Directorate
for Planning and Budgeting (DNPO) which assumes the following roles:
1. allocate and manage project resources via the central-level Coordination and
Support Unit (see below) it has established via contracted staff
2. oversee provincial level management of project activities undertaken by the
Provincial Directorates of Planning and Finance (DPPF)
3. represent government vis-a-vis the World Bank and all reporting and fiduciary
responsibilities related to the IDA-financed Project
Broad areas of responsibility are:
> Project Governance: DPFP National Steering Committee
> Substantive Oversight: DPFP Technical Group
>  Policy Related Technical Assistance: Decentralization Technical Advisory Group
(GAT)
> Project Management: DPFP Coordination and Support Unit (UCA)
PROVINCIAL LEVEL
At provincial level the Implementing Agency for the DPFP is the Provincial Directorate
of Planning and Finance (DPPF). Under the direct authority of the Provincial Director,
the DPPF will:
1. Plan and coordinate all project activities within provincial government as well as
those undertaken by District Administration and local communities with project
support.
2. Manage the allocation of and oversee the use of all project resources and report on
their use to the DPPF/DPO and the Steering Committee via the UCA
3. Supervise project supported technical assistance activities and assure that they
adequate meet the needs of relevant target institutions at provincial, district and
community levels.
Broad areas of responsibility are:
>  Implementation Management: DPFP Coordination and Support Unit (UCA)
>  Implementation Coordination: DPFP Provincial Steering Committee
> Technical Support for District Planning: Provincial Planning Support Team
> Project Technical Operations: Provincial Line Department Responsibilities involving
* Provincial Planning and Finance Directorate, Department of Planning and
Budget
* Provincial Directorate of "Support and Control," Department of Assistance to
Districts
* Provincial Directorate of "Support and Control," Department of Human
Resources
15



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
*  Provincial Directorate of Public Works, Department of Public Buildings
*  Provincial Directorate of Agriculture and Rural Development, Rural
Development "Sector"
*  Provincial Directorate of Environnmental Coordinaticin, Department of Territorial
Planning and Organization
District Level
The District Administration is the key operational instituticn in DPFP implementation,
directly responsible for the organization of consultative processes, for preparation of
district plans, both strategic and operation, for the programnming and control of Local
Investment Grants at local level, and for the reporting of DPFP supported activities,
resource flows and results both "upward" to government and project structures and
"downward" to community representatives and participants.
The key role players in the districts will be:
> District Administrator
Executive responsible for all DPFP supported activities within the district, for the
preparation of all plans and budgets, for liaison with both provincial and community
institutions and actors, and for reporting resource flows and resultant outcomes.
> District Consultative Council (DCC)
Body responsible for representing community interests with respect to all DPFP
supported activities in the district, based on participation and information flows between
the DA and more local councils and/or fora at administrative post and locality levels.
The DCC will approve district plans and review reports relating to LIG.
> District Technical Team (DTT)
This will be a multisectoral group working with the DA, loca communities and other civil
society institutions in preparing district plans. The IDTT comprises not only of local
administration staff but also by individuals selected from sectoral directorates based on
their personal technical capacities and, in some cases, also of local NGO staff or other
notable citizens available to contribute to planning processes.
> District Manager and District Works Technician
Two local administration personnel (civil servants under MAE/DPAC management) to
be added to the Distinct Administration's staffing table in order to meet the increased
demands on financial management and construction planning and management
engendered by DPFD    processes.   The District Manager will have specific
responsibilities for resource management, especially financial administration and
reporting, and will work under the technical supervision of the DPPF. Similarly, the
District Works Technical will benefit from technical suppcrt and supervision from the
DPOPH. Specific "Description of Functions" are being developed by MAE, MPF and
MOPH and will be approved for inclusion inn DPFP implementation manuals.
1.5 Environmental Analysis
The DPFP concept document identifies the environment ais requiring special attention
within the overall framework of the project. A critical assumnption is that in general the
project will bring about an improvement in environmental conditions in urban centres of
rural areas because one of its key development objectives is the provision of
infrastructures such as schools, health posts, water supply and sanitation etc. This can
16



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
only be achieved through the successful implementation of civil works programs, and
hence with a prior knowledge of the general nature of the development activity, key
potential environmental impacts can be predicted.
Where civil works proposals equate to large-scale development, environmental impact
assessment may be required. This issue cannot be resolved until more information is
available regarding the scale of civil works of certain civil works sub-projects, e.g. road
and bridge construction and small scale irrigation schemes. Here close liaison with
MICOA (EIA personnel) is essential to ensure compliance with current EIA legislation.
It is reasonable to assume that the proposed scope of civil works envisaged for the
DPFP will in general result in localised environmental impact of minor significance.
However, there are many causal factors linked to the environmental degradation that
characterises urban and peri-urban areas, and it would be short-sighted to assume that
the simple process of upgrading and rehabilitation of infrastructures will automatically
result in environmental remediation.
The history of failure to withstand the impact of human pressure per se on existing
infrastructures and services in the informal settlements surrounding the country's major
urban centres highlights the need to adopt a cautionary approach to the provision of
new infrastructures and services as in the absence of adequate management; history is
likely to repeat itself. In this context there exists a fundamental need to raise human
awareness to enable the people to better understand the consequences of their actions
and to be better able to manage any newly provided facilities. For example, under the
high-density living conditions that characterise the informal settlements of the urban
environment, conditions are optimal for the rapid spread of the range of water-borne
transmissible diseases typically associated with poor hygienic conditions (e.g.
dysentery, diarrhoea, cholera etc).
This example highlights the importance of conducting environmental education
campaigns in parallel with the proposed civil works program to ensure that appropriate
levels of awareness are achieved. This in fact may be the key to ensuring that the
urban infrastructures essential to both human and environmental health are not allowed
to decay or are misused in the same way again.
17



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
2 BIOPHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS OF THE TARGET PROVINCES
2.1 Topography
Mozambique can be divided into three broad topographic regions: north, central and
southern.
The target provinces (Zambezia, Tete, Manica and Sofala Provinces) of the DPFP form
a cluster in the central region of Mozambique and are dominated by the Zambezi
Valley and Delta. In the interior, in Tete Province, the rims of the Valley are
mountainous, reaching elevations of 2,095m at Mt. Domue on the border with Malawi.
The Rift Valley bisects the Zambezi River in a north-south direction near Caia and
continues south to Nova Sofala. The Rift Valley is still experiencing tectonic movement
causing seismic events that mainly affect central and north-western Mozambique.
The southern part of the target area, south of Beira, comprises a broad coastal plain
mostly below a height of 200m backed by mountains along the western national border.
Along the western border with Zimbabwe, the land rises up sharply to form the
Chimanimani Mountains where the highest elevation in rvlozambique is attained (Mt.
Binga at 2,436m).
2.2 Geology and Soils
2.2.1 Geology
The following brief summary describes the basic geology in age sequence.
A Pre-Cambrian basement complex (about 600 million ye!ars old) comprising granitic
and migmatic gneisses covers almost the entire northern and central western areas of
Mozambique, including Zambezia, Tete and parts of Manica. In Tete, towering
outcrops of granite rock (known as inselbergs), rise sharply above the plains. The
oldest rocks are Pre-Cambrian granites, quartzites and schists (more than 1,600 million
years old) of the Chimanimani Mountains along the Zimbabwe border in Manica
Province.
In the centre of the country the Karroo system (350 - 130 million years old) is
represented by basalts that run north-east between Espungabera (on the border with
Zimbabwe) and the Zambezi River.
Cretaceous red sandstones and mudstones run approximately northwards from
Gorongosa Mountain (Sofala Province) to the Zambezi River. Red sandy clays and
clays are produced from the weathered products with a calcium rich sub-soil.
To the south-west of Beira and to the west of the sandy p ains are Marine Cretaceous
sandstones. These are the source of hydrocarbon minerals.
Late Tertiary sandstones (7-26 million years) occur on the Cheringoma Plateau (Sofala
Province).
Quaternary to Recent non-sedimentary sands and alluviurns, occur south of Beira and
the Zambezi Delta.
18



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
2.2.2 Soils
The northern and some parts of the central and western areas have red soils of varying
texture (from light sandy soils to clay loams). These are associated with the Pre-
Cambrian granitic basement complex.
Low fertility red soils occur in Sofala province north of Beira (Cheringoma Plateau).
Alluvial soils occur in the Zambezi river basin.  Though prone to salinisation,
particularly in delta areas, these soils have a high potential for agriculture.
Lithic soils are associated with montane areas (e.g., the Chimanimani Mountains and
the granitic inselbergs of northern and central Mozambique. Due to slope, shallowness
of soil ands high rainfall there is a high potential for soil erosion in these areas.
2.3 Climate
There is great variation in mean annual rainfall across the target area. Most of the
coastline receives 750 to 1,000 mm of rain per year. The interior of the Zambezi
Valley, in Tete province, is semi arid, receiving less than 600 mm average annual
rainfall. There are a series of very humid pockets associated with montane areas e.g.,
Mt. Binga (Manica Province), Mt. Gorongosa (Sofala Province) and Mt. Namuli
(Zambezia Province) which receive more than 2,000mm of rainfall per year.
Although mean annual rainfall varies markedly at different locations, there is a striking
similarity in rainfall patterns during the year. There is a distinct rainy season between
November to March followed by a distinct dry season between April and October. This
rainfall pattern is characteristic of savanna biomes in general.
Cyclones are generated in the south-west Indian Ocean some of which reach the
Mozambican coast especially in February and March. Over the last forty-five years,
there were 24 cyclones that strongly affected the north-central sector of the
Mozambican coast.
2.4 Hydrology
Thirty-nine major rivers drain into to the Indian Ocean along the country's 2,700 km
coastline. Those traversing the target provinces are briefly described below.
The major perennial rivers of Zambezia province are the Licungo (Lugela), Raraga,
M'lela, Molocue, Ligonha and Meluli. The largest, the Licungo has a catchment of
22,726 km2 and is 336 km long. The other rivers are significantly smaller.
The most important River in Mozambique is the Zambezi. The Zambezi River enters
Mozambique at Zumbo where it immediately swells into the impoundment of Lake
Cahora Bassa. For much of its course between Tete and the delta, the bed of the
Zambezi is between one and five kilometres wide. At Chupanga the Zambezi begins to
spread over a vast triangular area known as the Zambezi Delta which covers an area
of about 18,000 km2. The most important tributary of the Zambezi is the Shire River,
which drains Lake Malawi via the Rift Valley.
The Pungue River rises in Zimbabwe and discharges into the Indian Ocean south of
Beira, collecting numerous tributaries en route. The most important of these is the
Urema River which flows southwards through the Gorongosa National Park. The
Pungue River forms the southern boundary of Park.
19



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
The Buzi River rises in Zimbabwe and receives several rriajor tributaries in the upper
catchment most notably the Lucite and Revue Rivers. It shares a common estuary with
the Pungue River south of Beira.
The Gorongose River (not to be confusecl with Gorongosa lqational Park) drains 13,150
km2 of lowland flowing through swampy lands for 100 km tc the coast south of Beira.
The Save River forms the common boundary between Sofala and Inhambane
provinces. The River is impounded in Zimbabwe and is now seasonal.
2.5 Vegetation Types
In Mozambique the main broad vegetation type, based on structure, is savanna
woodland. The most common woodland type is miombo covering much of Niassa,
Cabo Delgado, Nampula, Zambezia, Sofala, Manica and Inhambane provinces.
There are several different types of miombo de!termined by variations in rainfall and
soils.
The second most extensive woodland is mopane woodland occurring in the Limpopo-
Save area and in the mid-Zambezi Valley.
Together these two types of woodland cover approximately 70% of Mozambique.
Other vegetation types include:
o Acacia woodland. There are two extensive areas of Acacia woodland, a southern
formation (in the area of Moamba, Magude and Guija) and a central formation
running approximately in a north-east direction through Manica and Sofala
provinces;
o Lowland palm savanna in coastal areas containing badly drained soils of Sofala
province;
o Vegetation on alluviums in the Zambezi Delta. A seasonally-inundated lowland
formation (the Gorongosa "tandos") links the Zambezi Valley with the Pungue River
in the south via the Urema trough (Rift Valley); and
o Mangroves are well developed in coastal Zambeziia and Sofala.
2.6 Indigenous Production ForestlWoodland
Several of the Mozambique woodland forest types contain valuable hardwood tree
species. Around 19,000 square kilometres has been identified as high and medium
potential for forest production. These areas occur mainly in the northern and central
provinces. One of the densest forest formations occurs on the Cheringoma Plateau,
between Beira and Caia, in Sofala province. Table 1 below summarises forest
production potential in the target provinces.
20



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
Table 1: Zambezi basin productive forest parameters
FOREST        AREA AND    MANICA      SOFALA     TETE       ZAMBEZIA
COVER UNIT      VOLUME
ESTIMATES
Evergreen    Area(ha)                 15,570.63             5,493.00
Forest
Standing                 95.00                  95.00
Biomass
(m3/ha)
Standing Com.            16.90                 8.45
Timber (m3/ha)
Total allowed            692.26                244.21
cut(m3)
Lowland Forest Area (ha)  322,193.80  1,538,886.22 4,148,678.33 1,695,275.13
(40<cc%<70)
Standing     39.67       54.00      39.99      51.00
Biomass
(m3/ha)
Standing     4.20        6.00       4.20       4.99
Timber tm3/ha)
Total allowed  7,272.38  40,121.51  46,154.02  38,562.18
cut (m3)
Lowland Forest Area (ha)  1,291.74    286,951.53  6,277.11  91,426.02
(cc%>70)
Standing     44.09       54.00      53.98      73.00
Biomass
(m3/ha)
Standing     0.00        14.10      7.41       7.75
Timber (m3/ha)
Total allowed  44.55     15,860.41   176.81    2,024.19
cut (m3)
Thicket      Area (ha)    220,101.49  290,276.98  1,800.67  1,199,416.22
vegetation
Standing     36.81       31.00      17.42       17.42
Biomass
(m3/ha)
Standing     1.93        6.20       3.36       2.46
Timber(m3/ha)
Total allowed  1,043.84  6,327.86   4.07       28,693.11
cut (m3)
Total Area(ha)/province   1,486,886.85 452,136.31  11,579,314.5 4,553,372.27
6
Average                   38.57       46.31      39.99      35.75
Biomass(m3/ha)/province
Average Standing          3.28        6.91       4.21       3.90
Timber(m3/ha)/province      I_I
Total allowed             8,360.77    63,002.04  46,334.90  69,523.69
cut(m3)1province
21



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
2.7 Fauna
2.7.1 Terrestrial Mammals7
Mozambique has rich diversity of mammal fauna; 211 terrestrial mammal species and
11 marine mammals have been recorded.
Only one mammal species is considered endem c to Mozambique, a white-bellied red
squirrel confined to Namuli Mountain (Zarnbezia provirice).
Although the mammal species diversity is high, the populations of these species,
especially the larger mammals, have been significantly reduced both inside and outside
of protected areas due to lack of enforcement during the armed conflict (1981 - 1992).
Gorongosa National Park (Sofala) and Marromeu Reserve (Zambezia) suffered
massive declines in large mammal such as elephant, buffalo and waterbuck.
2.7.2 Birds
Approximately 900 species have been recorded for southern Africa; of these 581 have
been recorded in Mozambique. There are a number of near endemic and restricted
range species, mostly associated with isolated montane habitats such as Gorongosa
(Sofala), Chimanimani (Manica), Chiperone and Namrrli (Zambezia) Mountains.
The freshwater and marine wetlands of Mozambique are important sites for migratory
and resident aquatic bird species.  One of the nmost important wetland sites in
Mozambique is the Zambezi Delta where over 50 species of aquatic birds have been
recorded. The Delta supports numerous vulnerable and threatened bird species of
global concern.
2.8 Protected Areas
2.8.1 Gazetted Protected Areas
Mozambique possesses a number of protected areas in different categories; National
Parks (4), Game Reserves (5), Controlled Hunting Areas or Coutadas (13), Vigilance
Areas (2) and Forest Reserves (16).
The new Forestry and Wildlife Law (1999) recognises three categories of protected
areas
o National Parks
o National Reserves
o Historical - Cultural Use Zones
In addition, the Law recognizes designated area lor controlled hunting (Coutadas).
The current protected areas will be reviewed and where necessary reclassified
according to the new law. Table 2 and Figure 2.1 below summarise the distribution of
these protected areas in the target provinces.
7 Adapted from: Smithers, R.H.N. and Tello, J.L.P.L. 1970. Check list and Atlas of the Mammals of
Mo,ambique. Museum Memoir, Number 8. 184pp and Smithers RN and Tello JLP. 1976. Checklist and
Atlas of the Mammals of Mozambique. National Museums and Mcnuments. Salisbury.
22



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
2.8.2 Transfrontier Conservation Areas (TFCAs)
The Transfrontier Conservation Areas (TFCA) Project is being implemented by the
National Directorate for Conservation Areas in the Ministry of Tourism. The project is
developing conservation areas that will straddle national boundaries. A TFCA is
defined as a relatively large region of land incorporating one or more recognised
conservation areas. The idea is to develop these areas in an integrated fashion for
both conservation and also the economic benefit of local communities without loss of
biodiversity.
The Chimanimani TFCA is located in western Manica province.  This area is
contiguous with the Chimanimani National Park in Zimbabwe. The area is recognised
for its high biological value.
2.8.3 Areas of Outstanding Biological Value
Eight areas of outstanding ecosystem, biological and/or scenic value were identified as
part of the environmental investigations. Six of these are located in the project area,
namely:
Gorongosa Mountain - Rift Valley Complex (Sofala)
This area encompasses the isolated massif of Gorongosa Mountain and the southern-
most section of the African Rift Valley. The mountain supports montane forests and
heath grasslands on its summits. Several endemic and near-endemic plants and
animals occur within the mountain's habitats.
The Rift Valley in Mozambique is a floodplain ecosystem comprising a variety of wetlands
habitats. The diversity of habitats in the Rift Valley makes it one of the finest wildlife
grazing ecosystems in Africa. The southern portion of the Rift Valley is protected within
the Gorongosa National Park.
The Cheringoma Plateau (Sofala)
The Cheringoma Plateau comprises tropical forests containing a mixture of local
endemics with Equatorial and southern African flora. The forest on the Plateau
contains several commercially important hardwood species.
Zambezi Delta Grasslands and Swamps (Zambezia)
The Zambezi Delta covers an area of about 18,000 km2. The Delta is of great socio-
economic and cultural value. Marromeu Buffalo Reserve is located on the southern
portion of the Delta. In addition to buffalo, elephants, water buck and reedbuck are
found in the Delta although their numbers have been much reduced by hunting.
The Zambezi Delta represents an important wetland for resident and migratory bird
species. Wetland scientists believe that the Zambezi Delta qualifies as a Wetland of
International Importance under the Ramsar Convention.
The Chimanimani Massif (Manica)
The Chimanimani Massif although relatively small in area is characterized by an
exceptionally high diversity of habitats and species. The Massif supports a rich
endemic flora. Endemic fauna are two frogs and one reptile. Large mammals are well
represented in the area and include: buffalo, eland and sable. Over 160 bird species
23



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
have been recorded for the Chimanimani Massif some which are considered endemic
to the Afro-montane regions of eastern Africa.
The Great Inselberg Archipelago (Zambezia/NampLla)
This series of habitats occurs south of the Lurio River occupying a rectangular area
approximately 500km by 160km. This Inselberg archipelago presents a remarkable
landscape of tall granite core remnants in a savanna plain. Several of the montane
areas have high biodiversity moist forests
Pebane Evergreen Coastal Forests (Zambezia)
The Evergreen Coastal Forests in northern coastal Zambezia province are of high
biological importance. A new (and possibly endemic) tree species was discovered in
these forests in 1998.
A rich and diverse reptile fauna occurs in the coastal forests of Pebane. In 1998 two
new reptile species were discovered; a new snake and a new dwarf day gecko. The
two new reptile species are, at present, endemic to the area.
2.9 Summary
Table 2 below summarises key ecological factors or sites within each of the target
provinces in Mozambique. The distribution of protected areas is shown in Figure 2.1.
Table 2: Key Ecological Features and Sites in the target provinces of the DPFP
Province         Area     Protected      Areas     Areas of Outstanding
(kin2)   Type           sq km   _ Value
Zambezia         105,008  Gile GR        2,100     Pebane Coastal Forest
Derre FR       1,700     Zambezi Delta
Great Inselberg Archipelago
Tete             100,724
Manica           61,656   Three FR       167       Chimanimani Massif
Three Coutadas  16,616
Sofala           68,018   Gorongosa NP   5,370     Cheringoma Plateau
Marromeu GR    1,500     Gorongosa Rift Valley
Three FR       1,327     System
Eight Coutadas  25,400
Note: NP=National Park, GR=Game Reserve, FR=Fcrest Reserve
24



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
I                   <     r      ZAMS~~~~~~   ~   ~~~~~~~~~~EZIA 
,J A  d   , B~erre Forest Reserve  se
C/t ;40J /+~~a F Res/
Goorlo  sa Nabot P 10\2*
f MA.'.A ),                             A Forest reserves
Manbane ii serve A           arrorMa eu Reserve    Game reserve
l  I  SoFALA  \  /           _  National park
V Village areas
[   Zomba F Resl  A,q *   )   * h./              z  Coutadas
Mrongna F Res re,  Se                                     10K
Figure 2.1 Location of protected areas in the target provinces
2.10 Current land use patterns
In comparison with neighbouring countries, the population density of Mozambique is
relatively low (19 individuals per kM2). Population density for most of the districts within
the four target provinces is low (less than 15 individuals per kM2) except for Zambezia
Province (Figure 2.2).   Most of the country still comprises natural/semi-natural
vegetation. The major land use is agriculture. Agricultural production comprises two
main socio-economic sectors: the small-scale family sector (the majority of the rural
population) and the commercial sector (mainly large companies).
25



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
.40~~~~4
Population Density (InhablKm2)
10 .14
15 - 51
152 -119
120 - 635
> 636
0           150 Km
Figure 2.2 Population density per district of the four target provinces
2.10.1 Small-scale family farming sector
The planting of crops in small plots (1 to 5ha) derived from secondary or primary
woodland by slash and burn is the most common agriCLIltural practice amongst the
family sector in mostly rural areas of the country. It is estimTated that approximately five
percent of Mozambique is under active cultivation by the small-scale sector. Although
the percentage under active cultivation at any one time is low, the area of natural
habitat affected by small-scale farming is signifcantly higher. After several years of
cultivation soil fertility declines and a new cropping area, is derived from natural or
secondary vegetation. The small-scale farming system cornprises an arable (cropping)
area as well as fallow fields of varying ages.
In the medium altitude (200 to I OOm above sea level) regions of Zambezia and Tete,
provinces cassava is widely cultivated.
In semi-arid regions (e.g., Central Tete pr-ovince) maize is replaced by drought resistant
crops such as sorghum and millet.
Cotton is an important cash crop for the small-scale sector in medium altitude regions of
Sofala and Zambezia province. Cashews and coconuts are also important cash crops in
these areas as well as coastal areas of Zambezia forovince.
In low-lying wetland areas rice is grown. This is especially important in the floodplains
of the Buzi-Pungue floodplains and the Zambezi Delta.
26



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
2.10.2 Commercial Sector
This sector is traditionally associated with large companies dedicated to intensive
large-scale agricultural production e.g. coconut plantations, orchards, tea, cotton, sisal,
sugar cane and livestock production. Several of these companies have a long history
in Mozambique including MADAL, Sena Sugar Estates, and Companhia da Zambezia
(Zambezia province), Marromeu Sugar Estate, Buzi Sugar Estate (Sofala province).
The total land area occupied by the commercial sector is relatively low (144,550 ha or
about 0.2% of Mozambique). However, private sector farms occupy some of the
country's most fertile soils most notably the alluvial soils of the project area.
2.10.3 Other Land Uses
Exotic commercial forest plantations (mainly pines and eucalyptus) occupy
approximately 8,000ha in high altitude areas of Manica province.
MADAL has a 10,000ha forest concession in Nicoadala district, Zambezia Province.
Several large forest concessions are proposed for the Cheringoma plateau in Sofala
province.
The commercial harvesting of firewood and production of charcoal (illegal and legal) for
sale in major urban areas is common in woodland and forests closer to major cities and
towns.
Cattle numbers were severely depleted during the armed conflict. Cattle ranching is
being increasingly practiced in Tsetse fly free areas especially in the grasslands of the
Zambezi Delta. In semi-arid areas, especially central Tete province, goat rearing is an
important economic activity. Goat grazing and browsing has had a severe impact on
the natural vegetation in Changara district, near the town of Tete.
2.11 Main Land Uses in Each Province
2.11.1 Sofala Province
The coastal region of Sofala extends from the Save River in the south to Zambezia
River in the north. The soils are generally sandy except in the Buzi/Pungue estuary
and Zambezi Delta where heavy textured alluviums occur.
In the regions with better drained soils crops of maize, sorghum, millet, cassava and
cowpea are found in association. Cashew and cotton are important cash crops in the
farming systems.
In the heavy, seasonally inundated soils of the Buzi/Pungue floodplain and Zambezi
Delta areas the cultivation of rain-fed rice predominates.
There are large private sector sugar cane plantations in the Buzi/Pungue floodplain
(Buzi Sugar Estate which is currently being rehabilitated) and the Zambezi Delta
(Marromeu Sugar Estate.  This was recently privatised and is currently being
rehabilitated).
The mid-altitude region of Sofala (200 and 1000m above sea level) comprises mainly
light textured soils with some occurrence of heavy soils. Maize, sorghum, cassava and
cowpea predominate. In seasonal wetlands farmers cultivate sweet potato and rice. In
27



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
this region there is good potential to produce colton. It is a region with a moderate to
high population density.
2.11.2 Manica Province
Land use for the mid-altitude region of Manica province is similar to that in Sofala
province, namely the cultivation of maize, sorghum, millet and cassava. Cotton is an
important cash crop.
In the more elevated areas of the province heavier textured soils occur and rainfall is
higher. Maize is the main crop. There are large areas of pine plantation on the slopes
of the western mountains.
2.11.3 Tete Province
The central portion of Tete province (Zambezi valley) is semi-arid. Sorghum and millet
predominate.
The medium altitude region comprises land between 200 eind 1,000 meters above sea
level. The main crops are cassava, maize, coApea and pigeon pea inter-cropped in
furrows. Farms vary between 1.5 and 3.0 ha.
In the high altitude region of Tete province (Angonia district) the soils are principally
ferrasols of heavy texture. In this region maize is the iominant crop, with a high
production potential. Beans and potato are also important.
2.11.4 Zambezia Province
The soils of coastal Zambezia are mainly sandy, except in the Zambezi Delta where
heavy textured alluviums occur.
In the coastal sandy soils the agricultural system is characterized by the production of
cassava and millet. Cashew is an important source of incomne for family farmers.
Rice and coconuts dominate agricultural product on in the .Zambezi Delta. This area is
characterized by the occurrence of narrow, elongated slightly elevated dunes, locally
called "morrundas", separated by depressions, locally called "baixas", which are
inundated and lie parallel to the coast. In the morrundas the dominant crops are
cassava, maize and nhemba beans. In the baixas rice is the dominant crop during the
rainy season and sweet potato and second season maize during the dry season.
Cultivation of coconuts on the "morrundas" is important.
The private sector has large areas of land in the Zambezi Delta regions e.g., Madal,
Sena Sugar Estates, and Companhia da Zambezia. Of the three companies, Madal is
the only one fully operational. It has operations in the disiricts of Quelimane (coconut
and livestock), Chinde, Inhassunge, Maganja da Costa and Namacurra and Nicoadala.
The Madal palm plantation areas for each district are, 2,460 ha, 2,601 ha 12,053 ha,
2,204 ha and 4,057 ha, respectively.
Sena Sugar Estates (SSE) operates in Chinde district at the village of Luabo. Here
SSE has 10,000 ha of sugar cane and 3,000 ha of coconut palm plantation. At
present, these areas are being rehabilitated.
Mid altitude Zambezia province is characterized by red sandy soils. The main crops
are maize, sorghum and cassava.
28



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
In the high altitude region of Zambezia (land above 1,000 meters) soils types are
principally heavy textured ferrasols. Maize is the dominant crop, with a high production
potential. Private sector tea plantations have long been established in the highlands of
Zambezia province.
2.12 Land Use Summary
The areas under cultivation by the small-scale sector and private sector and forest area
per target province is given in Table 3 below.
Table 3: Summary of Land Use in the target provinces
Province  Small-scale   Private Sector  Potential       Area of
cultivation   Cultivation    Production-      Province
km2 -         km2            Forest km2       km2
Sofala      2,122 (3)      133 (0.2)      17,900 (26)     68,018
Manica      2,300 (4)       64 0.1)       15,600 (24)     61,656
Tete         2,803 (3)     22 (0.02)      13,900 (14)     100,724
Zambezia     7,439 (7)     589 (0.6)      33,250(31)      105,008
*Figures in brackets indicate the percentage of the area of the province with this
farming activity or forest potential
The data in the summary table indicate that:
o Small scale cultivation ranges from a low of 3% (Sofala) up to 7% (Zambezia);
o  Private sector farming is a minor land use, ranging from 0.1-0.6%; and
o There is substantial potential for commercial forestry ranging from a low of 14% in
Tete province up to 31 % in Zambezia province.
2.13 Potential constraints for project preparation
The target provinces for project implementation are clustered in the central region of
the country and also form the core of the Zambezi Valley Spatial Development Initiative
(ZVSDI) and consequently form a focal area for fast-tracking sustainable development.
Environmental issues can be classified in relation to either land degradation or the
erosion of biodiversity, both of which should be taken into consideration during both the
preparation and implementation on the project. A summary of major environmental
issues in Mozambique is given in Annex II.
Land degradation8
> loss of soil fertility - intrinsically linked to itinerant agriculture and it's shifting
cultivation system and prevalent across all provinces
> soil erosion - the area of great risk covers the central provinces of Manica, Tete and
Zambezia
> soil salinisation - a problem common to major river basins e.g. the Zambezi
8 Adapted from Menete, M.Z.L. 1999. Current status of land degradation in Mozambique and the need for
indigenous knowledge in natural resource management practices. Paper Presented at the Workshop on
Integrated Analysis and Management of Renewable Natural Resources in Mozambique, Maputo, 7-11
June 1999, (Proceedings edited by P.V. Desanker and L. Santos).
29



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
> soil acidification - typically a consequence of intensificaJ:ion of agriculture
production; an anticipated development in the ZVSDI
> loss of vegetation cover - the driving forces are:
o forest clearings for agriculture purposes (i'tinerant agriculture and it's shifting
cultivation system for regeneration of soil productivity, were the prime cause of
the damages to forest, natural vegetation and ecosystems)
o  uncontrolled forest fires,
o wood-fuel and building material extractions, and
o timber harvesting and hand-crafting.
Land productivity symptoms resulting from these situations may be the following:
> Reduced crop yields, because of the lower nutrient and organic matter content,
reduced soil depth, salinity, poor structure and aeration, etc;
> Great need for agriculture inputs, e.g. more fertilizers to compensate for nutrients
losses;
> Reduced land value, and eventually loss of land due to salinisation, sodification,
desertification, etc;
> Increased frequency and seriousness of floods;
> Loss of water resources due to siltation with consequences to loss of hydropower
and fish stocks;
>  Effects on health and quality of life caused by soil and water pollution.
Erosion of Biodiversity
Of the country's entire protected areas network, 50% of the national parks, 40% of the
game reserves, 77% of the hunting Coutadas and all of the forest reserves are situated
in the target provinces, along with 75% of the country's areas of outstanding biological
value and one TFCA. Loss of biodiversity through a broad spectrum of development-
related activities remains a critical threat and is of special significance to the target
provinces which contain a disproportionate share of the country's flagship areas of
conservation significance.
The same is also true for forest production as collectively the target provinces comprise
one of the country's most important forestry production regions. In Zambezia available
data suggests that resources are heavily depleted. The forest resources within the
Zambezi valley cover an area of  2.9 million ha with an estimated overall annual
production a year of 69.5 thousand m3. Sofala is the richest of the provinces in terms of
forest diversity, natural habitats, and related resources. Pi-oduction areas extend over
an area of  2.1 million hectares of high value tiimber species. Manica is mainly
covered by open woodlands and forests. Forest produclion areas extend over 500
thousand ha of valuable timber species. Tete has the largest forested areas,  8.4
million ha, and an estimated timber prodLuction of 69.6 thousand m3 a year.
The project is unlikely to directly impact on this rich and valuable natural resource
base. However indirect impacts are a possible consequence of the successful
implementation of sub-projects. For example road construction coupled with improved
infrastructures and services in isolated rural areas could catalyse in-migration of people
resulting in increased pressure on the natural resource base. Also, if any sub-projects
are proposed within protected areas, specialist environmental assessment will be
required prior to implementation.
A summary matrix of environmental problems, their clistribution, possible causal
factors, and consequences is given in Appendix 1.
30



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
3   Legal and Institutional Framework for Environmental Management in
Mozambique
In this section the legal and institutional framework for environmental management in
Mozambique is summarised. In the context of the DPFP, the key elements of the
framework are:
* The National Environment Management Program
* The Environmental Law
*  EIA Regulations
* The Municipal Law
* The land Policy
* The role of District and Provincial Administrations and MICOA and regarding
environmental management in urban areas
3.1  National Environmental Management Programme (NEMP)
The National Environmental Management Programme (NEMP), approved by the
Council of Ministers in 1995, seeks to promote and implement sound environmental
policy.
The NEMP represents the culmination of a series of initiatives and activities co-
ordinated by the Ministry for Co-ordination of Environmental Affairs (MICOA). It is the
master plan for the environment in Mozambique and contains a National Environment
Policy, Framework Environmental Legislation and Environmental Strategy.
The NEMP consists of Sectoral Plans, for the medium and long term, which is intended
to lead to sustainable development in Mozambique. Three policy areas are defined:
* Rural
* Coastal
* Urban
For rural areas, agriculture and forestry issues are considered the most important. In
coastal areas mangrove degradation, coastal pollution and erosion are the main issues
to be addressed under the programme. For urban areas the degradation of sanitation
systems and the poor water quality are the most urgent issues.
MICOA has been given the authority to oversee the implementation of the NEMP. To
this effect, environmental rules and regulations are being devised and enforced. In this
regard MICOA will evaluate policies of other ministries as well as their capacity to
promote and implement sound environmental policy.
The implementation of the NEMP will require a range of actions at all levels and across
sectors. In accordance with the NEMP, MICOA, in close co-ordination with other
ministries, private and civil groups, will work towards:
* Development of inter-sectoral policies for sustainable development
* Development and promotion of integrated resource-use planning
* Promotion of sector legislation and of establishment of norms and criteria for
environmental protection and sustainable use of the countries' natural resources
* Creating conditions for law enforcement and environmental monitoring
31



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
3.2 The Framework Environment Law
The latest Framework Environmental Law was passed by the Mozambican Parliament
in July 1997. It was published in the official government gazette and is, therefore, in
force. (Law No. 20/97, Boletim de Republica No. 40, 1st Series, 3rd Supplement of the
7th October 1997).
This law acknowledges the responsibility of the Government of Mozambique in the
promotion  and  implementation  of the  National Environmental Management
Programme.
The aim of this law is to provide a legal framework for the use and correct management
of the environment and its components such that it assures sustainable development.
The Environmental Law is applicable to all public or private activities, which may
influence the environment either directly or indirectly.9
The salient features of the Law include the following:
* With regard to liability, those who pollute, or in any way degrade the environment,
are always under obligation to rehabilitate it or to compensate for the resulting
damage."
* The Law forbids pollution from the productiol stage up to that of the depositing in
the soil, subsoil, water or atmosphere of any polluting substances, or any other
form of degradation of the environment, which fall outside the limits stipulated by
the law."
* The law also forbids, explicitly, the importation of dangerous residues or dangerous
waste, except for that laid down in specific legislation.'2
* Projects and operations that are likely to have a negative impact on the
environment are required to be subject to an Environmental Impact Assessment by
independent assessors.
It also forbids all activities that may threaten the conservation, reproduction, quality and
quantity of biological resources, especially those in danger of extinction.'3
Licensing of activities that are liable to cause significant environmental impacts shall be
required. The issuance of an environmental license shall be based upon an
environmental impact assessment.
In order to protect the environmental components that have a recognized ecological
and socio-economic value, environmental protection zones can be created. These
protected zones may be national, regional or local and rray cover land areas, lakes,
rivers, marine waters and other distinctive nature zones.
To ensure the effective co-ordination and integration of sectoral policies and plans related
to environmental management at the highest level, El National Commission for
9Artide 3, of the Environmental Law
10 Idem, paragraph (g)
" Artide 9 of the Environmental Law
12 Idem
13 Artide 12 of the Environmental Law
32



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
Sustainable Development (NCSD), linked to the Council of Ministers, has been created by
a provision in the Framework Environmental Law.
3.3 The Land Policy
The patterns of land tenure in Mozambique reflect the history of customary tenure,
colonization, privatization and state control. Following Independence the new Constitution
of the People's Republic of Mozambique (1975) stated that:
'The land and the natural resources located in the soil and subsoil, in
territorial waters and on Mozambique's continental shelf, are owned by the
State. The State shall decide the conditions of their exploitation and use'
This policy effectively altered the property rights and access to property of all land owners
and land right holders which eventually, together with the armed conflict, impacted on the
Mozambican economy.
The Govemment, however, recognised that the post-independence land laws were out of
step with new developments in national economic and political life, and when misapplied
or incorrectly interpreted, could result in the unjust treatment of local populations. It,
therefore, charged the Land Commission to develop a programme to revise the Land Law
and implement measures to modernise and upgrade all institutions and services required
to implement the new policy and law.
The new Land Policy (approved on 12 September 1995) maintains the basic principle that
land ownership is vested in the State, but recognizes the legitimacy of customary law, or
the rights attributed by such law (e.g., traditional usage rights), and the role local leaders
in land management and conflict resolution. The Policy document provides the framework
for the new Land Law passed in 1997. Other goals of the new Land Policy include: (i)
promote food production; (ii) develop the family sector's agriculture; (iii) promote private
investment; (iv) preserve areas of ecological and natural resource's interest; and (v)
update the taxation system.
Land Policy in Relation to Community-Based Natural Resource Management (CBNRM)
The following discussion is a summary of a paper presented by Cruz, E. (2001) entitled
Mozambique: Community Based Natural Resources Management Initiatives
In Mozambique the state owns all land and the wildlife and forestry resources on behalf of
the people. The National Directorate for Forestry and Wildlife (DNFFB) is the state agency
responsible for forestry and wildlife (and is the lead institution involved in evolving CBNRM
in the country) but is restricted in undertaking its mandate by a range of problems caused
by two decades of war and under-investment.
The current legal framework in Mozambique governing land and resource rights is
complex and in a state of flux as a result of a policy shift from nationalisation of land and
resources to privatisation. All land belongs to the state but the government (at various
levels) can allocate the rights to resources and land for a period of up to 99 years to
individuals or companies. There is no policy or legal framework to transfer land and
resources to communal property regimes. Land under informal traditional tenure (local
communities) can be claimed by the state at any time and there is a general lack of
transparency in the allocation of resource rights to the increasing number of joint venture
companies, which are emerging in Mozambique (over 50% of the land of the country has
been granted to such private concessions). This is currently taking place with little benefit
and without consultation with those rural communities associated with the areas. This has
33



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
started to lead to conflicts over access to resources as well as restricting the options for
management and benefits to rural communities to a passive recipient status.
There are however some policy and legal changes which have a more positive potential
for CBNRM. A law (under pilot implementation aet present) has been recently enacted
allowing for decentralisation of resources management and retention of benefits from
management to provincial and district levels. If this can then be extended to community
level institutions a legal framework will exist for CBNRM local level resource management.
A further positive development has been the granting of special status to pilot CBNRM
projects allowing limited resource rights and return of concession fees to established
community institutions as a trial program. It. is an interesting feature of evolving CBNRM in
Mozambique that policy and legal changes are taking place in tandem   with
implementation (and sometimes led by projects) as opposed to the more usual
development of policy and legal aspects prior to programs. Given the complex political,
policy and legal changes occurring in Mozambique, pilot programs will probably continue
to play an important role in advancing the policyt and legal framework for CBNRM in
Mozambique.
3.4 Ministry for the Coordination of Environmental Affairs - MICOA
3.4.1 Central level
The newly created Ministry for the Coordination of Environmental Affairs (MICOA) is
responsible for implementing the National Environmental Management Programme and
associated environmental policy and legislation.
The Ministry, as indicated by its title has, primarily, a co-ordinating role (see Figure 3.1
below). All ministries share environmental management and sector policies must
incorporate environmental dimensions.
The responsibilities of MICOA are:
* To revise and develop policies and sustainable, inter-sectoral development plans
* Promote sectoral legislation
* Co-ordinate policy implementation
* Educate and promote public awareness
* Create regulations (e.g. EIAs)
34



o       ~~~~~~cE  co E 0 
CU   a) D  2  ,EL CD
0)   a)   -F    -                      0
70  ~ ~   CM~ E-r  61
r-    Co      1 ~  Cn
Z       I-H     a)  ZI
Z)    W0                                i
-                  CD                     0
.2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
-    0      0~~~~~) CD
E 
0)        C                       -n
CD co~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
o                                          C~~~~~~C
r-     C
ai)   C                       0                C
CL
co~~~~
a)                         CL               2 C 
0  ~~~~~EC)
CL                           >~~~~
)               a)                CD
a)             C~~~~~~~~a              <c
0~~~
S                           0)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C  a)
LU~~~~~CL
cu
V      CU~
Ca
cu                    -U  cua -,
0.          000  '~~~~~~~d a) L
oL                0~    0cflc
0)                         0     0~~a)a)r
CU  CU ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ C     C  f
0)            WE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~) C
a)                 E a
o       CU~~~~~~~~~~~~oc
0 ~ ~  ~  I a)  co)a,
C                       z~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ec
a)                           -i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  e a
C                                 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~300      .
.co                                            C:<   a) CoC~~~~~~~~~~~~~a.
0.                        C0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
LL                              -~~~~~~~~~~~~E
z



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
MICOA is also responsible for regulating Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
procedures in Mozambique. As indicated above (Legislation), all projects likely to have
significant environmental impacts are obliged by the new Environmental Law to carry
out an EIA prior to authorisation.
Legislation stipulates that it is MICOA's role to coordinate, assess, control and evaluate
the utilization of the natural resources of the country, and ii doing so, to promote their
preservation and rational use. It should also coordinate Ihe activities in the area of
environment, in order to ensure the integratiorn of environmental variables in the
process of planning and managing socio-economic development.
Due to its role as a coordinating ministry, MICOA's performance depends to a large
extent on the degree to which it manages to co-operate with the other ministries and
sectors because these sectors remain responsible for the integration of environmental
matters in their own sectoral programmes. This mnearis that MICOA has to establish a
working relationship with each of the sectors that are dealing with the environment.
Due to the crosscutting character of environment, this signifies that a working
relationship with all the other sectors has to be established, although the significance
will vary from one to another. Administrations dealing with urban, environmental issues
are important partners. It is therefore of utmost importance that MICOA manages to
create confidence with the partner sectors regarding the demarcation of their
respective areas of intervention. If confidence exists regarding the roles of the parties
involved, MICOA can properly start acting in its coordinating capacity, and partner
institutions can establish their areas of responsibility. MIC:OA and its partner sectors
are still defining roles, positions and modes of co-operation. This, in general, has taken
time, with periods of limited co-operation with a consequently limited coordinating role
for MICOA. The situation has gradually improved. It can be stated that at the end of
1999, with the closing of the first mandate MICOA has become an accepted ministry.
The challenge for the second mandate will be that the ministry improves its quality in
order to consolidate and strengthen its acquired position.
Resolution 5/95 gives MICOA the responsibility for the elaboration of by-laws and
regulations for implementation of the Environment Law. INICOA is further responsible
for adjustments of laws and regulations of sector ministries in order to make them
consistent with the Environment Law.
3.4.1.1 Environmental quality standard
Since 1997 activities have been developed for the elaboration of environmental quality
standards. As a first step the Environmental Quality Standards of Mozambique Projects
(PEPA) has been formulated with the following objectives:
* To define and prepare adequate standard for the environmental situation in the
country.
* To have a national committee prepare required regulations to be submitted to the
Council of Ministries for approval.
A draft environmental standard regulation has been prepared and discussed with a
broad participation of representatives of relevant bodies. As of the end of 1999, the
draft had not been deemed ready for submission to the Council of Ministries.
36



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
3.4.1.2 Environmental conservation and management plan
Coastal and urban areas have been considered a priority for the preparation of
environmental management plans.
The National Institute of Physical Planning (INFP) has performed activities related to
urban development and planning. Physical plans have been prepared for all Provincial
capitols, although only the one proposed for Nampula has been approved. Other cities
have failed to institute and implement their plans on account of the lack of financial
resources and technical capacity.
INPF has been integrated at last in MICOA as the National Directorate for Physical
Planning (DNPF), the new internal organization being under discussion by MICOA's
Consultative Council. This is a good opportunity for orienting PNPF activities towards
modern principles of regional and urban environmental planning, which provide better
tools than the traditional urban and regional physical planning that have been applied in
the past.
3.4.1.3 Environmental impact assessment
Environmental impact assessment (EIA) is perhaps the most important field of work in
MICOA in as far the external visibility of MICOA is concerned and for the interaction
and coordination with other government sectors involved in development and
investment projects. EIA has been applied since the Law of Foreign Investment was
passed in 1993. Until the approval of EIA regulations in 1998, it was the Law of Foreign
Investment that gave legal support to the environmental control of a large number of
project applications for investment authorisations, a number of them with a significant
potential for having an impact.
In December 1999, a new consultancy mission performed a participatory function
analysis and capacity needs assessment on the EIA Department. The first
consequence of this consultancy has been that the EIA department has been upgraded
to a national directorate and that within MICOA the institutional and political importance
of this field of work is recognised.
EIA regulations define the criteria and procedures, as well as the taxes that should be
paid, for the accreditation of consultants and consultancy firms in charge of preparing
EIA reports. None of these dispositions have yet been implemented. Thus, MICOA and
the EIA unit have been missing the opportunity to recover part of the administrative
costs involved in the EIA process and this has contributed to the disregard of the
regulation.
Co-ordination with other government sector involved in development and investment
projects has improved. The competence of MICOA to process project environmental
assessment is generally recognized, agreements of understanding being informally
negotiated with and accepted by the national directors in charge of tourism, industry
and forest exploitation. There have been comments, however, on the lack of specific
information about the EIA procedures and the irregularity of co-operation activities.
3.4.1.4 Environmental audit and inspection
Environmental audit and environmental inspection are the control tools established in
the Environmental Law for the control of existing activities (those that were in operation
before the incidence of environmental legislation and those that have been
implemented in recent years, with or without environmental permit).
37



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
Environmental audits should be required for complex activities of natural resources
intense usage or high impact and pollution poten'tial, aind performed by an independent
multidisciplinary team paid by the audited firm.
To start implementing environmental audit and inspection, specific regulations have
first to be approved by the Council of Ministries. MICOA has already begun drafting
both regulations for internal discussion and future external consultation. However, the
present versions of draft regulations still require a lot of technical review and
improvement.
During the five years of its existence MICOA has been woi-king on the development of
its organisation.
3.4.2 Provincial level
Since 1995 MICOA has been establishing Provincial Directorates in all the Provincial
capitols. The level of organization and capacity varies from province to province. MICOA
is not represented at lower levels of government (i e. district level) in any of the provinces.
The provincial structure follows, but does not strictly adhere to, the structure at central
level. The capacity of provincial directorates with responsibility for overseeing
environmental assessments and monitoring of impacts arising from development projects
in Tete, Sofala, Zambezia and Manica provinces is assessed below.
Tete Province
The Provincial Directorate for the Coordination of Environmental Affairs in Tete
comprises four Departments and 2 Sectors (see organogram below). Unlike the
structure at Central level there is no separate departm-rent that is responsible for
environmental impact assessment per se. Activities related to EIA falls under the
responsibility of the Department of Environmental Mariagerient.
PROVINCIAL DIRECTOR
Dept of   ||Dept of Territorial |[Dp fo h Promotion of              Dept of
Environmental        Planning             IEnvironmerital Education  Administration 
Management                                                            Finance
Human Resources Sector                 Pl1anning Sector
38



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
The Provincial Directorate in Tete is headed by a Provincial Director with a Licenciatura
degree in Geography - she is the only staff member in the Directorate with a higher
degree. The breakdown of staff in the Department and sectors is as follows:
> Department of Environmental Management: headed by a medium level technician
with training in the environment + 3 medium level technical staff.
> Department of Territorial Planning: headed by a medium level technician + three
medium-level technicians and 2 basic level technicians.
> Department of Environmental Education: headed by a medium-level technician with
training in geography + 3 medium level technical staff.
> Department of Administration and Finances - headed by a medium-level technician
with training in public administration + 1 medium-level technicians and 2 basic-level
technicians. Each of the two sectors is staffed by a single medium-level technician.
The Provincial Directorate in Tete is one of the weakest in Mozambique and has little
experience is overseeing EIA activities in the province and will require significant
capacity-building to do so. The Directorate will require a functional EIA Department
comprising at least two senior level technicians (with degrees in environmental
sciences and experience in EIA procedures) and three medium level technicians. The
Department of Territorial Planning is equally weak and will also require significant
strengthening in order to oversee any land use and resettlement programmes in the
province.
Sofala Province (Beira)
In Beira the Provincial Directorate for the Co-ordination of Environmental Affairs
comprises four Departments plus one inspectorate under the Directorship of a senior
level technician (Bachelors' degree in forestry).
> Department of Environmental Management, headed by a senior level technician
(Bachelors' degree in Chemistry).
> Department of Territorial Planning, headed by a senior level technician (Bachelors'
degree in Geography).
> Department for the Promotion of Environmental Awareness - headed by a mid-
level technician.
> Department of Administration and Finance - headed by a mid-level technician.
There is also a Provincial Inspectorate comprising two mid-level technical staff
responsible for environmental monitoring and enforcement.
There is currently no EIA Department. The Provincial Director oversees the
implementation of EIA regulations and procedures. The EIA Department needs,
therefore, to be established and strengthened.
The Organogram for the Provincial Directorate of Coordination of Environmental Affairs
in Sofala province is given below.
39



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
Director
Provincial
Inspectorate
Department of    Department of         Department for the       Department of
Environmental      territorial     Promotion of Enviionmental  Administration &
Management          Planning               Alfairs                Finances
Zambezia Province (Quelimane)
Currently the Provincial Directorate for the Coordination of Environmental Affairs in
Zambezia comprises four departments with a staff of three senior level technicians
(including the Director) and eight medium level technicians (two of whom recently
received training in environmental management in Portugal) and eight basic level staff.
>  The Department of Environmental Management and EIA14 headed by senior level
technician (a forest engineer) plus two mid-level technical staff.
> Department of Territorial Planning headed by one mid-level technician (ex
Provincial Institute for Physical Planning) plus five mid-level technical staff.
> Department for the Promotion of Environmental Awareness headed by a senior
level technician (a forestry engineer) plus one mid-level technician.
> Department of Administration and Finances (headed by a basic level technical staff
member).
The Director is a senior level staff member with a degree in financial management. In
addition there are eight basic level technical staff.
The capacity to oversee EIA regulations and procedures is considered weak and needs
to be strengthened.
The simplified organogram of the Provincial Directorate for the Co-ordination of
Environmental affairs is shown below.
_D._ _irector
I
Department of                            Department for the   Department of
Environmental         Department of         Promotion of      Administration
Management and EIA     Territorial Planning   Entironmental       and Finance
Awareness
14 Note that EIA and Environmental Management roles are grouped under one department, whereas at central
level they are separated
40



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
Manica Province (Chimoio)
The administrative structure of Provincial Directorate for the Coordination of
Environmental Affairs in Manica is the same as Zambezia province i.e., comprising four
departments with EIA and Environmental Management roles within one department.
However, there are only two senior level technicians in post (including the Director who
has a Licenciatura degree in geography) as well as five medium level technicians and
15 basic level staff.
>  The Department of Environmental Management and EIA is headed by senior level
technician (with the equivalent of a BSc degree in environmental engineering) plus
two mid-level technical staff.
>  Department of Territorial Planning headed by a mid-level technician (ex Provincial
Institute for Physical Planning) plus one mid-level technician and six basic level
staff.
>  Department for the Promotion of Environmental Awareness comprises three basic
level staff.
>  Department of Administration and Finances (headed by a mid-level staff member)
plus six basic-level staff.
The Provincial Directorate for the Coordination of Environmental Affairs in Manica
province is, after Tete province; the second weakest of the four provinces and needs to
be strengthened.
3.5  Institutional constraints
Levels of Government
There are several levels (central, provincial and district/municipal) of decision-making
involved in environmental protection, land allocation and resource management.
Central (national) institutions comprise ministries with their respective national directorates
based in Maputo.
These agencies have the competence to formulate policies and strategies and to enforce
and control their implementation. Other decision-making or consulting bodies include the
Council of Ministers and the National Council for Sustainable Development, created under
the Environmental Law (but not yet operational)
All central level ministries are represented at Provincial level. The provincial government
(under a Provincial Governor) comprises a set of Directorates, representative of each
Ministry, each with component "Services". Provincial directorates are in charge of the
implementation of policies and strategies approved at central level. (Note: the Ministry for
the Co-ordination of Environmental Affairs is a new and relatively small Ministry and is still
in the process of establishing itself in the provinces).
At the district level the administration falls under a District Administrator. Most sectoral line
ministries are represented at this level but not all.
Policy development and implementation
Although the policy and legal framework for environmental management may be
considered well advanced, the institutional capacity to implement policies, laws and
regulations is weak especially at the lower levels of government. Institutional roles and
41



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
competencies are not well defined resulting in gaps and overlaps in environmental
management especially in coastal and marine management. In addition to weak
institutional capacity within sectors there is lack of inter-instititional coordination between
higher and lower levels of government. In parallel, the Government of Mozambique is
promoting decentralization across sectors to provincial, distric;t and municipal levels.
Summary
Mozambique is generally viewed today as a country in transit on:
* From war to reconstruction and resettlement;
* From one party system to pluralism;
* From centralised economy to market economy; ancl
* From centralised State to decentralised and participatory system of government.
These national and political options are definitely instrumental in all development
processes and have induced a reorientation of the approach towards management of
natural resources whilst building human resources capacity. MICOA was created in 1995,
in the context of post war reconstruction. Such action was viewed as a strong will of the
newly elected Government to integrate environmental considerations among other urgent
problems it had to deal with simultaneously. The strategy may have been correct but to-
date; the experiment has not really worked as MICOA continues to fall short of achieving
its overall coordinating role. The failure relates directly to capacity, which is still insufficient
at central level and diminishes dramatically at Provincial and district level. The take home
message here is that no matter how far sighted policy development may be it remains
totally ineffectual (especially in the context of achieving development objectives) if the
capacity to implement does not exist.
42



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
4 Review of Selected World Bank Safeguard Policies
In this chapter the following World Bank documents are reviewed.
* The World Bank Operational Manual (Operational Policies) - Environmental
Assessment, OP 4.01 (January 1999).
* The World Bank Operational Manual (Operational Policies) - Definitions.-
Annex A. OP 4.01 (January 1999)
* The World Bank Operational Manual (Bank Procedures) - Environmental
Assessment, BP 4.01 (January 1999).
* The World Bank Operational Manual (Operational Policies) - Environmental
Management Plan. OP 4.01 - Annex C (January 1999)
* The World Bank Operational Manual (Operational Policies) - Natural Habitats.
OP 4.04 (January 1999)
* The World Bank Operational Manual (Bank Procedures) - Natural Habitats. BP
4.04 (January 1999)
* The World Bank Operational Manual (Operational Policies) - Forestry. OP 4.36
(September 1993)
* The World Bank Operational Manual (Operational Policies) - Involuntary
Resettlement, OP 4.12 (December 2001).
* The World Bank Operational Manual (Operational Policies) - Involuntary
Resettlement, OP 4.12 -Annex A (December 2001).
* The World Bank Operational Manual (Bank Procedures) - Involuntary
Resettlement, BP 4.12 (December 2001).
* The World Bank Operational Manual (Operational Policy) - Safety of Dams, OP
4.37 (October 2001).
The purpose of this review is twofold:
1. To ensure that the present bank financed DPFP project concept is environmentally
sound, and
2. To assess the relevance of these documents to the proposed Mozambique DPFP.
4.1 Environmental Assessment (OP and BP 4.01)
The World Bank's environmental assessment operational policy establishes the fact
that some level of environmental assessment is required for all Bank financed
development projects.
EA is presented as a dynamic process dependent on the nature, scale, and potential
environmental impact of the proposed project. A typical EA will:
43



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
*  Evaluate a project's potential environmental risks and impacts in its area of
influence.
*  Examine project alternatives.
*  Identify ways of improving project selection, siting, planning, design, and
implementation by preventing, minimising, mitigating, or compensating for adverse
environmental impacts and enhancing positive impacts.
*  Include the process of mitigating and managing adverse environmental impacts
throughout project implementation.
* The Bank favours preventive measures over mitigatory or compensatory measures,
whenever feasible.
Depending on the nature and scope of EA, the following factors may need to be taken
into consideration, and in an integrated way:
* The natural environment (air, water, and land)j
* Human health and safety
*  Social aspects (involuntary resettlement, indigenous peoples, and cultural property)
*  Transboundary and global environmental aspects
Other important factors that may require consideration include:
* Variations in project and country conditions
* The findings of country environmental studies
*  National environmental action plans
*  The country's overall policy framework, national legislation, and institutional
capabilities related to the environment and social aspects
*  Obligations of the country, pertaining to project activities, under relevant
international environmental treaties and agreements
Bank policy also requires that EA is initiated as early as possible in project processing
and is integrated closely with the economic, financial, institutional, social, and technical
analyses of a proposed project.
The commissioning of EA work is the responsibility of the borrower and the Bank
reviews the findings and recommendations of the EA to determine whether they
provide an adequate basis for processing the project for Bank financing. When the
borrower has completed or partially completed EA work prior to the Bank's involvement
in a project, the Bank reviews the EA to ensure its consistency with this policy.
44



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
4.2 Forestry (OP 4.36)
Bank involvement in the forestry sector aims to reduce deforestation, enhance the
environmental contribution of forested areas, promote aforestation, reduce poverty, and
encourage economic development. Here, Bank policy is unlikely to conflict with the
activities of the DPFP and is hence of little relevance to this EA. This policy may
however be relevant when considering the location of civil works in rural areas where
indigenous forests still predominate. It is possible that the proposed civil works may
require extractive use of forest resources.
4.3 Natural Habitats (OP & BP 4.04)
The Bank supports the protection, maintenance, and rehabilitation of natural habitats
and their functions in its economic and sector work, project financing, and policy
dialogue and expects borrowers to apply, a precautionary approach to natural resource
management.
In the context of current project implementation and development the following
elements of Bank policy will apply:
1. Promotion and support to natural habitat conservation and improved land use and
the rehabilitation of degraded natural habitats.
2. The Bank does not support projects that, in the Bank's opinion, involve the
significant conversion or degradation of critical natural habitats.
3. Wherever feasible, Bank-financed projects are sited on lands already converted
(excluding any lands that in the Bank's opinion were converted in anticipation of the
project). The Bank does not support projects involving the significant conversion of
natural habitats unless there are no feasible alternatives for the project and its
siting, and comprehensive analysis demonstrates that overall benefits from the
project substantially outweigh the environmental costs. If the environmental
assessment indicates that a project would significantly convert or degrade natural
habitats, the project includes mitigation measures acceptable to the Bank. Such
mitigation measures include, as appropriate, minimizing habitat loss (e.g., strategic
habitat retention and post-development restoration) and establishing and
maintaining an ecologically similar protected area.
Because the scale of civil works envisaged under the DPFP is small, their impact on
natural habitats will be negligible. However, a precautionary note is required regarding site
selection which should at always avoid areas requiring transformation of undisturbed
natural habitat. Also given the current conceptual status of this project it is difficult to
assess potential impacts on natural habitats as the locations of civil works programs have
not yet been decided upon. A clear expectation here would be the need to take into
account the views, roles, and rights of groups, including local nongovernmental
organizations and local communities affected by the project and to involve such people in
planning, designing, implementing, monitoring, and evaluating such projects.
The environmental screening component of this environmental assessment does not
indicate the potential for significant conversion or degradation of critical or other natural
habitats.
45



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
4.4 Involuntary resettlement (OP & BP 4.12)]
The nature and scale of civil works proposed under the! DPFP much reduces the
possibility of involuntary resettlement as a consequence of project implementation.
Nonetheless at least one proposed sub project type will likely involve relocation and
that is the construction of new markets and will entail the relocation of vendors.
Whenever resefflement is required, in this or other cases resettlement planning and
implementation will adhere to the guidelines formulate!d by the Ministry in the
Resettlement Policy Framework for the DPFP:
4.5 Safety of dams (OP & BP 4.37)
The provision of water for irrigation envisaged under the DPFP may result in proposals for
sub projects that include the construction of dams for tihe purpose of water supply. Bank
policy regarding safety dam requirements specifies that the dam be designed and its
construction supervised by experienced and competent professionals. It also requires
that the adoption and implementation of safety mneasures fi)r the design, bid tendering,
construction, operation, and maintenance of the clam and associated works.
Small dams (less than 15 meters in height), for example, farm ponds, local silt retention
dams, and low embankment tanks require only generic dam safety measures designed by
qualified engineers
Large dams (15 meters or more in height). Dams that are tbetween 10 and 15 meters in
height are treated as large dams if they present special desi(gn complexities, for example,
an unusually large flood-handling requirement, location in a zone of high seismicity,
foundations that are complex and difficult to prepare, or retention of toxic materials. Dams
under 10 meters in height are treated as large dams if they are expected to become large
dams during the operation of the facility. Here two prerequisites for project approval apply:
1. reviews by an independent panel of experts (the Panel) of the investigation, design,
and construction of the dam and the start of operations;
2. preparation and implementation of detailed plans: a plan for construction supervision
and quality assurance, an instrumentation plan, an operation and maintenance plan,
and an emergency preparedness plan; c) prequalification of bidders during
procurement and bid tendering, and d) periodic safety inspections of the dam after
completion.
It is unlikely that large dam construction (as defined above) will be a civil works sub
project of the DPFP.
Sub projects that rely on the performance of an existing dam or a dam under construction
(DUC), water supply systems that draw directly from a reservoir controlled by an existing
dam or a DUC; diversion dams or hydraulic structures downstream from an existing dam
or a DUC, where failure of the upstream dam could cause extensive damage to or failure
of the sub project; and irrigation or water supply projects that will depend on the storage
and operation of an existing dam or a DUC for their supply ol water and could not function
if the dam failed. Projects in this category also inclide operalions that require increases in
the capacity of an existing dam, or changes in the characteristics of the impounded
materials, where failure of the existing dam could cause exte!nsive damage to or failure of
the sub project.
Sub projects of this nature will require:
1. inspection and evaluation of the safety status of the existing dam or DUC, its
appurtenances, and its performance history;
46



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
2. review and evaluation of the owner's operation and maintenance procedures; and
3. a written report of findings and recommendations for any remedial work or safety-
related measures necessary to upgrade the existing dam or DUC to an acceptable
standard of safety.
Previous assessments of dam safety or recommendations of improvements needed in the
existing dam or DUC may be accepted if:
1. an effective dam safety program is already in operation, and
2. full-level inspections and dam safety assessments of the existing dam or DUC have
already been conducted and documented.
The screening mechanism will capture sub projects that require complying with conditions
defined in OP & BP 4.37 and summarized above.
4.6 Recommended approach to environmental assessment
The operational policy for EA provides a mechanism for project classification (four
categories) according to project type, sensitivity, location and scale, and the range and
magnitude of adverse environmental impacts. This classification process provides a
simple method whereby the appropriate EA approach can be determined.
Based on an analysis of available data on project type and analysis of known impacts
and preventative or mitigation measures for the civil works encompassed in the Bank
funded DPFP (see chapter 5 and Annex 111), we recommend that the civil works
program be provisionally classified as a Category B project. Projects are classified as
Category B if the range of impacts is typically site-specific and are readily mitigated or
preventable.
The recommended approach to EA for the DPFP will be to subject clearly developed
and defined sub projects (for which detailed project documents exist) to a screening
process (chapter 6) that captures sub projects and established the level of
environmental assessment required. If screening established that formal EA (GoM
legislation or Bank requirements) is not required project implementation will adhere to
EA guidelines developed in this document which are presented as a framework
environmental management plan (chapter 7).
47



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
5 The Civil Works Program
5.1 Implementation Arrangements
The DPFP will be implemented as follows:
1. The Provincial Directorate of Planning and Finance (PDPF) will open up Provincial
Investment Grant accounts in the Provincial Capitals of Sofala, Manica, Zambezia
and Tete.
2. The District Administrations (DA) will also open and operate similar accounts at
district level.
3. In synchrony with the provincial annual planning process (i.e. in May or June) the
DA will submit their sub-projects with budget to the PD3&F (who then submits it to
central government for approval in July). The DA will icentify and design their sub-
projects according to a specified "financial ceiling".
4. Three categories of project will be considered for financial support under the DPFP,
namely:
i. Administrative Infrastructures (offices and housing)
ii. Socio-Economic Infrastructures
iii. Community Infrastructures
Community sub-projects will be jointly managed by the DA and local communities and
implemented by local artisans (informal/non-registerecl) bricklayers, carpenters etc.
Sub-projects will be formally contracted out according to Bank procurement protocols.
5.2 Overview of sub projects
This section first describes the nature of civil works envisaged, their impacts, and
possible prevention or mitigation, and second presents in table form operational
guidelines for the comprehensive incorporation cf environmental considerations for the
full spectrum of construction activities envisaged for the civil works program over the
lifetime of the DPFP.
At the time of writing civil works programs have not been developed beyond the
conceptual level and may change in the future. Nevertheless, the guidelines developed
are deliberately not specific to these programs but rather identify the range of
environmental impacts and mitigation measures associated with civil works at different
sectoral levels (roads and bridges, water and sanitation, electrification), construction of
buildings (schools, health posts, offices, housing, r-ural markets) and other
infrastructures (community centres, day care centres, sports facilities), and projects
targeting poor and vulnerable groups (victims of mines, HIV/AIDS-affected
communities). These sub-projects would be relatively small in financial terms
(US$10,000-US$50,000) and would be classified as follows:
1. public and semi public infrastructure
2. social and cultural sub-projects
3. special investments targeting the disadvantaged
48



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
5.3 Description of Local Investment Grants (LIG)
a. LIG I - District Administrative Infrastructure Grants
*  Objective - Develop local capacity to plan and manage improvements to
administrative infrastructure in the district seats and administrative posts.
*  Type of Infrastructure - Offices and staff housing for key civil servants in
the districts
*  Typical Project Costs - USD 15,000 - 75,000 (rehabilitations may cost
less)
*  Proponent - District Administration
*  Priority Setting- Provincial Directorate of State Administration (Apoio e
Controle/DPAC)
*  Approval - Provincial Government (through budget process managed by
DPPF)
* Project Preparation's and Procurement-Provincial Directorate of Public
Works (DPOPH)
*  Execution   -  Private Sector Contractors and  Private Sector Works
Inspectors (Fiscais)
*  Financial Management - Provincial Directorate of Planning and Finance
(DPPF)
*  Supervision - DPOPH with support of Private Sector Works Inspectors
b. LIG 2 - District Socio-Economic Infrastructure Grants
*  Objective - Develop local capacity to plan and manage improvements to
public sector infrastructure to promote socio-economic development in rural
districts.
*  Type of Infrastructure - schools; health posts; water points; earthen road
improvements including small bridges, culverts and drains; market shelters;
staff housing for public service deliverers; small-scale irrigation.
*  Typical Project Costs - USD 15,000 - 100,000 (may include several small
works in a lot, rehabilitations may be less)
*  Proponent - Communities/Locality Councils
*  Priority Setting- District Consultative Councils supported by District
Administration
*  Approval - Provincial Government (through budget process managed by
DPPF)
*  Project Preparation1' and Procurement-Provincial Directorate of Public
Works (DPOPH) with participation by District Administration
*  Execution   - Private Sector Contractors and   Private Sector Works
Inspectors (Fiscais)
*  Financial Management - District Administration ("zero balance bank
account) under supervision of Provincial Directorate of Planning and
Finance (DPPF)
*  Supervision - DPOPH with support of Private Sector Works Inspectors and
oversight by District Administration
15 Investment projects will be prepared to the maximum extent based upon standard designs ("projectos tipo")
pre-developed and reviewed by the Government and the DPFP. New standard designs will be developed
annually based upon demand and identfied needs. The excepton to this rule will be rehabilitation of existing
infrastructure for which site-specific plans and budgets will be required.
49



DPFP. Environmental Analysis
c. LIG 3 - Community Infrastructure Improvement Grants
Objective - Develop the capacity of District Administration (DAs) to plan
and manage small investment projects jointly with local communities.
* Type of Infrastructure - Rehabilitation and repairs of public buildings;
latrines, fencing and other supplementary structures for existing facilities;
very small bridges, culverts or drains for earthen roads; isolated water
points (including rehabilitation or repairs); community-managed facilities
such as creche, HIV/AIDS day clinic, grain-store, market shelter, transport
shelter, etc.
*  Typical Project Costs - USD 100 - 5000
* Proponent - Communities/Locality Councils
* Priority Setting- District Consultative Courcils supported by District
Administration
*  Approval - District Administration
* Project Preparation"5 and Procurement- District Administration supported
by DPOPH as needed
* Execution - Local artisans and beneficiary community members
 Financial Management - Districi Administration (District Manager)
monitored by DPPF
*  Supervision - District Administration (Works Technician) and Beneficiary
Communities
5.4 Description of subproject civil works, irnpacts and mitigation
In using these guidelines provincial and districi level technical staff tasked with the
responsibility of civil works management should be able to identify the range of
impacts, and means of prevention or mitigation appropriate to any proposed program of
construction or rehabilitation. In other words the guidelines are both diagnostic
(identification of impacts) and prescriptive (means of prevention or mitigation) for the
lifetime of the project and beyond for small-scale civil works.
Hence, this section provides the following information:
1. two levels of classification for sub projects, first broad categorisation that
encompasses and describes a range of sub projects, and second individual sub
project descriptions as sub categories.
2. description of the civil works required for sub project implementation; and
3. summary descriptions of known impacts and associated conventional and practical
preventative and/or mitigation measures for the civil works of each sub project
category.
Civil works programs will encompass at least the following:
> Public and semi public infrastructures such as primary schools, health posts, rural
water supply and sanitation, small-scale irrigatioin, feeder roads, bridges,
electrification, and rural markets.
> Social and cultural sub-projects such as sanitation for schools and health posts,
community centres, day care centres, houses for teachers and health workers, and
sports facilities.
> Special investments targeting poor and vulnerable groups (victims of mines and
HIV/AIDS-affected populations)
50



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
5.4.1 Basic infrastructures in urban and peri urban environments
5.4.1.1 Drainage channels
Civil works
In all likelihood most of the areas where construction takes place will be devoid of basic
infrastructures e.g. drainage channels for rainwater or sanitation facilities for residual
water. Often the ground will still be vegetated and vehicle access will be limited.
Many of the sub-projects involving building construction will also require the
construction of channels for the purpose of rainwater drainage. These projects will be
highly localised with no associated environmental impacts as long as precautionary
measures are implemented.
This project activity can be undertaken in conjunction with the community, incorporating
measures that will minimise possible environment impacts, notably:
* Avoiding or minimising damage to existing infrastructure;
* All pathways affected by the works will be restored;
* Discharge site will not cause risk of erosion or flooding.
In the operational phase there may be negative impact relating to the community's
behaviour:
*  Public health risk through the use of channels for ablutions, discharging residual
water and disposal of solid wastes;
*  Public health risk through human consumption of channel water.
To minimise future risk to public health requires basic education through appropriately
designed awareness campaigns.
Impacts and mitigation
The small scale of envisaged civil works will require only minor earth-constructed
drainage channels. During the construction phase there will limited local pollution
(debris) and possibly temporary inconvenience to local residents.
The main problems relate to routine and periodic maintenance. Drainage channels tend
to become liftered with debris, plastic bags, and used as ablution facilities. Awareness
campaigns involving local community associations will need to be promoted and
supported. Local communities will also need to assume the responsibility for keeping
the drainage channels clean and free of debris.
5.4.1.2 Toilet facilities at markets, schools and clinics (including waste
management)
Civil works
All markets in the urban centres of rural areas are very basic, mostly constructed from
locally harvested building materials (wood and thatch). There are no toilet facilities and
vendors and customers are forced to use the surrounding area for ablutions.
51



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
The DPFP envisages the construction of latrine facilities (sometimes with underground
water tanks, water pumping systems and septic lanks) clcse to markets and possibly
other places where people often congregate (e.g. newly constructed schools and
clinics).
Impacts and mitigation
The projects will have a positive impact on environmental conditions and public health.
Potential negative impacts include:
* Toilets becoming dirty and as a result people refusing to use them appropriately
* Septic tanks overflowing and creating health risk
* People continue not to use the toilets
Maintaining latrines in public places requires proactive management. Therefore in order
to minimise these negative impacts, it is recommended that toilet management
committees are set up (see section 7) The comrnittees shall be charged with cleaning
and maintenance of the toilets and running awareness campaigns.
In the construction phase, some measures shall be adopled in order to minimise the
impact of the civil works being undertaken as indicated in section 6.
5.4.2 Buildings (including markets)
Civil works
Most of the sub-projects will involve small -scale construction of buildings notably
markets, rural schools and clinics, housing, and offices (including ancillary facilities
such as sanitation, drainage, and access). Although the! envisaged construction in
small-scale and likely to have negligible environmental impact, there are some
precautionary factors requiring consideration in the planning phase. For example, in
rural areas communities are typically linearly distributed along transport routes where
the immediate environment is largely transformed and dorninated by machambas and
secondary vegetation but also in close proximity to untransformed habitats. In this
context civil works construction should be planned in a way that its impact on primary
vegetation (clearing construction sites) should be avoided or minimised. Other factors
that also need to be considered include grouncl contours, water table, and seasonal
patterns of inundation. Here local knowledge will be invaluable in deciding on
appropriate locations for building construction.
Impacts and mitigation
Markets
There will be limited range of localised environmental impacts occurring during
construction (local pollution). Contractual obligations (of the contractor) must include
clauses regarding environmental protection focusing specifically on site clean up after
construction, waste management during construction, and possibly the rehabilitation of
land disturbed during construction. The main concern however will be to maintain
hygienic conditions at markets, notably:
* Adequate solid waste storage/disposal (e.g. in bins/containers with lids to keep
flies away).
* Appropriate site selection to ensure proper drainage! from stalls.
52



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
*  Maintenance of sanitary conditions, provision of latrines etc.
* Adequate water supply to maintain hygienic conditions
Again, these are essentially common sense day-to-day management practices, which
need to be promoted and reinforced through environmental awareness campaigns.
Ongoing awareness campaigns regarding waste management should accompany the
implementation of all sub-projects of the civil works program. Although no significant
impacts are envisaged, awareness regarding waste management is required for
construction teams and local communities. The entrenched habits of people simply
discarding solid wastes reinforces the need for developing new initiatives to improve
waste disposal and management and should be a desired output of the awareness
campaign process.
Loss of present market stores during construction will impact on local vendors who will
require either compensation for loss of income during construction or temporary
relocation until construction is completed. Ultimately the construction of new markets
will have a significant positive impact creating an improved and more hygienic working
environment.
Other buildings
Building construction is likely to be the largest of the DPFP sub-projects but will
nevertheless still fall within the scope of small-scale civil works. The potential for
environmental impact is small and prevention or mitigation will be dictated by the
quality of environmental management at construction sites and environmental
education of the workforce. It is recommended that a relatively simple generic
environmental management plan is used to ensure that contractor activities are in
compliance with the broad principles of environmental management and that the
workforce is similarly educated in this regard. These guidelines can be written in to
contractual agreements and form the basis for monitoring compliance. Hence the EMP
will become key documentation for contractors and the district and provincial level staff
involved in the management of civil works programs funded under the DPFP. A generic
EMP appropriate to the nature and scale of civil works envisaged by the DPFP is
outlined in chapter 7 below.
5.4.3 Roads and bridges
Civil works
Access to rural markets and transport routes is a constraint common to the more
isolated communities in rural Mozambique. Consequently, it is envisaged that a
significant component of community projects for the DPFP will be tertiary road
construction and/or rehabilitation to service such communities. In practise it remains
difficult to provide screening guidelines in rural areas as the construction of new road
networks will inevitably require the clearing of primary vegetation which may be of
conservation value (the same is not as significant for road rehabilitation). As a
consequence guidelines regarding road construction sub-projects may include
recommendations to seek specialist opinion (e.g. construction in steep sloped areas or
through primary forest/woodland) concerning the development of environmental
management guidelines for new roads prior to the approval of such sub-projects.
Bridge construction across minor rivers and streams will probably require the
installation of flume pipes easily achieved during the dry season under zero flow
conditions but should nevertheless be supervised by an engineer. Any major bridge
53



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
construction will require management by qualilFied and experienced engineers and
according to a method statement developed by the contractor and approved by the
project manager.
Impacts and mitigation
At present civil work should be limited to the construction and rehabilitation of tertiary
roads, minor river crossings, and possibly footpaths. Environmental impacts will be
localised and short term. The labour gangs working oni these projects need to clean up
sites after rehabilitation and wherever possible path design should be based on path
profiles that prevent ponding. Footpaths that follow seasonal watercourses and other
wetlands should be avoided. Local populations should be discouraged from using
footpaths as latrines. Adequate drainage must be provided in areas where substantial
water run off is expected. This will preclude the possibility of flooding and associated
erosion.
Tertiary roads are typically small and mostly in isolated rural areas where population
densities are low. Their main function is to connect isolated areas of a province to the
primary and secondary road network. The main activities associated with these types
of roadworks (including bridge construction) are"e:
> Grading and resurfacing;
> Repairing or replacing damaged minor bridges;
> Clearing drainage lines; and
> Containing erosion
These types of activities limit the range of associated impacts to the following:
> Land use change from vegetation loss or habitat degradation
> Worker camps including chemical & fuel storage, waste disposal, and social issues
specifically in relation to STD's and cultural heritage
> Drainage, erosion & sedimentation
> Management, utilisation and rehabilitation of borrow pits
> Improved access to natural resources and their typically unsustainable utilization
5.4.4 Water utilization and management
5.4.4.1 Deep wells with standposts
Civil works
In most rural areas access to reliable hygienic water points is limited. Given this
shortage of water supply, rural populations have to dig deep holes in lowland areas, or
utilise local streams and pans where the water may not suitable for human
consumption.
It is envisaged that a common community sub-projecl of the DPFP will be the
construction of permanent wells (30m deep) and the installation of manual pumps.
The location of these holes have not been finalised but will require environmental
assessment according to the outcome of screening (chapte!r 6).
16 SMEC and Impacto 2001. Environmental Assessment of the next Road Sector Program. On behalf of ANE for
the World Bank
54



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
Impacts and Mitigation
Issues relate mainly to health and can be mitigated through awareness campaigns
relating to the maintenance of hygienic conditions. Wells should always be constructed
on flat ground to avoid water driven erosions processes but flat topography will also
facilitate ponding around the well and the potential for water borne diseases and as a
breeding environment for mosquitoes. Again this can be easily mitigated through
appropriate awareness campaigns.
5.4.4.2 Small-scale irrigation17
Civil works
Irrigation requires:
> a water source for abstraction,
> a water supply method, and
> a water distribution method (irrigation system).
Consequently, there are many alternative approaches to developing small-scale
irrigation schemes, some of which are briefly described below.
Pumping water
Many of the methods of supplying water described below need a pump to lift the water
from the source to where the land will be irrigated.
*  Windmills
> used to pump water from a well, tubewell or shallow borehole
> only useful in places which have some wind in all months of the year
> water tank to hold the water pumped up by the windmill
*  Ram pumps
> Used on a flowing river, stream or a spring with a drop of at least 2 m
*  Motor pumps
There are three main types of motor pumps:
> Centrifugal pumps are used to pump from rivers and dams
> Reciprocating pumps are usually used on top of boreholes. They pump higher
than centrifugal pumps of the same power, but do not pump as much water
> Submersible pumps are used for deep boreholes.
Systems of irrigation
*  Furrow irrigation
The water moves along the furrows while the crops grow on the ridges or on the sides
of the ridges. Water moves into the furrows from a main canal along the top of the
furrows.
The water can be pumped from the source to a water tank and then from the tank to
the main canal. Another way to furrow irrigate is to pump straight into the canal. Furrow
Adapted from: Epstein, S. 2000. The Peoples Guide to Farming. The Environment and Development Agency
Trust
55



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
irrigation only on gentle slopes that are less than 5% otheiwise the soil in the furrows
will erode.
Advantages:
> It is cheap to use as you flow the water downhill.
> It is simple to make and use.
> It is easy to set up and maintain.
Disadvantages:
> Difficult to evenly distribute irrigation water.
> Erosion risk on slopes greater than 5%.
> Requires a lot of water.
> Difficult to control water flow in furrows.
* Basin irrigation
This form of irrigation is only suitable for flat or gently sloping land or on land which is
terraced and then levelled.
Advantages:
> It is cheap to use as you do not need to purnp.
> If the basin is level, then all parts of the basin get the same amount of water.
Disadvantages:
> Making and levelling basins is labor-intensive.
> Cannot be used on sloping land unless terraced and levelled.
> Requires a lot of water.
* Sprinkler irrigation
This form of irrigation is suitable for all topographies.
Advantages:
> Optimum use of irrigation water.
> Little run-off or erosion.
> Suitable for all topographies.
> Even spread of irrigation water.
> Easy to control water volumes.
Disadvantages:
> Expensive.
> Energy required to work the pump.
> Can cause leaf diseases in some plants.
> Pump and motor require routine maintenance.
> Water loss (evaporation) before it reaches the ground.
a Drip irrigation
Advantages:
> Optimal water use.
> Use along the contours of sloping land.
> No run-off or erosion.
> Even spread of water.
> Easy to control the amount of water you put on a fielcl.
56



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
Disadvantages:
> Equipment costs are high.
> The hole or drippers can get blocked with mud.
Organising for irrigation
Many people may want to use a water source for irrigation. Setting up the water supply
and an irrigation system can be expensive and/or it can need a lot of work. It will be
necessary to work with farmers groups to develop shared irrigation. Some essential
factors to consider when setting up schemes are:
>  How big is the area to be irrigated?
> What is the source of water?
> Will this source give enough water to irrigate this area?
>  How will the water be supplied from the source to the fields?
>  How much will the water supply cost?
> Who will pay for the water supply?
> Who will maintain the water supply?
> Who will pay for the maintenance and repair of the water supply?
>  If you need diesel or electricity to work a pump, then how will these be paid for?
Impacts and mitigation'8
There are a range of potential environmental impacts associated with developing small-
scale irrigation systems. The intensification of agriculture can lead to groundwater
pollution related to the increased use of pesticides and fertilizers. Improved efficiency
may significantly reduce return flows which are often utilized downstream by other
irrigation schemes or wildlife habitats. Similarly, upstream developments are likely to
impact on an irrigation scheme either in the form of reduced water availability (surface
or groundwater) or reduced water quality.
Different types of irrigation will have different impacts. Impacts will also vary according
to the stage of implementation. For example, during construction there may be specific
health and other social risks. Over time, cumulative impacts may begin to present
serious environmental constraints to project sustainability. The most common impacts
of irrigation schemes are given in section 7 below, together with potential mitigation
measures, many of which rely on environment: education, institutional capacity-
building, legal structures and external support services.
The consumptive nature of irrigation means that some change to the local hydrological
regime will occur when new schemes are constructed. The ecology and uses of a river
will have developed as a consequence of the existing regime and may not be able to
adapt easily to major changes. During high flow periods, recharge tends to occur
through the river bed whereas groundwater often contributes to low flows.
Low flow regime
> Changes to the low flow regime may have significant negative impacts on
downstream users. Minimum demands from both existing and potential future users
need to be clearly identified and assessed in relation to current and future low
flows.
18 Adapted from: FAO. EIA of irrigation and drainage projects
http.//www.fao orq/docrepN8350E/v8350eOO htm#Contents
57



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
> A reduction in the natural river flow together with a discharge of lower quality
drainage water can have severe negative impacts on downstream users, including
irrigation schemes.
> Large changes to low flows (20%) will alter micro-habitats. It is particularly
important to identify any endangered species and determine the impact of any
changes on their survival.
Fall of water table
> A possible advantage of reducing the water lable level prior to the rainy season is
that it may increase the potential for groundwater recharge.
> Lowering the water table by the provision of drainage! to irrigation schemes with
high water tables brings benefits to agriculture.
> Lowering the groundwater table by only a few metres adversely affects existing
users of groundwater whether it is required for drinking water for humans and
animals or to sustain plant life (particularly wetlands), especially at dry times of the
year.
> Springs are fed by groundwater and will finally dry up if the level falls.
> Any changing availability of groundwater for drinking water supply needs to be
assessed in terms of the economics of viable alternatives.
> Saline intrusion along the coast is a problem associated with a falling groundwater
level with severe environmental and economic consequences.
Rise of water table
> In the long-term, one of the most frequent problems of irrigation schemes is the rise
in the local water-table (waterlogging). Low irrigation efficiencies (as low as 20 to
30% in some areas) are one of the main causes of rise of water table.
> A high water table also makes the soil difficull to work.
>  Good irrigation management, closely matching irrigation demands and supply, can
reduce seepage and increase irrigation efficienc:y, thereby reducing the
groundwater recharge.
Many of these impacts would also be associated with the construction and
maintenance of small dams and weirs.
5.4.4.3 Water Sources
* Wells, Boreholes and Tubewells
Wells are usually less than 5 m deep with relatively low yields. A borehole is a deep,
narrow hole (up to 70 m) and can yield thousands of litres of water per hour. A tubewell
is a shallow borehole to groundwater sources less than 15 rn below the surface.
* Rivers and streams
These will typically have seasonal changes in flow regimes which will be more extreme
the smaller the water course.
. Springs
Supply will be dependant on the pattern of ground water re-charging which is likely to
be seasonal
Dams and weirs
58



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
Weirs and dams are similar, differing mainly in the height of the dam wall and hence the
area of impoundment (OP 4.37 refers). Experience from the region'9 has shown that the
development of dams and weirs for irrigation is being threatened by sedimentation
problems arising from the degradation of catchment areas fuelled by four pressure
indicators namely agricultural production, rapid population growth, poverty and wood
energy demands. Therefore the implementation of catchment protection measures should
form part of the dam construction process. Small dams are at risk from siltation because
of the rapid degradation of catchment areas. If spillways and embankments are not
properly maintained retaining runoff rapidly diminishes.
Impacts and mitigation
The development of small earth dams has both positive and negative impacts. Positive
impacts include the conservation of water resources for irrigated agriculture, which
leads to improved food security and incomes for the local communities. The people
also avail themselves of employment opportunities in dam construction activities. The
water retained by dams may not only be used for irrigation development but also for
domestic consumption, fisheries development, recreation, and other uses. Negative
impacts include the prevalence of water borne and water related diseases such as
malaria, schistosomiasis, cholera, dysentery, typhoid, etc.; sedimentation problems as
low flow velocities in reservoirs encourage the deposition of sediments; threat to life
and property posed by possibilities of dam break; loss of biological diversity and dust
generation during construction. If dams are constructed in areas that are used for
agricultural production, then loss of farm land may also be one of the adverse effects of
the development. Mitigation measures to some of the negative impacts highlighted
above may include improvement in health facilities and location of dams away from
settlements; catchment protection through afforestation programmes, good land
husbandry practices, use of upstream weirs to trap sediments; adhering to engineering
standards for dam construction in order to curb failure of the structure e.g. applying the
probable maximum flood as a guide in designing the spillway and the embankment,
and using the right type of material for sealing the dam with a view to preventing
leakage through the embankment from taking place.
5.5 Recommendations
Base on this preliminary analysis, it is assumed that the majority of LIG projects will not
require mandatory EA. Probable exceptions include small scale irrigation schemes, the
construction of feeder supply dams and possibly some road and bridge construction
projects. The summary descriptions of sub projects presented above and in Annex IlIl
should be referred to during the design and planning of sub projects so that mitigation
of potential impacts are already incorporated prior to the screening process outlined in
chapter 6 below. The final approval of sub projects in terms of roles and responsibilities
and environmental design is described in detail as part of the environmental
management framework (chapter 7, section 7.1).
19 Adapted from Chavula, G. The Potential of Using Community based Small-Earth Dams for
Irrigation Development.. http://www.dams.orq/kbase/submissions/showsub.php?rec=OPT065
59



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
6 SCREENING
6.1 The screening framework
In the context of this EA Screening is defined as the process which determines whether
an EA is required and at what level it must be unclertaken for a particular sub project.
The process of screening can be broken down into the following steps:
Step I - Is the project on a mandatory list reqLliringl EA?
Determine whether there is a mandatory requirement for ElA according to Mozambique
EIA legislation20. If the sub project is listed in tle regulations then a pro forma pre-
evaluation by MICOA (National Directorate for lIA) will be required to establish the
level of EA required (EIA or Environmental Management Plan). After review and
approval of the EA report by MICOA an environmental license will be granted and the
only then can the project be implemented.
Any sub project captured at this level of screening will be required to follow EA
protocols according to the relevant legislation and that of the Bank. The competent
authorities for assisting with this step will be Provincial and Central level MICOA
(Directorate of EIA). The pro forma pre-evaluation form for submission to MICOA is
attached as annex IV.
Step 2 - Case-by-Case consideration: Is the project likely to have significant
effects on the environment?
For any sub projects not captured during step 1 a screening decision must be made on
a case-by-case basis. If it is decided that a project is likely io have significant effects on
the environment through a case-by-case examination, then EA will be required. Here
recommendations made in the present report will apply, specifically chapters 5 and 7
and Annex Ill. Case-by-case examination of projects will usually require some
information on the project to be provided by the developer to the competent authority.
Dialogue between the developer and the competent authority will also always be of
assistance to the competent authority in making a screening decision and competent
authorities may also find it useful to consult with and take advice from a number of
other organizations including:
> authorities with a statutory responsibility for environmental matters (e.g. pollution
control, nature protection, cultural heritage, water, waste etc);
> other interested parties, including the public, to help identify any local concerns
about the project;
> experts such as EIA practitioners or members of academic or research institutions;
> other competent authorities who have made decisions on similar projects.
20 Refer to Govemment of the Republic of Mozambique. 1998. Environmental regulations. Maputo
and Government of the Republic of Mozambique. [Forthcoming]. Enlironmental guidelines. Maputo:
Ministerio para a Coordena,ao Ambiental
60



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
6.2 Case-by-Case Screening Tools
6.2.1 The Checklist
A checklist has been prepared to support and help the process of deciding whether or
not a project is likely to have significant effects on the environment (Annex V).
The screening Checklist provides a list of questions about the project and its
environment which users can use to help answer the question "Is this project likely to
have a significant effect on the environment?" Instructions on how to use the checklist
are provided. This checklist includes sufficient criteria for evaluating the significance of
environmental effects for most LIG 1, 2 and 3 projects and has been designed for use
in instances where formal EA is unlikely to be mandatory.
6.2.2 Interpreting the Results
There is no specific rule that can be used to decide whether the results of using the
Screening Checklist should lead to a positive or negative screening decision (i.e. that
EA is or is not required). In theory if there is one "Yes" answer to the question is it likely
to result in a significant effect, EA may be required, however, as a general principle, the
greater the number of "Yes" answers and the greater the significance of the effects
identified, the more likely it is that EA is required. "?" answers, indicating uncertainty
about the occurrence or significance of effects, should also point towards a positive
screening decision (i.e. that EA is required) because the EA process will help to clarify
the uncertainty. Regardless of the outcome, as a "rule of thumb", EA recommendations
made in this report, specifically chapters 5 and 7 and Annex IlIl will provide the
necessary  guidelines  for  environmental  management  during  sub  project
implementation.
61



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
7 FRAMEWORK ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMEINT PlIAN
7.1 Environmental Planning, Review and Approval o1 Sub Projects
In the context of this EA, approval of sLib projects will be determined based on their
meeting acceptable environmental design standards. A ciitical assumption regarding
effective implementation of this process is that the relevant personnel possess the
capacity to incorporate appropriate environmental considerations in the documentation
required to complete the approval process. Consequently, it is strongly recommended
that the Technical Assistant appointed to the project (see section 9.2.3) provides
technical backstopping for the whole process. His;/her key tasks will be to ensure that:
1. Sub project planning and design incorporates mitigation measures that ameliorate
potential social and environmental impacts.
2. Application documents include descriptions of environmental and social issues and
how they will be handled.
3. Proposals are reviewed and screened to determine if they can be submitted for
approval as is, or if further planning and/or an EA is reqjired.
4. The approval process includes consideration of environmental and social issues,
and will attach appropriate approval conditions.
5. Construction contracts for approved sub projects will include environmental and
social conditions.
6. Supervision and monitoring will be conducted to eisure compliance with the
specified environmental and social conditions of approval.
Roles and responsibilities regarding environmental planning and approval for each of
the three LIG categories are outlined below.
LIG 1 - District Administrative Infrastructure Girants
*  Proponent - District Administration
*  Planning and design - Provincial Directorate of Public Works (DPOPH)
*  Screening - Prepared by District Administration, reviewed by Provincial
Directorate of Public Works (DPOPH)
* Application documents - Prepared by District Administration, reviewed by
Provincial Directorate of Public Works i(DPOPH)
*  Approval - Provincial Government
*  Project Preparation Execution - Private Sector Contractors and Private
Sector Works Inspectors (Fiscais)
*  Supervision and Monitoring - DPOPH with support of Private Sector
Works Inspectors and oversight by District Administration
LIG 2 - District Socio-Economic Infrastructure Grants
*  Proponent - Communities/Locality Councils
*  Planning and design - Provincial Directorate' of Public Works (DPOPH)
with participation by District Administration
*  Screening - Prepared by District Administration, reviewed by Provincial
Directorate of Public Works (DPOPH)
*  Application documents - Prepared by District Administration, reviewed by
Provincial Directorate of Public Works (DPOPH)
* Approval - Provincial Government
*  Execution - Private Sector Contractors and Private Sector Works
Inspectors (Fiscais)
62



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
* Supervision and Monitoring- DPOPH with support of Private Sector
Works Inspectors and oversight by District Administration
LIG 3 - Community Infrastructure Improvement Grants
*  Proponent - Communities/Locality Councils
*  Planning and design - District Administration supported by DPOPH as
needed
* Screening - District Administration supported by DPOPH as needed
* Application documents - District Administration supported by DPOPH as
needed
* Approval - District Administration
*  Execution - Local artisans and beneficiary community members
*  Supervision - District Administration (Works Technician) and Beneficiary
Communities
Note that the application documents will comprise the completed screening form
together with the sub project design documentation. Any environmental and social
issues flagged during the screening process will have to be incorporated in a revised
design document prior to submission for approval. However, in most cases this will
have already been done if the design process takes into consideration the summary
analysis of impacts mitigation measures presented in chapter 5 and annex 111.
7.2 Environmental Management of Sub Project Implementation
An   Environmental  Management  Plan  contains  instructions  allowing  the
investor/proponent to integrate the environmental concerns emerging from the
environmental assessment (this study) into the process of sub project implementation.
Compliance with these instructions is the responsibility of the owner of the sub project.
Subsequently, in all of the sub project's lifecycle phases, responsibilities must be
delegated to other parties intervening in the project, namely the contractor (and
subcontractors), so as to guarantee that guidelines and instructions are complied with.
An EMP comprises a range of general and specific recommendations, which
collectively act as the basis for environmental management (impact mitigation) and
control, during the construction and operation phases of a project (see annex VI). The
majority of potential impacts described (see chapter 5 and Annex 111) are of a temporary
nature and mostly limited to the construction phase. The remaining impacts can easily
be monitored as long as the project makes provision for regular inspection and
monitoring (see Annex 111).
This document thus serves to identify the principles, responsibilities, activities and
summary methodologies that the contractor shall adopt to effectively manage
environmental impacts during the construction phase of the project and that
DPPF/DPO shall adopt during the operation phase. The EMP is a dynamic document
and can be reviewed and updated as necessary throughout the duration of construction
by the contractor staff responsible for implementing the EMP. The EMP should be
prepared in a format that allows for easy use by the proponent, contractor and any
environmental management staff that may be contracted to assist in the
implementation of the EMP in the performance of their duties.
The Environmental Assessment with the identification of potential impacts and
associated mitigating measures shall serve as the foundation for the formulation of the
63



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
EMP. A summary description of potential environmental impacts and mitigation
measures per sub-project is given in chapter 5 and a more detailed breakdown
including costed monitoring requirements is given as a serie!s of matrices in Annex ill.
Based on the impacts and mitigating measures described in chapter 5 above and
Annex Ill the proponent of a sub-project shall develop an environmental management
(EMP) plan for the project which shall be compliant with the requirements of the GoM
and the World Bank. An EMP should be prepared for all sLib projects regardless of the
EA requirement determined through the screening process (see chapter 6 above). The
screening checklist presented in Annex V will help with developing the EMP which shall
include, but not be limited to:
* A description of potential environmental and social impacts and of the mitigation
measures built into the project design and plan to avoid or mitigate them.
* A description of responsibilities, lines of communication and qualifications of
staff responsible for environmental management of the project, and the
implementation of the EMP, including the iimplementation of the mitigation
measures.
* Detailed plans and method statements for the elements of construction for
which such information is required by the EMP.
* Details of how the proponent will monitor project performance in respect of the
environmental standard. The frame of reference for the environmental
standards is to avoid impairing (a) the health or wellbeing of people, and (b)
land capability
* Indicators that will be used to determine if environmental and social impacts are
occurring, and, if so, plan appropriate further mitigation measures.
7.3  Proponent Commitment
The proponent should undertake to manage operations in a manner that protects the
environment and the health and safety of employees, customers, contractors and the
public. To this effect, the proponent and /or the contractor should:
i.    Advise managers, supervisors and  employees of safety, health and
environmental requirements, and hold them accountable for performance;
ii.   Manage activities to minimise environmental and human health impacts and
provide workplaces where recognised hazards are minimised or controlled;
iii.  Provide professional staff to support safety, health and environmental protection
commitments;
iv.   Monitor, evaluate and report performance in safety, health and environmental
protection;
v.    Provide training when needed to protect human, environmental, cultural and
physical resources;
vi.   Failure to report incidents and wilful non-compliance with will result in
disciplinary action in accordance with internal disciplinary guidelines
64



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
7.4 Environmental commitment and quality management
The contractor should:
o Comply with all of the requirements of the EA and EMP and shall, in accordance
with accepted standards, employ techniques, practices and methods of
construction that will ensure compliance with this standard and, in general,
minimise environmental damage, control waste, avoid pollution, prevent loss or
damage to natural resources, and minimise effects on surrounding landowners,
occupants and the general public.
o Prevent or minimise the occurrence of accidents which may cause damage to the
environment, prevent or minimise the effects of such accidents and shall return the
environment to a state as close to the condition existing prior to any such accident
as possible.
o Should it be considered by Government Authorities that the construction activities
of the contractor are causing unacceptable environmental damage, the contractor
shall immediately consult with the appropriate government authorities and the
proponent and agree upon the remedial measures to be undertaken. Such agreed
remedial measures shall be undertaken immediately to prevent further damage and
to repair any damage that may have occurred.
o Commence any remedial measures within a reasonable period following the receipt
of written instruction to do so.
o Be open to periodic environmental compliance audits by the proponent or their
representative and provide the necessary information for such purposes. In addition
the contractor shall implement their own audits to ensure conformance with the
requirements of the EMP.
o Prepare and submit plans to the proponent demonstrating the method according to
which compliance with the environmental standards will be accomplished.
The Proponent21
*     Overall responsibility for ensuring that sub project EMPs are
prepared and implemented, and that they comply with all legislative
and contract requirements
*     Provide a regular report to DPFP Coordination and Support Unit
(UCA) and Technical group as well as MICOA to ensure that
recommendations are implemented as necessary. It may also be
necessary to make the reports available to the project
implementation line agency (National Director for Planning and
Budget, Ministry of Planning and Finance)
*     Ensure non-conformities are corrected.
*     Ensure subcontractors fulfil their environmental obligations.
*     Manage relationships between UCA, MICOA and the affected public.
21 Note: the proponent may contract an environmental officer to act on his behalf. In the context of the
DPFP, the proponent is more clearly defined in chapter 8 section 8.3.
65



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
*     Liaison with landowners and tenants.
*     Ensure that landowners and farmers requirements are fulfilled.
The Contractor (Construction Manager)
*     Organisation of labour, plant, transport anid equipment to perform the
work in accordance with the env,irorimenlal requirements.
*     Responsible for ensuring all sub contractors are informed about the
EMP.
*     Ensure the project is irnplemented in accordance with the
environmental standards specified in the EMP.
*     Implement agreed actions resulting frorn routine monitoring, audits
or inspections.
7.5 Using the EMP as a monitoring tool
The EMP comprises a set of specifications and method statements developed
according to predefined environmental standards applicable to all DPFP sub projects.
Monitoring is a field activity based largely on observatic,n, analysis of reports, and
conversation with relevant project personnel. It is important that routine monitoring is
performed in a consistent manner to allow for objective and quantitative comparison of
results over time (the lifetime of the project). This provides the critical indicator data for
assessing project performance regarding maintaining environmental standards. The
roles and responsibilities regarding monitoring (routine and annual audits) sub project
implementation are presented in chapter 8.
7.6 Recommendations
It is recommended that after developing and implementing an EMP for a specific sub
project type (as defined per the 3 categories of LIG, see chapter 5 section 5.3) DPFP
implementation protocols should be similar to those for the archiving of project designs.
EMPs should be considered part of the project design and -an be archived and re-used
when similar projects are implemented in other geographic locations (different
provinces or districts). Provincial level review of existing EMPs should be sufficient to
confirm their applicability.
Environmental management guidelines for LIG 2 projects involving dam construction or
the installation or rehabilitation of irrigation schemes are beyond the scope of the
generic environmental management guidelines developed in this chapter.
Consequently we recommend that these types of projects begin with the screening
process as recommended in chapter 6 coordinated by provincial level project personnel
with technical input from specialist independent consultants. In these instances it is
envisaged that MICOA will require some level of formal EA.
66



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
8 MONITORING
The following discussion addresses two types of monitoring:
1. Routine monitoring of LIG sub-projects to ensure that they meet the environmental
standards defined in sub project EMPs and are not causing negative
environmental and social impacts. Here monitoring reports would specify
recommended actions that need to be taken by the contractor to ensure effective
and immediate mitigation. Persistent non compliance should result in penalties as
specified in contractual agreements.
2. Annual audit of the overarching framework EMP based on a sample of
implemented sub projects. Here the purpose would be to assess compliance and
lessons learned so as to improve future environmental and social performance.
The audit should consider the effectiveness of the sub project preparation
(design), screening, approval and supervision processes.
8.1 Objectives of monitoring
8.1. 1 Monitoring sub project EMPs
Environmental monitoring during project implementation provides information about key
environmental and social aspects of the project, particularly the impacts of the project
and the effectiveness of mitigation measures.
The overall objective of monitoring is to enable the project proponent to evaluate the
success of mitigation measures as part of project supervision and, if required, to adopt
corrective and improved management actions.
The monitoring plan specifies the monitoring measures to be carried out with linkages
to the potential impacts identified in chapter 5 and Annex Ill. More specifically the
purpose of a monitoring plan is to:
1. Schedule and coordinate monitoring tasks
2. Evaluate mitigation effectiveness
3. Identify where applicable corrective management practices
4. Ensure that monitoring findings are incorporated into future environmental
management decisions.
8.1.2 Monitoring the framework EMP for the DPFP
Annual audits provide feedback on past performance of the whole project cycle from
design and approval, through construction to operation. Here lessons learned
regarding what does or does not work can be used to refine and improve routine
monitoring protocols for future sub projects and also to identify any further training
requirements for the personnel involved.
8.2 Monitoring roles and responsibilities
The development of monitoring programs could at the discretion of provincial DPFP
benefit from inputs/review by a diversity of government agencies most notably MICOA,
DA, Education and Health authorities, NGOs and local communities affected by the
project. However, given the diversity of sub projects envisaged under the DPFP it is
important to ensure that the relevant government agencies are at least consulted
regarding the monitoring of sub projects which fall under their jurisdiction e.g. DNA,
DDADER, DEP, DNDR, DPADER, and DPOPH. This would simply be a courtesy for
67



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
most projects but mandatory for those requiring formal EA. This is relevant for both
routine monitoring of sub projects and annual auclits.
Community involvement will require the establishrnent of community fora which should
participate actively, especially in the monitoring of socio-economic indicators. It is also
recommended that an external and independent consultant be contracted to assist
DPPF/DPO to carry out and co-ordinate monitoring activities and the preparation of
regular monitoring reports. The DPPF/DPO will assume overall responsibility for both
forms of monitoring.
The following is a list of key agencies and personnel that may be involved with
coordinating and Implementing monitoring plans:
DPPF/DPO (through the UCA with technical assistance from environmental monitoring
consultants)22
1. Co-ordinates overall monitoring prograrnme
2. Ensures that information is forwarded to implementing agencies regarding
potential environmental impacts and monitoring methods as well as feedback
information that can be utilized for correct ve mianagement.
3. Ensures the preparation and dissemination of monitoring reports.
MICOA
1. As the regulatory authority, for any sub projects requiring mandatory EA MICOA
must approve the monitoring plan and review rnonitoring reports.
2. Conduct site visits as required to monitor the irnplementation of mitigating
measures.
Construction Companies
To continuously monitor all environmental impacts duriig construction phases e.g.,
related to worker health and safety, hazardous waste disposal, solid waste
disposal, localized soil pollution (especially with regard to hydro-carbons), erosion
etc.
Consulting Engineers
To monitor compliance with environmental standards for complex construction
activities requiring method statements e.g. roads, bridges, dams, borrow pits.
Local Community Fora
To conduct on-site monitoring with regards to sDcio-economic impacts that may
arise from the project especially with regards to issues such as resettlement and
compensation
NGOs
Assist local Community Fora in monitoring activities (note that NGOs may also
assist in the establishment and strengthening of Community Fora).
22 Section 8.3 below defines more clearly the monitoring roles of DPF-P project personnel
68



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
Independent Consultants
From time to time independent consultants may be required to assist in conducting
specialised monitoring activities including the identification of corrective
management actions and report preparation (e.g. projects where water quality
monitoring is required). Contracting independent consultants would also be essential
for all sub projects captured during screening for which EA is mandatory.
Independent consultants would also be contracted to perform annual audits.
District Administration
District Works Technicians will be largely responsible for routine monitoring
requirements associated with all LIG projects that do not require formal EA.
8.3 Monitoring related responsibilities for the DPFP
According to the DPFP implementation arrangements, responsibilities for monitoring
technical aspects of the project exist at several levels.
8.3.1 Monitoring the Framework EMP for the DPFP
Central level
MPF/DNPO is the owner of the project and therefore the proponent and is supported
by the UCA whose responsibilities of relevance to monitoring include:
o  Overseeing field activities by provincial and local institutions under their
authority that are supported by DPFP resources.
o Preparation of plans budgets and reports regarding technical aspects of project
implementation.
UCA technical staff includes among others a Technical Coordinator and a Monitoring
and Evaluation Specialist.
Provincial level
Coordinating project implementation is the responsibility of the DPFP Provincial
Steering Committee comprising directors from DPAC, DPADER, DPOPH and DPPF.
Their relevant responsibilities include:
o Approval of project plans and reports to be implemented at provincial and
district levels.
o Overseeing field activities supported by DPFP resources and assure that
implementers follow agreed DPFP guidelines and procedures.
A DPFP Provincial Project Unit (PPU) will be established in each province. Their
relevant responsibilities include preparation of plans and reports relating to technical
aspects of project implementation.
The Provincial Planning Support Team will work collaboratively with stakeholders at
district level establishing priorities and developing district plans.
69



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
With limited support from contracted experts finalising district plans, the procurement of
works contracts and the supervision of their execution will be carried out by line
government departments.
In this regard the following provincial directorates have relevant responsibilities.
DPPF/DPF
o The implementation of the project monitoring system at district and provincial
levels, including the collection and compilation of -elevant data as outlined in
project manuals.
DPAC/DA
o Supervising work of DAs and district administration personnel regarding works
management
o Assuring effective community consultation  according to agreed project
guidelines
o Working with project structures and TA providers towards building local level
capacity for monitoring activities.
DPOPH/DPO
o Contributing to the preparation of bidding documents and managing the
procurement and contracting of small wcrks for LIG type 1 and 2 construction
projects.
o Assisting in monitoring compliance with contractual obligations during
construction.
o Ensuring that LIG financed sub projects meet agreed standards for
environmental impact as specified in the DPFP Project Implementation Manual.
Where environmental management is beyond the capacity of local expertise
assistance from the PPU/UCA can be requested so that the required resources
can be mobilised to conduct the requisite level of EA.
DPADER/DR
o Provide methodological support for both participatory planning, and monitoring
an evaluation.
DPCOA/DPOT
o Provide technical and methodological support in relation to spatial and
locational planning.
8.3.2 Monitoring sub project EMPs
District level
The District Works Technician with technical support and supervision from the DPOPH
and the project financed works advisor holds the ultimate responsibility for the
management of small-scale civil works. This will be a DF'FP funded position and the
appointed individuals are expected to undergo EA training -as described in chapter 9.
70



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
8.4 Implementing routine monitoring programs
In principle, the scope of activities of a monitoring program is defined by the contents of
the EMP. An EMP is developed according to the analysis of impacts and mitigation
measures from an EA as well as knowledge of the nature and scale of the development
(typically a range of construction-related activities).The EMP defines the environmental
standards for the project and provides a list of specifications and/or method statement
requirements upon which contractor compliance can be monitored. Hence the ultimate
goal of monitoring the implementation of the EMP is to ensure that environmental
standards are maintained and that any reported non compliance/conformance triggers
immediate remedial action.
In this context, a framework EMP has been created for the project (see chapter 7) and
annex Ill provides a series of monitoring plan matrices specific to the LIG project
categories defined and described in Chapter 5.
It is understood that most of the routine monitoring responsibilities will be assumed by
the DA technical staff that have undergone training in EA as part of the capacity
building component of the DPFP (see chapter 9). The monitoring activities of these
technicians will take place under the guidance and supervision of the local
environmental specialist TA contracted partly for this purpose (see section 9.2.3).
8.5 Recommendations
It is recommended that once a routine monitoring plan has been developed and
successfully implemented it be should be considered as part of the project design.
Consequently, according to DPFP implementation protocols for the archiving of project
designs the monitoring plan should be archived and re-used when similar projects are
implemented in other geographic locations (different provinces or districts). Provincial
level review of existing monitoring plans should be sufficient to confirm their
applicability.
Note also that where potential LIG projects have been flagged as requiring mandatory
EA, monitoring plans will be developed from EIA and EMP documents prepared by
independent consultants and approved by MICOA. MICOA will also be responsible for
approving monitoring plans which are typically prepared by project proponents or their
representatives (independent consultants). In all such projects MICOA will have a
monitoring and auditing role during project implementation.
71



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
9 Capacity and Actions of District Administrations to Address
Environmental Impacts
The provinces of Sofala, Zambezia, Manica, and Tet,e have been selected to receive
financial support under the DPFP for project implementatiorl at district level.
Current capacity for managing and assessing environmental components of the sub-
projects of the DPF-P is basically non-existent.
9.1 Comparative analysis of technical capacity
Both district and provincial level capacity for environmental management of small-scale
civil works projects is predicted to be unifornmly low across the four provinces.
Furthermore, most of the technical staff in the districts, regardless of academic
qualifications, will have zero practical experience of environmental assessment of civil
works, and environmental assessment per se.
Nevertheless, this generalised lack of capacity should not represent a significant
obstacle in defining training needs to build the short/medium term capacity within
District Administrations to undertake the environmenital assessment required for the
DPFP civil works program. This discussion is developed further below.
Long-term capacity building may prove to be more problematic as a first degree is
anticipated as the entry level for specialist training in environmental assessment-
related disciplines.
9.2 Technical support to the DPFP
9.2.1 Project planning, implementation and manaigem,ent responsibilities
LIG category I and 11 projects (section 5.3 above) will be the responsibility of the
relevant District Administration (DA) regarding contractual arrangements and
disbursement of funds. The DA will receive support from the Building Department (BD)
in the Provincial Directorate of Public Works and Housing in developing the technical
plans/design and bill of quantity for civil works and will also provide management
support. They will also assist in the preparation of tender documents based on
technical plans and manage the tendering process23 with assistance from the PDPF.
The PDP&F will also assist the DA in the identification of sub-projects and in drawing
up annual indicative budgets.
9.2.2 Technical support
To facilitate the process, technical assistance will be provided to the BD and the
PDP&F. The BD will be provided with a university level graduate in civil engineering
and a financial controller will be provided for the PDPF.
23 The tenders will be announced by local radio, Government notice boards etc. The contract documents
are signed by the DA with PDP&F/BD as co-signatories.
72



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
Contracts for individual sub-projects will be awarded to private sector contractors. A
private sector (independent) works inspector ("fiscal") will be contracted to control
quality and disbursements.
Provincial Departments are not directly involved in LIG category Ill projects. The DA
together with community appointed representatives will agree on sub-projects and a
work plan based on an annual cycle time frame. These small-scale civil works should
serve the direct needs of local communities and will include housing, fencing, latrines,
shelters, water pumps etc. There will be no tendering process for these sub-projects.
As part of the government's overall decentralization program two new district - level
posts will be created to support the DPFP, namely:
a) A District Works Technician (dealing with technical aspects of district works including
those identified/supported by this project); and
b) A District Manager to assist in the management of civil works projects.
9.2.3 Additional recommended technical support
A further recommendation is that a Technical Advisor (TA) with substantial local
experience in environmental assessment is appointed on a part-time basis for the
duration of the project. The TA would be expected to spend his/her time circulating
around the district offices with the primary role of mentoring and providing additional
on-the-job training as well as identifying any additional training needs. He/she could
also play a role in monitoring compliance with EA guidelines during sub project
implementation. Finally, the TA would be expected to provide backstopping for the
design, screening and approval of all LIG sub projects.
9.3 Training needs assessment
Technical capacity to identify, manage, and monitor the environmental impacts of civil
works, and any other environmental problems for which District Administrations will be
responsible is predicted to be uniformly low. However, the type of knowledge required
to tackle environmental problems in general, and specifically to ensure implementation
of the appropriate level of environmental assessment for the civil works program, is of a
practical (common sense) rather than an academic nature. It would therefore be
appropriate to select technical personnel who are involved with the civil works program
on a day-to-day basis; this would include at minimum the DA staff appointed to the two
posts created to support the DPFP and their community representative counterparts.
The recommendations that follow have been developed in accordance with similar
recommendations made for the Bank-financed MDP. It is recommended that careful
attention be paid to the type of environmental training required for effective capacity
building. For example, in 2000 Provincial MICOA ran a short course (one week) in
Chimoio on environmental impact assessment for technical personnel from Beira
Municipality. It may be most appropriate to review and further develop the curriculum
for this course as the primary approach to the capacity building component of the
DPFP. The first step however should be to investigate what training program
development has been undertaken for the MDP and adopt and /or modify this program
as appropriate to the scope of civil works for the DPFP.
Training needs cover two broad areas:
1. Basic environmental assessment skills
73



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
2. Training skills for community-level environmental education
The target group for training includes:
1. DA technical staff directly involved with the DPFP arid civil works per se
2. Community representatives tasked with the management and monitoring of LIG
category Ill DPFP sub-projects
3. Provincial level technical staff who may be involved in the monitoring of civil
works
Provincial MICOA personnel, together with an indeperndent consultant could be
contracted to design short courses that are tailored to environmental conditions and
problems specific to the scope of work conceptualised for each of the four provinces.
9.3.1 Community-level training needs; assessment
By definition, LIG category Ill sub-projects will be designed and co-managed by
community representatives. Of critical importance to the success of this process is that
elected representatives have competence in project management, basic level
environmental awareness. It is recommended that community representatives function
as counterparts to DA technical staff tasked with project rnanagement and who have
undergone EA training. A component of the training program should be the training of
trainers who can then workshop the environrnental assessment process at local
community level. The structuring of this proposed program is elaborated in section 9.4
below.
9.4 Workshop design
The most profitable strategy would be to run five day workshops in each of the
Provincial capitols. The training materials developed for the workshop should include at
least the following components:
> Case studies (where possible developed by the workshop participants) based
on the scope of work of the civil works program that can be used to
demonstrate the basic principles of EA.
> Workshopping the screening guidelines developed and presented in section 7
below should also be a training component, and included in the workshop.
> An   overview  of environmental assessment (scoping, screening, EA
methodologies, impacts and mitigation measures, public participation,
monitoring and evaluation)
>  Review of relevant environmental legislation
>  Review of MICOA regulations regarding EIA
> Designing effective public awareness campaigns
> Training of trainers to work with EA at community-level
The training of trainers should be developed as a distinct separate component and
here it is recommended that as part of the consultation services the consultants should
develop and workshop training materials specific to community level environmental
education.
A provisional programme for a five day workshop would be as follows:
> Day One:
a An overview of environmental assessment
O An overview of DPFP sub-projects
74



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
o Descriptions of the areas of influence and possible constraints to project
implementation
> Day Two:
O Mozambique's environmental and social legislation
o The EIA process
o The EMP and contractor responsibilities
> Day Three:
o Analysis of case studies
O Project management
o Monitoring and evaluation
> Day Four:
o Screening guidelines for mitigation and monitoring of sub-projects
O Fieldtrip to selected civil works sites
> Day Five:
o Environmental education for local communities
o Training methods
o Training materials
o Designing effective public awareness campaigns
9.4.1 Follow-up training
The participants for each of the provincial training workshops should reconvene
biannually for the purpose of refresher training, share reflection on the practical
application of workshop training and lessons learned. Preferably these mini workshops
(2.5 day duration) should be facilitated by the same consultants who designed and
facilitated the original training workshops.
9.5 Costing
We suggest that two consultants could prepare a training workshop of this nature in
two man weeks (ten days) and that course delivery would take a further week (five
days). Given the substantial overlap between MDP and DPFP training requirements, it
is suggested that the same consultants together with the appropriate Provincial level
MICOA counterparts be used for course preparation and delivery.
Course preparation: two consultants, ten days per consultant
Course delivery (four provinces): two consultants, five days per consultant
This is equivalent to 40 days per consultant at  US$450 per day
Additional costs will include transport costs, accommodation, and per diems for
consultants, and course participants.
An upper limit of 25 participants for a workshop of this nature is desirable
The number of districts per province selected for support by the DPFP will be the
determining factor for course participation. If the recommended upper limit for
participation is exceeded then running the workshops twice may need to be
considered.
For the follow-up biannual workshops the costs for each workshop would be as follows.
75



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
Course preparation: two consultants, three days per consullant
Course delivery (four provinces): five consultant days per course
This is equivalent to 26 consultant days (13 days per consultant) at  US$450 per day
Additional costs will include transport costs, accommodation, and per diems for
consultants, and course participants.
The additional technical support described above (section 9.2.3) would be on a part
time basis. Six months per year at a basic salary of US$6000.00 per month.
76



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
10 BIBLIOGRAPHY
Common Ground Consulting and Impacto consultants, 2002. Poverty and the
environment: an analysis of the linkages and driving forces in Mozambique. On behalf
of DFID.
Cruz, E. 2001. Mozambique: Community Based Natural Resources Management
Initiatives. FAO Occasional Paper.
Epstein, S. 2000. The Peoples Guide to Farming. The Environment and Development
Agency Trust.
FAO, EIA of irrigation and drainage projects
http://www.fao.orn/docrepN8350E/v8350e0O.htm#Contents
Impacto Consultants 2001. Environmental Assessment of Tertiary Road Rehabilitation
- Cabo Delgado Province. On behalf of ANE.
Menete, M.Z.L. 1999. Current status of land degradation in Mozambique and the need
for indigenous knowledge in natural resource management practices. Paper Presented
at the Workshop on Integrated Analysis and Management of Renewable Natural
Resources in Mozambique, Maputo, 7-11 June 1999, (Proceedings edited by P.V.
Desanker and L. Santos).
MPE, 1998. Understanding Poverty and Well-Being in Mozambique: The First National
Assessment (1996-97).   Ministry of Planning and Finance, Government of
Mozambique, Eduardo Mondlane University International Food Policy Research
Institute December 1998.
MPF, 2000. Absolute Poverty Reduction Action Plan (2000-2004).  Ministry of
Planning and Finance, January 2000.
MPF 2001. Action Plan for the reduction of absolute poverty (2001-2005) (PARPA).
Final Version Approved by the Council of Ministers, April 2001, Ministry of Planning
and Finance. Maputo, Mocambique.
SMEC and Impacto 2001. Environmental Assessment of the next Road Sector
Program. On behalf of ANE for the World Bank.
Smithers, R.H.N. and Tello, J.L.P.L. 1970. Check List and Atlas of the Mammals of
Mo,ambique. Museum Memoir, Number 8.184pp
Smithers RN and Tello JLP. 1976.   Checklist and Atlas of the Mammals of
Mozambique. National Museums and Monuments. Salisbury.
Wild H. and Barbosa LA. 1967. Flora Zambesiaca. Descriptive Memoir, Salisbury,
Rhodesia, Collins. pp. 71.
Wild, H. and Barbosa L.A. Grandvaux. 1967. Vegetation map (1:2500 000 in colour) of
the Flora Zambesiaca area. Descriptive memoir, Salisbury, Rhodesia, Collins. 71 pp.
(Supplement to Flora Zambesiaca).
77



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
World Bank 2002. PAD Project Description (DRAFT): Mozambique: Decentralized
Planning and Finance Project.
World Bank Consultants. 2002. DPFP implementation arrargements. Draft Report.
78



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
11 ANNEXES
79



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
ANNEX I - Mozambique Decentralized Planning and Finance Project Environmental
Analysis Terms of Reference
Introduction
The main development objective of the Governrnent of Mozambique is to
reduce poverty. In April 1999, the Council of Mlinisters adopted a poverty reduction
plan, which articulates its poverty reduction and growth strategy. The plan focuses on
(i) generating rapid and sustainable grovvth, particularly in rural areas; (ii) investing in
human capital through improved delivery and quality cf social services; and (iii)
developing a program, including safety nets, that einables the social and economic
integration of the most vulnerable social groups. The strategy focuses on continued
investment on a priority basis in the social sectors and rural infrastructure, especially
roads. It also aims at establishing policy, institutional, and regulatory frameworks that
improve access to services and resources, while reducing tneir costs.
The linkage between economic development and decentralized planning and
management is based on evidence that increased accountability of government
structures to their populations tends to correlate with improved delivery of essential
services and enhanced welfare. Thus, having set the above goals of rural poverty
reduction, the Government of Mozambique explicitly recognizes that both a poverty-
reducing rural development strategy and a strategy for reducing regional imbalances
cannot be pursued without substantial decentralization of clecision-making, affording to
local institutions the opportunity to influence and participate in the allocation of
resources.
The Project
The overall objectives of the Decentralized Planning and Financing Project
(DPFP) would be to (i) finance sustainable small public investments in rural areas; and
(ii) start a long-term effort to build capacity of the District and Provincial administrations
in planning, public finance, and works. The lead agency for the DPFP is the Ministry of
Plan and Finance.
This would involve the strengthening of the caipacities of Provincial and District
administrations to plan and manage the provisioni of rural infrastructure, and to assist
the central government ministries and agencies to develcp national laws, regulations
and guidelines for the decentralized management of infrastructure investment
programs. The investment programs would be financed through grants. Support would
be provided to enhance works contracting and supervision, and to establish
mechanisms for operation and maintenance. Finally, participation of civil society and
communities in the planning and implementation of rural infrastructure and services
would be extended.
Eligible investments would consist of (i) public and semi-public infrastructure
such as primary schools, health posts, rural wa[ter supply and sanitation, small-scale
irrigation, feeder roads, bridges, electrification, and rural markets; (ii) social and cultural
sub-projects such as sanitation for schools and health posts, community centers, day
care centers, houses for teachers and health workers, and sports facilities; and (iii)
special investments targeting poor and vulnerable groups (victims of mines and
HIV/AIDS-affected populations). The sub-projects would Le very small (approximately
US$10,000 to US$50,000 each).
80



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
Scope of Work
It is the purpose of the environmental analysis (EA) to assess the potential
environmental and social impacts of the above-mentioned investments, taking into
account the World Bank's relevant safeguard policies, particularly OP 4.01
Environmental Assessment and OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement, as well as
Mozambique's environmental and social policies and legislation. The recommendations
of this EA, including cost estimates for mitigation measures, will be incorporated into
the proposed project. Specifically, the consultant will:
(a) Review the DPFP's Project Concept Document and related documents on the
project design.
(b) Review Mozambique's national environmental and social policies, legislation,
regulatory and administrative frameworks, and conventions and protocols to
which it is a signatory, as well as the World Bank's safeguard policies,
particularly those pertaining to environmental assessment and involuntary
resettlement;
(c) Review the biophysical characteristics of the four provinces [Zambezia, Sofala,
Manica, and Tete] in which the project is likely to be implemented and identify
likely constraints that need to be taken into account during project preparation;
(d) Assess the potential environmental and social impacts of the future sub-projects
in light of the biophysical characteristics of the likely project areas;
(e) Develop a screening mechanism for sub-projects to enable Provincial and
District staff to simultaneously identify potential environmental and social
impacts of sub-projects and to address them by incorporating the relevant
mitigation measures into the designs of the sub-projects. The mechanism
should include an environmental "checklist" of risks and mitigation measures for
the various sub-projects that are eligible for financing;
(f) Assess the capacity at the District and Provincial levels to implement the
proposed screening process and mitigation measures, including the provision of
support to communities in cases of community-managed sub-projects, and
make recommendations as appropriate, including training needs and costs;
(g) Propose institutional arrangements for the environmental and social
management of future sub-projects, including monitoring indicators and a
costed monitoring plan as appropriate;
(h) Prepare a draft report covering the above tasks for review by the Ministry of
Plan and Finance and the World Bank.
(i) Prepare a final report incorporating comments from MFP and the Bank.
Reporting
The EA report will have the following sections:
* Table of Contents
* List of acronyms
81



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
* Executive Summary
* Introduction
* Description of the proposed project
* Description of the area of influence
* Description of the policy, legal, regulatory, and administrative frameworks
* Description of the World Bank's Safeguard Pclicies
*  Proposed screening mechanism and checklist of risks and mitigation measures
* Proposed institutional framework for environmental and social management
* Proposed capacity building measures and cost estimates
* Monitoring indicators and plan, including costs
* List of individuals/institutions contacted
* References
Duration of the assignment and specializations
The consultant will have skills in environmenital aspects of small civil works,
familiarity with Mozambique's relevant laws, regulations, aid institutions, capability for
field work in rural areas, and be conversant with the World Bank's safeguard policies.
A draft report will be made available to the Government of Mozambique and the
Africa Region of the World Bank (ASPEN) by September 1, 2002, for review and
comment. The final EA report which incorporaites the comments received, will be
available and disclosed before appraisal, currently scheduled for November 19, 2002.
82



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
Annex 11 - A Summary Analysis of Key Environmental Problems in Mozambique
Problem      Location & Distribution       Causal factors          Consequences                    Significance
Countrywide
Soil Erosion  Higher more intense RF in the  Coastal erosion & rainfall.  Land degradation, loss of  High &
north, Highest risk areas are                          agricultural l&, natural disasters.  increasing
mountains & CZ
Population   Mostly coastal urban centres  Skewed distribution with  Issues relating to pollution, health &
Growth &     >25% of the population live in  high population density  sanitation.                  High &
Distribution  urban centres along the coast  hot spots                                             increasing
Water &      Urban centres                 Small scale industries  Degradation (often irreversible) of
Soil         Commercial agriculture areas  (e.g. textiles, paper,  the natural resource base: water,  Low &
Pollution    Countrywide but mostly the CZ  cement, fertilizers,   land & the atmosphere, impact on  increasing
petrochemicals etc.),   health
agro- industries
Impact of    Localised e.g. granite & coal in  Poor environmental  Environmental degradation &
Mining       Tete, gold in Manica, coastal  management of mining   pollution (air soil & water)    Low &
sands in Zambezia             projects                                                increasing
Localised areas countrywide,
especially the coast
Tsetse Fly   Endemic to 75% of the country  Lack of capacity to    Limits livestock production but is
Most of the available arable &  implement eradication  compatible with wildlife       Neutral
non arable land               programmes              management
Degradation  Countrywide e.g. river basins,
of           mangroves, coral reefs,       Overexploitation of natural  Irreversible loss of natural resource
ecosystems   wetlands, tall forest,       resources                (worst case scenario). Currently  Low &
Typically areas with high                              localised & manageable but could  increasing
CBNRM potential                                       change with increasing &
redistributing population
DeForestatio  Countrywide, hotspots are in the  No reliable long term data,  Local soil degradation & forest
n & Bush     vicinity of urban areas e.g.  but estimates range     depletion (including mangroves),  Low/medium
Fires        Maputo, & resettled areas e.g.  between 45,000-120,000  negative feedback on availability of  & increasing
Limpopo, Nkomati, Save &      ha loss p.a. clearance for  arable land
Zambezi River valleys         agriculture and the high
concentration of people
due to displacement
Water        Countrywide: river basins (more  Vulnerable to variation of  Salinisation, conversion of wetland
Resources   than 100), lakes, lagoons,     rainfall in accordance with  habitats, loss of biodiversity  Low &
Degradation  marshes, wetlands, dams, &    hydro-geological                                        increasing
aquifers                      conditions, & pollution
originating from urban and
industrial areas
Natural      Countrywide but mainly in the  Inadequate farming     At least 6 Provinces experience
Disasters,   drier southern Provinces      practices & management  desertification (soil degradation in  Medium &
Drought, &                                 of informal settlements  arid, dry and sub-humid lands),  increasing
Desertificati                                                      coastal erosion is a serious
on                                                                 problem in urban centres
Landmines.   Widely distributed but not    The armed conflict      Effects demographics: uneven
completely mapped                                     distribution skewed population  Medium &
densities causing "unequal      possibly
pressure on the natural resource  decreasing
base resulting in the creation of
overexploitation hotspots
Over fishing  Countrywide. Mainly the coastal  Inappropriate fishing  Declining fish stocks & other
zone, coastal barrier lakes, other  technology, lack of  resources, local extinctions,  Medium &
large water bodies e.g. Niassa &  knowledge, financial  damage to coral reefs, accidental  increasing
Cahora Bassa, & river basins  incentives               mortalities of species of
conservation concern
83



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
Annex Ill - Summary of known environmental impacts and mitigation measures,
costed monitoring requirements, roles and responsibilities for LIG projects
The following set of matrices summarises potential environmental impacts of civil
works, provides recommendations to prevent or mitigate potential impacts, and outlines
(costed) monitoring requirements. The Tables are organised according to sector
(roads, sanitation, water etc) and encompass the full spectrum of civil works supported
by the DPFP. Although waste disposal and management is not strictly speaking a civil
works activity, it is included here as it will be a key cross cutting issue during the
operational phase of many of the LIG projects.
The monitoring plans encompass the following LIG project sub categories:
> Surface water drainage
>  Sewerage and sanitation
> Water supply and management
> small-scale irrigation
> Waste disposal
>  Electrification
>  Road works and bridges (construction and rehabilitation of feeder tertiary roads
only)
84



(L)                         cn   7C)
.C:                         75   CL)  a)           a)
co
Za)
, - c:           -0cu
0 a) -r-
C       tn C,       oa 0
0      -ffi ,          0.           c0     o
cn O_             CMc
An        a)        'E co             Co0r-                                   m
?         a) -m                       -E.2 cn                   0            E
<         a)      0 0a)          <               c: CD
CL                                 An CD -0
cn                E0     'Fu                            a)
C:                    a) 0.                (D           :3
cla IL    co         C0                          E    EE                  cn           ty
Z              a)                  8              ma) a) CD Co                         m    a)
.0             2                           E>0>                        Cd       E    cn
E:F;                          .- CL0
2_1 0                  o    '6 011Ecn
.0            -E    CD    E    L) iL                                   a)
E       o    I.D 0                  0                         a)
A                                                  a) a)
=3                     z       aa)>r-                   CL      :3
m>  '    0 0                                     Ca
0-           t5             -,a  CL.c cn
0      3:              a) oa                 -a)                                    a)
CL               >c                  u    a)>       0
a)               E a) a)
-C                        P < o u >,     o    j-2
0-  Lo               0.0    _j      D_   a)m
10
C: a)
+                                                                  a)
0                                                     a) r-
a)                                :3 0
0       c         0                        +                  m
CL                    .0            a
0a)
0      ad CL      0+                                  R E
W       0w                       m :3           a)    >      .0        cu       2 8
ul             16       t,      0              'a        -E oo             'D         c       a)
(D     coA       E       a)                                                   -0 F;
cm                  c6    0 c:     CD CL              0
0                   E       E                   cn     zi
CD                    Ca                                             E                    3-: m
z           p CL             a)          .2 a)  a)         r-X     'a                E
E                 CL CU   , -         m               E
a)   0 u                              (n   >1      0
>,   M                         -.- u
z                                              -0 cL        11 co                               1E
M       E 0-
. 'O    - 7       U)                          E
LU                              +               0             -0                                 0
ca r-   -                                             -8, 3:
0Co-                0               .1
F-                                                0      .5    0    Q.     +                       cn
U)     ocn     t! 0                -                                   L)      m Id
z              C                                               -    0      tf                      0)
ca        CL        co                                  0       a)
co0    cn     (n                  (D      LO      0 a)
a)                     (D
.r-               E              0-0 -0            CL CL
-0        Zn c:E    v9,     m C:      2         g
E'                                           CD      - a)       CL         5 p
E     m        0                                      a)               t                  -r- e
0                 :F' lOD   Cn 'd  Q)                          (D         cm -Fo
4)       CD    >                   C       0. CUX       w                         C: CD
co      cx     8CL        mtn            0 cm .!R.  ,,,                       _D          0 co
0)                                            0         E    cn                                            00
z           E                                                          E
0           0 U)              0            IU  0 M                     (1)    co      0
ad    1)               co           oa   - CL rL   <a) q)     U) La  0
a)     oa)    .-                                              'O
CL        CL             8      60 E a)              o                              m
F-     0                                            Z                         0       tm
CD   - U)              I                                                                  a)
D              m         m    CL        r-        m         0- a)   wcL                          cm a$
2 CD              CU -0 -0
U)    0 1              :3 a) a)                         CL  -E cId  'in .0                a)
00        --0     0 m     o tn     ca    +    m
=C         mE     w cL      a) c                                Co
F-     0)      0      0 .2    Q- cn =3  0 E     0) r- o     r               cn E      a)           a)
cn                                                a)        3:.o      .0                           E
E
z      cm     'D        'O                        m      _3                 E x       cn      cu
EL CD x    U)                          0 -0
C:        c         co   r- cn   5                   L)0     (D 0     A)       E    8
.C: co   w      aa)       L E     0 a)  _CL m CD     -(-n OE  -6E                       0,
a) a)   0 c       0)        ,              C:                S     rn
:? r- :5  co -clE   EE        -a)              3:
U)                   -6                                           2
-E       E        E                 Fu
m m    tf r-       C0      CD0    >
ui     0 CL c 0       m0                                                              cn
CL o         0L)     0         0            >    0                0 CD      c        0 cm.Lm
z        m L)         a.           CL   a. m   u) 2 o    L) cau) LM) wcu   0 cL       0       -    cu
z                                                                                     CL      a)   D_
cn      F;    E
a)                         a)            a)
a)                              cn      d) cn 0cn         a)w 0
zg 0                             :3     C      EC - Q)                              0
a)  'D      0         (D a)                                         0)       o (D Inn
CD       .5      -                      0      mW
Co >                     .- >           > ,.- >                  -     C       E Z
LLJ         L)               cn         CM -o a)    CM o   a)        0) -0 CD =1 cu  .7
0       >    cm o6            CL     >1 m a)     co    >, Ca  cn cn
D
CD                               0                Q)                a)   0        _0   L
to -                      -             m
-    =               o           0 WmL)0 CDFq  0               -E      co:
'n                                          cn-0E              in  CO
(a                  0) CL)      cm , a)Ec:        01     'c    0
f 0 0     .1    m co        =3 c -r-    Z)c 0mI0             C C    CL            E
.0                CL -- -                       CL.- 0
a) w> Q>)  Q)  _5            cn        O-Fn 0 .---         w 0 m        E        E
'O        -o                  :3           z,     CL.5       =1 m 3: CL           8
o            :3 0 -0 cn           od C:    Z)        CL
to 0        -0 - CD (D    -o cn     a)   -,0 en -0 m
- M        r-   E         r- w Z6 c:  CW     0cn od    r- cn      0)   3:      7-    ,
0 C     -   0C: (M    a)      oC cm CU>      -        cn
m -0    2         0 cm CL -   U0) C r     W     u cm.c: C: --r-        a)
-M   o6   a)      CL                m                                             ZS   -4)
-0        -60               .6 Fu E        cu       cm    ob 'Fa cn Em
aomC                        z       ---
U)                0.  .2         0    8 o       CL                a,c: cu      C       :6 co 4)
cn                           Q)    mCU    cu   Q)    co        C
N                 o      b E         0E n0 r- od  r                    0
C         Co                            Ca   0 -F,   cn
0 0                          -E -6E        Eo     L)               0
E                    Lo z-       E            Emu                                       0.
0    'O                                        o     2 cn MO                cn    2
Z, CL 0                               0      W       6
0.   .                   cL tn
W              2              en     CD      CL LO        =3         a) Z)
0       0       D_ -4  (D a)                                                              E a)
cn        a) U                a) E        0 E8>0) 0         a) E      0
C       2 a) 0    cm                              0r-            E0 cn           -0 E
(D                                                              a)
.2 .0 CD  -0    >         tm a)         a)      E       0) 2 r_ =3W
FD        (D                                 8
m    E      cu            .55 co :mtf lcn 5
Ca        a) co   8 cL
C                    m C ca   0cu C          m       rz
n
0 0
7FD     -a
a)                                            >       $
cm          0    0                 Di        CD       co
E                     a)
W                                            W    Ca                CD                 co :E;
CL                               m           U) m r-
a)                                      0    iE               m
E                                            CL                  -0 0
a)                                                  a)          .(n  Ca
La :3 t
E                       0                           Jz_            W                                      0 o DL W
(U L) 0             E             >        0 m -_
_;  a                            0            cn
0    .0                                        fn                in m
cCD od                CD
E     w                                      E-                                                -0
2                                         cn a)             8 -
0                                   CD                              cm                  s    8
L)          0                    m                    (A   (a -C,
0 r-                        ?          U) -o -K            E S,                 'F= An '-
c: co                       a) cu      .-0- 6ca
LU       0                                         .0           D



L)
0    LL
<
a)
co                                                                 r)
91                     :3                            :3
cn                                 0                            C) >, E
2!                                 -                            - n0
t5 (D          m        to           -C
MCL              CO    0                                           :F .
n              rz                 ' .2                           'o
w                   (D                                                  cn a)
LM z                <                            <
0        0a)
L)          E a)                                                   C)          C:
> CL                                                   a) Ln 'a o
CD          E 0 E                     CD 0.                        a) cL wa) D.
a)      r-           0 >                      -r- =)                       _rz :3 En CL D-
--P                                      cn
-j                                                cnm cn co
10                                                              tn          a)
CD                        x                                     _r_            CL
x                      En +
0             LLI                  m                         co                           r-
cn                        tn                   >     0
0          tf             E           t
c m         M    E        0           M     E                         -CD
a)    0 cx       =3 -0 (D       0           :3 -0 .(D        m        ?-,   1-
a.,           'r-  --- E        - C: a       cn          LT c: -0                   0    10 CL
m        .0 'O CL    m             :3             0-         :3 -                    M CL 00
cn
0a)        cn             a)       aa)                                   ? 2 EcL
16                     to                         wSD CL              M     a) a) E0
>m +                      >co                        CL.Jr- 0
CD       E (n                      a                +           E c:
?                            en                      :3
U)               EEc        w 0         -, en c:       mr-         -                a) .2
-     -  co       o     0        ciI        o                 o,            L)
0      ad           --      OL                         2C:        U) a)             M       < .0 Co
-r- a)C                 cn   16                   --      cc
0           CL CD    E 06                         0                         C              +5,
.  U)          0 -0        c-         ;>0 -0               CL       W
E        c        CD 6-0        c           a)a c
a)      cm             E        --p               E           E 0           0
M              cm                  (D                        CD                w           a
U) 73       (AM         m                                                   a) I            --
- E         w                E                          tn0
m           r_                     a,                                               06
0 m         2cu      a) E          -C 0                            cn      -W 06           r--
E                                     L) (n    ca)        CL -r-0 >1        CU -0          M0                              'IO
CL'                                      CL      CL       Ca          CD   (L    -tm -0                           00
16E                                   En        I                        -     11E
ZM CL    Ea          CD                 'O     m                   -o          m
z          CL    0             In             +       -r- r-      CLc +                CL
W          m     0 )                                                                Z
a)                                                  t
0           0 a)                      0 a)           I       a)    x
E           a)            CL          -0a)E          LL                           cn
w       E 0)    -                                                          -0       i
L) c                             c                       =, -o
a      cn -r- cnE                    o     E        cn
0        00          a          0              0     zo)   0                c        0
M     =3          0    C)M      =3          a)
cn   0   co      C) a)    E:          'O       a)    c:               L)      6
z
<                                                                                   m cn >,
a) To
CD0                                                             -o w
ai                                                              cm -3 Cn
LU                    le                                                           .Ui
CD CD                           CD                              a0
0                            -C                              r- CL
>c: ui                          rz                            a) -
U)                       a) a)
<                           cn                                                            cn
u                            'n tn
0(D C"                          a) (A
tn                              a)                        .0   .4--
0
o                            mu                               CM
CLw0                                  Co                           a)
cla                       (D     E
E     0
ocn 16                                0)                           0
M                                                          a)
-ia                                                    -a    cn cL
0)                           Ca) CM                             Co CU
cn.c: on                       .2>
cla   A                            .600                             a)
E
CD                                 CD -Z5-                         o
0Ew 'O                             -CD -
0                               CM    D
E    '6                              a>)                           Co ti -0
0     m                               L                            C: a)
CL.C                                                         m
0                         C)
0              E E                                E                         EEF cm
C:                                    Z3                           CL.C:
m                 L)                          -0 v-
D-) A) .,5,                           a)0
in 13   A2                         En U) 0-                           m 5,
C:0C)-                             E L)
m -c C                          w-6o                               En a)
C                                                                  cm
.0                                                                 rz
16                                                                 ip
a)                                 0
=
.co                      CL       CL    0                               C13 CO
3:a                             U3
U)                                 :3M
a)
cn     -
0E                           LD    0
D)    'r,0                   0             -i-n
C:                           CL    Ca
o 06                        r-   -r-
r- p    C CCa                                    C,
CD                      0              70                        0     t;c
A=       rL cnC 46                             cn    cu                         0- -0 CU
>        E m0                                  -0    E                         E 0
r- 0     :3 (-D                          > zi (1)    c:                     0
L)          w Q.                         nrr'     co               LL    Of L) -0 m
LZ
6.:
UL
CL
n



CL)                  a)           a.
E       a.           E       a.       0               06
od 0   0      3: >10<      LL             0 <LL            a)                   0  0
a.            <  m         a.      <            a. <   -0.,-                n- -     a
0.         CD    a) CL
cu         c         cu
15 (L     <      Ca                   ca  O         a)     0  E                       <
CO                  (n C          06'6   o <              FL
E                                                                    o      E
0                              -o J-1 -,u c-n  -o,E -     ,          -      0
0) (n               CD cn            ID     <  (L        -0
-t::   EL  L)                                                               :   (L     L9
CL,ai CD -0          CL cn m -a       a  c: W  LL         C         LL     0
3: 0         a.                                                                0  C:           (D
U)                                    u)        a)    V')
r-                                          cn                                z
0      <      M  CU        (D -6 a           o  a) c-6 CL t        .                    Co
t      a) 8C: O- In             o  c O- In             cn -M
cn
U)     a) CL Uj a) :F   CD            CL     a)               a)                   a)
en CL >, -r- :3 _j      CL     _r_   -j      CL _                    C  :3 U) CL >1      0
P   (DO m  m -a  P   2 CL   0  co         2 a- 0ma - 0- oa c'n                cn M   U) M
(n                  tn c              cn
m                                     co                                     +
to                                   cn               16                  5, r-
C                    r t5             C                                  = 00
a,    .0                0             to     o  2             0                                   CD C-
a)        CD                                                                     X
:t_-                                                                      cn
a)         cn               -i-n                             Co r-
=3 Co
.2                                                                                                       10 E
&                       CD           cu      a)               CD Cn                                      >1
CL     E   m            E   0         3:     E -6             E  0                                    11M   cn
cn                                                     CL                                  >,-
E  0             EtcnL        cu      E  r-            E  U)                                  CU
0 CL                          -       0 C
0                8 LE5         0         M                LF3           to                           0
a) a)         C                       8                m
4)        LEi                            0                                     Pcn
-0 -0
r  CD                          0                       r- co
Ctn                                      (n            L)                        E
0                0   0  tm
Ca                                                 .2
co                               -0 ip   Ca
3:           CU                   m   C                             16                            0
m      LM               tm.-          a)                                           E              a)     X  CL
:t:! .'a                             .2)'FU               =
0                       tp -d W       E                          0 W               E              CZIL      E
.- Cl)        a)
E  - t       -a                           'o             8                         L)
C  0                                                                                       U)     E  0
Q-                                    cu                <   a) CD-
AP,    E   E  :F .2               2             L)
U)         0                   0     .- .- - t                                                   F-
C:-       O   cn                      a)           s   0
a)                   4) CL               (D                                                    CL a)
3      L) C                                                                                           a) CL
LLI      m      r- 0                 Ea)          (D     E O-             E   a)        cn >1                        a)
c: a)        Pm tn      a)               a) -r-       cn .0                     + T,
m                       co-           u) tn  m                CU -  -                                                                          00
M                                                   (D                0      C
a) Co ---  CO LU               C:        En                        0
-o 0   CL                                   a)
0                          a;        70                              mcn
'O                               -o                                     -MO 'CaL
0  a)            o     .0     -E- ,   o  0             0                c,6 Ca
CL            0r                                    a                                         0
LU            -u       i   Lm  p :5             8 :F t          CL                    cnE
15           -52            M   0  CD                             o.                    .0E
0      8                8                                        CD 2
.-              -   E                    E  0             E                               cn
CL - a)                    c                       C                 >m                tg r-8CL
0      0                    6            E         :F;           ;                                   u     0
0)                   0     0                        0                a) 2)              a  m0     0)
co               CL L)            2C) C,L .        2   a            0   0                  (L) co CL
U)
0
a.
cu              Ca     -0                    2            > Co          m
(n    (i) -o cn            -             Ca            3:
-.6   .-   a) .2                                       -o
LU              cn               E      0'-.N 'Fn          ro-:       0                0
co                      a) 0 -6                        m                cn
0                ECo-      0         Z   4-- 2            Ca  cr        a)
cn              CL               m             to                      >1
OWWO             EO-              .0-am
<               cn               (D        Cn CL     - -  C  M
cu               2)        c" w       i 2   ;B        c: c: E          CU
3.1                                  m      cn        CL    r- a)      m  m             cn
C                mU) CL -0               -                cn 2          :3
0                    0
0                       E                       n             ID            m
cn               0         N   M                M
co                   m         m     'O         ,      C-P              0
to co                CLm          >       C  CZ CD 0       zi (D U)         ?-.L)
a) CIUO)             =1 C: >   a      co '6 W         0)C
WOW-M                2'tp m           a)-O             >M
-'Z0                                  :t!    CL
.0                0         m  cm     M   a) a. -o     cn                02)
0                             _a co          0
,n                         CD            m
ed               CDM                                                     2
:!:f   3: a) cu      m                in m                 m
E   a)              rn CD<:E                    0          0  >, co .2      Q)
C-        CL         m         :3
m                CD tn               t5 LO      >
0   M                          0)                          cn    CU 3:        .0
0     -0 -0             ID 'r-
E      :3                                    m
CL                   a:Ei cu      --     E   ST    t   w
cn 0                              ECL
>                       E  Za E                        a)        lu
E                >                                           't--    o
0                a)     =3 tm=               a) 0      (D a)
C) :3                                 0   0
-0            LL8-o      2        C) L5            Co   0. Oa m      L  -a
U)    C6
cm .2                   cn
a)                             u)
E2               1:            Mc     cn
a)               co :3            m 2               3: cm m
tn              6   0            C   m            -0  c: ,n
m
ct)                                             -0   a)
06W                  co                                 0     cn
.2                                cn
CL                   M 70
cm                  tn                                    m
01
CL                                        m                m
tn                                0CD M
Q)                          E                                                          co
0                                 mto
co :3            CL -
1--                                               n-cL                   CD                                 a)
co 2                                                   E                E :L-
.2                           C                       ca0                                0
CL                                                  cn
0.                   CD               E                                 L) -F, -
E                   Ca  0)                0                   Ca            L)     0
LZ                                                mmcu                                                      U)
,t= 0                R:            M0
0   a) C)              -eE               tt-- CL                           -0  CL 0
m                o Oa             L)               'a.w ;-
E11                  C  a             M                co -0    m
r   m  m            -E  c:                =3 t             9  2
Lu R. 3:             <   o :F             (t .-                cm



a)                                    a)
c                    a)              a)                                                    C
06                                        E
n          cn                                   2          -.5 0-                                    En O.C0
0             2                                                                     ?      0
E                In                                         n                                 O-
a)                                                      a)
fn
CL 0   CL           cn               u)          <              n'
:3 -   M                             W.u) a.     u                                                cu
cn a) <                                                 0             LL     a) >1         In m<     E
m a.     a)     C-        Co0          -0
a)        E
a)          c   m
0                                         tn    0
0         'r,                                      c- a)   od                cL a)                       (A 
06            5                    co                  m              <                    Oa                      L)
12                           (n r          to
;5?           2                   0                o C6                                                  0        06
06                             MO
r- Co                  <                             a) <                        a)                  a. cn
C). LLJ      0                              -, LL
MCL          :t-_      LL                                      m                           M  CL
:3           06 Z                                  r) -0       ::3                                          (J rL
U)                  (L                                                                     Z            a_     n   z
a- ac)                                                                                  <
0          :0 CD               a)          In .10    :3 a) a)
0      8a)              CL                  :5               I;           a) -         :5         8  a)                (a a)
CL                          rn a)        E                E               r- -Co    E
0           L)
m      a)            a) a. -i5 :F       EE               E   E  CL    a)       LL  E   ECL
1             -r- >,     >1           0                0  0.                         CL L)  _r  CD a.               >1 0
2                              C)              0   -   m           0)
-0          --               I        P 2                                             -0
E'     -o               a) 1           t
CD           tm a) -o LL       C:              :t: :F;          IB a-                      a)           .2
E          0)'c:     a) a-     m                                E                          E          a)
105    -0 C)                         -0                                       al        >
CD           w          a) -5             8                   c           2 Lu                       - ui       2
w      a) 0   a)     m                               m 16      r- -0            49         cL a)
ic                                                                 CO
i    'a                E                  (D        -21 (U  0 m  co  .2 -o -
po                                                                 c
Co                                   C        m             CL 0)                       0
m                                 -a)             -o   m                     a   C:            a)            L)
cm _rz CL     m         C: -o                                         cx                          CL         >1
a)     M =    a)
0         a) a)         0      CL -                           E       Lp CD 0)                           CD     12
E  .a                          Eo               m                         E -Z6
c) tn c: r-       a)                              E :S       m                E :5          a)
.6                   a, LO <                                                                                        =3
M                                             r-
69,    cn CL      tnE                 0
CLc                                0            Z, -        :t C- C      i>-             CL            a)
. -    -0    3: cn 0                        cn o             U)
0o               Ca a) m                                                  c                              t=
CD lut        c         ;6 <      cm                      CD       M =                                   r- tn 0)
:3               S.         c: a)            =1 0 -C            u      :3                  t       ,  m-
E -0             E E                      E   Q)               =3        a) 'E
m        C
mE               E m                       E m              0
En     Zo    Z              (D a)            0  CL 9)      .0 ';                          cn
r-    'a-a z                   E             0  m  cn    CL     c                       m  r-     cwn    E
0                                                               0         L)
E-a           E            c-n                                  E     0                    E                    E
0r-          -                     Ma,                   tn    0                                 0      m      8
cn C                                                                                06
o6 m 'Fn     -m     :S 'E                C: :3    c   a) Q)         cm .0     0   a) a)                                    00
0      2a) a)                      0                          0  fn       E          a)               E          Q- a)-
0E .-         , -1 -,     a)                             CD                                                                            00
LU       F         E          tm <   M             ,E                 't  '    .2  E 1S          t5        .2  E          a) ca):8
C 76                           =3    cn                               'E  o   m             0
CL 'E  0            U)                 nE                 a)        E  o         rn a)                       >
0   L0L)             a)    co =                              7FD c     0  U            'FD a)     C) L)         a)
'E                         r-      0                                             13  5,
0      06                0            w  cn
-0     LIJ L)                                         tn -0
LLI             E                                                   a) (D                                  cm 6     tm    a) a) -0
U)              Q
(O                                                     0        cn            CD
0)                  a)                                   0                >
Oa                                                 C                   CL       -             E             0- -o         >"a
0             >1
06         E   a) .n     -r- cc Q)
m                            CD m          CL 8
LLI                                                                                                            0 06       L) c: cr a)
:6  0C)
z                   a)                                              C 16           m          E             (D -
a)0                                                             CD                        -0 M                  W
06                0                         a) m
-0     tn      -C          a) C             a)               r- a)
a)                     a)        0)        1-- a)        0  a CD      CL ro- I 8
0                0 -             M                              >         'Fn
0                              C                -0  I           0                           cn -          mm
m                   a)           C         0  M                 a)        0
-o  E  c        a)                             >          0m
06                                                     :3                  CL E             a)
-                                              M  a)       0             CL            m      0
en                                                 2   P                      a)           -o         0         0
0                         zi r             0   CD     u  to cm E
-     r-           cn . -            -  ,
U)                                    Fa               r- 0)                        -         _r_   .          r- r   0
M                                 E                fn m   cn   .0             0 '!5        1 C-6 v      ca T -    -
a) CL                                              C      (D                     2         CL cn CD                 El
_   cn                             a)               0     mc                                   I   C               Ca
MC6                                s                                                           =_ r- a)      E     C
06 r-        >                       tn     a)         mcno
E   GE): a,)                          0                (D     cn   C: a)                                     E  L)
(U     C                                       02     0      m
cn    ,.;;;  CD           co                      a)     to CL
1EE                                                    z                                           U)        cn
-    :5            r_                             a).E
.2 mo                                                      E 0
m                                                                                              2 E
2  en cl .2) T
(D E   co:)  w                M  M         C.)
o                                 15 a)                                      t6                x  >,=    a) 3: a) cL
wm                           w             W a 0         w a) -a co       co= 0
_r_
M
CDM               16                          :3
C         8             c   cn
E                                       m  a)
cn                                 M:3               0                        C:
a)                                 cn r-                                     CD
m          a)
a) -               0         cn            C   tn        CD
0              0                        Fu m         'D
0                                                              16                                           Ca
cn                                                   a)                       E O          2
U)
M                                   06 cli        06
a)m                          cn            C,
co                              CL                                                                                         m                 co
z                               CL                                                              =3              .2         a) cn             C
"T,                              =3                                       m                     0:3           C: :r,           a)            a)
-   Q- E           a)                       M            cn E:
cn -o                                      CD 0                           0
m                                         a)
CL M
0                           C m
E                                         m' :f                                 CD U0)        0 -
a) -                                    C -E         :3 a)             tm
3:          0
IE  r)                                     'r- a) 55
:3 -6) :3
CD                                         0                              m
C  .2                                 >                  0                           >, -0     ,  E
CD                                    o      m          -o                           C .6      t5 2
Ca     r-                    co                C>        a)                a)
E                                            0          :T CA      3.1          m   :3           m             -o
C                                     -o0                C -                     M   Im        >  a)            a)
0                                     a)                 :3 CD    16             cr.2   a)    -
h:                                   -c                 E --     -e            a)    -a      CU m             'a
= .2    ci                   0          a) 'D Ca  E  ca
C   0                                 0   cn E:          o  a)     m                    0         m             a)
LU I0                                 Fn  C: m           L) :5      -j               uCL       <  6        I   0-           I



(L                a.                             a.
(1) LL            a)                             (L) LL              U-               LL
a-                                                                EL               CL
:F 0- <
C)                0      O- -
E  a)             Ea)                            E  (D            E   a)           E   (D               (L
I
CD P :F          a) P :E;     0-                a) 2 :F          a) o Z           (V o Z                  (L
-o                                           a) -0             a) -0
:3        =3                                                        .0
-0          0r- -0        C:                                   0 -0          oL) -o                  C: -ffiE
-Fa E         2     -0         2                       a)
M  a)     0 -                  m .2
L) E             -; r-       :t-- U)           tfw
:t:f A            Im in S       Ao a)0           -C               r-                  -g t                 Fa a)
. iT.0
m  0                            CL U                0                                                       CL
co 0             cn CL      E  cn               tn CL                CL           C-D O_                   U)
a)    06         <                <   cn               U)                   a) -F, Oa
<   m  CL         <   mCL                            mCL              co            <  m   CL               CL 0 a.
0  com            0  .6m        Ea,                 .6m               06           0Oa cu                   =3 0 LL
a)    <           a)           cn 0 LL           CD a.            a) Q_            (D                      co -
j-                   a.                                              D-                   a) a)
CD
06                06 0-         r-     a)        Ca a.            C-6 (L           Od 0-                           a)
:63E                                                                              r-
>lmn           o                0                                                                       2
.0
A
0 L)              00                             00               00                0 U
t      a)                a)            a)           --  a)                                CD
0"               to                   CL              <
CL             CL                                              CL                                iD
CL           cn                              r-            '? to                U)               cn
a) -                               0             a)               CD               a) -                    .(n0
U)     CD CL8                         0   75
CL        a) -5i 0.         (D a             a) Cl            mCL                     a) W   CL
0                0         _r_
:D                  =   0  CX
cn                                 m             co-                                   0
o                               CL
n                           (D               W   CD            0                      0
E         a)                   E                E5'
>      co              (D                                                      U)
a) UJ                          (D               a)
-f-       2                                        CD            2
CL            t   W      CL r
r      CD                         cn cn            cn J-          -
E      c:                                           0     w
.0 -o             .2 -02               co        .0 o0           .0 -o-                                   .2
40     -   0  0          -t60                               0CL          -                --p W-
cu -r- in                CL       -r- _r  0  'n  m     .,n        M                m                          Z
cm                                                                   L) a)               0) 0) -6
0      23)                  t   CD            CL        2M    70         T      0)        .2) a) '6,                  0.
:t_l   0                 -r-                            -         :t:!  -0         :LI CL
EE                   E             -0  E            a0            E      =1        EtO                         cn CL
c         v   :3           -r_                 -i
Ca           .2              o .           w  CL                                          1--6CD                          (D
m      :tfa                  Q- g        CD                                             7t CL.C                     CL
tf            a.-          :=  CL 16         3:    -
0.        oo 0                -6         3:                  tn c:
ui                      m  0                                            m=3              cu CU                                    cu
rcn o6                    tn cn cL                   a:                           En
(n         W                r- C: cn            r-
z                                     Ca r-0        a)c    cn        m      c                0-                                    0  co                CN
'O                0cn                        .- .0  8 Lu          0             Ca .0
.4--                                                        00
P:           E      -ar-0             -ai-6                          CL                   co            CL                         m
E                 8                                 'O    A)         -0 ca         8      tn -0 M  E  oa  E  E  E
8                                                0  C:               c:
0                                         CD .0    ca CU >           L)                   a) tm            a)                      a)
, LLJ                           cu            a) 0)
co     E                 E 1       CL a)            6  E                E -c:            E   8                   E
0 r .6                                              b
E0        a) (D -,         -                                                                 0
E  o          -Eo0           > 'FM -5                               -o         c0
LU              =                                                    -   Eo    0      :t! E                E                   7t--E
CL     0  0                                          c  0 'D          r- 0                                     c: 0
0            0   CL 0LI               0L)           ID               0   L)           0   a             oL) c:                 0   0  CD
2                                                                           Lu     2
-a CL o6
LU                                                                                        C:                         a) r-
E                           CD
U)                                                     cm w   :3     c                                               c
E                    0                                                         CM a)
FU CL CL     .0)                                    0     tr,-w
Oa                                    p                CL x          En                      CU
CD                                   cn    .0   CD
E  Q) a)                              a)                     -o  CL
a)                                           -o                      r-           'Fu     a)
w                                                                                         0                E     P, CDE        cu
6 0
z                                     co               C:                                                 -E      0     0
'5                                                 cnE              m      m
o             0                   O                 CL    2   to
0             'O                   cm m       a)                                   a)
U)                                 C:                             CLr-                    CL r-
Mtf       r-     -             u)               a)        ot
-00           cn               i6 .2            -V     m   a
:3                            z   -0                  -14                  a) cm.Q)      0
CD a) CL                          ob               .2     a)m    L)
O' cn                   CL    le a)                   A                                  CD
a)                                                                   0)    E      F-     'n
-0                                                     0                       t
ai         M'C                                                    C:                   3:
0              C: a-            m  0 ca       a) cn                   U)                  0             a)
mcn              CD -0            0                -o
-6                          -r- co _C         CL                   a)
cn0                   0  =3
r-                   CL                                   m
cn            L) W.0                               CL
0.         0a)                            a)                   0
.0                0                L ig            c:     0 Lu   o  0   0)
E                        0             :3           'a C:                                 F
M J--                      tn                          c                   0             a)
C                     0(D              CL    W   a)     0                CD                      tm        CL
m                                               E
0                          L) .1-- -
Qi     Zn :3                                ob
.2                                                                                                      cu     O   r
m                                                                                                      t   CD -6 .2
tm            .0            CD Ca                                                                E
m               -            =3    m   CD                                                -o
:3 CL             w                    m                              CU                     C:
cn =                 cn                            tnE               m         m         0 2m
a)                        2  a) 3:                                                  cn    -r-
R       c: a)         c: a)            r-     0      m   8                c:
(n         w                       0   o  W                   W   m             C:    w      3:     C)
D)        01                                                                                         0) m
C:                                                                                        rz E
co                                                                                                        a)
z                                          E         E                                                0 tm
-o                             cu
=3                      0         4i .0
0         0   6                    CD                      r- cn            r_     cn a)
r-                                                                        od                                                            a)         2
m      0)                             0             0     0         tn
r                                                                                         0 0       m
oa                        0                                                  cn               3:         LO
V      0)                       0                                                   m         cn               5
CL     >            0                 u)                  Ca       -o      0   0
CL                      cn          m     0   m                          ocn                     a)
E                    m od                              cE                CL -e                  (n
EE 'L         a)            (D cn g                    M
CL     0         0                        :3                                                 a)
0     -          ED cn                              >             cm -o
,a     >u)           0                                     in
lt--          0)                                                                              2   in  w
LZ                                   ul                                    00)                         10 a) :F                             a   :3 r-
r         a)         E              U)        rz       -0
0  ad      >         o             J9     tn            CD               m                       o,        C: -    0  C:
0   M     --             r_    -Ie                                                                    --- .0
E  ja                                      c:m          tr-           U)                      W.r                 C-0 -
C          tg                      49     m   r-        m                                               16    c  m  a  cl
cm.0                     E          m                                    to            E   3' 'E  E
L)     m                                                                 cn     -FuE      E
M      CL (n                              0                              m                   4g     4g 5al
>   co    m          a)             CL    CL C:         CL            E A                     E  (n         r  cn
a)    (L 8          tn                                   -E   m                r- a:
W   U)    U) Lo     cn   :         0     cn                          a. c:                   <                : 8    8



4z           Z5          lc            16            z
-ru          -Fu         -iu-          -ffi           -ffi                 a)
00 f) a.     06 0a.       00 C.) a.     OZ, C.) IL    00 C.)m
a. Q) L.L       a) LL  :Faa) LL           a) U.          (L)H
a. 0- a.   :t-- 0- CL a-  .- -OL a-     M CL a.     52 a. cL a-          0)   0
cn       3r O- u) C)  : a. u)0      o- U) C)       a. Lo0            C   =
<_j-D         <-1-        <-j-          <-1 -            -J-               .=  <
M cu a)         Co CD       M a)        a. (u a)      EL   a)            0    . .0
L)-           0 l-                          E
o           0t            0           >10               0
a)                       CD -o-         a) -0 -                                   0
a)            a)          a) >1         a)
C:  n                          a)              E    0
0
0   -o        C,   -o                           Mn 0.
061           061                                   'O (D
E   w    -u)Ea) LU     U)   (U       cfl E c)          Elu            x-
o            0            o        uj   oL o a         o;>ot
2         CD    Z    -     - .-z    .-   - --z                 '5;
a)   0        a) -o-      a-0<          di - 0         a)-0<                 0
co Q-    <      a-   CL <                                                  E      Im
0-    m=,            :3   ci-   co CL 8 Q-      mCL8CL
CL           CL 06  tn    CL            CL       :3    CL .6        0     .1
06    en                  06   IU) C=        E: En C:                   r-
CIS                       m             CD             m                   0
0    0(1)     <    0wm         0(L)     <    0(L)     <     0(1)     <
<                  0 r-          0r-            L) c:
L) C:    0   0 C: 5                        .T             49                   o 
CL                               -      0         (n  0         0)   0          o2 cL o
U)   a) 1 Fn  L)  a) -: -Fo           L)       .7)  L)             0
.1--pcn                                                       a. o- E E
Ce 'cou        co        ':25 tFmnn    p cuu) w<     =2, c-0            2   8
n    (n
(n C:                                                  (n a) cn         LU   0
a)                                   49               :E-                       0
a)E           CD         CD             a)             C:  -0
a)                                         0        CD                Ca
Ecm                       EQ)           E              E                        0 0
Q)              a)        a) :F         a)            a) L)             <2 _g "n _:
CL          C:             Wo      m
06                 cm
cu                                        -0          co
C: (n                        U)   a)          C _r_          PF -ac) 49 o
.0   E        .2 m        .2 -o2        .0 -o   >1     o -o a)             ma) 0 cn >1
s    - 0(D           C) (n       0              0    2      ;',0C,                E , 8 -CO"
Co             c a)          0           -.5 0 C,     C13                   =3   a) CO
0    CM            0)          cm:E0            Co L) C,   r03 -i- co
0    p            ;6L=     -4= a)                         -                     LL      x
wEmc -0           0
C)     E             E 2         Ec             E C m         E
E                 CL      E             E              E    ID a) -iD-
Ca                                  0           , .2 a)     Ct5 0).6 >          'O, .132)  a) E
-r-  a) a)      (1) -o         5-)      -r-  a) U)
a- Ca n  -L- cL 0 a-                                              E
U)                                              O. o        t--
(D     to   ji  a)   u)p         (n  (L)       (1)  a) .-   3'
m                                                                               0
a) (O         co                           Co   w
U)          2          0 UJ           w                                                a)
a                    (A0              0 0)
co     m                                C,            C,   Fn
N      a)  .(a  cn -a    M0           M0 M          Co a U)       cooU)    'O                >m +
= .-ra)     = .2ra)                             -CD
c:       CL -Z80     'L -0
U)    E       m0>                       co           (13 0           co
E -a   o      E -a --r-   E -o          E -o --        E   .0 2 m                 0 0
oa mCL      0r- M          0C M 0          -0   a -o C:             U) g         C>
0C     C-L                                             0(L)               .4C L) (1) C-) -a  L) a) (-)  CC  ON
ui         2    Lr-l                        (L)                          (L) = a
EZ-) COUL     E   a)      E    >        E Eo S        E -Fj>   d,         0 49
>                                 6                   cu     3:
>             Ea)          Ea)0        Ea)0           E a) !nM    -E o2               :5 co:    E
-j       CL   a0.        E0a- j    'F0CL          'Eo CI- U)     E0a                  U)
M     O    OQto          0a                         00       2    00tn OL
CL                0) U) CL  00MOL                 0              CL En        c:E
TD C a                                                                        CD 0
2    06 cu   E   Cam       :E e Ca U w      a-) c, 6m a)E     8a)
>      m
-Fu  8 0 +
a)               a) -o a)                                     E   - -q- t
cm -F) -r-              m                    a) a)  -Fu 16 OL
>              co       C              0.
LLJ                        Q)           0SmC       -z-                                          (n
a) -         4--                           2           2                   a) .6 13 F;
. 2           0 -a          a) co  0    ZC)                                     a)
co                          >    0      0                                  o    0_ a.)
CD C:            -0  r-      LI                                   m
cu          cm          23: a) cn .0o    C:                                    mz w
Fu              2           0                          a)                     0 c    r-
a) V--         C: co
co     :3  'a           M                      zi t G Ca
a,E             CD             E                       U)                         0
>                                                               Lu cj
co :G                       mC-r-       m              a)                  0      0 J--
3: coU>      co          0                      U)  0 La))
C-                               CM     (D
<          11 a)                     a)
a)
00
C)                                   Co    -
0          E                         'in- 0         C:                                   0 m c/) a)
0             2           0                                              E        E
Ca              CD          C.)                                               8
ID                               a)
le          a)                  .-        E
Ca                            =s a)= o m               cm                  :3       a)
a)                    o -5              -o                    0  (U CU >
cm          cn Icu: -o u) > 'a cts                         p         LI
o C7           E     - a)                                            0)
- A            m0                                             >1   0 a) >,
CD r-         CT          OC -o C, m       CD                              co a) cn
m           -F. a) - m                   06
to                                         >                               E>0
0m                                         ::3                            r-- CD 0
E          CD            cm    E      Ca
cn m a) :3       Q                               o      co a)
'O0                                                             CL   I.,q --
m                         a)       o (1) C-L -Ca                                    C)
CO              r        -S-)  9) a) CE  2 :2                              2 o6
0           --0 -- _C CL)0 C)_           Ca)                           a)
tt3           .4 -0->        (D          $!E
ID2           Z3           -L)     0 0 mz                CD
U)                                         C). T
(1)  >                              a)  a)
16 =39          --                                                            8    0
(a            a)0N>, -r- cn 'O           CU
0) 17 C: .-               .0                      -    -
-0 L) rr--                              13   CL   a)
C:M                E       o0            En                   CO  to   N
a)                            '5R -0  Z.2                                0        cn
E cu cL                                   ac)            'r-                 Ca < m
M    Co                 :3 Co                a) < cl: 8
a) E             0
C6                                    CM EL =3 CO
D       0 -o 16m           -r-                'a
-0                           co
42                    .0            CL :3       :3 a)     r- Fo r-              0
C0         70 tn               C:0                                         < -o -0
-0        cn -j 'o
-0                        cu
tnm           0M          0O'                          0) In                      C:
co                      r- a)                     a)0     2    0             a)
0 70       w2          C)               E                                     in 0 cal
E
A       r: -o'
0a)                        C: 06                         0a) a) co >,
tn a)                        0                             cx p- .0 E
.2 cnE                       M ;:,
a)                  m               W.- cu0                         0 .-                         (D 0 70 a)
tn  a) .6   CD          a)               06                   a) -Ei c:
cm                                               > 0 C:)
.9      CD CD   3, tm.cn-    >1 cu                0         tn                a) -a,, ,- >,.m
-0            im
r- a)   -o -C -S?      C-          'O                                .1--  cn
,CC      m 'D (U CD  -, -Fu cn            a)        m                        a)
0W  CD                                                .8 -
C      0m          a)       0    Ca               0
a)                          :3                                                CD
00    0    .0 0
E      >1  rz          m
2                                              E
r-                 m                            ME ai    a)m                  0m CM
m& 2              a) r-   0                  CM  'O m   ,
0 to      m               0 a    -                       a)   In             U) C: a) a m
0   -0 cn -    0)  -E             Nm a) CL EJ
r-           a) co .a) c,               a) cu        a)               CL'O m CT
> m                       CD 0 -0C              0 ,0
0 0  0 2   >n     m0               0 (U0
ul it  M'O      a.L    .6 6      m        L)  LL U -0



.od  >, 0 - C                          >
.0  -  E           C              -
a)      0           a                C
LI  C   -  0)L       Cu: 
>' 0 0   a) 3<LL                       _ 0
a) .0 - o  L)      ao- 0. 
a 0.     a-  04a0) 0.:        a   )  L:
cou m)     0   Cj.;cCu E         - 
.0  E<    5  a)  .~5  -            a    E
Z,  Lo ECu o        E~          o    E0
0        0  u             0D al0 
0),                 0              Cu
C    r    C'  ) aC     70 
.2-o    a. <ELO    .21 o ?              Cu
Cu~~~-~~  Cu0.  Cu  ~~~g  a  0)   c
@6  .C2~~~a  .C)   .C-,0 
co *n    0  0cu  M                cu   o   -
~~.~~oC23c  CC~a  0C) 0o 
Z *.0 )CC    00      0   a)              co
o  o3~~~E~~ ~E  ~~E~~E              3-~co  t
o  E~~~~E0~~~  C30~a  %0CD D 
-     t0).C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-J
0  E   m  .-     t:! Cen            a)                      C
E  c -  E      E- *c -          00r- 
ed  ~ ~   .0  a)  E.2  w   ...  m                         Cu
m  ~Cu    0)                            C:Cj0
Ca  cn O  r     0  0O             0 
00)     0-       a'0-    0)-    tJc4C
o       CuC      0u-       0u~C~)             0
z    co 0     cu      00).En= cm
~~ ~~-C0  -70     '
>0               - 5 0 CD  .E    L a) C 
CuECo 2            a 8 2           > 0  CY'
0  CCu                  .....- .C0  a)C  0)C
Cl)  *~~~~~-  _  _ )  to  _3z   C
o                                 -wo  uu -~~u  2o  ED .
06        0. E       C5 0          0.C) 
w-E~~~~~~~~     n -  Cu E  -02u 
~~.EE2V~~~a)0- 2-      Nv   (a   Q~Cu
CuCu~~~  0)  -.2  I  ID~C  CE  a
:3 0  a)  -4-,-                                        0
4-  0)      .~~~~~~~ --D .0.
Cu  Cu    C~~~~~~~~0  .) c  m0
_L E             0      M L 
a)* 0)                  tt~
-c     C0)C             0       -3                        0
LU                   0                C,o  0 
u)      -0    --n               0 
(1)      CO    ~~~~         ~~~C (DC L CuCu   V  (
0_.          'o              -0  M-
0.  .~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~   0)O 6  d  IDM I-0
-         -  a  0 "   >          r-~          CuL 0-C
>      O4C      OC         0L0 
0)        C~~~~~~~~:  C,,-0)  CD >            Cu                        Cu c  = 
EC u    E'      Mi         o Cu CuO
E ~~~~~~~~~~c .r             m ( 0)          Cu                        Cua).-a
2                    CCo~~~~~~- Co(  m.            E)
M  C              C :-C              -- 
WL  L    D.o     LL O             U..j o
u..                                                           0~~~~~0  L E  5C 
0..                                                              z~~~~~~~~~~~~~mE  ( n'c  2:



E                E 
__                        C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)
-0 a)        D~ 
_               C0)   >,O~~~~~c  ::  C      C
- -    flC)~~~~~~~~0 0-O                    E
cn c    en - -    m  o I Ia
~~a)                 (D0<JE  C)-
a)        a)EE <0   o d -   cD E
.0  t CL  E        o cdda.C E 
C)        -Q->CDC)
8 0               0
-             8                  0
Wo- Co     E__ __ __                     C
en       en      enen                         0
C       C~~~~~~~~ C   Co :
a)         0  m -  0     0   E
_) a            C)     C)E
CL  CD ,  )    C) a)  a)                     C)
a. E3          L~E---   s-.EO L)
*  e        8n    ton  0eou
r)C)0-     n C)  -j C)W: C))
-0~~~~C                       -.e 
U)   C)  ~  ~ ~ ~  ~    ~~,C
CL  CE co C )  CL  C  ,   E E
E E nt 0*    E~ E0)E E     E                      a
02 0n    m         3   m ~o 
a..~~~~~~Uca 0 0 c)x  0  8  cl  en0,
W~~~~~~~~0o0 C)Co        )     C m                   a
0)        C.)~~~~)  V3 C )                   - E
Wo             en~~~~~~~~r_ caCO C)         E
F-     M~e   CD  .0  C  C >, .  C)6                  en
M   enO 0u       co0-    a)CO                   u
o )     NC)      2                            -C:
ui    ~: 2C)C)                                       C)
0 ~p C . .co  0.-         Cto
'-U-od'     u
O          E~0                                        Ab)  >
z                aciCz  ~ C)  enEc (   C  en
CUOE  ....r-  a) XC )C  C)D0  .                  =- C
Wo1 '   C)   u  C) 'qj a)  on  E3Ce
E2C "n     E  L  E         e E
enC 0          -I  )cm
r- -~~~~~~~~~~;  -,  ca           O~~~~~~~~~~~en-
:L- E       LC)  c f a)  1D)                  C
.E        t)               0                   WC ) .r
C)~~~~~~~~~~~~  bC .0  0  a           Wa) ed 
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~    C)C    C)C)~~~~~~~~~~~~  C  a02
C         0.0                          C n'a co
C) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a  CC )   mC     o                       0~
2          U)~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  a..  .  C   o
C                     CP     CC~~~~~~~~~~) 3 In0U (D  en )  C)0
1-  0 - -                                     a
C  ~~~~~~~~~~a.~~~i  :I~  a)  0o       a)(9
=3 CD)C    0 E0-  2    COCD
Ca)C     N C))         enW '-
-O  (i0.    O-o   a) -     eiu



-~~~~~        _  ~~~~CVL       w C   2n
w  ~ ~ ~~o.E                  oE
fl-W~~~~~~    c.2~~0o         c.2o
CE     CE         2 fode
0-c~~~~~~~~~~~~
Cn2a)   InOL a)E       - 
C ?  c         - ~I 
a) -  O   a)   -   ca<              <
C oEU      0E M
u) 0    '-0U  0 u-  a  (U             C
.r,  a)  r-  a)cun0           06U)0
:' E  :o' Eu                   n-C
o,   o  0 
;ci  -            U  0               0~~~ci
Z    C            0       CU    0.        : D
U)           3:   CU  CU            u           U  C
~~  cut,  Cu  -~~~~~~~0              c
O  =   oC~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0  0)
(D  n  C  a 'cn   (  C)a.a)O
Z  ~~~~~r  00   0   Cu  0) -0    Cu          Cu  Cu    ci
(U C     co (U CC.            )  ~  8
Z  ~~~  cn     U)         w       CCuC      C     0    Cu
c    CL        c -0)   C  0
t~~  .~~~0cm   Cu   C 0 *-  --       CO     0  
CA     0)   Cu  ~~~~~~~~~~C 0)  Cu  ci)CCuC   c 
-o  c              Z)    -0     CuO
LU              Cu            Cu wc-l
Z   '0    Eo           E            E     ~  E0E~-
0 0  0    ~   cm        0  --     CC    0    >
W:  C    L) .C-  -      cu   C '0.   .. C             -  Cu-
C:      ~ CD  0.0      C  0a)0            0co
-     ~~~~.0 0       cu mu0  C    u  00    * c  t0    00
-   E   a  ~~~~~~~~ -  *~~~~~~,  -a~)  0  .0   a5  -CD
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00
~~  C-~~~~~   C  Cu -  1V 0O ;6   c   c-o
j  0   o~~m 6          Z or cm         a    M7 
LU  0   :30                              Cu- 
LLJ             a-C   -  c(  8Z           00 c       t
NO     2~~a   C0.R                  C 
to  r 0~  CLC:rL
~~30       CCuo            00C.
Au   a)a       U  wo   :     C        cu  a  C  a 
C) a            ) 00         CO    0  )5C-C
E         a        8 EC
0          0~~ Cu o                    0
U)    con..       . 
_      a)
U)                 CJ)~~~~~~)  IC
Cu.0    I)~0 
N -) ..                        E
CuD O            0 
-0 U)        (D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
U               Cu~~~~~~~~~:C
Cu  )  :  C          -                  -Cu
C ~~~~~~0      Cu  0   a)0         0a)
&           0~~~~~~~~~~)   0                   u  
U..      Cu ~~~~~~3: a) g                       a) u
E  ~~~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~~~~  C     C~~~~~~~E >
0   >    1 E .  ' E      a)
U)  >,    CU)             0
co  ~     WI     /~aCo                           Cu



a)    a)     0)~a,     , ),          a)
(L    (L  -   ~        2E.0:a .         >- 25>
0o.  -0       L0 :D    .     L) - ~  0  .0  =
>  , o    ..jo  a,  ...  a, 0  j.a 0>,  a 0 0 a)  a,<C
0~~ co0 o       o 5M              )
 ~~~~~~F E  '    oE 00E       E0  EE ~0E      -c
o    o      oi! oE   >      oI  .    a0.., 0
-      a,                         0~~~~~~~.6 C  l .6 C --  6C
a,  c-'   CU    ,     -~A,  C)U  -- n  C5  U  c  c U  U 
a   .2  0~~~~~3   O~~  ..-~~0  0 2  .2  P~  - an
a)  E  C.a,  C     t  C       .C
E  a               0 )  tcD  a)     CD  >U
.          ma)           a, r   C ~  C  a,a,
(~~~)  C~~~CotI   C)    0t.      0        ELU
a,  !co9a    m       a)0~  m     C
- CU 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 
.0a,                   C                      C
U)  0     0~~~~~~~~~  C c  0)  C  t j0  7
a)   .WEa  CD   .0         a) -a            a,ca) a
0          0  CL      CL~~     0      co
D                     - ca-  a) oa,  S C.0  a)a,a
u     r-  EO    E   n  C   r-a.  -  Ea,  C 
LU      (D  5>L )                                    coCa)C0
a,   aa,    C      C. CD a -  '  M  c
C     C)~   03
z  a),aa             a-(   )0.      _-    C0     nE0
0  3  0   C.)            (L.0  20   C
ECU)  ~ ,a,U                   od  a,      a,
a,~~~  a,U)j  C~~~~~)a,u)a
Ca,  2t~~~~~~C w  a,~~~~CCc(1a,t5a  - C
a,  if     a,~~~~~~~~~~~.  ,  t  a,   a,'aC
E   C     C E     C                          0
E0  E03)E* -Co             EOC      .0E-o   wcu
LU  0  C  0  0)~CU    .-..4            4-li
a,       *-.~~~~~~~~~0  L  0 .Ca  u.   Ca),  2oaE t  a,  a,
E~~~~~ ~~~~  2  C0~~~-  2E)  CM   Cjci
I-LI  ~ ~~~~~~~  a~~~~~-~~~  C~O            ififC 
L..C   a,V~~~~~..  .2~ 0  .a,
z   C  .0.2c0       L 2 o>,             C>
0..   W~~~~~~~  CI2D.~~~~~~~~  UJD.~~~~'  -a  0 a 



a.e (a  m.        tuY^
,0  a)      - 0 u  0  CL)  -0 a0  ) 
Q O   O   a 0   0   Q O   o   s   o ~ ~  a 0  
0  2   a) 1i  Q)   0     a) e En   2
u= ) E s  5E  z): Z ;o 3s j: r  I  21 E   sE  sa
tX   ~  2 zo  n  En o     o
a) E     a)*  E  a) E  0   a )  3E   t
3  E   E 6  o   .: o       ' c  E 
11   0  2 3 a) CD   :  CD  E a) w
Z  j =~~~r 2  8 E ~  c  E E  > 2   2 
>^   X  2   .c   o  X  ,,,   X   _   -  or- 
X  ~~~~C-E oL o   'E 3:n L E  E  Ca  An  
tlz~~~~t  :3 s  Qn on s, 3 o   c 'Ca 
3   En  2c     n  0  0  oCD   >  o  D
eL  ccn  E = u  E o  E -=  =E XF
a)  :F  EEDE C  EC 
st: ~ ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ ,E  22w  E  2 0
LL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C



E                  E
1          -tg                            z
<         2                        < SE
-0    =                                   =  -i =         -i
CL           D- -Fa                                   0)
z                  z               z
C)                 0               0   >,           >1 L)        <
c     .6    :01             am              -0  a:,      -0   a)       z                          a)
-  Cn 0            .,no          C.: ,,-                                           8 4c;
EL <                                     m
cn                                                           cn CO L-
tn COL   <     :F  2  caL   <       nn caL   <  't-0 -CE, U -                               (a    C,) C
cu CO    <        m  m     <      CO CO     q. ?   C                                       (1)    -  0
-r- <                 <         <                   C: 0- Z         C L                  a) >      -0 cm
<  :L- -    0.    <            EL    :t_-      IL  (I a)        CL a) 'D     0
o   3:         -   0              - 0  3:         - D                                       t   K  K'; AS
<      cn    a)           (n              cn cn        'n
0- W                             a) a
u)          C                m -0 0
m      C,        a) E J
(L                                              r-            C  0     :1
icn                                                                                            a) E
C6 (L        :3    .6 a-        -5 Oa a,                  -o
2:1       -                               cn -   >,.CD     n     (LI 2    cn  a)        'n                      cu >,
r                                                                     E
0 .0  0      C     o      0         0.0   0     c   2  L) c  q   2            C
a)     0           0         -6     CD    0      r-    0        -5     a                 >
Q_     8
0-    0                      C, Ccl       0     C-U    L) :tf          LI             8     R  a) 93
o(A                             -   0cn                                                        cn C   r-
cn    -                                                            a) -  a) CD U)  -i 3r Cn
.0                                                D-                     -
C-n                An -Ft    T ' i-n CD            cn CO    <   -1 -     -             -0
0               0      CO    0  ?   L)    CD 0      0 0- M       tn           cn       CO
0     0      a$           m
CD 0 LL   0        a) 0      o  L)
U)        a)                          U-               LL     a)                                               -W  0
CL                     a)    a) CL        a) a)           'a)       <     0      ;,C
-c     ID a,           a)               <   >,
CL a) (L  CL          CIL a -r      a) a.    -r :t!    CL c            OL           'a     -a  E  >,
,  a)                     0.                    L5
t:n, :F;0  cn            0  U) F-         0  U)           W    F-         cn             CD LL CO X
cei E
a) <         CO
a)                                           Oa           tn                         -o            -3
0)
06                 06 0)            Ca           a)           0                             0
cu                 m            t            0            21                            (
-o             o -         2,
a)    OL           a) 'm U-                      CL                        >             E     Oa d   Ca
a)           E -o               E                Eo                        Ca 06        0                       0 .0
a).Fn           a)        0)4-- .-.r-                M -0 fb =    0
cn LLI                w                                                                  a) tn <
>
A)            cn
cn    a)        C  cn ca)          (n2                        E  M,z)                      -5   2
0 -0 'F, '-                                                                          .42
'-                         .0 -0  OL                                                    >        cn
o-    t         z- 0      P     -   0-                        Ca C     'Fu cu
(a -r- (D CL       C13 c    0.     CD c  a)        E 'fi        (n U)        L)           1-n -ac) tn O- -5
U)        g) Z  C            11-                              (1) 0)                                 :a     -   IL
0               CL)  'a     -Tz    lz       0),-         =   :3       -
0        -                                   t- CZ!             1!         0  cn                      14 -s     .  r-::
o            E0     a)          E   Ea)       E               co                                      U)     CM   -r-
Ca        E                   E     0)                        C   V3           o  D                    (1)          0
cm 2               Cp                        co              (.) -07                              :t-
.   CL           CL    CL    :5                               0   a) Q)                      :3 0   C:
U)      =   a                               .-  0-.- LU      E            a) -                       0
0.           'n    CL                                                                 U) 'O
nE                           -o        u)
0                     m                  co                           0   C3                                             r- E
(L) CL =3                     Co     a)
P:      U)                                  r,                                                                           C
a)                 CD     s     8         W- cli      -a   C  .0                      D-       -C
(n C:                                  E .0
cu >                                                 0 :E!
0ZE;                                                               C) 0)    CL
co8             CD o            Ca 0             0) C3        E        <   Ca            CL
L)-                       r            -            to
C-             -a P en a)      'E     to                    -a    -z C,)=
a)                                           .0                                                'O
E                  1-- -o             -oc    a)        cm           CL)                     cn           M   CL)
co 3                                         E                                                           :g 8 8
a  cn              0cn                                     m                             C 2    cn
.1                            o  C.0    >        C                '5
w,                 (L)                                              U,     CM               0
m         8                     15 2
E0              E  Scn          E                         sn                         C) E          00
c  ct)                               U) a)
LLI               E   E'--                    .(L)                                                            'E -r- -5  0  tn OL
E               E'P- CL         -:3
0              'F  0                o     CD                                             0  0   0
(L)-                                -M -o                       a)
Co                           o  u      o     r  (O        E0 r- 0                                     'S
R                          4
U)                           2  eccnl- :5       4-:       w   (a VCZ,                        'n    En4
- E w '5 8 x
(n 0     .0     cn
a)                    a)                               E                                 'a I=     o     co
<                     >               9) -o  0                           .2 .2                                 >, COL.         x
C                                En
CL) CD                           a) >,                                      <  'a  Eco
16                  a)                              P
3: a)                                                                              oE
a)
-0                                                                                           tn    Z         a)
cm                               a)    CD                                             a)
m C m
ma)                             a)               E     co     0                             ui        >
cL 0  E                          a)           cn a)                            CD     co
MCM                             CL                               m                                    j_-
-         cn              0)     m      En m                       0  C  5
CL                 a) m   0         m               M     -      0) I                           m     0  8+
U) =  -                          C     -o     cm
cn                              cu
a)                 (n U)                         cu    Ca[                                      a)    ld
m                             m E
(D E  (D                         E                                          UJ E   r
tm U)              >  0             cm                    C      r- (D
r- cu                                               C                                           a)    cu 3:
CL M  m         C                             ;5                            CL        a)E
0)                        0  r- -C        0                Ca :3 cm        m                       a) a)
0)        0                     0         co              cm m 'E          0                              a)    -6- E
-  =   0         a)                           0   U)                      r-
cn a)           ul                                                                             -
-a 4-.:                                                 a)    E   E                      -   a .
tA     a)                                                                                          ') o =
m      M  r- M            a) cn tn        0                                                        C     -0 r- a)
C)     M  0>,             r-    to                                                                          49 r- M
-3 -+
rm- 10          a)                                                              0
c  a)                                  0     .5 Ca  m                      -5  cL
C         0                                                   rj .0        CL
4;                t5                                                                    g     8
a)    >               a)                               :3        a) -Fa                                      U)
CL -:;      N !P                                 -      cr-
:? tn                                                Z
0co                                                                                          a)
U)     2                            m                           a)       co    zt
0  m                      C) co (D =  a)  CL                        0                                U 6      2
<                         co .         <   ci-                     CL    Z   R 0
42                                                                                                                               .4  0  cn
O)o C
> It
a) c o      r
M     cd  a)
'E
8  o     cn
CD    co 0 Z)
CL                                                                                                 cn E         -  E
E                                                                                                     m         -HE
a)        >, a)
co    06 49
0
Jq                                        cm                                                        E  a)
C                                                                                                            m
0  r                                r-                                                                8      cm
cm                                                      -cu          a
LU                         E                         0                cm
Ca jo-                                                                                          m  2 -E;
8 -o  CL        a)
>                                                                                                 LL r-cll      ul2
0                                           E
C
C)                         ui        U)                                               C/)



(1) a         CL) .6              Oa               -a
CL              0-            Cl-              (L               EL
LL              LL            LL               LL                LL
A  CL           A  (L         A  cl.           cn CL             Ao (L
(a C:l         r)) 0          Fo 0             U) 0              U) 0
0               tn           ED                cn               En
m  a)           co (1)        co (1)           co a)
CL -0           a. a          O- -o            a. a              a. -a
CL              a. (D         EL               (L                CL        <
-j        <     -i        < -J          <      -J         <      -J
a-        =     (I -a     -r CL         'r     a.         1:     a.
>1 CL     Z     >1 CL     z             z                z
C)  >1 CL             >1 CIL           >1 CL
.0  CL    0     -0  CL        .0  CL    C)     -0  CL     0      -0  a     0
m     O      C  m     06  c   cu    Oa      ,  m      od     a   m     06
.0 <   cn         -      cn
<     .21)      < c2n        <-       U)    0 <        (O    0<
<               < 'E          <      -         <       E  (D <
a)        0     a)        0   a)        C)     2c)   oz    0     (1)   z  0
(L    a         CL  CL        a.      a        a-      OL        EL
=3 cn         =3 ta       -    :3 Lo
(n    U) =                           U)
cn                        EA (n         U)
a)              4)       1  (1) M      t!     a)     0   C      Q)     0
0      cu   r- L)      m  r- 0       cu     C  CLLI) Oa  cu  r-     -a
a)    -      -  (1)   -   -   (L)   -      .          -
:3        :3   15 -CO        15 D-      75         -  Co 3      ':5 CL M75
0         0     0             0                0                        0c
0 C      -
a0    r-
0               0 J- 0 - 0                     0                 o,
o                             o                C)                o
'E An           'E An      C) r- An                (n           -E
<  jr: Z)
-1 -Fa  <    L) =3 -ffi  <    :3                             CD
CL               E               E,u    0      E   r,            E,u       C3     Ecu
a) E   E        a)     E  w   a)     E  a)         E                E   E(D
-r- 2               0             a            j-  0   E             0  8C'
U)          8u)       F-  ': 8 U)      F- --     U)
a)
J_-                         cn
cn                                        C
.2       (D                r                       0      Ca
CL                                                        0 -M   0 :r-3
CL                        4--           m   0
co                                                                        -o
LU                    .2 8                           co               0 o E         -
0             LM                             I E
Z,                  -6 E
T3     06 CL
m                                           M  L)
tn CL       a)            E                                      0 2                                                                r-
.6 0        _r_                            -; E                 CD W
(D      -a                                  cl a) E       p).2 o
0                      r- >        a) a)             cn               c: 6
0                CD       >   D                                               o  a)
L)       u                                                                              0 >
'D                         a             M  0   EX ,
.r- Ca       CL                             cn               co
0                                  E             .0  cu            c  a) -z-  c)           CL
C            CD                         :3 tn CU                cu
CM                        E                 Ca CM                a)
cu a)
EL tm                     cn
<        U)                                                       t   a) -p: c)    .2
co            a) CL                         m                u -
E            0         t! r-           -; r- -   :E; w
CU                 CU M
CL                                      a)                cL n
E             E           8
cm                       .-   8         D. E                                  E
-o  cn E         r-        a) Ca               :E         >   Co 0 .0
r- cn                            (6        :F; a, R       2  LL L) 16
M  w                          cm              .'n
LU       0             r  r-           O-        C   Ia)           a)    cu m    CL Q)
EM 2   'n       a)           -EE               E   5      -  zi
-J                                               t                          CL
a            -rn co cu    'E            0                              m   u) 'E
cu         x. c.
L)                                 CL
0   co E     2   'o        C) -a  U)        ul E   um) LO)   Lu  E   w
rn
-J                                                                -Fu Oa                w  a)
i C             _   a)
r W                  0             0 =
r-               t             r- .>  cm
U)                                                   0                              cn
cm.
a)0           M                0      0
.6 70                    0)
a)            C  C
'E                       o  a) -
CL               8   0            'r- t   -
0  co 06                           8 -ro a)
;> 2
(D CL
a)                               cn      n                r  U) P
A                       CL M      =3
.2
E      In                          0  rn
-;- - Fn .2                     -  0   CD
0                         M r                             C
CD               08            CU .0               'E  m
>1        8                        E     .0
CD                        a)     m         -U                0
w                                       t-_                  r   CD
ro- 6 p -a                           0   CM
C6 =   cn               (D
42             E  (n 10                a)
co                                      r- ?.,               0,                >
r-           Oa m                  8  -          to CD -6
E             0       -6             CD CL 'Fj               m
C            .0        CD            E      o         E      -L)           o   a)o
o)                  cn0
CO                                                  a)            a)    -a .0 -   -0 -
>                                                       0
C:                          co                                       CL) (1)-         cn cu             :3
2             b             L)        C:
0 :3t .2                              - =
CL                     --r- .                    I  -      .
<      cu     6 o
:c                                        LU       E                 (L)   r- Ca      (L) -0       LU  a. (i)
r-
Q)
co            0  a)
CL            8  IM)
0                             E
E
0
E      u                             :f
LY         W    W                 =3
C             U)       cn
0      0      M        co           -d U)
w      U) LL      3    r-               r-



o6  a)     ~~~~~a)  a)        a)
cnC           U)C )              on
cn    ~~~~CA  co)      C)       to)
mCDco           Cl       Cl        CD)
a.  )   Cl)    El L)              CC
.C   2  .C     .C        EL-CL       -
Ex                   0        0
cCo  06  C  06  C:  .06  C  06    C  06
0<  0~~~~~~~~~<    ~   <      2
0L  0-  o0- EL  .L  O              o,  a
aC)  -  (U)  -_  CC)      Q C)     a lC) -
U)              caa-)0   a)CU (L  a
a).             a) a) .-
C0  CU  0C      a)(3     CCa-     C0CU5
oCCnMC  Du)U)t  E c      0  nu) CC)  c
=  _      -~c  -C  '--C   a-C       '-
8>0    _       C0        CU0      CUD
--     ~~~~0 _ Ci.
a) C.WCW.9   <a).      a)-       CD
a. 0~- ~Eo -a<C             <C CCC
u~a) EEa)  CD) E  )<  OE WU  aEaG)  CD Ea)
0-F      :  /   n      _~ CUCU   _U )
-~~~~  0  .-  ~~~~~CD 0 uJ  u_   Cl) 0
CD   0  0~~~~~~~~~~~~
>    ~  m U  L  '-c     .2 cm 8   CML
w     =   06     z3A%n cUl )  a 
r_       - , c/)o  .2  ED> a  E c  )E  -C
Z      CU            a     E0 >    E 2      EO0
CUU)   0LI     0C)0        a
C,  >8I  .  UC   En       C  . a) C
o              CCDE ~~L  uoCU ~;2        -   
CCC  CC)  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~  .O.a)c r  L
Z              '~~~~~0-CC)a)a0  CU  a)  CU  CU M 
C.  CU    --U - 0L                   .
CD  a,  CUa,  ~ ~ ~ ~~  .~~CC)  *..-Cg)   a,  c
~~~~  C~~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~ LC
CU-E        ES.ua) c      CUL cn
~~'  U)   0>''-- -OenUD)   _Mcnc
E 0E      0a-C 6           b         60
.4 ~~'  f.2  E~~~CU>'Q  Eva)   E)0      E)
O   o   ~~~~a c  )  :  n2E   E2  8        0t-  l
cr . 3Z<Z   a).C  CaDC    a)
EaE)4 -u)a  o   oM        -
a)          C~~~j  C  )  LU(
LU      CL~~   CCU-C 52 E 
C                 0  0    0  0 a)     C
r-  Ca  Cd - cmC)_
CUC     3:   :    a a)    -a       )  c
U)      C    00)'        C      -:_   =
a)  0)     a))a)   0)     a)!  c
0   aC     a)nC     .0      -         0 ~  n
~~  C-C  ~~~0c::Z;~  CU~ coac       C   C
U)      -C    C)D 
a)   '- D        C 
Cl)  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   a)~=  a)U  a)
06'              06               C
0)  C~~~  0CU3     C      c
CCE3  3        ICa)
E 0z      .        0       )2
a,    _____~~~~~~~~~~,p~  ~  _ 
2 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20)C  -
C)  -                D~~L)C:~ 
E   Ir0'                    - 
E             C:: E   C
Ca) 16  E)        06    D ;)
RM  Lr -d  =E          0              . 
E a) CC   0aa       CD    0         CU
a)~~~~         ~   oCU0~a
CU~~~~~~U



0 in
<   II
I   2  uj  ,E 
.0~~~~~
u  a,~~. a -   C
<  n co  ET
c:  Lo  U  -
0.   a
C E
~~  (cia~~  (
E U  a0
~~ -E
I-  ~  ~~~~ -  E 
I-   -  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
a) .6cm0
0  70  0
Cu Ca) w                                          O
I-   -- 
0~~~~~~~~~~ 
t Ca,
co~~~~~~~~~~~1
a0
00c
I. C c
E ,C-
0~~~~~~~~0
C.,~~~~~~~~~~~C
Cu~~~~~~~~~~~~(
C~~~~~~~~~C
a
C~~~~~~~~~~~~C
C ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ C 5
C          ~~~~~0
Ot-o
LL~~~~~~~>-



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
Annex IV - Ficha De Pre-Avaliacao
According to Mozambican EIA Regulations (1996) all development projects are subject
to environmental screening. Prior to granting permission to proceed with a project, a
proponent is obliged to complete a Pre-evaluatiol Form ('Ficha de Pre-Avaliac5o') that
has been developed by the Ministry for Coordination of Environmental Affairs (MICOA).
The nature, type and location of the project is described in the environmental screening
form with a preliminary indication of potential socio-econornic and biophysical impacts
(number of people/ communities affected, sensitive habitats, threatened species, etc).
Based on the screening exercise MICOA makes a decision on whether an EIA is
required or not. In the event of an EIA not being required lhe proponent is still obliged
to describe methods and procedures for proper environmerital management (storage of
semi-hazardous materials, solid waste disposal, etc).
The screening form is provided below.
100



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
MINISTERIO PARA A COORDENA,CAO DA ACQAO AMBIENTAL
DIRECQAO NACIONAL DE AVALIA,CAO DO IMPACTO AMBIENTAL
INFORMAQAO AMBIENTAL PARA PRE-AVALIA,CAO DE PROJECTOS DE
DESENVOLVIMENTO
1     Nome da actividade:
2     Tipo de actividade:
a) Turistica     Industrial X       Agro-pecuaria D
Outro      D
Especifiquc
3     Identifica,ao do(s) proponente(s):
4     Endere,o e contacto:
5     Localiza,cao da actividade:
5.1   Localiza,co administrativa:
Bairro de               Vila
Cidade
Localidade                          Distrito fie
Provincia de
5.2   Meio de Inser,co:
Urbano Lii      Rural D
101



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
6     Enquadramento no zoneamento:
Espa,o habitacional  C     Industrial C   Servi,co F    Verde D
7     Descri,cao da actividade:
7.1   Infra-estrutura da actividade, suas dimens6es e capacidade instalada (juntar
sempre que possivel as pe,as desenhadas e escritas da actividade):
7.2   Actividades associadas:
7.3   Breve descri,co da tecnologia de operagAo:
7.4   Actividades principais e complementares:
7.5   Tipo, origem e quantidade de mao de obra:
7.6   Tipo, origem e quantidades de materia-prima:
7.7   Produtos qufmicos citados cientificamente a seremn usados: (caso a lista seja
longa devera produzir-se em anexo)
102



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
7.8   Tipo, origem e quantidade de consumo de agua e energia:
7.9   Tipo, origem e quantidade de combustiveis e lubrificantes a serem usados:
7.10  Outros recursos necessarios:
8     Posse da terra (situa,co legal sobre a aquisi,cao do espa,o fisico):
9     Alternativas de localiza,co da actividade:
(Motivo da escolha do local de implanta,co da actividade e indicando
pelo menos dois locais alternativos)
103



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
10    Breve informa,cfo sobre a situa,co ambiental de reflar&ncia local e regional:
10.1  Caracteristicas fisicas do local de implantagdo da actividade:
Planicie  II            Plarialto        'Vale  Montanha    ]
10.2  Ecossistemas predominantes:
Rio   1-j   Lago K      Mar   K    Terrestre  []
10.3  Zona de localizac3o:
Zona costeira K] Zona do interior L       liha   L
10.4  Tipo de vegetagdo predominante:
Floresta K]       Savana K           IDutros K] (especifigue)
10.5  Uso da terra de acordo com o piano de estrutura ou outra politica vigente:
Machamba Li       Habitacional K]   Industrial  K]
ProtecgAo  K      Outros    1       (especifique)
10.6  Infra-estruturas principais existentes em redor da area de actividade:
11    Informacao complementar atraves de mapas:
* Mapa de localiza,co (a escala conveniente)
* Mapa de enquadramento da actividade na zona de localiza,ao (a escala
conveniente)
* Outra informa,co relevante que facilite a aprecia,co de actividade.
Maputo, _    de               de
104



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
Annex V - Environmental and Social Screening Form
The Environmental and Social Screening Form (ESSF) has been designed to assist in
the evaluation of sub-projects of the DPFP in Mozambique. The form, in conjunction
with information on potential impacts and mitigation measures of sub-projects (Annex
111), is designed to place information in the hands of reviewers so that mitigation
measures, if any, can be identified and/or that requirements for further environmental
analysis be determined.
The ESSF contains information that will allow reviewers to determine if endangered or
threatened species or their habitat, protected areas or areas of relatively intact forest
are likely to be present, and if further investigation is, therefore, required. The ESSF
will also identify potential socio-economic impacts that will require mitigation measures
and or resettlement and compensation.
Some types of sub-projects have a higher likelihood of causing unacceptable negative
impacts. They may require an environmental assessment during sub-project planning,
and should be screened by suitably qualified technical personnel based on a site visit.
These sub-project types are:
* dam construction,
* the creation and/or rehabilitation of irrigation schemes,
* bridge construction, and
* tertiary road construction.
A.    DETAILS OF THE PERSON WHO IS RESPONSIBLE FOR FILLING OUT
THIS FORM
Name of Sub project:
Name of Sub project Executing Organization:
Name of Person Completing this form:
Department and title:
Name of Company or Organization:
Telephone number:
Fax number:
E-Mail address:
B.    CHARACTERISTICS OF THE PROJECT
Ensure that the sub-project application document contains, as appropriate, the
following information:
* Brief overview description of the proposed project
* Reasons for proposing the project
* A plan showing the boundary of the development including any land required
temporarily during construction
* The physical form of the development (layout, buildings, other structures,
construction materials, etc)
105



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
* Description of the main processes including size, capacity, throughput, input and
output
* Any new access arrangements or changes to existing rcad layout.
* A work program for construction, operation and commissioning phases, and
restoration and after-use where appropriate
- Construction methods
* Resources used in construction and operatior (materials, water, energy, etc.)
* The relationship with other existing/planned projects
Information about alternatives that were considered
* Information about mitigation measures incorporated iilto the sub-project plan to
avoid or mitigate adverse environmental or social irmpacts
*  Other activities which may be required as a consequence of the project (e.g. new
roads, extraction of aggregate, provision of new water supply, generation or
transmission of power, increased housing ancl sewage clisposal)
*  Details of any other permits required for the project
C.    LOCATION OF THE PROJECT
Ensure that the sub-project application document contains, as appropriate, the
following information:
* Maps and photographs showing the location of the project relative to surrounding
physical, natural and man-made features
* Existing land-uses on and adjacent to the site and any future planned land uses
* Zoning or land-use policies
* Protected areas or features
*  Sensitive areas
*  Details of any alternative locations which have been considered
D.    THE CHECKLIST
Project Siting:
1. The Natural Environment
(a) Describe the vegetation in/adjacent to the Project area
(b) Estimate and indicate where vegetation might need to be cleared
(c) Are there any environmentally sensitive areas or threatened species (specify below)
that could be adversely affected by the project?
(i) Intact natural forests Yes  No
(ii) Coastal dune forests Yes  No_
(iii) Riverine forest Yes  No_
106



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
(iv) Mangroves Yes     No_
(v) Wetlands (lakes, rivers, seasonally inundated areas) Yes  No
(vi) Habitats of endangered species for which protection is required under
Mozambican laws and/or international agreements. Yes   No_
(vii) Others (describe). Yes  No_
2. Protected Areas
Does the project area (or components of the project) occur within/adjacent to any
protected areas designated by government (national park, national reserve, world
heritage site etc.)
Yes       No_
If the project is outside of, but close to, any protected area, is it likely to adversely affect
the ecology within the protected area areas (e.g., interference with the migration routes
of mammals or birds)
Yes       No
3. Geology and Soils
Based upon visual inspection or available literature, are there areas of possible
geologic or soil instability (erosion prone, landslide prone, subsidence-prone)?
Yes       No_
Based upon visual inspection or available literature, are there areas that have risks of
large scale increase in soil salinity?
Yes         No_
4. River Ecology
Is there a possibility that, due to installation of structures, such as weirs and by-passes
for micro-hydro projects, the river ecology will adversely affected (especially in the "run
of the river generation" project)? Attention should be paid to water quality and quantity;
the nature, productivity and use of aquatic habitats, and variations of these over time.
Yes         No_
5. Landscape/aesthetics
Is there a possibility that the project will adversely affect the aesthetic attractiveness of
the local landscape?
Yes       No_
6. Historical, Archaeological or Cultural Heritage
107



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
Based on available sources, consultation with local authorities, local knowledge and/or
observations, could the project alter any historical, archaeological or cultural heritage
site or require excavation near same?
Yes       No_
7. Resettlement and/or Land Acquisition
Will involuntary resettlement, land acquisition, or oss of access to land be caused by
project implementation?
Yes       No_
8. Crops, Fruit Trees and Household Infrastructure
Will the project result in the permanent or temporary loss of crops, fruit trees and
household infra-structure (such as granaries, outside toilets and kitchens, etc)?
Yes_No_
9. Natural Habitats
Will the project have adverse impacts on natural habitats that will not have acceptable
mitigation measures?
Yes_        No
Construction Related Activities:
10. Resource Use
Will construction or operation of the Project use large amounts of local natural
resources such as water, timber, gravel from river beds, stones especially any
resources which are non-renewable or in short supply?
Yes   No_
11. Hazardous Materials
Will the Project involve use, storage, transport or handling of substances or materials
which could be harmful to human health or the environment?
Yes-No_
12. Waste Generation
Will the Project produce solid wastes during construction or decommissioning?
Yes-No_
13. Use of Machinery
Will construction require the use of heavy machinery or equipment?
Yes_No-
108



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
14. Noise pollution from generators
Will the operating noise level exceed the allowable decibel level for that zone?
Yes_     No_
Operational Phase:
15. Waste Management
Will the Project result in the production of solid wastes during the operational phase?
Yes   No_
Will the Project result in hazardous wastes (including hospital wastes) during the
operational phase?
Yes   No_
16. Waste water management
Will the Project produce waste water that requires drainage?
Yes   No_
E. RECOMMENDATION
Circle one of the following screening recommendations:
1.    All answers to the questions in Section D above are "No". There is no need for
further action.
2.    For all issues indicated by "Yes" answers to the questions in Section D above,
the proponent has included adequate mitigation measures in the project design.
No further planning action is required. Implementation of the mitigation
measures will require supervision by the proponent and the appropriate local
authority.
3.    For the following issues indicated by "Yes" answers in Section D above (specify
questions numbers):
the proponent has not provided adequate mitigation measures. The proponent
must revise the proposed project plan to provide adequate mitigation.
Specialist advice may be required in the following areas:
109



DPFP Environmental Analysis
4.    For the following issues indicated by "Yes" answers in Section D above (specify
question numbers):
the proponent has not provided adequate mitigation measures. The proponent
must prepare an environmental assessment of the proposed project, and revise
the project plan according to the results of that assessment. Specialist advice
will be required in the following areas:
G.    SIGNATURE
DATE
110



DPFP: Environmental Analysis
Annex VI - A summary checklist of possible compliance requirements for
developing sub project EMPs
* Health, Safety & Environment
* Health & safety of local populations
* Training
Consultation with Statutory & Non-Statutory Bodies & the Public
Environmental Impact Assessment
* Environmental Monitoring
* Site Inspection & Audits
* Method Statements & Procedures (e.g. bridge construction, dam construction,
water offtake for irrigation schemes, road construction, borrow pit management)
* Location & planning of campsites & construction material storage depots
* Access (roads/routes) to campsites & construction areas
* Vegetation clearing & site leveling for campsite & depot construction
* Fire prevention & control
* Community health management
* Dismantling & rehabilitation of construction campsites
* Archaeological sites, graves & sacred sites
* Appointment of an Environmental Site Officer (ESO)
* General methods for clearing vegetation (especially for road projects)
* Clearing of vegetation in communal agricultural lands
* Clearing of woodland vegetation
* Clearing of riparian vegetation at river crossings (bridges and culverts)
* Clearing of vegetation at or near wetlands & pans
* Construction at river crossings
* Drainage lines, approaches to pans & depressions
* Cleanup & preparation of disturbed areas for re-vegetation
* Restoration of ground contours & erosion control
* Removal & disposal of refuse & surplus materials
* Remediation of compacted soils & general ground preparation (return of topsoil)
* Return &/or addition of stockpiled rootstock & mulch material
* Re-vegetation of disturbed areas
v Control of alien & invasive plant species
v Activities & related costs



