Report No. PID10504
Project Name             MOZAMBIQUE-Decentralized Planning and (@)
Financing Project
Region                   Africa Regional Office
Sector                   Sub-national government administration (30%);
Central government administration (30-);
Micro- and SME finance (20%); Roads & highways (20%)
Project ID               P001807
Borrower(s)              GOV
Implementing Agency
Address MIN. OF PLANNING & FINANCE
Contact Person: Mr. Custodio dos Mucudos, MADER
Tel: 258 1 416614
Fax: 258 1 418142
Email: pdan@tropical.co.mz
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        September 13, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      January 19, 2003
Bank Approval Date       May 8, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Socio-economic indicators: The latest census figures (1997) paint a stark
picture for Mozambique. Almost 70% of the Mozambican population live below
the poverty line. Seventy-one percent of the total population lives in
rural areas, where the incidence of poverty is 719 (compared to 62% in
urban areas). Sixty percent of people aged 15 and above are illiterate and
in rural areas this includes 569 of men and 85% of women. Only 3% of the
population have attended secondary school, technical schools or higher
education. Life expectancy at birth is only 42 years and infant mortality
high at 146 out of 1000. Modern brick housing accounts for only 11% of the
country's homes. Only 5% of Mozambican homes have electricity and only 8%
have any type of piped water. Remaining households must rely on rivers,
lakes or other sources for their water, and toilets or latrines can only
be found in 34% of the homes. These figures indicate the most urgent need
for priority actions and programs to improve public access to basic
services and infrastructures, such as water, sanitation, roads, education
and health care.
Development strategy: The Government's main development objective is thus
the reduction of poverty. In April 1999, the Council of Ministers adopted
a poverty action plan, which articulates its poverty reduction and growth
strategy. This was incorporated into the PRSP (or PARPA) for 2001-2005
which aims to reduce poverty by 30% over thirteen years. The PARPA
emphasizes six priority areas, namely (i) education (ii) health (iii)
agriculture and rural development (iv) basic infrastructure (v) good
governance and (vi) macro-economic and financial management. These are
considered "fundamental" as they are essential for reducing poverty and
stimulating growth and also because their impact is both deep and broad.



The linkage between economic development and decentralized planning and
management is based upon evidence that increased accountability of
government structures to their client populations tends to correlate with
improved delivery of essential services and enhanced welfare. Thus, having
set the above goals of rural poverty reduction, the Mozambican government
explicitly recognizes that a poverty-reducing rural development strategy
and good governance strategy cannot be pursued without a substantial
decentralization of decision-making, affording local institutions the
opportunity to participate and influence the allocation of resources.
"Deconcentration, and administrative and financial decentralisation to the
provinces and districts are vital, since they will contribute to better
interaction at local level between public institutions and the population
(including the poor) in the fight against poverty through socio-economic
development" (PARPA, pg 41).
Shifts in economic management: The Ministry of Planning and Finance (MPF)
has been overseeing a gradual shift in the instruments of the national
development planning system. The development planning process has moved
from a bureaucratic and technocratic exercise to one with greater scrutiny
by elected officials and the contributions of local communities. The
approach to development planning is moving from a highly centralized to an
increasingly decentralized approach, recognizing the need to devolve to
sub-national levels both responsibilities and resources for development
planning and to develop capacity at local administration levels.
The basic conditions for horizontal or multi-sector planning exercises
were introduced in 1993 through the Triennial Public Investment Plan
(PTIP), a three-year rolling plan for non-recurrent capital expenses. This
provided a share of the budget for the provincial administrations to
finance and manage investment projects identified by the districts. There
have been a number of other laws and policy shifts since then, moving
slowly towards a more deconcentrated and decentralized approach to
governance in Mozambique. These include a constitutional amendment in 1996
and the passage of municipal reform legislation in 1997 which created the
dual logic of local administration, differentiating between urban and
rural areas. Urban areas are administered by elected local goverments
while rural areas remained governed as part of a three-tier deconcentrated
system (central government, provincial government and district
administration). MPF and the Ministry of State Administration (MAE) have
also issued guidelines for District Development Plans (September 1998), a
Decree (15/2000) linking local organs of state with community authorties
and a draft Law pending approval on Local Organs of State.
There is as yet no clearly stated intention to move to elected local
government in rural areas or at provincial level. Rather, the reforms
would focus on redefining lines of authority and strengthening human
resources at the District level and introducing participatory structures.
This would build the foundation for establishing the district as a budget
entity and increasing local autonomy.
2. Objectives
The overall objective of the Decentralized Planning and Finance (DPFP)
Project is to strengthen the institutional capacity of local
administrations to plan and manage investments in rural districts in a
participatory and accountable manner. Strengthening of capacity will be
-2 -



done using a learning-by-doing approach of district investment grants, as
well as other forms of capacity building, particularly in the areas of
participatory planning, financial management and works management. The
project will also assist central government ministries and agencies to
develop a more conducive policy and institutional framework for good
governance, development management and public service delivery in rural
districts.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
IDA brings considerable experience in the areas of fiscal and
administrative decentralization as well as extensive experience and
knowledge in working with communities in particpatory planning processes
for rural development. Examples in the East and Southern Africa region
include projects in Zimbabwe, Kenya, Uganda, South Africa and Mozambique
itself. IDA also has relevant experience from a variety of social funds in
the region, such as those in Zambia and Malawi. IDA has an advantage in
bridging across sector ministries and working in coordination with other
donors, as well as the ability to mobilize sufficient funding to expand
pilot programs and undertake longer term programs. It is already working
with the GOM and other donors in areas of Public Sector Reform, Rural
Development and Municipal Development among others, providing
opportunities for synergy in support of the GOM's broader public sector
reform agenda.
4. Description
Overall description: The project is intended as the first stage of a
long-term program of institutional strengthening, building upon reforms
and pilots already underway. The DPFP would develop and extend the GOM's
capacity building program for district administrations to plan and manage
investments in rural districts in a participatory and accountable manner.
Much of the capacity building would be through learning-by-doing, using
Local Investment Grants to finance small-scale public investments in rural
areas. The DPFP would also support training of district and provincial
officials to fulfil a broad range of local government responsibilities for
public administration, including planning, accounting, procurement and
monitoring. The project would also assist the GOM to develop a more
conducive policy and institutional framework for good governance,
development management and public service delivery in rural districts. The
DPFP is thus a capacity building project for local administrations in
Mozambique, using technical assistance, training and development grants to
support learning-by-doing.
Geographic scope: The Minister of Planning and Finance requested the Bank
to focus on four provinces in the central zone of the country: Zambezia,
Sofala, Tete and Manica. These provinces were prioritized based on (i)
poverty focus and (ii) relative absence of other programs on local
planning and finance. At effectiveness, a pre-programmed number of
districts in two provinces (Manica and Zambezia) can quality for funds
under the Local Investment Facilities, with districts from all four
provinces potentially eligible by year three. Extensive consultations have
been held throughout the four provinces and in Maputo during preparation.
All four provinces will receive general capacity building support for
district staff in core areas of governance from effectiveness. Overall
institutional and policy reform support will also be provided under the
project to strengthen the national program of the Government of
- 3-



Mozambique.
Province and District roles: The Provincial level will play the key role
in (i) determining district eligibility for financing under the project
and subsequent years' eligibility based on performance; (ii) providing
mentoring and technical assistance to Districts in the areas of
participatory planning and budgeting, financial management, works
management and supervision; and (iii) identifying training needs for
district and some provincial staff and procuring training from appropriate
suppliers. The primary role of the Districts should be to (i) engage rural
communities in the setting of priorities through a participatory planning
and budgeting process and (ii) develop basic financial and works
management skills through learning-by-doing and targeted training courses.
To attain its objectives, the DPFP would include five components:
1. Participatory District Planning
2. Local Investment Grants
3. Capacity Building Component
4. Policy Reform Component
5 . Project Coordination Component
Component 1. Participatory District Planning
The Participatory District Planning Component would develop a
District-level participatory planning system based on civil society
consultation and participation. It would deepen and expand the experience
of a decentralized planning and finance pilot in Nampula province financed
by UNCDF, UNDP and the Netherlands. The outputs of the participatory
planning process would be District strategic and annual plans that would
form part of the GOM's annual planning and budgeting cycle. The component
would have two objectives (i) develop public sector capacity for district
planning and accountable plan implementation and (ii) Develop capacity
among rural communities to effectively participate in district planning.
The project will provide Technical Assistance in planning as well as the
development of methodological tools for community participation and
planning.
Component 2. Local Investment Grants
Financing for small rural infrastructure included in the annual plans
would be made available to eligible districts as local investment grants,
up to a certain threshhold and according to a set of qualification
criteria. There will be three grant windows or "facilities". Facility 1
will finance investments in district administrative infrastructure and
will be managed by the province (the District is beneficiary but has no
management role). Facility 2 will finance investments in small-scale
public social infrastructure prioritized by communities through a process
of participatory planning. The menu of eligible subprojects would include,
among others, primary schools, health posts, rural water supply and
sanitation, small-scale irrigation, feeder roads and bridges and rural
markets. The Provinces will take on co-management responsibility (with
Districts) for the financial and works management of Facility 2 as well as
oversight and mentoring responsibility for Districts. Works under Facility
2 would typically be carried out by small private contractors and private
inspectors would be responsible for physical progress inspections.
Facility 3 will provide very small discretionary funds to District
Administrations for direct community contracting for micro-projects. It is
expected that each District will receive no more than $10 000 per annum
- 4 -



thus limiting exposure while increasing responsibility and capacity for
financial management and supervision through "learning by doing" . The
project will provide technical assistance to government officials as well
as a management quality assurance function to strengthen the capacity of
provincial and district staff to carry out their responsibilities in
financial and works management. The intention is to use and/or improve
existing government systems and procedures as far as possible. In
addition, support may be provided to small private contractors to enable
them to effectively deliver quality infrastructure.
The funding of investments at the District level would be on a
programmatic basis. Each District would receive an initial annual
allocation based on selection or eligibility criteria. The specific
sub-projects to be financed each year would be selected locally, confirmed
for financing eligibility at the Provincial level, and prepared and
implemented with Provincial technical assistance and project coordination
unit oversight. Subsequent annual allocations would be made available
subject to the proper utilization of the previous year's allocation,
including participation and information sharing with local communities.
Component 3.Capacity Building: This component aims to strengthen the
capacity of local administration officials to undertake key local
government functions more effectively. Capacity building activities for
key Provincial and District officials would be provided based on the
identified roles and responsibilities of civil servants at each level, and
are likely to include training in basic public administration, planning
and budgeting and selected technical subjects. Specific training needs and
content will be identified with the assistance of contracted technical
experts. The outputs will include training needs assessments and plans for
each province, developed in a manner consistent with the national training
system and DPFP program requirements. Training funds will be made
available to the provinces to purchase appropriate courses from available
suppliers. The type of training purchased will include both supply-driven
and demand-driven content. Furthermore, the component will support the
placement of better qualified local administrative personnel in key posts
in the civil service, through technical assistance in recruitment, pre-
and in service training as well as improvements to living and working
conditions as necessary.
Component 4. Policy Reform. This component would consist of technical
assistance to the Ministry of Planning and Finance and to the associated
Minsistries (State Administration and Works & Housing) to improve
decision-making through policy analysis and for the further development of
the institutional and policy framework for decentralization. The support
will primarily take the form of a Technical Assistance facility to
purchase specific pieces of analysis and conduct consultations and/or
pilots needed to develop and test reforms and methodological tools. The
use of the facility will be linked to its contribution towards
decision-making in respect of progress towards decentralization.
Indicators of such progress are set out in a policy reform matrix agreed
between the GOM and Bank.
Component 5. Project Coordination. This component would consist of a
small core team of project coordination staff at central and provincial
level who would fulfil some World Bank-specific fiduciary functions and
- 5-



provide technical assistance to the government officials responsible for
project implementation and GOM fiduciary functions. The component would
also include the project monitoring and evaluation system which will be
developed in coordination with the national program and other donors. It
will include the strengthening of responsibilities by provinces for
monitoring and mentoring of district performance over time. Financial
audits as well as a management quality assurance function will also be
financed out of this component.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $0.00
IBRD
IDA $30.00
Total Project Cost $30.00
6. Implementation
The Ministry of Planning and Finance (MFP) is the lead implementing agency
of the project, through its Planning and Budget Department. It already had
anumber of pilot projects under its nascent decentralized planning and
financing program. MPF chairs the multi-sectoral steering committee for
the program which os made up of senior representatives from the Ministry
of Planning and Finance, Ministry of State Administration, Minsitry of
Agriculture and Rural Development and Ministry of Public Works.
The MPF has overall responsibility for the project. Its Provincial
Directorates of Planning and Finance (DPPF) would take primary
responsibility for all project financial flows and reporting from
provincial level, as well as direct responsibility for the Planning and
Investment Grants components. Technical support will be provided by the
Provincial Directorates of Public Works and Rural Development The
capacity building component will involve the Ministry of State
Administration's Provincial Directorates of Support and Supervision in
planning and programming.
At district level, the Administrator, while formally part of the Ministry
of State Administration system, responds to the DPPF for planning,
budgeting, disbursement and accounting matters. Public works and rural
development play important technical roles
but will not be resource managers or have executive responsibility. These
responsibilities lie with the MPF/DNPO,
the DPPF and the District Admninstrations.
A small Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be established in MPF with
some staff decentralized to support the provinces. However, all
decentralized planning, financing and works undertaken under component 1
will be the responsibility of civil servants whose primary fiduciary
responsibility is to the Government of Mozambique. The PCU will provide
mentoring and or/contract technical assistance and undertake some
non-sustainable World Bank-specific fiduciary tasks. A Monitoring and
Evaluation system will be developed for the project in coordination with
the national Program and other donors.
7. Sustainability
The institutional sustainability of the project will be based on the
- 6 -



involvement of mainstream public sector bodies (Ministries, Provincial
administrations, Districts) as implementing agencies. In this respect,
the project builds on and deepens the model of the Nampula District
Planning and Financing Project (supported by UNDP, UNCDF, and the
Netherlands). Government officials are the primary implementing agencies
and as far as possible, existing government systems and procedures are
utilized and where necessary strengthened to ensure effective planning,
budgeting and works management. The district planning process at the heart
of the project follows the government's budget system and annual cycle.
Grants are programmed and managed by civil servants in a manner consistent
with government procedures in order to minimize complexity and reduce the
establishment of parallel systems or staff. At the same time, government
systems are strengthened in currently weak areas, such as participatory
planning and downward accountability to communities. In respect of broader
capacity building, the project will support training for provincial and
district civil servants in key areas required for effective service
delivery in line with GOM mandates and the emerging civil service training
system (SIFAP).
Operation and maintenance of public investments will be promoted in
several ways: (i) the involvement of District administrations and District
Consultative Councils in planning and implementation; (ii) the requirement
for local contributions to sub-project costs; (iii) requiring an O&M plan
as a condition for approval of all investment proposals, including
agreement as required from related sector agencies that O&M resources are
available for investment projects.
Component 4 includes support for policy and institutional reform in
support of medium to longer term deconcentration and decentralization.
This policy reform agenda is a coordinated effort between the donors in
Mozambique involved in decentralization and the Government of Mozambique.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Experience gained in Mozambique and elsewhere in Africa (particularly
Uganda) over the last two decades shows that in order to succeed
decentralization projects should include: (i) meaningful participation in
planning and budgeting by local authorities and communities; (ii) indepth
participation in project design by core stakeholders at all levels in the
country; (iii) limited parallel and unsustainable project structures;
(iv) strengthening and where necessary creation of civic society
structures to provide a strong base from which to elicit participation;
(v) attention to sustainability of infrastructure through attention to
operations and maintenance; (vi) extensive efforts in capacity building
and institutional support for local administrations for the effective
management and supervision of public works; and (vii) emphasis on
improving the policy and institutional environment conducive to
decentralization. These are all being addressed as part of the project
design process.
Project design will incorporate additional lessons from the Mozambique
Rural Rehabilitation Project, the ongoing Municipal Development Project as
well as a number of other donor-funded pilot decentralization projects
such as the Nampula case.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
-7 -



Issues        This project is expected to have a net positive
impact on the environment through the provision of rural infrastructure
conducive to better social and environmental conditions. It is also
expected that the small-scale infrastructures to be built or rehabilitated
under this project would not generate significant negative environmental
effects. However, an Environmental Assessment is being done and the
operational manual will include screening criteria to ensure that
environmental considerations and risk mitigating strategies are taken into
account in the selection of the sub-projects and the preparation of the
District Development Plans. In addition, training on environmental issues
will be provided as part of the capacity building activities.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Lance Morrell
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:
Fax:
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
November 1, 2002.
-8-



