ISDS
THE VVORLD BANK GROUP                                                 A WorIld Frac'oi P,I Prrty
InfoShop
Report No: AC83
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 05/21/2003
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: MOZAMBIQUE                              Project ID: P001807
Project: Decentralized Planning and Financing Project  Task Team Leader: Lance Morrell
Authorized to Appraise Date: April 25, 2003      IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: August 26, 2003                   IDA Amount ($m): 36.60
Managing Unit: AFTUI                              Sector: Sub-national government administration
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  (30%); Central government administration (30%);
Status: Lending                                  Micro- and SME finance (20%); Roads and
highways (20%)
Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P);
Decentralization (P); Administrative and civil service
reform (P); Rural policies and institutions (P); Small
and medium enterprise support (S)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The overall objective of the Decentralized Planning and Finance (DPFP) Project is to
strengthen the institutional capacity of local administrations to plan and manage
investments in rural districts in a participatory and accountable manner.
Strengthening of capacity will be done using a learning-by-doing approach of district
investment grants, as well as other forms of capacity building, particularly in the areas of
participatory planning, financial management and works management. The project will
also assist central government ministries and agencies to develop a more conducive
policy and institutional framework for good governance, development management and
public service delivery in rural districts.
I.A.3. Project Description:
Overall description: The project is intended as the first stage of a long-term program of
institutional strengthening, building upon reforms and pilots already underway. The
DPFP would develop and extend the GOM's capacity building program for district
administrations to plan and manage investments in rural districts in a participatory
and accountable manner. Much of the capacity building would be through
learning-by-doing, using Local Investment Grants to finance small-scale public
investments in rural areas. The DPFP would also support training of district and



2
ISDS
provincial officials to fulfil a broad range of local government responsibilities for public
administration, including planning, accounting, procurement and monitoring. The project
would also assist the GOM to develop a more conducive policy and institutional
framework for good governance, development management and public service delivery in
rural districts. The DPFP is thus a capacity building project for local administrations in
Mozambique, using technical assistance, training and development grants to support
learning-by-doing.
Geographic scope: The Minister of Planning and Finance requested the Bank to focus on
four provinces in the central zone of the country: Zambezia, Sofala, Tete and Manica.
These provinces were prioritized based on (i) poverty focus and (ii) relative absence of
other programs on local planning and finance. At effectiveness, a pre-programmed
number of districts in these provinces can qualify for funds under the Local Investment
Facilities. Extensive consultations have been held throughout the four provinces and in
Maputo during preparation. All four provinces will receive general capacity building
support for district staff in core areas of governance from effectiveness. Overall
institutional and policy reform support will also be provided under the project to
strengthen the national program of the Government of Mozambique.
Province and District roles: The Provincial level will play the key role in (i) determining
district eligibility for financing under the project and subsequent years' eligibility based
on performance; (ii) providing mentoring and technical assistance to Districts in the areas
of participatory planning and budgeting, financial management, works management and
supervision; and (iii) identifying training needs for district and some provincial staff and
procuring training from appropriate suppliers. The primary role of the Districts should be
to (i) engage rural communities in the setting of priorities through a participatory
planning and budgeting process and (ii) develop basic financial and works management
skills through learning-by-doing and targeted training courses.
lTo attain its objectives, the DPFP would include five components:
1. Participatory District Planning
2. Local Investment Grants
3. Capacity Building Component
4. Policy Reform Component
5 . Project Coordination Component
Component 1. Participatory District Planning
The Participatory District Planning Component would develop a District-level participatory planning
system based on civil society consultation and participation. It would deepen and expand the experience
of a decentralized planning and finance pilot in Nampula province financed by UJNCDF, UNDP and the
Netherlands. The outputs of the participatory planning process would be District strategic and annual
plans that would form part of the GOM's annual planning and budgeting cycle. The component would
have two objectives (i) develop public sector capacity for district planning and accountable plan
imrnplementation and (ii) Develop capacity among rural communities to effectively participate in district
planning. The project will provide Technical Assistance in planning as well as the development of
methodological tools for community participation and planning.
Component 2. Local Investment Grants
Financing for small rural infrastructure included in the annual plans would be made available to eligible



3
ISDS
districts as local investment grants, up to a certain threshhold and according to a set of qualification
criteria. There will be three grant windows or "facilities". Facility I will finance investments in district
administrative infrastructure and will be managed by the province (the District is beneficiary but has no
management role). Facility 2 will finance investments in small-scale public social infrastructure
prioritized by communities through a process of participatory planning. The menu of eligible subprojects
would include, among others, primary schools, health posts, rural water supply and sanitation,
small-scale irrigation, feeder roads and bridges and rural markets. The Provinces will take on
co-management responsibility (with Districts) for the financial and works management of Facility 2 as
well as oversight and mentoring responsibility for Districts. Works under Facility 2 would typically be
carried out by small private contractors and private inspectors would be responsible for physical progress
inspections. Facility 3 will provide very small discretionary funds to District Administrations for direct
community contracting for micro-projects. It is expected that each District will receive no more than $10
000 per annum thus limiting exposure while increasing responsibility and capacity for financial
management and supervision through "learning by doing" . The project will provide technical assistance
to government officials as well as a management quality assurance function to strengthen the capacity of
provincial and district staff to carry out their responsibilities in financial and works management. The
intention is to use and/or improve existing government systems and procedures as far as possible. In
addition, support may be provided to small private contractors to enable them to effectively deliver
quality infrastructure.
The funding of investments at the District level would be on a programmatic basis. Each District would
receive an initial annual allocation based on selection or eligibility criteria. The specific sub-projects to
be financed each year would be selected locally, confirmed for financing eligibility at the Provincial
level, and prepared and implemented with Provincial technical assistance and project coordination unit
oversight. Subsequent annual allocations would be made available subject to the proper utilization of the
previous year's allocation, including participation and information sharing with local communities.
Component 3.Capacity Building: This component aims to strengthen the capacity of local administration
officials to undertake key local government functions more effectively. Capacity building activities for
key Provincial and District officials would be provided based on the identified roles and responsibilities
of civil servants at each level, and are likely to include training in basic public administration, planning
and budgeting and selected technical subjects. Specific training needs and content will be identified with
the assistance of contracted technical experts. The outputs will include training needs assessments and
plans for each province, developed in a manner consistent with the national training system and DPFP
program requirements. Training funds will be made available to the provinces to purchase appropriate
zourses from available suppliers. The type of training purchased will include both supply-driven and
demand-driven content. Furthermore, the component will support the placement of better qualified local
administrative personnel in key posts in the civil service, through technical assistance in recruitment, pre-
and in service training as well as improvements to living and working conditions as necessary.
Component 4. Policy Reform. This component would consist of technical assistance to the Ministry of
Planning and Finance and to the associated Minsistries (State Administration and Works & Housing) to
improve decision-making through policy analysis and for the further development of the institutional and
policy framework for decentralization. The support will primarily take the form of a Technical
Assistance facility to purchase specific pieces of analysis and conduct consultations and/or pilots needed
to develop and test reforms and methodological tools. The use of the facility will be linked to its
zontribution towards decision-making in respect of progress towards decentralization. Indicators of such
progress are set out in a policy reform matrix agreed between the GOM and Bank.
Component 5. Project Coordination. This component would consist of a small core team of project



4
ISDS
coordination staff at central and provincial level who would fulfil some World Bank-specific fiduciary
functions and provide technical assistance to the government officials responsible for project
implementation and GOM fiduciary functions. The component would also include the project monitoring
and evaluation system which will be developed in coordination with the national program and other
donors. It will include the strengthening of responsibilities by provinces for monitoring and mentoring of
district performance over time. Financial audits as well as a management quality assurance function will
also be financed out of this component.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
Please refer to the project description above (Geographic Scope). Districts will participate on a
programmatic basis and on the basis of eligibilty of selection criteria to be agreed by appraisal.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: Construction and operations of sub-projects, which are to be selected and implemented annually
on a programmatic basis, may have negative environmental impacts which would need to be avoided or
mitigated.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                     0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                             0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                       0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                 0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)         0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                  0 Yes * No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Infrastructure investments under Component 2 will likely have some environmental impact. The
investments under this component fall under various sectors such as water supply, drainage, sanitation,
solid waste management, access roads, construction of schools and health facilities. In addition, the
investments are sectorally varied given that the they are determined by local-level priorities which will
differ from one local government to another. Due to the diverse nature of the investments, the potential
environmental and social impacts and the scope of environmental and social analysis for each investment
would also vary. However, the anticipated types of investment are common community development



5
ISDS
projects whose potential environmental and social effects are well understood, unlikely to be significant,
and readily manageable. The project does not intend to displace any settler within the project location.
However, given the uncertainties of land acquisition, a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) was
prepared in accordance with OP 4.12, and Resettlement Plans subsequently developed and presented for
approval, when land taking is necessary. In addition, the RPF establishes the resettlement and
compensation principles, organizational arrangements and design criteria to be applied to meet the needs
of the people who may be affected by the project activities requiring land acquisition and /or denial,
restriction or loss of access to economic resources. It will specify a format for reporting and verifying
that land given to government as a "voluntary donation" by communities is in fact not at the expense of
any villagers.
[I.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
Unlikely - will be determined before any sub-projects are approved for funding.
II.D. 1 c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
Unlikely - will be determined before any sub-projects are approved for funding.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
Consideration of alternatives will be part of the design of the proposed subprojects.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The Environmental Assessment and Social Management Framework (ESMF) will establish a mechanism
to determine and assess future potential environmental and social impacts of subproject investments
under the proposed DPFP. The ESMF establishes the screening process or mechanism for the
subprojects to enable the LGs to identify potential environmental and social impacts of subprojects and
to address them by incorporating the relevant mitigation measures into the designs of the subprojects.
The Environmental Mitigation Plan (EMP) which is prepared as part of the Environmental and Social
Impact Assessment (ESIA) would consist of a set of mitigation measures, monitoring and institutional
'measures to be taken during implementation and operation of the subprojects to eliminate adverse
environmental and social impacts, offset them or reduce them to acceptable levels. A Resettlement
Policy Framework (RPF) has been prepared and Resettlement Plans subsequently developed and
presented for approval when land taking is necessary.
iI.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
During the technical analysis for the design of the project, participatory approach was used whereby all
the key stakeholders (Line Ministries, donors, Civic Society Organizations, LGs, etc) were consulted and
a number of feed back workshops organized to enable them to have inputs and validate the conclusions
and recommendations of the technical studies. The participatory approach adopted during the program
design shall continue during the implementation phase. The same policy requires local level, through a
participatory manner, to prepare rolling development plans incorporating plans of lower local level. This
'legal provision has been strengthened under the project by making it a minimum access criterion for local
level. For sub-projects, local governments will be required to apply the environmental checklists for
appraising their investments and comply with the mitigation measures contained therein and will carry
out consultation with the beneficiaries prior to incorporating them into development plans. Documents
on the environmental and social management of future subprojects will be reviewed and subsequently
disclosed to the public. The RPF and ESMF reports will disclosed to the public by the Bank and the
Government of Mozambique prior to appraisal.



6
ISDS
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[  SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[  S3. -No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:          Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               3/31/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                           5/14/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                                            5/15/2003
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED                Not Available
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                         Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               3/31/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                           5/14/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                                            5/15/2003
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:              Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:                                       Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                 Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             Lance Morrell                               05/16/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                        Date



7
ISDS
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Serigne Omar Fye                               05/16/2003
Sector Manager/Director:         Jaime M. Biderman                              05/16/2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEARCH          FEEDBACK        SITE MAP        SHOWCASE        M



