                                            Documentof
                                         TheWorld Bank




                                                                          ReportNo: 26365 - MOZ




                              PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                               ON A

PROPOSEDGRANT FROMTHE INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION

   INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR29.9MILLION(US$42.0MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                              TO THE

                                 REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE

                                                FOR

               DECENTRALIZEDPLANNING AND FINANCINGPROJECT

                                         October 15,2003




Water and Urban 1
Africa RegionalOffice



This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedby recipients only inthe performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization

                                   CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective September 30,2003)

                                  Currency Unit = Mozambican Meticais (MZM)
                                        1MZM = US$0.00004
                                          US$1 = 23250

                                          FISCAL YEAR
             Government & Public Enterprises -- January 1to December 3I

                              ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

APL   Adaptable ProgramLoan                          MPF      Ministry of Planning and Finance
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy                    MQA      Management Quality Assurance
CFAA  Country Financial Accountability               MTE      Mid-Term Evaluation
      Assessment                                    NCB       NationalCompetitive Bidding
DA    District Administration                        O&M      Operations andMaintenance
DCC   District Consultative Councils Framework       O&M      Operations andMaintenance
DNPO  National Directorate of Planning               OLE      LocalAdministration Reform
      andBudget                                      PA       Project Account
DPPF  ProvincialDirectorates of Planning             PARPA    Action Plan for the Reduction of Absolute
      andFinance                                              Poverty
DPT   District Planning Teams                        PIM      Project ImplementationManual
EA    Environmental Assessment                       PPS      ProvincialPlanning Support
EMP   Environment ManagementPlan                     PPU      ProvincialProjectsUnits
ESSP  Education Sector Strategic ProgramProject      QCBS     Quality and Cost BasedSelection
FMS   Financial ManagementSystem                     RFP      Request For Proposal
GOM   Government of Mozambique                       RP       ResettlementPlan
IGF   InspectorateGeneral of Finance                 RPF      ResettlementPolicy Framework
LGDP  LocalGovernment Development Project            RTTP     RuralTravel and Transport
LIG   Local Investment Grants                        SA        SpecialAccounts
MADER Ministry ofAgriculture andRural                SBD       StandardBidding Documents
      Development                                    SGSA      SecondGeneration SpecialAccount
MAE   Ministryof StateAdministration                 SIFAP     Public Administration Training Project
MDP   Municipal Development Project                  UCA       Project Coordination Unit
MICOA Ministry for the Coordination of               UNCDF UnitedNations Capita Development
      Environmental Affairs                                    Fund
MOPH  Ministry of Public Works andHousing            UPP       ProvincialProject Unit




                                 Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
                              Country Director:     Darius Mans
                                Sector Manager:     Jaime Biderman
                             Task Team Leader:      Lance Morrell

                                                                 FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
                                                MOZAMBIQUE
                       DECENTRALIZEDPLANNINGAND FINANCINGPROJECT


                                                  CONTENTS

    A. Project DevelopmentObjective                                                         Page

       1. Project development objective                                                       2
       2. Key performance indicators                                                          2

    B. Strategic Context

       1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
       2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          4
       3. Sector issues to be addressedby the project and strategic choices                   6

    C. Project Description Summary

       1. Project components                                                                  8
       2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       9
       3, Benefits and target population                                                      10
       4. Institutional and implementationarrangements                                        11

    D.Project Rationale

       1. Project alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection                            12
       2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies        13
       3. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design                                  16
       4. Indications of recipient commitment and ownership                                   18
       5. Value added of Bank support inthis project                                          18

    E.Summary ProjectAnalysis

       1. Economic                                                                            19
       2. Financial                                                                          20
       3. Technical                                                                          20
       4. Institutional                                                                      21
       5. Environmental                                                                      23
       6. Social     ,                                                                       25
       7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 27

    F. Sustainability andRisks

       1. Sustainability                                                                     28
       2. Critical risks                                                                     29

This document has a restricteddistribution andmay be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

  3. Possible controversialaspects                                                      31


G. MainGrant Conditions

  1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            31
  2. Other                                                                              32

H. Readinessfor Implementation                                                          33

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                            33



Annexes

Annex 1: ProjectDesignSummary                                                           34
Annex 2: DetailedProjectDescription                                                     39
Annex 3: EstimatedProject Costs                                                         50
Annex 4: Cost BenefitAnalysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           51
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities,or Financial Summary    57
Annex 6: (A)Procurement Arrangements                                                    58
          (B)FinancialManagement andDisbursement Arrangements                           65
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    80
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                                                   81
Annex 9: Statement ofLoans and Credits                                                  83
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           85
Annex 11: Summary                                                                       87
Annex 12: Monitoring and Evaluation                                                     89
Annex 13: Letter of Sector Commitment                                                   94

                                                 MOZAMBIQUE
                                   DecentralizedPlanning and Financing Project
                                     Project Appraisal Document
                                             Africa Regional Office
                                                    AFTU1

Date: October 15,2003                                   Team Leader: Lance Morrell
Sector ManagerDirector: Jaime M.Biderman                Sector(s): Sub-national government administration (30%),
Country ManagerlDirector: Darius Mans                   Central government administration (30%), Micro- and SME
Project ID: PO01807                                     finance (20%), Roads and highways (20%)
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)      Theme(s): Rural Services and infrastructure (PI,
                                                        Decentralization (P), Administrative and civil service
                                                        reform (P), Ruralpolicies and institutions (P), Small and
                                                        medium enterprise support (S)

[ ]Loan        [ ] Credit     [XI Grant       [ ] Guarantee       [ ] Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:




BorrowerlRecipient: GOVERNMENT OF MOZAMBIQUE
Government of Mozambique
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF PLANNING & FINANCE
Contact Person: Mr.Custodio dos Mucudos, MPF
Tel: 258 1416614                Fax: 258 1498930                  Email: mpfppfd@teledata.mz
Contact Person: Mr.Domingos Lambo, Deputy Budget Director, MPF
Tel: 258 1490765                Fax: 258 1494653                  Email: mpfppfd@teledata.mz
Contact Person: Mr.Jose Guambe, Director, DNALIMAE
Tel: 258 1307888                Fax: 258 1428565                  Email:




Project implementation period: 2004 2008
                                     -
Expected effectiveness date: 0211112004 Expected closing date: 06/30/2008

A. Project Development Objective

1. Project developmentobjective: (see Annex 1)
To improve the institutional capacity o f District Administrations to plan and manage small
infrastructure investments inresponse to community demand.

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)

      0    80% o f districts inthe Provinces supported by the Project with District Development
           Plans and Annual InvestmentPlans approved
           80% o f districts inthe Provinces supported by the Project with District Consultative
           Councils organized and approving district plans and implementation reports
      0     60% o f districts participatings inthe Local Investment Grants inwhich participants in
          planningprocessesexpress satisfaction with responsivenessand accountability o f district
           administration.
           50% of districts participating inLocal Investment Grants ratedgood or excellent on
           annual DistrictPerformance Evaluation assessments
           60% o f districts at national level adopting MPF and MAE approvedmethodologies for
          participatory district planning and governance
           Key administrative and fiscal instruments adopted by GOM supportingtransparent
           district planningandmanagement, including:
               (a) Guidelines for Community Participation and ConsultationinDistrict Planning
                  publishedand disseminated
               (b) Formalizationof District as a budgetunit
               (c) Operationalrules and procedures for district finance published
               (d) Provincial budget allocationto districts established for district infrastructure
                  maintenance
               (e) 3% per annum increase in share of state investment budget programmed at
                  provincial level with district input to plans

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related Country AssistanceStrategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 20521-Moz Date of latest CAS discussion: June 1, 2000 (IDA-R2000-76, IFC-R2000-80)
The CAS for Mozambique was designedaround the Government's FiveYear Program and its
poverty reduction strategy. It has three pillars: (i) increasing economic opportunities through
private sector led growth, (ii)  improving governance and empowerment; and (iii)      improving
human capabilities and social protection. The economic development pillar will involve
maintaining an enablingmacroeconomic environment, investing in infrastructure, promoting
agriculture and rural development, ensuring sound environmental management, and improving
innovation and competitiveness to promote employment. Therefore, under this pillar, the DPFP
will support investments inrural infrastructure, promote economic development and agricultural
activities at the community level, and promote employment inthe n o n - f m rural sector, three
areas central to the growth strategy to reduce poverty. The governance and empowerment pillar
o f the CAS will support efforts to develop a public administration that i s responsive to its
constituents and that effectively supports the country's poverty-reduction efforts. Underthis


                                                   - 2 -

pillar, the DPFP's efforts will be aimed at strengthening the capacity of the public sector at local
levels; reforming the institutional framework to strengthen an "integrated" model o f local
administration, in support o f improving infrastructure and services through deconcentration and
eventually decentralization, and simplifyingand increasing the transparency of administrative
procedures and improving accountability. The social development pillar of the CAS focuses on
primary health and primary education, activities currently supported through ongoing operations.
The DPFP's role under this pillar will be to strengthen the local levels o f government to improve
the planning and management of investments andmaintenance ofruralinfrastructureand to
increasethe accountability of local public officials and service providers to rural communities.
Therefore, considering that about 70% of Mozambique's total population live inrural areas and
81% o f the economically active population work inagriculture, forestry and fishing, any success
at poverty reductioninMozambique will require sustainable and substantial economic growth
with an emphasis on the rural sector, along with significant investmentinhumancapital andrural
infrastructure.

Rationalefor the use of the IDA grant:

As an IDA-only country with a GNIper capita of lessthan $360 per annum, Mozambique has
beenallocated IDA grants o f 29.9 million SDR for FY04. The full amount will be applied to the
DecentralizedPlanning and Finance Project (DPFP). InFY03 grants were applied to the
HIV/AIDS Response Project and the Public Sector ReformProject. The DPFP was selected for
grant financing for the following reasons:

1. Strong capacity building impact.

    Central to the ability o f the GOM to implement the PARPA is the strengthening o f capacity at
    local levels to deliver services to the poor. Inthe words o f the Minister o f Planning and
    Finance "PARPA is the what, DPFP i s the how". The project's explicit objective i s capacity
    buildingthrough learning-by-doing and training, particularly inthe areas of local
    administration and district infrastructure investment planning, budgetingand implementation.
    I t does, however, also aim to strengthen the capacity o f provincial and national government to
    furtherelaborate and developthe policy andmethodologicaltools necessary for effective
    decentralization and district governance.

2. Strengtheninglocal governance

    Mozambique i s a relatively new democracy with a strong centrist tradition that i s recognized
    increasingly by the GOM as a hindrance to effective local development. The project
    emphasizes capacity buildingof local administrations as well as communities and civil society
    inorder to strengthenparticipation inplanningandpriority-setting at a district level (through
    Consultative Councils) and enhance accountability of local administrations both upwards, to
    higher levels ofgovernment andsector ministries,anddownwards to affected communities.
    This will further entrench and strengthen the foundations for democracy inMozambique.




                                                  - 3 -

   Centrality of improved local governance topoverty-reduction

    Through improved capacity of local administrations to effectively plan, budget, implement and
    monitor infrastructure investments on a demand-drivenbasis, the project will support the
    public sector's ability to deliver services ina cost-effective manner at the local level. The
    emphasis o f the project is inpoor rural areas inthe four centralprovinces. The investments
    have a "learning-by-doing" approach and will be inthe areas o f health, education, water,
    irrigation, markets, drainage and tertiary roads for the most part, thus addressing critical
    elements necessary for poverty reduction inMozambique.

    Better collaboration between IDA and other donors supporting budget policy reform, local
    government capacity building and community participation

    The project i s one o f a number of projects supporting the National DPFP under the leadership
    of the MPF. The project i s working closely with other donors ina collaborative effort to
    harmonize both operational guidelines, methodologiesand M&E systems and to work ina
    coordinated fashion with the GOM to implement a program of policy reform for
    decentralization.

    GovernmentPreference

    The G O Mhas strong ownership of the programand has requestedgrant financing for this
    project. It sees the DPFP as a critical approach to implementingthe PARPA through
    improved local governance and capacity.

Monitoring results

DPFP will provide financing for the development o f an M&E system to generate information
necessary for operational monitoring as well as the evaluation o f operational systems and
institutional change inlight of emergingpolicy objectives. Since the GOM has expressedits
intention to move toward a national program of decentralized planning and finance, a national
M&E framework will be neededto allow for coverage of all provinces. Inthis respect, this project
will contribute to the development of a common M&E framework jointly with MPF and UNCDF.
The M&E system will feed into the overall monitoring o f the PARPA. The establishment of a
comprehensive M&E system for the project will be essential to ensure that the lessons from DPFP
are captured and utilizedto improve existing project design over time. It will also be critical for
the design o f a scaled up national program or for making alternative choices interms o f how
decentralization should be implemented.

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Mozambique's institutionally weak and non-democratic local administration is a legacy o f
Portuguese colonial administration (until 1975) and centralist socialism (from 1975 until 1990).
As a result of liberalizationpolicies and constitutional reformaccelerated by the peace settlement
ending civil war in 1992, economic, social andpolitical pluralism have increased significantly.
However, public sector organizations remain centralized and only weakly accountable to civil



                                                  - 4 -

society, especially inrural areas. Although the 1997 municipal legislation created a legal
framework for elected local government, it i s constitutionally limitedto cities and towns. Under
existing legislation, Mozambique's 128 rural districts, comprising over 70% of its population and
90% of its territory, remain subject to state administrationmediated by the 10provincial
"governments" which are also entities legally and politically subordinated to the central
government. Inspite of this constraint, the Government of Mozambique (GOM) has committed
itself to increasingboth administrative decentralization (deconcentration) and grassroots citizen
participationinpublic affairs inrural districts.

The GOM's guidingpolicy framework, the Action Plan for the Reductiono fAbsolute Poverty
(PARPA or PRSP) has identifieddecentralized planning and finance as a key element of its
program inrural areas. The PARPA'Sdecentralization objective i s linkedto four strategic lines o f
action:

Rural Development Strategy: The Government's main development objective
i s the reduction o f poverty through rural development. The PARPA focuses on continued
investment on a priority basis to the social sectors andbasic infrastructure, especially water and
roads, inrural areas. It also aims at establishing policy, institutional, and regulatory frameworks
that improve access to services and resources while reducing their costs. To achieve these
objectives, the GOM explicitly recognizes that an effective poverty-reducing rural development
strategy requires substantial decentralization o f decision-making, affording local institutions the
opportunity to participate and influence the allocation of resources.

Shifts inEconomic Management: The Ministry of Planning and Finance (MPF) is overseeing a
gradual shift inthe instruments o f the national development planning system. This transformation
i s reflected in three concurrent and interrelated strategies. The first i s to open the development
planning and budgeting process, which was essentially a bureaucratic and technocratic exercise, to
the scrutiny of elected officials (greater transparency) andthe contributions oflocal communities
and civil society at large (increased popular participation). The second i s to change the approach
to development planning from a highly centralized to an increasingly decentralized approach,
recognizingthe needto devolve/deconcentrate to sub-national levels bothresponsibilities and
resources for development, and the needto buildthe requiredlocal capacity to plan and manage
the use o f these resources. The third i s to refocus planning to promote medium-and long-term
economic and social development by developing improvedprocedures for selection of public
investments, mobilization of local contributions and promotion of private sector initiatives.

Public Sector Reform: Broader concerns with public sector organization and management also
underpinGovernment's promotion of decentralized planning and finance. LaunchedinJune, 2001
the GOM Global Strategy for Public Sector Reform identified decentralizationas a key area of
action. Specific initiatives to transfer greater responsibilities to provincial, district and service
delivery levels are to be undertaken inall sectors, complemented by increasingorganizational
integration (see below) and more discretionary access to greater resources at local levels. The
associatedpromotion o f greater responsiveness, transparency and accountability at all levels will
permit a reorientationof relations between higher and lower level within the deconcentrated state
administration from the present managerialregime to a more supervisory and facilitating one.



                                                  - 5 -

Reform of Local Administration: The fundamental role and organization of district administration
 i s an important element in the reform of the Ministry of State Administration. In2000, the role of
 "community authorities" was legally recognized as interlocutorsbetweenrural communities and
 district administration, reversingdecades of official marginalization o f traditional institutions and
leaders in local governance. Furthermore, greater community participation i s a stated objective of
recently approved Local Administration Reform (OLE) legislation, although without clear
 specification o f how this participation shouldbe organized. Basedupon a model o f "integrated
administration" which strengthens the territorial dimension o f public management vis-a-vis the
currently predominant sectoral regime, the OLE reform gives greater authority to District
Administration as well as provides the legal basis for the district as a budget entity. By
complementing the OLE legislation's administrative focus with the promotion o f accountability
mechanisms through local consultative fora and councils linkedto participatory planning and plan
implementation, decentralized planning and finance will strengthen the governance dimension of
local administrative reform.

On these bases, GOM has identifieddecentralized participatory planning as a key element of its
strategy for public sector reform and rural development promotion at district level. Based on a
pilot project inNampula Province supported by UNCDF with Dutch co-financing, the GOM i s in
the processof developing aNational Strategy for DecentralizedPlanning and Finance as apillar
o f its decentralization reforms. Inorder to provide a common methodological framework for
reform and capacity buildingin support o f district-based participatory planning and small-scale
investment management, this Strategy provides the basis for a National Program which will
continue the development and dissemination of district planning, finance and governance reforms
through several projects, the largest of which i s the IDA Grant financed DPFP.

Ledby the Ministryof PlanningandFinance and directly involvingthe Ministries of State
Administration, Agriculture and Rural Development and Public Works and Housing, the National
Steering Committee of the National DecentralizedPlanningand Finance Program will continue to
guidepolicy reforms, the introduction of new institutional systems, andthe dissemination of
improved working methods insuch areas as district organization and capacity building, district
finances and budgeting, and district governance and accountability.

3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Key sector issues and strategic choices are based onthe recognition that the policy and
institutional frameworks for decentralization inrural Mozambique will, inthe short-run, focus
principally on administrative deconcentration, capacity buildingo f local administration, and
support for the participation by communities in district development.

First, although district administrators will continue to be appointedby state officials, the GOM
has demonstrated its commitment to participatory governance inrural districts by adopting
procedures which increase the involvement o f communities and their representatives in
development planning, land andnatural resource management, and other matters of local public
interest.




                                                  - 6 -

Secondly, the G O M recently approved the OLE making the district a budget entity for the first
time. MPF is working within existingbudget legislation to develop the instrumentsnecessaryfor
district planning and finance. Efforts have begunto institutionalise district development plans and
investment budgets. Furthermore, MPF i s seeking ways to deconcentrate sector investment
budgets to the local level inorder to provide significant district influence over allocation decisions
and resource management, thus moving toward a more decentralized regime within the states'
unitary budget system.

Thirdly, continuing efforts to strengthen local administrationthrough the OLE legislation, as well
as the ongoing institutionalisation of community authorities by implementingDecree 15/2000,
represent MAE'Seffort to increase both participation and accountability in district administration.

Finally, the G O Mhas recognized that both institutional andhuman capacities at district level are
inadequate to meet the demands of decentralized decision-making and resource management. As
a result, it will dedicate significant resources, mobilized under the Public Sector Reform Strategy,
to addressing this capacity gap through both training o f existing staff and the placement o f better
qualified mid-levelpersonnel at district level.

This analysis suggeststhat within the framework of deconcentrated state administration inrural
areas, significant efforts are beingmade to meet the PARPA-defined objectives relating to reforms
supporting the rural decentralization process. MPF and MAE continue to promote gradually
increasingresponsibility, resources, participation, accountability and capacity at district level.

As discussedpreviously, the GOM has consistently expressedits interest in greater
decentralization of local administration, finance and governance even as it addresses the political
and institutional challenges which such a strategy represents. Inaddition, extensive consultation
duringthe project formulation process has documented strong demand among ruralcommunities,
local administration officials, and key civil society actors for more comprehensive and more
dynamic decentralization, participationand accountability reforms inrural Mozambique.

Inorder to assurethat the DPFP continues to support a cumulative process that will leadbeyond
deconcentration to more comprehensive legislated decentralization inMozambique, the project
foresees that the GOM will prepare a Letter o f Sector Policy before its Mid-Term Review, in
which clearer indications o f future government policy will be presented. On the basis o f this
policy statement, project supported reform and capacity buildingefforts may be adjusted and
deliberations regardingpotential follow-on investment operations financed by IDA Grant will be
better informed. Inthis sense, the present operation should be seen as a preparatory phase o f a
longer term investment program supportingmore comprehensive and more formally
institutionalised decentralization inrural Mozambique.

Inthe short-term, bycontinuing to advance institutional change onthe ground, bothinthe public
sector itself and inits relation to communities and local civil society, the project will further
institutionalise the practice o f local responsibility through participatory and downwardly
accountable planningand management of small public investments. Inthis way, it will create both
the objective preconditions for rural decentralizationthroughmore effective systems and



                                                    - 7 -

capacities as well as strengtheningthe norms and expectations for responsiveness and
accountability which favor improved local governance inthe field. Simultaneously, the project
will support GOM efforts, led by MPF, to develop a policy and institutional framework more
conducive to decentralizationand local government reform inrural areas through its assistanceto
key central government agencies and decision-makers.

Thus the key strategic choice reflected inthe project design is its support to the decentralization
process inanticipation o f comprehensive legislation and reform. By improving the conditions
necessaryfor decentralization, both inthe field and at the center, the DPFP will buildthe
capacities and demand at various levels which will be necessaryfor subsequent implementation of
a more complete program o f rural decentralization reforms inMozambique.

C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for adetaileddescriptionandAnnex 3 for adetailedcostbreakdown):

                                                                                                  % of
                                                                                                 Bank-
                                                                                               financing




                                                                                                   16.5
                                                                                                  100.0 I
                                  Total Financing Required I   46.29  I   100.0   I   42.00       100.0 I
 The IDA Grant financed DPFP is premised on gradually strengtheningthe elements requiredfor
decentralization inrural districts. The project will support further development and
implementation of the policies, institutions, systems and capacities discussed above at district,
provincial and central levels. Inthe four provinces of Mozambique's central region, training and
technical assistancewill be providedto assist inthe development o f district plans, both strategic
and operational. The plans will be developed by local administration staff with the participationof
rural communities and their representatives, organized into fora of "local governance" called
District Consultative Councils (DCC). Learning-by-doingwill buildpublic sector capacity for
operationalising and implementing these plans through a system o f demand driven Local
Investment Grants complemented by capacity buildinginfinancial management, civil works
management, and downward accountability. Generalized deficiencies inthe knowledge and skill
levels o f local administration staff will be addressedthrough a broadly based professionaltraining
program. Support will be provided through local CSOs to strengthen the capacity o f communities
to participate inthe DCCs. Finally, central government institutions will be supported to further the
definition of decentralization reforms and improved local administration, planning and finance
systems.

The project has the following five components:

Component 1. Participatory District Planning - The Participatory District Planning Component


                                                  - 8 -

would develop a District-level participatory planning systembasedon civil society consultation
andparticipation. It would deepenand expand the experience of a decentralized planning and
finance pilot inNampula province financed by UNCDF, UNDP and the Netherlands.

Component 2. Local InvestmentGrants (LIG) - Financing for small rural infrastructure included
inthe annual planswould bemade available to eligible districts as localinvestment grants, upto a
certain threshold and accordingto a set o f qualification criteria. There will be three grant types.
Type 1Grants will finance investments indistrict administrative infrastructure and will be
managed by the province (the district i s beneficiary but has no management role). Type 2 Grants
will finance investments insmall-scale public social infrastructure prioritisedby communities
through a process of participatory planning. The menu o f eligible subprojects would include,
among others, primary schools, healthposts, rural water supply and sanitation, small-scale
irrigation, feeder roads and bridges and rural markets. The provinces will take on co-management
responsibility (with districts) for the financial and works management of LIG 2 as well as
oversight and mentoring responsibility for districts. Type 3 Grants will provide very small
discretionary funds (on the order of $20,000 per annum) to District Administrations for direct
contracting for micro-projects.

Component 3.Capacity Building- This component aims to strengthenthe training system to
increase the capacity o f local administration officials to undertake key local government functions
more effectively. Capacity buildingactivities for key provincial anddistrict officials would be
providedbased on the identified roles and responsibilities of civil servants at each level, and are
likely to include training inbasic public administration, planning and budgetingand selected
technical subjects. The type of training purchased will include both supply-drivenand
demand-driven content.

Component 4. Policy Reform. This component would consist of technical assistanceto the GOM
to improve decision-making through policy analysis and for the further development of the
institutional and policy framework for decentralization.

Component 5. Project Coordination. This component would consist o f a small core team of
project coordination staff at central and provincial level who would fulfill some World
Bank-specific fiduciary functions and provide technical assistanceto the government officials
responsible for project implementation and GOM fiduciary functions.

2. Key policy and institutionalreforms supportedby the project:
Duringproject preparation, an extended dialoguebetweenthe GOM andthe IDA has takenplace,
linkedto broader discussions concerning reform o frural administration, fiscal and governance
systems organized under the UNDP-convened "Informal Donor Working Group on
Decentralization."

As a result o f these discussions a medium-term reform agendahas beenagreedwith the relevant
ministries,MPF and MAE, including the following elements:
0    Legal framework for district planning
0    Enabling legislation for district administration organization (OLE legislation and regulations)



                                                   - 9 -

0    Formal legitimation of district consultative councils
0    Define and publishoperational rules and procedures for district finance (revenues and
     expenditures)
0    Budget allocation established for district infrastructure O&M
0    Define framework for increased district retained revenues
0    % Increase o fpublic investmentbudgetallocated for planning and management at provincial
     level

The IDA Grant financed DPFP project, jointly with projects supported by UNCDF andUNDP as
well as support from other donors, will assist MPF and MAE inpursuingthe National DPFP and
this reform agenda duringthe period 2003-2007.

3. Benefitsandtarget population:
The target group of the project i s the population of the forty-nine districts inMozambique's four
central provinces, estimated to be over 7 million. Most of this population i s very poor; the region
has the highest poverty incidence inMozambique ranging from 62.5 percent inManica to as high
as 87.92 percent in Sofala Province. It i s anticipated that by inducing greater dynamism and
capacity within district administrations, they will better collaborate with other actors to face the
challenges of combating poverty and promoting economic growth at the local level.

The project's principal impact will be inthe form o f institutional benefits at the central, provincial
and district levels. Inthe short-term, improved resource management, performance and
accountability by deconcentrated state administration at district level can be expected. Inthe
medium-term, shouldthe GOM adopt a more comprehensive decentralization policy, the DPFP
will provide further benefits by significantly improving the conditions for implementingfiscal
reforms, participatory governance, and devolved service management by new rural local
governments.

The DPFP will support social development by strengthening the capacities o f rural communities
to participate effectively inlocal governance and development management. The project will also
provide material benefits to the rural poor inthe form o f improved access to public infrastructure
and services inor near their communities. As a result of the project's intervention, members of
rural households with a special emphasis on women and frequently marginalized segments o f the
population will benefit from more effective, more responsive and more accountable district
administration and thus to improvedperformanceby this administration as an institution o f
governance and as a promoter of local social and economic development.

The private sector will also benefit from implementation of small investment works planned under
thisproject by increasing the capacity of civil construction contractors, private works inspectors
and community based artisans.




                                                - 1 0 -

4. Institutionaland implementation arrangements:
The IDA Grant financed DPFP project, whose overall project implementationperiod is four and
one-half years, has been formulated as a contribution alongside that of the UNCDF to the
development o f a National Decentralized Planning and Finance Programunder policies defined in
the PRSP/PARPA and Public Sector Reform Strategy. At present, the emergingNational
Program i s focused on the definition of a DPFP strategy and on elements of a common
methodological framework which are beinggradually developed, field tested and approved as
guidance to field implementation. This Program i s beingfinanced andmanagedthrough a series
of projects, o f which the IDA financed project i s to be the largest. The project both contributes to
the continuing development of the National Program incollaboration with UNCDF as well as to
implementationo f its elements inthe provinces and districts o f the central region. As such, its
organizational arrangements include elements linkedto each o f these levels of intervention. The
institutional arrangements include:

(i)AttheCentralGovernmentlevel,theMinistryofPlanningandFinancewillbethe
implementingagency. Within the MPF, the NationalDirectorate for Planning and the Budget
(DNPO/MPF) will have the line responsibility for the DPFP. Inter-ministerial coordination related
to policy, strategic and operational questions will be assured by a DPFP National Steering
Committee (Comitk de Supervisiio or CS)comprisedo f National Directors from MPF, the
Ministryof StateAdministration (MAE),the Ministry ofAgriculture andRural development
(MADER) and the Ministry of Public Works andHousing(MOPH). The CS will be supportedby
a Technical Group whose members, drawn from the same four ministries, will provide substantive
inputonpolicy andmethodologicalissues germane to their respective directorates.

A Project ImplementationManual (PIM) will be developed by MPF and approved by IDA in
order to provide clear guidance to provincial and district implementers regarding project
objectives, norms, procedures and methodologies. The manual will also define lines of
accountability and reporting, criteria for access to project provided resources, systems for
supervision, procurement control management and the monitoring and evaluation of local level
implementation. Inorder to ensure readiness for implementation, key elements to be included in
the POM have been field tested through the UNCDF pilot project, through similar systems
employed by the Municipal Development Project, and through pilot subprojects financed under a
PPF.

(ii)Ineachofthefourparticipatingprovinces,theProvincialDirectorsofPlanningandFinance
will be responsible for project implementation and resource management relatedto field
operations and will have fiduciary responsibility for the management of Local Investment Grant
funds. The Provincial Government and Governor will guide and supervise implementationin
light o f the government's program andthe provincial development strategy, and will assure
adequate linkage and accountability betweenProvincial Directorates and DistrictAdministrations.
A Provincial Steering Committee will ensure intersectoral coordinationand the mobilization of
technical staff from relevant Provincial Directorates to undertake support and supervision
functions at district level.

(iii)DistrictAdministrationsunderthedirectionof DistrictAdministrators(DAs)willbethekey


                                                -11 -

operational implementersof DPFP supported activities. The administrators will be responsible for
resource use and subproject management at the district level. District Technical (Planning) Teams
including staff from various directorates will be created and trained ineach district to assist the
DAs inthe preparationof strategic and operational investment plans. With project support,
district staffing will be strengthenedby the placement and training of new personnel-District
Accountants and District Works Technicians-to       assume the increased responsibilitiesrequiredto
co-manage with the DPPF and DPOPHprocurement, disbursement and supervisiono f LIG2
(socio-economic infrastructure) investments, and directly manage procurement, disbursement and
supervision o f LIG3 (community infrastructure) micro-works.

(iv) Finally District Consultative Councils andLocal fora will be organized and strengthened with
project support to provide institutionalized venues for systematic participationby community and
other civil society representatives inplanning and investment budgeting and in
oversight/accountability regarding resource use and planimplementation.

(v) Project Coordination. At central level, a Coordination and Support Unit (UCA) will be
established inthe DNPO and staffed with contract personnel to provide operational support to
central ministries and provinces; to undertake central level resource management, procurement,
project procurement oversight and reporting functions; and to assure adequate liaison regarding
both programmatic and administrative matters between the GOM and the IDA. At the Provincial
level, a small Provincial Project Unit (UPP) staffed by a Provincial Coordinator, a Project
Accountant and Accounting Supervisor (who will monitor and support government accountants
at provincial and district level) a Provincial Works and Procurement Advisor, and a Monitoring
Technician support will be provided by contracted technical assistance providers inthree areas:
Support for Planning and Community Participation, Management Quality Assurance, and Support
for Planning and Management of Training.

(vi) Financial Management. The principal objective o fthe project's financial management system
(FMS)will be to support management intheir deployment oflimitedresources with the purpose
o f ensuring economy, efficiency and effectiveness inthe delivery of outputs requiredto achieve
desired outcomes, that will serve the needs o f the people o f Mozambique. Specifically, the FMS
must be capable of producing timely, understandable, relevant and reliable financial information
that will enable management to plan, implement, monitor and appraise the project's overall
progress towards the achievement of its objectives.

Relevantly qualified, experienced and independent auditors will be appointed on approvedterms
o f reference. The external audit will cover all World Bank and counterpart funds at all levels of
project execution. The chart inAnnex 6 B illustrates the proposedbanking and funds flow
arrangements.

D. Project Rationale
1, Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Four main alternative project designs were considered. The first was a social fund or rural
investment fund: This was not adopted because it involves creating a separate, vertically


                                                 -12-

 integrated structure for selecting and implementing infrastructure sub-projects. Such an approach
 would have some short-term benefits, but it would not develop long-term institutional capacity in
 the public sector. Also, giventhe effort that has gone into the establishment o f sectoral policies
 and local implementingarrangements and the scarcity of technical personnel inMozambique, a
 new, separate structure would be duplicative and wasteful. The secondwas direct financial
 support to local authorities via the state budget (such as the DDGinZimbabwe): Such a
 mechanism would be appropriate ifMozambique had already devolved a certain degree o f
 authority and fiscal autonomy to Provinces and Districts and the government were committed to a
 substantive, clearly articulated governmental and fiscal decentralization program for these
 sub-national levels. The third was to continue supporting separate sectoral programs, abstain
 from supporting a multi-sectoral approach to decentralized development, and leave rural
 infrastructure to be provided by separate sectoral ministries. Sector programs can have economies
 o f scale and allow for the easy integration of capital investment with complementary institutional
improvements. However, this approach lacks the element of local choice andprioritisation among
various sectoral investments, which i s an essential part of demand-responsiveness. It misses the
opportunity to beginbuildingthis multi-sectoral element of "allocative efficiency" at the local
 level. The fourth was an area development project. This approach would be inthe tradition o f the
 integratedrural development projects o f the 1970s. These types o f projects proved to be too
 complex to implement, necessitating high-level coordinationbeyondthe capacity o f central or
 evenregional level administrations. Inaddition, the investment priorities which they identified
often didnot reflect the actual needs of communities, resulting ina sub-optimal use o f the
 facilities.

It was stated at the start of Section C.1that this project would be considered the first stage o f a
long-term program. The question o f whether to make this operation an APG (Adaptable Program
Grant) was raised. It i s understoodthat APGs are recommended where a well-established
strategy and implementation mechanismexist. Inthis case the strategy i s emerging, and the
implementation mechanisms are new and untested. Thus, due to the level o f uncertainty, an APG
was not considered advisable.

2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
                                                                              Latest Supervision
               Sector Issue                          Project                     (PSR) Ratings
                                                                          (Bank-finance projects only)
                                                                         Implementation  Development
  Bank-financed                                                            Progress(IP)  Objective(DO)

  Pilot experienceswith participatory     <malRehabilitationProject             S              S
  planningand decentralizedsmall works closed)
  managementinSofala andZambezia
  Provinces
  Pilotmunicipal grant system for local   dunicipal DevelopmentProject          S              S
  investmentplanning, financingand
  management
1 Capacity  Buildingfor municipal


                                                  - 13-

officials and staff

Decentralization policy and regulatory
development for municipalites

Reengineering, restructuring and        'ublic Sector Reform Project
decentralization to improve public
services by movingthe point of delivery
closer to the intended beneficiary

Increasedtransparency and
accountability inpublic management

Decentralization o frural water supply  Iozambique National Water
provision through reform and capacity   )evelopment IProject
building

Community participation and
beneficiary responsibility through
demand driven approach to water
supply provision

Decentralized management o f the        .ducation Sector Strategic
delivery process                        rogram Project (ESSP)

Greater role for commutities indecision
making process inthe schools

Increased community roles inplanning
and implementation of school
construction with more sustainable
construction technology

Decentralized maintenance oftertiary    lozambique   - Roads and
andnon-classified roads                 'ridges Management and
                                        laintenance Program Project
Increased district responsibility and   'hase I) andRural Travel and
community participaticion in            ransport Program (RTTP)
non-classified roadmaintenance and
spot improvements

Adoption o f strategic spatial           oastal and Marine
development plans by national,          iodiversity Management
provincial and district authorities in  roject
pilot areas
3ther development agencies
Decentralized PlanningandFinance        N C D F
Project inNampula and Cab0 Delgado



                                                - 1 4 -

Provinces and central level support for
MPF and M O P H (see annex 7)

Public Administration Training Project  JNDP
(SIFAP) to develop training system,
curricula and trainers

Support for Local Administration
Reform Project to support
implementation of OLE law, restructure
MAEto better support decentralization,
and monitor community authorities
decree implementation

Support for Decentralized Planning
Project (closed, proposednext phase
currently unfunded)

PARPA Monitoring Project will
develop capacity inprovincial
government to monitor implementation
and impacts o f PARPA inrural
districts

Co-financing o f UNCDF DPFP Project iovemment o f the Jetherlands
(Nampula focus)

FundingofNGOProjects for Civil
Society Strengthening linked to DPFP
inNampula(SNV andConcern)

Co-financing of UNCDF DPFPProject iovemment o f Norway
(Cab0 Delgado focus)

Co-financing o fUNDP projects (see
above)

Support for Municipal Development       lwiss Cooperation
Project (PADEM) focusing on smaller
municipalities innorthern region

Program Support for Local Governance
Improvement

Co-financing of UNCDF DPFP Project

District focused capacity building      iTZ
project inManica Province (PROCIPP)



                                               - 15-

 District focused rural development
 project inSofala Province (PRODER)

 Decentralized Planning Project
 (DESOPOL) inInhambane Province
 (introducing district planningas of
 2003

 Decentralization and Democratisation
 Project (PDD) focusing on smaller
 municipalities in central and southern
 region

 'rovincial Support Program for Niassa JIDA (Government of Sweden)
 %evince (PROANI) planning to
 ntroduce DPFP methodologies in2004
 w l IrishAid)

 'rovincial Support Program for Niassa IrishAid
 'rovince to introduce DPFP
 nethodologies in2004 (w/ SIDA)

 'rovincial Support Programfor
 nhambaneProvince supporting district
 Ilanningas o f 2003 (w/ GTZ project)

 20-financing ofUNDP projects (see
 Ibove)

 '/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S Satisfactory),U (Unsatisfactory), hu (Highly Unsatis

3. Lessonslearned and reflected in the project design:
The key design features of the DPFP have been developed to reflect best practice inthree basic
areas. The first area was to incorporate the findings o f the report on Participation, Transparency,
and Downward Accountability in Mozambique prepared by an international expert in2002. The
purpose o f that report was to provide diagnostic elements to assist inthe design o f the
participationand downward accountability component o f the project. The report's findings as to
what may be required for better delivery o f services from the perspective o f the poor communities
were incorporated inthe participatory planning and the local investment grant components. This
report provided the basis for defining the participatory approach to the project drawing on the
best practices that were identified inMozambique and Uganda. To date, most government
projects have tended to be "top-down". As a result, such projects have been regarded as
"external", lacking beneficiary support, commitment, and ownership and, therefore, have not been
sustainable. Inthis context, the lessons learned from these previous activities and from the
referenced report include:




                                                    - 16-

(i)Lackofcommunityconsultationresultinginadversepublicreaction;
(ii) ofownershipduetoinadequateinvolvementoftheclientinthedecisionmakingprocess;
    Lack
(iii)Unsustainable investments due to inadequate attention to operations and maintenance; and
(iv) Inadequate capacity ofthe client to effectively manage investments contracts.

The second key design feature of the DPFP was based on the experience of other Bank and donor
supportedprojects designedto support decentralization and to strengthen the capacity of local
governments to provide improved service delivery. Inthis regard, emphasis was given to
reviewingthe results inMozambique from the MunicipalDevelopmentProject (MDP) and the
UNCDF supported Decentralized Planning and Finance Project inNampula, inUganda from the
Local Government Development Project (LGDP), and inKenya from the Local Government
Reform Program. The basic lesson learned from these projects is that the integration o f the key
components of these projects (support for the decentralizationprocess; local development grants;
local capacity building; and support to project implementation) are effective and result inboth
developingthe capacity of the local governments to manage and plan for the delivery o f
sustainable services and providing demand driveninfrastructure which provides highvalue
services to the communities. From these projects it i s also clear that progress toward
decentralization i s greatly affected by the performance and capacity of the local governments.

These projects also clearly demonstrate that the difficulties associatedwith the implementation of
projects at the local level requires effective and experienced project management. These projects
need clear and well definedProject Development Objectives with corresponding Key Performance
Indicators and systems for monitoring and evaluation to effectively monitor and control the
progress o f the project toward achieving its objectives. The management unit must be staffed
with specialists with experience with World Bank procurement guidelines and budgeting and
disbursement requirements to bothmeet the requirements of the Bankbut to also be able to
provide the pro-active support neededto effectively implement the project at the local level.
Finally, the key consultancies designedto support the Learning By Doing provided by the grant
mechanism must be on the ground prior to the start o f the grant component otherwise the
effective integration o f the components i s far more difficult.

The third key design feature was that community-driven development may be supported through
single-sector or multi-sector instruments.Both single-sector and multi-sector approaches to CDD
have advantages, serving different objectives indifferent circumstances. Multi-sector programs
have the potential to offer greater choice to communities and thus to enhance demand
responsiveness and local ownership. A review o f the experience o f the Nicaragua Rural
Municipalities Project among others indicates that developing institutions at boththe local and
national levels are essential to the sustainability o f the whole system of intergovernmental
relations, and that effective monitoring and evaluation i s more crucial and problematic in
decentralized implementation than inother approaches. Local level participation i s necessary but
not sufficient to guarantee sub-project sustainability. The central government needs to be
pro-active inmonitoring and supervision, and must also provide technical assistance and support
functions. The projects also benefit from the central government providinga differentiated system
of incentives andpenalties to local governments. Technical capacity will also vary significantly
betweenmunicipalities. Such differences cannot be addressedusingcarbon-copy mechanisms.


                                                  - 17-

The central government needs to identify and differentiate mechanisms for local administrations
with a wide range of capacities.

4. Indications of recipient commitmentand ownership
As discussedabove (see" Government Strategy") the GOM inits PARPNPRSP has defined
participatory district planningas the cornerstone o f its approach to improving rural governance
and a key contribution to accelerating poverty alleviation inrural communities. The Cabinet level
decision to adopt the Nampula pilot as the basis for a national approach to DecentralizedPlanning
and Finance led directly to MPF's request that the IDA develop its next rural support project in
line with this approach. The definition of the National DPFP Strategy and the gradual
development of elements of an associatedmethodological framework as well as the increasing
prominence o f the DPFP National SteeringCommittee further reflect this commitment.

The recently approved Local Administration Reform (OLE) legislation as well as already
implemented Community Authority decrees are broader indications of an increasing focus on the
responsibility and nature o f district administration. Plans to provide guidelines for the
organization and operation o f District Consultative Councils and Local Councils/Fora represent
the next steps along these lines. Furthermore, decentralizatioddeconcentration of service
delivery systems constitutes a key objective Public Sector Reform, as does capacity buildingand
staff strengthening at local levels. Commitment inthe project context to staff District Accountant
and District Works Technicians posts is a specific instance o fplans to put these intentions into
practice.

While fiscal policy remains constrained by large allocations of investment funds to
centrally-organized sector investment programs, MPF has unambiguously expressed its desire to
increase the share of resources which are programmed and managed at provincial, and eventually
at district, levels irrespective of their attribution to territorial or sectoral budgets. Medium-term
plans to operationalize the district as a budget unit and to beginto strengthen the district's
revenue base also evidence commitment to move toward an institutional framework.

5. Value added of Bank support inthis project:
The Bank bringsconsiderable experience inthe areas of fiscal and administrative decentralization
as well as extensive experience and knowledge inworking with communities inparticipatory
planning processes. Particularly relevant i s the experience inUganda, Zimbabwe, South Africa,
Kenya and Mozambique litself. The Bank also has relevant experience from a variety of social
funds inthe region, such as those inZambia and Malawi. The Bank has an advantage inbridging
across sector ministriesand working in coordination with other donors, as well as the ability to
mobilize sufficient funding to expandpilot programs and to undertake longer-term programs,
The Bank is currently working inMozambique inthe areas o fpublic sector reform, rural
development, municipal development, among others, providing opportunities for synergy in
support of the Government's broader deconcentration efforts and decentralization agenda.




                                                   - 18-

E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailedassessments are inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
0 Costbenefit        NPV=US$million;ERR= % (see Annex 4)
0 Costeffectiveness
   Other (specify)
The Local Investment Grants form approximately 50% of the total grant and are expected to
deliver short-term economic benefits under the DPFP. These are intendedas the primary
instrument for increasing local administration capacity to accountably plan for and implement
small infrastructure investments at the district level, through the development of annual plans that
fit within the framework of a DDP. As aresult ofthe demand-basednature of LIG-financed plans
and projects, the specific composition of the DPFP investments cannot be determined a priori.

Thejustification of the DPFP rests on demonstrating the following two hypotheses: (i) the that
DPFP processes that are put inplace are functional and sustainable and (ii)    that the DPFP
investments planned and implemented following the processes do achieve the desired output.

Inrespect of (i), DPFP intends to use the existingGOM systemsandprocedures for provincial
                  the
and district management o f small infrastructure investments. However, it will provide the
necessaryinstruments and training to ensure their effective and efficient implementation. Most
sectors (including health, education, roads and water) have definedstandards and procedures and
DPFP will ensure the least cost selection of bids that meet these standards, givenlocally available
capacity andtechnology. This "mainstreaming" approach will reduce complexity andenhance
sustainability.

Hypothesis (ii) on the assumption that the decentralized planning and financing framework
                 rests
for local investmentsleads to the identification, selection and prioritization of economically and
socially viable investments. However, this requires fiscal and administrative decentralization
along with enhanced downward accountability. By ensuring that administrative reform and
capacity buildingefforts are complemented by additional financial resources available through the
LIGs, learning-by-doing should result inmore effective deconcentration o f planning and
management. By strengthening downward accountability through the participatory planning and
accountable implementation component, demand driven processes should ensure that project
financed investments respond to local needs and priorities.

Under these circumstances, evidence suggests that small-scale projects involvinglimited
investments ininfrastructure generally have highrates o f return (see Annex 4). However, it must
be emphasized that the objective o fthe DPFP at this stage is one o f capacity-building, with
service delivery a secondary objective. GivenMozambique's scale and diversity, it i s critical that
local administrations buildthe capacity to deliver services inan efficient and effective manner if
PARPA goals are ever to be reached. As key officials have expressed, "PARPA i s the what,
DPFP i s the how".

Inmakingresourcesavailable, alongwith support for learning-by-doing and additionaltraining
and policy reform, the DPFP will support districts to rigorously plan investments with their
communities, develop skills to turnthese plans into contracts and to manage these investment


                                                 - 19-

projects more effectively than before. These efforts will result inmore efficiently designed and
managed sub-projects by the local administrations, in addition to a greater overall quantity and
quality o f public infrastructure facilities available to improve basic services to the rural population.


2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million;FRR = % (see Annex 4)
        The resource envelope defined for the program appears to be realistic both when looking
at the capacity to generate revenues and interms o f the absorption capacity

Fiscal Impact:
Overall, the fiscal impact o f DPFP i s very small relative to the government budget. Annually,
DPFP disbursements represent about 0.02 % o f the central government current revenue and even
a smaller part o f its total expenditure. According to the Public Expenditure Management Review
2001, at present there does not appear to be a risk o f budget deficits at either the district or
municipal levels. However, further improvements inthe quality and quantity o f service delivery at
the district and municipal level will be constrained by available own source revenues as well as
central government transfers.

The size o f the DPFP is, therefore, not expected to change this picture o f local budget deficit risks
but it should support the improvement inservice delivery at a local level due to increased
availability o f resources through the LIGs. Within the project's lifetime, it i s expected that
significant policy decisions must be made regarding changes to the deconcentrated budget
management system including the operationalization o f districts as a budget entity and increased
discretionary transfers to both provincial and district capital budgets. The project will also seek to
support nascent efforts to improve own-source revenue bases and collection efficiencies.
However, given the weak fiscal base inmany rural districts, it i s not expected that significant
proportions o f district budgets will be funded with own revenues for the foreseeable future.
Emphasis will continue to be on expenditure management but revenue-raising incentives and
programs will be includedunder the LIG, capacity-building and policy reform components.

3. Technical:

The choice o f technology will be governed by the standard project designs being prepared under
the DPFP, emphasizing simple construction technologies usingmaterials and equipment available
inlocalmarkets and relying ontechniques commonly employedinruralareas. Some ofthese
have already been tested under the MDP. These designs will be consistent with the level o f the
available budget envelope and the ability of the provinces to meet the requirements for operation
and maintenance (O&M) costs. The project will make use of, and inmany areas improve, the
government's existing systems for works planning,procurement and management. Standardized
guidelines and planning manuals will also ensure that DPFP financed investments conform to the
policies and technical standards o f each sector.

District level systems for "micro-project" planning and management will be developedbased on
regional CDD models, emphasizing local accountability, community-based execution and the use



                                                   - 20 -

of local artisans. There will also be District Works Technicians recruited and trained as new staff
members of District Administrations with operational responsibility for assisting the District
Planning Team andthe District Accountant inthe planning and implementing of LIG3 funded
community infrastructure sub-projects and insupporting maintenance of local public infrastructure
inthe districts

Local contracting industry capacity is limitedinMozambique, but the project intends to build
capacity inthe industry intwo ways. First,the establishment o f the LIGs and associatedfinancial
and works management capacity buildingwill provide increased demand and greater certainty and
transparency inthe tendering and contract management by local administrations, includingmore
timely andreliable payments to contractors. Second, the DPFP will also provide modest capacity
buildingassistanceto small private construction firms and private works inspectors basedinthe
provinces and to community-basedartisans to ensure that they are able to fulfill their role in
project execution. There is, therefore, a fairly sound base for the enhancement of technical
capacities duringthe implementation of DPFP.

4. Institutional:

The MPF has overall responsibility for the project through its Planning andBudget Department.
Its Provincial Directorates of Planning and Finance (DPPF) would take primary responsibility for
all project financial flows, procurement reporting from provincial level, as well as direct
responsibility for the Planning and Investment Grants components. Technical support will be
provided by the Provincial Directorates o f Public Works and Rural Development. The capacity
buildingcomponent will involve the Ministryof StateAdministration's Provincial Directorates of
Support and Supervisioninplanning and programming.

At district level, the Administrator, while formally part o f the Ministry o f State Administration
system, responds to the DPPF for planning, budgeting, disbursement, procurement of small works
and accountingmatters. The relevant Directorates o f Public works and rural development play
important technical roles but will not be resource managers or have executive responsibility.
These responsibilitieslie with the MPF/DNPO, the DPPF and the District Administrations.
4.1 Executingagencies:
The Ministryo fPlan and Finance (MPF) will be the executing ministry for DPFP. Eacho f the
four Provincial Directorates of Planning and Finance will be responsible for the implementation of
the DPFP within its respective province.
4.2 Projectmanagement:
MPF will be responsible for managing and coordinating the activities for the project. A Project
Coordination Unit (UCA) will support the MPF inthe management and coordination of the
various program activities. The U C A will prepare project work plans, budgets, reports and other
documents, will maintain liaison with all provincial governments and coordinators, will disburse
funds from the special account andreview fund accountability, organize and oversee quarterly
review meetings, procure equipment and services, monitor and evaluate the impact of the
activities and the project KF'Is, contracting and supervision o f consultancy assignments and the
preparation of reports detailing consultancy findings. The U C A will also have the overall


                                                 - 21 -

responsibility for the procurement which will be largely done on a decentralized basis.
4.3 Procurementissues:
Since most of the procurement inthis project will be conducted without prior review by theBank,
and as much of it will also be done by the provinces andthe districts who have very limited
exposure to such procurement, the procurement risk for the project i s ratedhigh. Further,while
the UCA has some procurement experience, its capacity needs to be enhancedby employing
senior procurement staff with the capability to organize the overall system of decentralized
procurement, to monitor its operation, to guide the development of the procurement activities and
to develop the capacities of the widely spread-out procurement staff inthe provinces and the
districts. Plans and funds have also beenincludedinthe project for capacity buildingand for
periodic procurement audits.

The procurement activities at the three levels will be fulfilled as follows: (i) the central level,
                                                                                  at
the UCA will have full-time senior procurement specialists with responsibilities for processing
transactions as well as developing the capacity of the procurement staff at the provincial and
district levels; (ii)
                    eachprovince will have a Provincial Works and Procurement Advisor postedto
the Public BuildingsDepartment of the Provincial Directorate o f Public Works and Housing. The
Public BuildingsDepartment staff, supported by the Advisor and overseen by the Project
Procurement Specialists based inthe UCA, will undertake all procurement for LIG financed
subprojects managed at provincial level; and (iii)   each eligible district will have a District
Accountant and a District Works Technician as part of local administration staff who will be
responsible for procurement for small value procurement (below $5,000). These staff will be
supported by the Public BuildingsDepartment and Advisor at provincial level to ensure
compliance with procurement procedures. Training will be provided on a regular basis to district
based procurement staff on the simplifiedprocedures which will be employed as mentioned
earlier.

Procurement under the project shall be guidedby the IDA procurement guidelines (at central level
and for non-LIG goods and services) andby IDA approved G O M procedures for the Local
InvestmentGrants at provincial and local level.
4.4 Financialmanagementissues:
The assessment of the financial management arrangements o fthe project includeda review o fthe
systems o f accounting, reporting, auditing, flow o f funds and internal controls. The implementing
agents' arrangements are acceptable ifthey are considered capable o f recording correctly all
transactions and balances, supportingthe preparation o f regular and reliable financial statements,
safeguarding assets, and are subject to auditing arrangements acceptable to the Bank.

For the project to fully deliver on its objectives, a FMS will be developed inaccordance with the
Financial Management Assessment Report presented inAnnex 6B. Inspite of weaknesses in
systems, the project will needto adopt systems that are not incompatible with those o f GOM.
This i s inpart due to the capacity-building objectives o f the project, which envisages
strengthening the capacity of local governments to plan, execute, report on, and maintain local
investments, under government systems. Therefore, the accounting system will use government
procedures as they exist on paper, while insistingon proper application o f those procedures.


                                                  - 22 -

 Inorder to achieve this, intensive training, inspection, andoversight ofthe system will berequired
 to ensure compliance. Project management will also carefully study what additional procedures
 will needto be adopted by the implementing agents to ensure complete and accurate recording
 and reporting.

 The overall conclusion of the financial management assessment is that inorder to establish an
 acceptable control environment and to mitigate financial management risk, measures, as outlined
 inthe FinancialManagement Action Plancontained inAnnex 6B, should betaken.

 DisbursementArrangements and Flow of funds

World Bank grants in Mozambique are generally controlled through separatebank accounts
 [Special Accounts (SA)] managed by a Project Coordination Unit (UCA). Normally, inW B grant
management inMozambique, the GOM agrees to open a separate Project Account (PA) where
counterparty funds are deposited inagreed amounts and managed by the U C A to fulfill
 counterpart financing requirements.

This project will adopt the SA and PA structure. Provincial implementingagents will manage
provincial-level Second Generation Special Accounts (SGSAs), and Project Accounts for
government funds. The DPPF will be a grantee and receive grant disbursements from the SA to a
separate grants account. This account will receive only Grant funds, which are 100% grant
financed, and will be managedby a government accountant, reporting to the DPFP, who will be
supervised as well by the Project's Supervisory Accountant at the Provincial level. Second
Generation Special Accounts will receive advances from the Special Account at the beginningof
the year on submission of approved plans, and thereafter will receive replenishments of eligible
expenditures to continue to finance approved activities.

Districts will open accounts to receive grant disbursements. Each district will maintain two
accounts, one for larger works contracts, which will be managed as a zero-balance account, only
receiving transfers when invoices are presented for payment. The second will be managed on an
imprestbasis, receiving an initial advance, andthen replenishment onpresentation of adequate
justifications of eligible expenditures.

The chart inAnnex 6B illustratesthe proposedbanking and funds flow arrangements.
5. Environmental:                         Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues andtheir treatment emerging from this analysis.
The GOM's Framework Environmental Law (Law No. 20/97 o f 7 October) and EIA
Regulations (Decree No. 76/98 o f 29 December) and the Bank's Operational Policies 4.01 require
the preparation of an Environmental Assessment (EA) report which assesses potential
environmental and social impacts o f public investments. The EA Report prepared for the DPFP
was publicly disclosed duringMay 15, 2003 by the Government o f Mozambique and the World
Bank as part of preparationfor the appraisal o f the project. The EA establishes the screening
process or mechanism for DPFP funded subprojects which enable local administrations to identify


                                                    - 23 -

potential environmental and social impacts of subprojects and to address them by incorporating
the relevant mitigationmeasuresinto their designs when necessary. The EA Report also assesses
the capacity at the provincial and district level to implement the proposed screening process and
mitigation measures, including the provision of support to communities incases of community
managed subprojects, and makes recommendations as appropriate, including training needs and
costs. The EA indicates the institutionalarrangements for the environmental and social
management o f future subprojects, includingmonitoring indicators, activities and costs to be
budgettedinto subprojects applications and approvals. The investments under the LIG component
fall under various sectors such as water supply, drainage, sanitation, solid waste management,
access roads, construction o f schools and health facilities. Due to the diversenature of the
investments and districts themselves, the scope of the environmental analysis for each investment
would also vary.

Provisions for the environmental and social preparation, review, approval and implementation of
subprojects prescribedinthe EA and RPF, including traning, will be included inthe Project
ImplementationPlan.


5.2 What are the main features o f the EMP and are they adequate?
The Environmental Management Plan (EMP) is prepared as part o f the Environmental
Assessment and consists o f a set of mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures to be taken
duringimplementation and operation ofthe subprojects to eliminate adverse environmentaland
social impacts, offset or reduce them to acceptable levels. The main features of the EMP are: (i)
mitigation plans which describe the technical details o f each mitigation measure, together with
designs, equipment descriptions and operation procedures as appropriate; and (ii)       monitoring
objectives that would specify the type of monitoring activities that will be linkedto the mitigation
measures. The EMP would also provide specific descriptions o f institutional arrangements. In
addition, the EMP would include an estimate of the costs o f the measures and activities
recommended so that the local administration can budget the necessary funds. The mitigation and
monitoring measures recommended inthe EMP were developed inconsultation with all affected
groups to include their concerns and views inthe design o f the EMP. See sections 7,8, and 9 of
the EA for a more complete description of the framework EMP, the subproject EMPs,
monitoring, andtraining and capacity buildingto implementthe EMPs.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status o f EA:
                      Date o f receipt o f final draft:
This is a category Bproject. An EA has beenprepared and disclosed on May 15,2003.

5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
o f consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
An environmentalscreening form has beenprepared specifically for the DPFP and i s includedin
the EnvironmentalAssessment Report. Environmental screening will take place duringthe
subproject planning process, and issues and concerns relatedto potentially adverse subproject
impacts will be captured inthe screening process. The EA Report has been reviewedby the
Ministry for the Coordination o f EnvironmentalAffairs (MICOA) inMozambique and a public


                                                       - 24 -

announcement has beenmade inorder for interested and affectedparties to consult the Report,
which i s available for consultation at MICOA as well as MPF.

Environmental screening o f subprojects would be conducted by the local administrations with the
assistance o f their District Planning Teams (DPT) to ensure that they carry-out the appropriate
EA for each subproject, Before approving a subproject, the DPT verifies that the subprojects
meet the environmental and social requirements of the national and local governments and are
consistent with the overall DPFP EA and other applicable environmental and social policies and
safeguards of the World Bank. They must also ensure that any legally requiredEA report has
beenprepared and approved by the District Administration and ConsultativeCouncil before the
subproject i s approved for funding. Public consultations will be heldwith the local communities
and all other interested/affected parties. These consultations will identify key issues and
determine how the concerns of all parties will be addressed inthe terms o f reference of the EA.
To facilitate meaningfulconsultations, the local administrations would provide all relevant
material and information concerning the subprojects ina timely manner prior to the consultation,
ina form and language that are understandable andaccessibleto the groups beingconsulted
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Modular sector specific environmental checklists have beenprepared for the project and these
checklists will be usedto determine that the investments conform to environmentally appropriate
guidelinesand that they incorporate the mitigation measuresdefinedtherein.Local
administrations will be required to apply the environmental checklists for appraising their
investments and comply with the mitigation measures contained therein. Inaddition to the RPF,
an individual Resettlement Plan (RP) will be prepared duringproject implementation for cases
where obligatory landacquisition turns out to be necessary. To determine the depth o f the EA
required, potential impacts inthe following areas needto be considered: (i) issues; (ii)
                                                                                   social
health issues; (iii)
                   protected areas; (iv) cultural heritage, archaeological sites; (v) existing natural
resources such as forests, soils, wetlands, water resources; and (vi) wildlife or endangered
species' habitats. Monitoringand evaluation guidelines will be developed to provide for clear and
functional environmental and social monitoring and evaluationroles and responsibilities, and to
provide monitoring indicators inorder to measure the success of the mitigation measures.
Responsibilities for Monitoring and Evaluation of the Mitigation Measures would be assigned to
the UCA inMPF.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The development objective of the project is improved district administration institutional
performance to plan and manage small infrastructure investments inresponse to community
demand. The key social issue i s to ensure that planning and planimplementation promote the
institutionalisation of participation, especially o f frequently marginalized groups such as women
and the absolutely poor, inlocal decision-making. The project's planned social development
outcomes o f greater empowerment and social inclusion, will be furtheredinsofar as investments
are identified,prioritised and funded by district administrations ina participatory, transparent and
accountable manner. Performance assessment criteria for districts will include the quality of


                                                  - 25 -

community participation inplan formulation and implementation. While not a direct objective of
the DPFP, improved access to basic public services and infrastructure resulting from the use of
project financed Local Investment Grants will also provide significant social and economic
benefits to the rural and most poor population inparticipating districts.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating inthe project?
The DPFP will promote increasedparticipationand downward accountability inthe district
planningprocess as well as inplan implementation. The planning approach piloted by UNCDF on
which the project strategy i s based engages communities inthe district planning process both
through participatory rural appraisal and through representation inlocal consultative councils.
The DPFP will buildupon this experience inseveral critical respects: first, government guidelines
beingdeveloped with project support will structure consultationand representation inDCCs to
institutionalise dialogue and accountability between local officials and civil society inrural
districts; second, local NGOs and civil society actors will participate as facilitators for community
organizations and capacity buildingefforts for community leaders and grassroots institutions;
finally, based on CDD best practices adapted to local conditions the project will promote district
administration-community co-management of LIG3 financed community infrastructure
improvement investments, thus movingbeyond planning to strengthen beneficiary participation in
project execution. Both district eligibility for access to LIG funds and the annual district
performance assessments, which will determine subsequentallocations of LIGs, will employ
participation and accountability criteria. The DPFP will also develop partnerships at central,
provincial and district levels with NGOs and other civil society actors engagedinparticipatory
development and governance improvement initiatives. The DPFP's policy reform component also
foresees engaging public sector, civil society and private sector actors inparticipatory diagnoses
and consultations regarding furthering decentralization processes and increasingthe transparency
and accountability of public sector planning and management at local levels.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Duringproject formulation, both governmental andnon-governmental stakeholders were
consulted at central, provincial and district levels regarding both strategic and operational
questions related to project design and operational aspects o f engaging communities and local
civil society in district planningprocesses. At district level, rural communities and civil society
will constitute the membership base for the local fora and District Consultative Councils through
which district development plans will be developed, discussed and approved. NGOs working in
the districts will participate as facilitators and technical resources for both the planningprocess
and insupport of consultative councils. The district planningprocess has as one o f its objectives
the development of effective partnerships betweendistrict administrations and development
assistance NGOs inresponding to locally defined needs andpriorities. At the provincial level, the
DPFP will support Provincial ParticipationNetworks inorder to promote complementary
approaches between NGOs and civil society organizations engaged inlocal empowerment
activities and the public sector institutions responsible for governance andthe provision o f
services inrural areas.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have beenprovidedto ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?



                                                   - 26 -

The DPFP planning manuals and communication strategy will be developed with special attention
paid to frequently marginalized groups suchas women, the absolute poor, and those not reading
or speaking Portuguese. Technical assistanceinparticipatory planningmethods, district based
community participation facilitators, and the Provincial ParticipationNetwork will emphasize the
inclusion inplanning and consultative processesof these segments of the rural population.
Official guidelines for Community Participationand Consultationin District Planning are being
developedwith project support and will be approved as the authorizedGOM methodology for
organizing dialogue between local administrationand rural communities. These guidelines will
ensure both adequate representation and provide guidance for information flow and accountability
regarding resources managed, and actions undertaken, by district administration through civil
society fora and local consultative councils inthe districts. The District Performance Assessment
System, which will link LIG allocation to prior year performance inthe areas of planning,
management and participation, will assure that district administrations have bothunambiguous
information and specific incentives related to the quantity and quality of participation by
community representatives inplanning decisions as well as inholding local official accountable for
resource uses and investment outcomes.
6.5 How will the project monitor performanceinterms of socialdevelopment outcomes?
The DPFP Monitoring and Evaluation System will collect and present information related to
social development outcomes not only to government official and project personnel but also to
community and civil society representativesparticipating inconsultative councils. Simple and
clear indicators regarding decision-making processes and outcomes will be available at all levels.
Specific indicators regarding the quality of participation and accountability include:

0   % o f localities with consultative institutions (fora) functioning
0   % o f districts inwhich participants inplanning processesexpress satisfaction with
    responsiveness and accountability of district administration
0   % districts effectively implementing communication strategy linkingcommunities to local
    administration

Training will be provided to community representatives, NGOs and civil society members of
Provincial Participation Networks and district andprovincial level civil servants relatedto both
participatory monitoring of district plan implementationand the monitoring of participatory
processes supported by the DPFP.

7. Safeguard Policies:


                                                                    *
    Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                   0Yes 0No
    NaturalHabitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                            0  Yes 0 NO
    Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)
    Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                              0Yes 0 No
    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                          0Yes 0 No
    IndigenousPeoples(OD 4.20)                                             0Yes 0No
    Involuntary Resettlement(OP/BP 4.12)                                   0 Yes 0No
    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                      0Yes 0No


                                                  - 27 -

     Projectsin DisputedAreas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)'                     0 Yes 0 No

 7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguardpolicies.
 - A Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) has been preparedunder the project and has been
     disclosed to the public inM a y 15,2003, both inMozambique and at the World Bank. The
     RPF establishes the resettlement and compensation principles, organization arrangements and
     design criteria to be applied to meet the needs o f the people who may be affectedby the
     project. The RPF i s prepared to the standards o f the Government's own policy on resettlement
     and compensation and the policy o f the World Bank, OP 4.12. Inaddition to the RPF, an
     individual Resettlement Plan (RP) will be prepared duringproject implementation for cases
     where land acquisition turns out to be necessary. The RPF will specify the format for
     reporting that the land given to the government as a "voluntary donation" by communities i s in
     fact not at the expense o f any villagers without the clout to decline to donate the land.

- An Environment Assessment was prepared for the project and was disclosed on May 15, 2003,
   both in Mozambique and at the World Bank.

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability issues for DFPF arise at two levels: (i)  sustainability o f the physical infrastructure
investments made by local authorities with their receipts from the Local Investment Grants,
particularly if local revenues remain extremely low; and (ii)  the sustainability o f the DPFP capital
and capacity-building transfers as an ongoing element o f the deconcentrated budget management
system inMozambique.

The former issue was clearly identified during the preparationo f the DPFP - where it was noted
that the capacity o f provincial sector departments to plan and allocate revenues for operations and
maintenance o f district infrastructure would be a critical element inthe approvals process for
LIGs.Government budget review and approval procedures will be applied at provincial level, as
they are with SWOP and own-source funded projects, to investment projects requiring recurrent
budget coverage (specifically schools and health care units) to ensure that personnel and operating
costs are available for their operation and maintenance. As part of the planning process,
provincial sector departments are required to indicate the capacity to support these recurrent
costs intheir budgets or districts will have to make alternative choices. At the same time it
should be noted that a significant percentage o f investments in social service infrastructurewill
finance upgrading o f existing sub-standard facilities which are already funded under the province's
recurrent budget.

 Operations andmaintenance will also be promoted through the involvement o f district
administrations and district consultative councils inplanning and implementation o f community
based infrastructure improvements. Inaddition, districts may choose to raise their own revenues
as well as to use LIG3 funds to support repairs to existing facilities, creating an incentive to
leverage capital funds. Given the remote and poor nature o f most rural districts inMozambique,


                                                  - 28 -

however, the potential for short-term significant increases inown revenues are very limited and
dependence on transfers will remain high.The capacity buildingand policy reform components of
the proposedproject will also support activities at policy, legal and operational levels to improve
the regulatory and institutionalenvironment for own-source revenue mobilization by local
administrations across the country.

Inrespect ofthe level (ii) it is important that DPFPbe seenas contributing to fundamental
                             issues,
change processes in the system of deconcentrated state administration inMozambique beyond the
life o f the project. Prospects for the sustainability o f institutional changes are good provided that
GOM does not reverse its nascent trend towards decentralization. A cardinal feature o f the
project i s the use o f government systems for transferring funds through to the districts, using
standard government procedures and guidelines for district planning issuedby the GOM.
Government staff are the primary implementingagents, and the district planning process at the
heart o f the project follows the government's budget system and annual cycle. The introduction
of a district budget will institutionalise investmentplanning at this level. Furthermore, the GOM
will be financing the recruitment o f a District Works Technician and District Accountant as
full-time civil servants for each district, as part of eligibility for participationinthe DPFP, thus
providing a sustainable human resource base for local planning and management. Inaddition, the
effective development o f proper DDPs and annual plans should provide the basis for leveraging
often fragmented and duplicative donor and NGO funds to support gaps and promote synergy in
sources and uses o f funds.

The GOM has also agreed that by mid-term review, it will present a Letter o f Sector Policy
specifying how the administrative, fiscal and governance dimensions of decentralization will
proceed duringthe period 2006-2010. This policy i s expected to consolidate existing
commitments to increasing deconcentration o f discretionary and sector budgets to provinces and
districts and to establishing the district as a budget entity. The passing of the OLE (Local
Administration Reform) law i s expected to prepare the ground for the appropriate regulations and
operationalising o f broader institutional reforms as part of this process. While the existing policy
and regulatory environment remains incomplete and unevenlydeveloped in its support of
decentralization, within the MPF, MAE, MADER, MPOPH, as well as among prominent
provincial governors and district administrators there i s considerable ownership and support for
moving towards sustainable local service delivery with its associatedinstitutional and resource
requirements.

2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found inthe fourth column o f Annex 1):
                    Risk                      I    Risk Rating                 Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputsto Objective
The GOMunwilling to further formalize                    N          Drafting of national planning legislation to be
district planning system.                                           supported by project and UNCDF partnership.
                                                                    Project provided TA will assist inthe
                                                                    development, piloting and dissemination o f
                                                                    planning manuals.

MPF does not continue commitment or                                 Joint reform agenda developed during
efforts towards decentralized fiscal                                formulation based on dialogue between GOM


                                                       - 29 -

planning and budgeting                               and multi-donor decentralization group. Project,
                                                     UNDP/UNCDF and other donor support to
                                                     development o f fiscal decentralizationpolicies.
                                                     Links to public sector reform and macro finance
                                                     andbudget reforms favoring decentralization.
MAEand its provincial anddistrict              S     Support to dissemination o f norms and methods
officials do not support and facilitate the          approvedby MAE for community consultation
District Consultative Councils and Local             and participation. Engagement o f local civil
CouncilsiFora.                                       society actors inpromotion o f consultative
                                                     councils and fora.

GOM does not recruit and pay district          M     GOM approval o fpositions a Condition o f
accountant or works technician positions             Negations. MPF involvement inincreasing
                                                     provincial budgets to fund staff positions.

N o effective collaboration between            M     GOM approval of clear institutionalroles
DPOPH with other sectors                             among MPF, MAE & MOPH. Project Manual
                                                     provides guidance to implement these roles.

DPPF staff do not manage LIGfunds              M     Clear manuals, computerized systems and
accountably                                          training provided. Full-timeaccounting
                                                     supervisors ineach province and periodic
                                                     Management Quality Assurance inspections o f
                                                     disbursements, accounts and investments.

MAE/DPAC coordination and SIFAP                M     TA to provinces for planningandcoordination
training system not effective                        o f SIFAP training. Demand-based approach
                                                     permit flexible contracting arrangements and
                                                     alternative training providers.

MPF and MAE do not collaborate on              S     Project provides support through a single
reform                                               mechanism to both ministries for reform. Role
                                                     o f National Steering Committee inplanning and
                                                     guidingreform across MPF/MAE ministerial
                                                     lines.

GOMdoes not increase resource                  S
allocation to fiscal decentralization                Broad GOM-donor dialogue supports fiscal
                                                     decentralization. Links between DPFP and
                                                     macro finance andbudget reforms. Assessment
                                                     o f decentralization policy and reforms at
                                                     Mid-Term Review.

From Components to Outputs
GOMdoes not disburse counterpart funds         S     DNPOMPF as DPFP lead implementing
ina timely manner.                                   agency improves access to budget allocations
                                                     andtreasury disbursements.




                                              -30-

GOMdirectors do not respond effectively             M           Clear rules inProject Implementation Manual
to Management Quality Assurance                                 specify reduced or curtailed resources flows
management reports and audits                                   :ontingent on poor management. FMRs and
                                                                innual reviews permit IDA oversight o f
                                                                :ompliance.

Inherent FinancialManagement Risks:                 H           4 "ring-fenced" financial management strategy,
Corruption and a weakjudiciary combine                          with dedicated bankaccounts, and Project
to create an extremely weak control and                         Financial Procedures Manuals, will be
accountability environment.                                     ieveloped for this project.
Commitment to change, including the
effective decentralization o f finances and
financial management, could be blocked
by either lack o f interest or lack o f
management capacity to implement that
Zhange effectively.

Financial Management Control Risks:                 M           The proposed financial management (FM)
Illiquidityat all levels delaying project                       irrangements are properly implemented, the FM
implementation through lack o f                                 iction plan satisfactorily addressed inpractice
Zounterpart finds.                                              inda separateProject Coordination Unit is set
Weak financial management capacity                              ~pat central andprovincial levels.
delaying implementation through faulty
mduntimely reporting, or misapplication
3 f resources.
Delays inimplementation due to the time
md capacity requiredto train staffto an
2dequatelevel to manage a ring-fenced,
md decentralized Project structure.

3verall Risk Rating                                 S
tisk Rating H (High Risk), S (SubstantialRis , M (Modest Risk),
           -                                                    Negligible or Low Risk)


3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None

G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition


          (i)Relevantlyqualifiedext m1audit rsappointedonapprovedtermsofreference;
          (ii)TheRecipienthasappointedProcurementSpecialistsfortheUCA;
          (iii) RecipienthasopenedtheProjectAccountsandaninitialdepositofcounterpart
               The
              funds equivalent of $100,000 has been made therein; and
          (iv) The Financial Management System (FMS) has been designed, installed andthe
              ability to prepare F M R s demonstrated at the central and provincial level: (A) the



                                                  -31 -

             FMShasbeendesignedand installed; (B) qualified and experienced Supervisory
             Accountants have been appointed to the PPUs/UPPs; and (C) qualified and
             experienced Project Accountants have been appointed to the PPUsLJPPs
          (v) Submission of the revisedProject Implementation Manual
          (vi) The Recipienthaspublishedinits OfficialGazette, inform and substance
             satisfactory to the Association, the notice of adoption of the Guidelines for
             Community Participationand ConsultationinDistrict Planning

2. Other [classify according to covenanttypes used in the LegalAgreements.]
      Conditions o f Board Presentation

         (i)SubmissionofthefinalLetterofSectorCommitmentdulysignedbytheMinisterof
             Planning and Finance

      Other:

         (i)ManaPementAspectsoftheProiect:GOMshallmaintainstaffingintheUCA,
             satisfactory to IDA, to ensure the effective implementation of the project.

        (ii) Monitoring and Evaluation: the UCA will submit quarterly progress reports to IDA.

        (iii) Mid-TermReview: MPF through its UCA will conduct a mid-termreview of the
             DPFP inearly 2006.

        (iv) Implementation: The Government would carry out DPFP inaccordance with the
             Project    Implementation Manual (PIM) and guidelines for the community
             participation.

        (v) Counterpart Funding: The Recipient will open and maintain an account (a Project
             Account) in Mozambique Meticais ina commercial bank on terms and conditions
             satisfactory to the Association. MPF will include DPFP government counterpart
             contributions in its annual budget.

        (vi) Letter of Sector Policy before MidtermReview.

      Additional Conditions for the participation of Provinces and Districts

        (i)FMSdesignedandinstalledattheprovinciallevel
        (ii) Qualified and experienced supervisory accountants appointedto the Project
             Coordination Units of the provinces to supervise the management of the Grants
             account at the Provincial Directorates o f Planning andFinance and in the
             participating districts
        (iii)Qualified and experienced Project Accountants appointedto the UCA of the
             provinces to manage the flow o f funds at the provincial level, outside o f the Grants



                                               - 32 -

H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1,a) Theengineeringdesigndocumentsforthefirstyear'sactivitiesarecompleteandreadyforthestart
         of project implementation.
IXI 1.b) Not applicable.

   2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
      project implementation,
KI3. The ProjectImplementation Planhasbeenappraisedandfoundtoberealistic andofsatisfactory
      quality.
04. Thefollowingitemsarelackingandarediscussedunderloanconditions(Section G):



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
ixI 1.Thisproject complies withallapplicable Bankpolicies.
0 2.ThefollowingexceptionstoBankpoliciesarerecommendedforapproval. Theprojectcomplieswith
      all other applicable Bank policies.




                     6 4d              .:.-          44-
Lance Morrell                              Jiime M.Biderman                       Darius Mans
Team Leader                                Sector ManagerlDirector                Country ManagerlDirector




                                                   - 33 -

                                   Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                   MOZAMBIQUE: Decentralized Planning and Financing Project
                                                                  Data CollectionStrategy
                                                                                             Critical Assumetions
3ector-related CAS Goal:     1 Sector Indicators:            jectorl country reports:     (from Goal to Bank Mission)
                                                                 ~




[mprovedgovernance and         0 Sustained pro-poor social                                1.Political and
nore responsive service        spending                                                   macro-economic stability
lelivery                       0 Greater fiscal
                               decentralization                                           2. Sustained political and
                               e Improved structure for                                   financial commitment to
                               service delivery                                           poverty reduction and
                                                                                          economic growth



Droject Development            Outcome I Impact              Jrojectreports:              (from Objective to Goal)
3bjective:                     Indicators:
:mprove the institutional      0  80% o f districts inthe    8 Project Implementation
:apacity o f District          Provinces supported by the    md Monitoring Reports        1. Continued commitment

4dministrations to plan and Project with District            0 Annual District           by Government to fiscal and

nanage small infrastructure Development Plans and                'erformance Assessment   administrative

nvestments inresponse to      Annual Investment Plans            teports                  decentralization,

:ommunity demand.             approved                       Q        Mid-Term Evaluation particularly from Ministries
                                                                                          o f State Administration and
                               0  80% o f districts inthe    C*       Implementation
                              Provinces supportedby the          Zompletion Report        Planning and Finance.

                              Project with District                                       2. Continued Government
                              Consultative Councils                                       commitment to community
                              organized and approving                                     participationand
                              district plans and                                          empowerment.
                              implementation reports                                      3. Sustained political and
                               0  60% o f districts                                       budgetary commitment to
                              participating inthe Local                                   the provision ofbasic
                              Investment Grants inwhich                                   infrastructure and social
                              participants inplanning                                     services.
                              processes satisfaction with                                 4. Sustained commitment
                              responsiveness and                                          to and progress o f the
                              accountability o f district                                 public sector reform
                              administration                                              program.
                               0  50% o f districts
                              participatinginthe Local
                              Investment Grants rated
                              good or excellent on annual
                              District Performance
                              Evaluation assessments
                               0  60% o f districts at
                              national level adopting MPF
                              and MAEapproved
                              methodologies for
                              participatory district


                                                         - 34

                           lanning and governance




htput from each            butput Indicators:              Project reports:               irom Outputs to Objective)
:omponent:
:omponent 1-
"ticipatory District
Vanning

,1District administrations     80 % districts with                                             , GOMdistrict planning
trengthened to formulate   'lamingteams inplace and         0 DistrictPlansand            ystem formalized
x a l development plans    unctioning                       Reports

iithcommunity                  80% districts w l LIG        6 Provincial                  !. MFP continues
articipation.              h d e d projects based upon     1Implementation and            :ommitment and efforts
                              pproved District Plans        MonitoringReports
                                                           1 *:*                              oward decentralized fiscal
                                                                    Planningand Particip.     )laming and budgeting.
                                                            TA Reports

 .2 Civil society                                            9 ProjectAnnualand               1. MAE and its Provincial
                                                                                              mdDistrict officials
                              180% o f administrative
 kengthened to participate                                  Mid-TermReports

 ffectively informulation                                                                     ;upport and facilitate
 ndimplementation o flocal                                                                     3istrict Consultative
 evelopment plans.                                                                             clouncils and Locality
                                                                                               Clouncils/Fora.

                                                                                               $, Effective articulation and
                                                                                               dormationflows among
                                                                                               localities, community
                                                                                               mthorities consultative
                                                                                               ;ouncils and District
                                                                                               Administration




 :omponent 2 Local
                -
 nvestment Grants

i.1LocalInvestment             80% o f LIG 1 & 2                                                1.DPPF staff manage LIG
Srants disbursed and       projects with funds                  *:* District LIG Plans and    1funds accountably
iccounted for inaccordance disbursed and properly               Reports

 with agreed procedures.   accounted for based on               *:* Provincial LIG              2. GOM staffs and pays
                           approved plans                       Financial Reports               District Accountant
                                                                0 LIGSubproject                 positions
                              070% districts with LIG 3         MISMonitoring Reports


                                                     - 35 -

                           Fundsdisbursedand
                           idequately accountedfor         P  MQAReports             Timely disbursements
                           3asedonapprovedplans            +  ProjectAnnual and     om central levelofLIG

                             D  % districts with District 4id-TermReports           mds
                           Accountantscontractedas
                           dvil servantsandpaidby
                           the State budget

..2LIGfinanced                                                                         Effectivecollaboration
                             D 80% ofLIG 1& 2 works                                  ,
ubprojects correctly         properly executedas                                     :tween DPOPH/Public
rocuredandexecutedto       plannedandwithin                                          uildings Dept with rural
greedtechnical standards.  specifications                                           )ads, ruralwater and
                               75% ofLIG 3 works                                    x i a l sectors
                           completedas plannedand
                           with community oversight                                  .GOM staffs andpays
                               100%districtswith                                    Iistrict Works Technicians
                           Works Technicians                                        ositions
                           contractedas civil servants
                           andpaidby the State budget




htponent 3    - Local
1dministration Capacity
31dg

I.1ProvincialandDistrict       80% of targetedprovincia:
jtaff with adequate skills   0                            3 ProvincialAnnual
                           anddistrictfinancialstaff in                              .Commitmentof Provincia
mdknowledgeto manage                                      rrainingReports
                             each of 4 provincestrained                             iov't and District
JG funds andsubprojects                                   f*   Annual ProjectReport
                             to manage andaccountfor                                idministratorsto training
                                                          Q    TrainingTA
                             LIGfunds                      :ontractor Reports        1.Effectivenessof MAE/
                             0 80% of targeted            b Mid-TermReports
                             DPOHDEdstaffineach of                                   )PAC coordinationand

                             4 provincestrainedto                                    ;IFAP training system

                             procureandsuperviseLIGl
                             & 2 fundedworks
                             subprojects
                             0 80% ofdistrictsinthe
                             projectarea with staff
                             trained andable to
                             adequatelymanage,
                             superviseandreport onLIG
                             2 &3 funds and subprojects


!.2 Provincialanddistrict    0 Number of provinces

;taffwith improvedskills     with HumanResource

mdknowledgeto fulfill        DevelopmentPlansand
                             annual trainingplans

eir general responsibilities     70% district
lr local govemance and       .dministrative personnel
lministration.               vho have participated in
                             raining courses for
                             rofessional development



'omponent4 Supportfor
              -
lecentralizationPolicy


, Policies adopted to          1  Official Guidelines for
crease decentralization of     Iistrict consultative council:  :. DPFPSteering               1. Effective collaboration

scal, administrative and       ublishedand disseminated                                      3etweenMPF andMAEon
                                                               :ommittee and GAT
ovemance systems inrural                                                                     :eform
                               1   Formalization o f           Leports
istricts.                      listrict as a budgetunit        I+ Donor Decentralizatior        Increased GOM resource
                                P  Operational rules and       iroup Minutes
                               irocedures for district                                         locationto fiscal
                                                                    Mid-Term Reports
                               'iance published                :*:*                            :centralization
                                                                    Letter o f Sector Policy
                                  3% (per mum)o f state        for MTR)
                                nvestment budget allocated
                                Tor provincial planning and
                                nanagement wl district
                                .nput
                                D  Provincial budget
                                illocation established for
                                listrict infrastructure O&M


 Iomponent5-
 hpport to Project
 mplementation

 .Adequate organizational                                                                        Support by DNPO and
                                D  Disbursements o f funds                                      ,

 apacity and systems in         by U C A are done efficient11  0 Project Quarterly and         )PPFs to U C A and PPU

 llace to manage and            mdontime.                      4nnual Reports                  ianagers

 nonitor project activities.                                   b WB Supervision
                                D   Procurement is done ini
                                timely fashion and             VIission Aides-Memoire

                                according to agreed            I:*  Project Audit Reports

                                procedures.                    0 Mid-TermReport
                                                               0 Implementation
                                    Activity Plans, Budgets,   Zompletion Reports
                                Investment Plans,
                                 Procurement Plans,
                                 Financial Monitoring
                                 Reports, Activity and
                                 Output Monitoring Report2
                                 are .
                                 0  Project audit reports are
                                 preparedo ntime andthe

                                                           - 37 -

                         iuditopinion is not
                         qualified.




~~
'roject Components 1
iub-components:          :omponent)                                            Outputs)
7omponent1    -          JS$ 7.3 1 million        *:* Bi-annualmonitoring      1.Timely disbursementsof
'articipatory District                            reports, including financial GOM counterpart funds
'laming                                           monitoring reports
                                                                               2. Effective response of
7omponent2 Local
              -          JS$ 19.24 million        *:* Management and           GOMdirectors to M Q A
nvestment Grants                                  financial reports,           management reports and
                                                  procurement records,         audits
7omponent3 Local
              -          JS$ 7.15 million         contract, audits and
ldministration Capacity                           technical reports
31dg

Zomponent 4   -          JS$ 1.36 million
lecentralization Policy
;upport

Zomponent 5 Support to
              -         JS$6.94 million
Iroject Implementation




                                             - 38 -

                               Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                 MOZAMBIQUE: Decentralized Planning and Financing Project

By Component:

Project Component 1 US$7.31 million
                     -

Participatory District Planning
The objectives o f Component 1are to (i) public sector capacity for district planning and
                                             develop
accountable plan implementation, and (ii)    develop capacity among rural communities to
effectively participate in district planning and ensure local administrationaccountability for plan
implementation.

The Component will support up to 49 district administrations infour provinces to prepare and
implement multi-sectoral territorial development plans with the participationo f civil society and
rural communities. This process will enable district administrations to mobilize resources from
different sources (government's investmentbudget, non-government organizations and donors as
well as local civil society and private sector actors) for the implementation of the agreed District
Development Plans.

The district plans to be supported bythe Component include:
   0    District (Strategic) Development Plans (Plano Distrital de Desenvolvimento or PDD)
   0    Three Year RollingInvestment Plans (Plano de Investimento Publico or PIP)
   0    Annual Investment Plans (Plano Annual de Investimento or PAI)

District Development Plans are important not only as an venue for integrating typically
unarticulatedplanningprocessesconcerningpublic service provision, infrastructure investment,
and local economic development and as a source of mediumterm guidance to annual planning
processesbut also as a framework for mobilizingpartnerships among governmental, NGO and
private sector actors inthe local development arena. The districts' Annual InvestmentPlans will
contribute to the GoM budgetingprocess by providing proposals for use inthe Provincial
Investment Budget which originate at district level. Close coordination with sector directorates at
provincial level will be key to linkingdistrict plans with sectoral investment policies, planning
modalities, works standards and funds available for O&M. For the community-level investment
mechanism allocations neednot be reviewed at provincial level since the micro-projects will not
be listednominally inthe provincial budget or have recurrent cost implications.

All districts are expected to be eligible for project support to participatoryplanning, with
sequencing to be determinedbased on assessment o f capacity and expressions of commitment by
District Administrators. Districts will be selected annually by eachprovincial government and
approved the DNPO and Steering Committee at central level based on agreed eligibility criteria.
Districts indicatedby the provinces to receive LocalInvestment Grants inthe coming year will
receive priority attention for training inAnnual Investment Planning.




                                                 - 39 -

Sub Component 1.1 Develop Public Sector Capacity for District Planning

This subcomponent will provide support to district administrations to establish and operationalise
District Planning Teams and to prepare strategic and annual plans. I t will provide the teams with
the methodological tools, training, technical assistanceand mentoring to undertake planning tasks
and to review and improve district plans where they already exist. It will also improve the
working conditions for effective participatory planning. A Provincial Planning Support (PPS)
Team will developed and strengthened to provide mentoring for district personnel inthis process.

This subcomponent's activities include:
   0    Development of District PlanningManuals,
   0    Training o f Trainers i.e. Provincial Planning Support Team members
   0    Training o f District Technical (Planning) Teams
   0    Seminars for Local Administration Personnel including District Administrators
   0    Support DAs inproviding timely and complete information to CCDs inrespect of the
        process andprogress in district plan implementation.
   0    A t least one annual workshop per province for sharing o f experience

Sub Component 1.2 Develop capacity of civil society and rural communities to effectively
participate in planning and ensure local administration accountability for plan
implementation.

Target institutions and beneficiaries of this subcomponent will include: consultative fordcouncil
members, community andtraditional authorities, local interest group representatives, other
community leaders and members.

This subcomponent will provide support to communities for organizing structures (District
Consultative Councils or CCDs as well as more local representative fora) in order to participate
effectively indecision-makingand hold local administrations accountable. CCDs members will be
accountable to the communities who selected them, and will convey community concerns and
priorities to the District Administration and Consultative Council.

Activities to be financed under this subcomponent include:
   0    support for GOM dissemination of guidelines for the hctioning o f CCDs
   0    identification, contracting and training o f district-based civil society facilitators
   0    support for the development o f a ParticipationNetwork ineach Province to provide
        capacity buildingand exchanges of experience.

Through the Component 1technical assistance contract, this subcomponent will provide training
to District Consultative Council and Local Fora members. The Technical Assistance contractor
will identify, contract and train an appropriate civil society organization based in each district to
act as facilitators of community representation and deliberation at locality fora, with special
attentionpaidto gender dynamics and the participation o f frequently marginalized groups inthe
promotion o f government -civil society dialogue at the level o f Administrative Post and District.



                                                 - 40 -

Sub Component 1.3         Support for the development and implementationof a
communicationsstrategy

This subcomponent will support the development and implementationof a communications
strategy, inorder to ensure that the context inwhich district planning and district councils are
operating is characterized by increasing levels o f awareness, inclusion and accountability among
bothpublic sector and civil society actors.

Project Component 2 US$19.24 million
                      -

Local InvestmentGrants
The objective of this component is to buildthe capacity for decentralized management of
small-scale local level public investmentsby establishing a small infrastructure grants mechanism.
Component 2 will promote methods and systems for district administrations to allocate budgets
for small infrastructure investments(maximum $200,000 per district per annum) whilst
strengthening capacities for financial and works management by GOM line units and local
administration staff through learning-by-doing usinggovernment systems.

The MPF/DNPO will conclude a Memoradum of Understandingwith each Province for the
purpose of carrying out subprojects under the LIG component of the Project. The M O U will
include an agreement to provide to the DPPF a grant from the grant, on a non-reimbursablebasis,
to be used according to the procedures set out inthe Development Grant Agreement and Project
ImplementationManual.

Access o f districts to LIGs ineach province will be phasedby year leading to all 49 districts inthe
four provinces beingpotentially eligible by year 4. Based on agreed criteria relating to
commitment, capacity and past performance, provincial governments will indicate which districts
have satisfied the eligibility criteria and from these which will gain access to LIGs in each year.
This gradual expansion will ensure that management capacity is built inboththe provincial
governments and project coordination units to support the districts sufficiently.

The Local Investment Grants (LIG) will constitute a grant category to be disbursedto the
Provincial Directorates o f Planning and Finance (DPPF). Eachprovincial government i s therefore
responsible for managing and reporting on LIG use by the districts under its authority. Financial
management procedures will be those usedby the GOM, strengthened as deemed necessary to
meet World Bank standards and to facilitate improvements inquality and timeliness. At district
level, LIG funds will be administered by District Accountants    (I)under the authority o f the District
Administrator.

Inadditionto training courses andoperational support for financial administration personnel, the
project will finance two other significant capacity buildingmeasures. First, the Management
Quality Assurance contractor (see section 3.1) will provide a periodic diagnostic and
error-correctionmechanism for provincial and district accounting, procurementand financial
reporting. Secondly, each province will be provided with a project funded Provincial Accounting
Supervisor. This mid-levelaccountant will be responsible to provide on-the-job guidance to the


                                                  -41 -

civil servants managing LIG funds at provincial and district levels inorder to ensure that they
have access to practical assistancein implementing the systems and procedures requiredby the
GOM and the Project ImplementationManual.

The Department of Public Buildings(DPOPH/EdificaqGes) will manage procurement and
supervise the physical execution o f public buildingconstruction. Each provincial department will
identify at least three of its mid-leveltechnicians-who    will be providedby the project with
manuals, training and requiredequipment-to        assume planning, procurement and supervision
functions for DPFP financed investments with the support of a project contracted Provincial
Works and ProcurementAdvisor.

The DPFP will make use of, and inmany areas improve, the government's existing systems for
works management. Manuals and standardbiddingdocuments are being developed which satisfy
both government and Bank requirements. Standardized infrastructure guidelines and planning
manuals will also ensure that DPFP financed investments conform to the policies and technical
standards of each sector. District level systems for "micro-projects" planning and management
will be developed basedon regional CDD type models, emphasizing local accountability,
community-based execution and use of local artisans.

DPFP grant funds will be used for implementingsubprojects determined priority investments in
district plans but not coveredunder the GOM budget. The DPFP will finance three types of LI
Grants, which differ based on the type of investments and the respective responsibilitiesof the
district andprovinces intheir management

LIG 1(estimated at $ 4.4 million or approximately 22.8 % of total LIGrants) will finance District
Administrative Infrastructure. This refers to offices and other administrative buildingsinthe
districts as well as housing for key district staff with mid-levelqualifications. Planning and
management o f LIG1will be the responsibility of the provincial DPAC (public administration
directorate) as the line agency responsible for managing district administration personnel and
infrastructure. LIGl grants will increase from an average o f up to $15,000 per district per annum
to up to $30,000 per district per annum where warranted by performance.

LIG 2 (estimated at $ 11.3 million or approximately 58.9 % of total LIGrants) will finance
Socio-Economic Infrastructure inthe districts. Investments under this grant facility will be
selectedbased upon annual plans resultingfrom participatory planningprocesses. The menuof
eligible investments for LIG2, determined through consultations with provincial and district
authorities, includes primary schools, healthposts, rural water supply and sanitation, feeder roads
and bridges, small scale communal irrigation systems and rural markets. Standard plans and cost
guidelines will be established for each type of work. Works funded by LIG 2 will be undertaken
by private contractors and their execution verified by private sector inspectors. Financial and
works management responsibility will be sharedby the province and the district for LIG 2. The
province will be responsible for overall financial management and reporting on grant funds used
by districts. The districts will produce monthly financial reports to the provinces based on
approved procedures on the basis o f which provincial financial reports will be prepared. The
DPOPH will be responsible for the procurement o f these contracts. LIG2 grants will increase


                                                  - 42 -

from up to $75,000 per district per annum to up to $200,000 per district per annum where
warrantedby performance.

LIG 3 (estimated at $ 3.5 million or approximately 18.3 % of total LIGrants) will finance
Community Infrastructure Improvementsfor very small scale investments (micro-projects)
implementedjointly by District Administration and local communities. LIG 3 will be managed
entirely at district level inorder to buildcapacity inbasic financial and works management by
district administrations. The amounts of grants will initially be quite modest and subsequently be
increased when sound management by the DA has been demonstrated. LIG3 will finance items
such as rehabilitationor expansion o f existing buildings; small road improvements, bridges or
culverts; latrines, fences or other supplementary infrastructure and durable goods for use inpublic
facilities. A negative list will be defined for this facility inorder to ensure that LIG 3 does not
finance commercial investments for which other forms of financing (e.g. micro-grant) would be
more appropriate. A manual of standardmicro-projects plans will be prepared, periodically
updatedand provided to district planners. Community-based artisans will be contracted by the
District Administration to assist beneficiary communities inthe execution of LIG3 funded
micro-projects. LIG 3 grants will initially be up to $15,000 per district per annumand may
increase to as much as $50,000 per district per annum should performance warrant.

An important element of this component is the performance basedallocation system to be applied
among districts eligible for Local Investment Grants. Districts will all receive an equal initial
Local Investment Grants intheir first year o f access. A simple annual performance assessment
will indicate the quality of community participation, planning, financial management and works
supervisionundertaken in each district. Ineach annual budget cycle, subsequent LIG allocations
will be adjusted to reflect the results of this performance assessment. These annual performance
assessments will be undertaken by provincial governments and Provincial Project Units.The
results of this performance assessmentswill be presented by MPF for reviewjointly with the Bank
as a basis for approval of each year's work plan and budget.

A further important aspect of LIGimplementation is downward accountability to communities.
Local Community Oversight Committees will be responsible for monitoring micro-project
execution and will serve as the interlocutor between the CCD and target beneficiaries. Provincial
officials andproject staff can verify contractor performance during execution by involvingthe
Community Oversight Committee insubproject monitoring.

(I)District Accountants and the District Works Techniciansdiscussedbelow under subcomponent 2.2are newpositions being created within the
civil service with the support of the DPFP. The will be institutionalized in allprovinces and districts aspart of M P F and MAE'Seffort to
strengthen the management capacity of District Administration


Project Component 3 US$ 7.15 million
                               -

CapacityBuildingfor Local Administration
The objective o f Component 3 is to increase the professionalknowledge and skills of local
administration personnel. The Component will finance training for the staff of 49 District
Administrations and of associatedprovincial departments in4 provinces to increase their capacity



                                                                       - 43 -

to plan and coordinate district development activities, to mobilize and manage resources and to
deliverbasic administrative services to the public.

Subcomponent3.1: CapacityBuildingfor LocalInvestmentManagement

This subcomponent will strengthen district administrations and relevant provincial departments in
order that they are capable of managingthe funds and the contracts which will permit approved
LIGfunded subprojects to be effectively and accountably implemented. Two principle areas of
capacity buildingare contemplated: in financial administration and insmall works procurement
and supervision.

Inthe financial administrationarea, the component will support training ofprovincial anddistrict
staff relatedto LIGmanagement. Accountants inthe Investment Section of the Provincial
Planning and Budget Department will be trained and supported by the project in order to develop
requiredcapacities. At district level, the District Accountants will be trained to assume the
routine responsibility for LIG use andreporting. Inthe works management area, the project will
similarly provide support to relevant provincial and district public works staff inorder to ensure
that the procurement and execution o f local infrastructure investments financed by LIGrants will
attain an adequate level of transparency, quality and efficiency.

These two areas will be further strengthened through the procurement and management of the
Management Quality Assurance (MQA) consultancy. This consultancy will provide ongoing
independent oversight o f financial, procurementandworks management relatedto LIG funding.
The existence o f this oversight function permits greater decentralization of responsibility to local
administration (provinces and districts) while ensuringadequate control and reducing exposure of
MPF and the project to excessive fiduciary risk. The M Q A contractor will routinely assess the
management of the Local Investment Grants by provincial and district institutions and officials in
order to identify and correct deviations from approvedprocedures and practices inprocurement,
financial management and works supervision.

Subcomponent 3.2: CapacityBuildingfor LocalPublicAdministration


Inorder to develop the human resource base which will be required for more comprehensive and
institutionalized decentralization duringthe coming years, this subcomponent will support the
training of local administration staff ingeneral public administrationand governance. It will
principally support the implementation of the GOM Public Administration Training System
(SIFAP) which has been developed by MAE to address the structuralproblem of under qualified
local administrationpersonnel.

Subcomponent 3.2 will finance training o f several types:
Training inthe core functions of district administration, including support for implementingthe
GOM's SIFAP Public Administration Training Systemwhich provides training curricula,
methodologiesandmanuals as well as a core of trained trainers for basic (7th-9th grade) and
middle(10th-11th grade) level modules incore areas including: general public administration,


                                                - 44 -

public law, and ethics; human resource management inthe civil service; and budgetary
management/ financial administration. SIFAP will also provide specific leadership and
management curricula directedto District Administrators, Chefes de Secretaria and Chefes de
Post0 Administrativo, etc.
Training: inother areas (outside the SIFAP) identified as priorities by provincial and district
officials A maximum of 20% o f eachprovince's annual training budget will be available for such
discretionary training activities which may be contracted in or to which provincially selected
participants may be sent.
This subcomponent will employ a demand responsive and locally managed approach to planning
and implementing training programs through the project financed Provincial Training Budgets.
The DPACs will be responsible for the provincial training programs as the organizational units
responsible for overseeing the District Administrations and for managing their personnel. In
addition, the DPACs are the field representatives of MAE, the ministry responsible for the
GOM's Public Administration Training System's (SIFAP's) development and implementation.
A regionaltechnical assistance contract will provide periodic support to the DPACs for the
planning, coordination, administration and monitoring o f the Provincial Training Programs,
including the identification of potential training providers inresponseto each province's priorities.
Special provisions will be made inthe project and set forth inthe Development Grant Agreement
for the reimbursement by the provinces for costs relatedto training services provided by the
Government's regional training institute (IFAPA). Technical assistancepersonnel will work with
DPACs to undertake a Training Needs Assessment for district personnel and then to develop a
mediumterm HumanResource Development Strategy. The TA provider will assistthe
provincial governments' DPACs to formulate their respective Annual Training Plans with
reference to this HRD strategy. A locally contracted administrative assistant reporting to the
DPAC will assure that the logistical and organizational arrangements for training courses are
made.

Project Component 4 US$1.36 million
                     -

Component 4 - Support for Decentralization Policy
The objective o f Component 4 i s to support the development o fpolicies and methodologies
conducive to greater decentralization of the fiscal, administrative and governance regimesinrural
Mozambique. Guidedby the DPFP Steering Committee and managed by the MPF/DNPO with
the administrative support o f the UCA, the component will provide resources as part o f a
collective effort among several donors and partners to support MPF led decentralizationreforms
across key government agencies. Inpartnership with UNDP and UNCDF and their respective
bilateral co-financing agencies (principally the Governments o f Norway and the Netherlands) the
IDA grant will provide financing for three areas ofactivity:

(i)     DecentralizationPolicy Analysis and Definition
(ii)    DecentralizationMethodology Development and Dissemination
(iii)   DecentralizationTraining for Central Agency Policy Makers and Technicians



                                                 - 45 -

Support for (i) (ii) consist of financing for consultancies, bothinternationaland national
                and      will
as appropriate, for stakeholder consultations requiredto refine proposed polities and
methodologies, and for editingand publication of manuals to promulgate their results. Based on
extensive consultations at central, provincial, and local levels and between Government and its
donor partners   (21,a guiding agenda for DPFP supported reform activities has beenagreed with
Government, including specific actions to be undertaken relatedto the following areas:

    0    Restructuring and reorientation o f district administration
    0    Legitimation and strengthening o f participatory processes, representative structures, and
         accountability relations at local level
    0    Strengthening of the institutional basis for district level fiscal management
    0    Formalizationof local development planning and participatory planning methodologies
         and of the status o f local plans
    0    Increasingthe discretiono f provinces and districts in setting priorities and managing a
         greater share o f the public investment budget.

Support for (iii) will consist o f funding for the participationof Mozambicanofficials innational,
regional and international training courses, conferences and exchange visits aimed to increase their
awareness and technical knowledge concerning decentralization instruments andprocesses.

Support will be made available through the U C A to the core ministries guiding and supervising
the DPFP: Planning and Finance, State Administration, Agriculture and Rural Development and
Public Works and Housing. However, support may also be made available for relevant
decentralization-related initiatives by other government institutions such as the Ministryo f
Environmental Coordination whose Directorate of Territorial Planning i s involved inlocal land
use and development planning, the Ministryo f Women and Social Work whose focus on poverty
and marginalized groups i s relevant to the DPFP's objectives, and the Ministries of Health and
Educationwhose efforts to decentralize service delivery are clearly linkedto the DPFP's broader
institutional reform agenda.

Duringproject formulation, it was agreedbetween the Bank and the Ministers ofPlanningand
Finance and State Administration that further clarification of the GOM's policy regarding
decentralization i s relevant to the success o f the DPFP and will be critical to its intended
contribution to the longer-term reformprocesses favoring improved local governance, enhanced
local administrative capacity and an increased fiscal resource base for Mozambique's rural
districts. However, political uncertainty regarding existing legislative initiatives to reform local
administration and constraints imposedby impendingelectoral cycles mitigate against the
definition o f such a medium-term policy framework before DPFP effectiveness.

On this basis, the GOM has agreed to present at Mid-Term Review (projected for early 2006) a
Letter of Sector Policy for Decentralization. Followingthis letter, the work plan for Component
4 Support can be adjusted as necessary duringthe latter years of DPFP implementation to further
the agenda it will define. More significantly, the GOM Letter of Sector Policy for
Decentralization will provide the basis for collaboration during 2006 and 2007 among
Government, the Bank, and other donor partners indeveloping a National Program for
Decentralization and indesigningthe follow-on project to the DPFP. Resources have been

                                                   - 46 -

budgetedunder Component 4 to support this process.

Upon agreement of an Annual Reform Work plan and Budget betweenMPF and the Bank, the
UCA will manage the policy-related consultancy and training activities to be financed from the
DPFP under Component 4. Procurement of consultants will be organized by the UCA, with
Technical Group members and other relevant government personnel participating intheir
selection. The U C A will administer contracts and project funds in support o f the specific
consultancies and training activities programmed.

 (2) Since 2000, an "Informal Donors ' Working Group on Decentralization " chaired by UNDP hasprovided a venuefor coordination of
programs and collaboration on the development of a collective reform agenda around whichpartnerships with the G O M can be organized.
During the DPFP Pre-Appraisal Mission in July 2002 thisjoint donor agenda was discussedwith the Ministers of Planning and Finance and
State Administration and accepted by the Government, the WB, and other Donor's Group members as a basisfor the assistance to reform
described under this component

Project Component 5 US$6.94 million
                             -
Component5: Support for ProjectImplementation

The objective of Component 5 is to finance project management, monitoring and evaluation and
the formulation ofthe next project insupport of decentralization.

Sub Component 5.1 ProjectManagement

DPFP will provide financing for the effective functioning of the Project Coordination and Support
Unit(UCA) inthe MinistryofPlanning and Finance andProvincialProjectUnits(PPUs) inthe
Provincial Directorate of Planning an Finance ineachprovince.

The central-level UCA will have a core staff to oversee all components of the project andreport
to the GOM and the World Bank under the grant agreement. The U C A will be responsible for
procurement and financial management and for consolidating work plans, budgets and
implementationreports from all components and all provinces. The U C A will manage TA
contracts and oversee the work of TA providers. It will provide support and guidance to involved
ministriesat central level regardingplanning and implementation of DPFP supported activities and
will support and supervise provincial activities through its collaboration with the Provincial
Directorateo f Planning and Finance and their respective PPU ineach province. The UCA will
also be responsible for ensuringthe effective implementation of the procurement systems and
procedures inthe participating provinces and districts.

The Provincial Project Units (PPUs) inthe four provinces will undertake and oversee project
specific planning and reporting, coordination, financial management, and procurement
requirements. The PPUs, headed by a Provincial Coordinator, will report both to the Provincial
Director of Planning and Finance and to the Project Coordinator inthe UCA. The PPU will be
responsible for procurement and financial management as well as the preparation of work plans,
budgets and reports for all project activities undertaken within the province. The PPUwill ensure
coordination among and provide administrative support to provincial government departments,
district administrations, and DPFP financed TA providers. The procurement and financial


                                                                   - 47 -

management for works and associatedgoods and services financed by Local InvestmentGrants
under component 2 will not bemanageddirectly bythis PPUbutrather by GOM staff inthe
Provincial Directorates and inDistrict Administrations supported by project staff and TA
personnel.

Sub Component 5.2 Monitoringand Evaluation

Giventhat DPFP is the first effort of the GOMto scale up from pilot initiativesto a regional
program covering four provinces, there a needto carefully monitor its implementation and capture
both successes and shortcomings. This component will support the monitoring of the progress in
DPFP implementation and incapacity buildingfor decentralized planningand financing activities
undertaken by the districts. DPFP will provide financing for the development of an M&E system
to generate information necessaryfor operational monitoring as well as the evaluationof
operational systems and institutional change inlight of emergingpolicy objectives. The M&E
system will needto capture performance data concerning local administration along with planning,
management, participationand accountability criteria for use inthe District Performance
Assessment System discussed under Component 2.

The DPFP M&E system should enable the identification of bottlenecks inorder to improve
performance and signal opportunities or needs for improved systems and/or additional resources.
Since the G O M has expressed its desire to move toward a national program of decentralized
planning and finance, a national M&E framework will beneededto allow for coverage o f all
provinces. Giventhat at present the GOM program i s currently supported by a number of
projects, MPF has expressed its desire to standardize information requirements across projects as
far as possible and where necessary, allow for additional project specific information to be
generated. Inthis respect, this component will contribute to the development of a common M&E
frameworkjointly with MPF and UNCDF.

A central level M&ESpecialist financed by UNCDF will be located inMPFDNPO responsible
for M&E o f the National DPFP. Inaddition, the U C A will recruit and M&E Specialist to work
closely with the aformentionedNational M&E Specialist, but with specific responsibilities for
M&Eofthe World Banksupported DPFP. Furthermore, at provincial level, eachPPUwill
recruit a Monitoring Technician responsible for monitoring activities under the project at
provincial level.

The establishment of a comprehensive M&E system for the project will be essential to ensure that
the lessons from DPFP are captured andutilized to improve existing project design over time. It
will also be critical for the design of a scaled up national program or for making alternative
choices interms of how decentralization should be implemented.

Periodic diagnostic and evaluation studies are foreseen inorder to respondto specific concerns
which arise duringimplementation as a result of routine monitoring.

A mid-termreview ofthe project will be conducted inorder to determinehow best to consolidate
and to advance the decentralizationprocess inrural districts based upon evidence from experience


                                                  - 48 -

on the ground and from progress on the policy milestones agreed with the GOM. A
comprehensive independent evaluation will be undertaken duringthe fourth semester o f project
implementation inorder to provide substantive input for the mid-term review, assessing the
effectiveness o f project activities and the relation o f project-supported outputs to specified
objectives and outcomes.

Sub Component 5.3 Future ProgramFormulation

Based upon the implementation experience o f the DPFP, ifthe decision i s made to move toward a
more comprehensive decentralization program, project resources could be usedunder this
component for the preparation o f such a future national program. It i s anticipated that preparation
of the documentationfor the nationalprogram will start duringthe thirdyear o f implementation.
Lessons emanating from the MTR will be usedto design the national program as well as any
follow-on IDA funded investments which may be agreed with the GOM, subject to future
agreements related to policy and operational considerations.




                                                  - 4 9 -

                                           Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
                    MOZAMBIQUE: Decentralized Planning and Financing Project

                                                                                                   Local                Foreign                     Total
                                                                                                 US $million          US $million             US $million
Participatory District Planning                                                                      1.93                   6.24                      8.17
Local Investment Grants                                                                              0.00                  19.24                    19.24
Capacity Buildingfor Local Administration                                                            4.50                   3.48                      7.98
Support for Decentralization Policy                                                                  0.69                   0.75                      1.44
Support for Project Implementation                                                                   6.59                   0.99                      7.58
Total Baseline Cost                                                                                 13.71                  30.70                    44.41
 Physical Contingencies                                                                              0.00                   0.55                      0.55
 Price Contingencies                                                                                 1.33                   0.00                      1.33
                                         Total Project Costs'                                       15.04                  31.25                    46.29
                                  Total Financing Required                                          15.04                  31.25                    46.29

                                                                                                    Local               Foreign                     Total
                          Project Cost By Category                                               US $million          US $million             US $million
Civil Works                                                                                             0.22                     0.22                     0.44
Goods & Equipment                                                                                       0.00                     5.47                     5.47
Consulting Services                                                                                     6.29                     4.04                    10.33
Training                                                                                                2.75                     1.73                     4.48
Incremental Operation Cost                                                                              4.44                     0.00                     4.44
Grants                                                                                                  0.00                    19.24                    19.24
Physical Contingencies                                                                                  0.00                     0.55                     0.55
Price Contingencies                                                                                     1.34                     0.00                     1.34
                                                           Total Project Costs'                       15.04                     31.25                    46.29
                                                 Total Financing Required                             15.04                     31.25                    46.29

  I
   Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 46.29 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 90.73% of
  total project cost net of taxes.




                                                                      - 50 -

                        Annex 4 Economic Justification Summary
           MOZAMBIQUE: Decentralized Planning and Financing Project

1,  Background:DistrictBudgetAllocations

    The intergovernmentalfiscal system inMozambique assigns a portion of the annual state
    budget (OE) to provinces, including investment funds through the national Public
    Investment Program (PIP). The provincial budget has two components -priority and
    non-priority sectors. The priority sectors' budgets, capital and recurrent, are determined
    by the sectoral ministriesat the central level, with some input from the provinces during
    the planning stage. The non-priority sector capitalbudget is formulated by the provincial
    government. The recurrent budget i s largely a function of staffing decisions at central
    level. The residual between the provincial capital budget ceiling and sectoral ceilings for
    priority sector, becomes the allocation to the non-priority sectors. While discretionary
    capital spendinghas beenvery low (average 2% total capital budget) and has even fallen
    as a percentage of the total, there has beenreal growth inthe amount of non-priority
    sectoral allocations o f 53% from 1998-2000 and 27% from 2000-2001.

2.  Recurrent expenditures to districts are determined at provincial level as part of the
   provincial sector budgets. The district budget has no legal standing. Aggregate personnel
   expenditure levels are determined centrally while districts are responsible for proposing the
   goods and services component of their recurrent budgets. However, given the absence o f
   funds available for district development budgets, the lack o f district budget legal status and
   limitedbudgetmanagement capacity, districts do notmanage the capital budgetnor the
   civil service component o f the recurrent budget. The DPFP intends to address these
   weaknesses through its various components in order to strengthenthe district
   administrations capacity to planand implementsmall local investments.

3.  The policy reformand capacity buildingcomponents support the development of a
    strategy for increasing district human and financial resources for more effective service
    delivery inthe mediumto long term. Inparticular, emphasis will be placedon improving
    administrative skills (planning, human resource management), technical skills (design,
    procurement, contract management) and financial skills (financial planning and budgeting,
    accounting, etc.). The full impact o f the capacity buildingprogram will only be realized
    over the long term but inthe medium and long term it should improve the districts'
    capacity to improve the conditions for increased economic growth and poverty reduction
    through the     deliver of local infrastructureand services.

4.  The LocalInvestment Grants form approximately 50% o f the total grant and are expected
    to deliver short term economic benefits under the DPFP. These are, however, intended as
    the primary instrument for increasing local administration capacity to plan and implement
    small infrastructure investments inthe district. The DPFP framework involves the
    development of a system o f participatory planning and investment, usinglearning-by-doing
    through Local Investment Grants. These consist o f three types: (i)   LIGl for District
    Administrative Infrastructure ($4.4 million), (ii) LIG2 for Socio-Economic infrastructure



                                             -51  -

    inthe districts ($11.3 million), and (iii) 3 for Community InfrastructureImprovements
                                                LIG
    ($3.5 million).

5.  The LIG component aims to strengthen the capacity of district administrations to
    accountably plan and manage small infrastructure investments inthe districts, through the
    development of annual plans that fit within the framework o f a 5 year DDP. As a result of
    this demand-basedapproach, the specific compositionofthe DPFP investments cannot be
    determined a priori. Inaddition, the small size of the investments to be financed and the
    needfor agile, simple procedures inthe capacity constrained district context, makes it
    difficult to justify the effort and expense of calculatingconventional economic rates of
    return. However, most sectors (including health, education, roads and water) have defined
    minimumstandards for small investments,allowing DPFP to support least cost selection
    of bids that meet these minimumstandards and which comply with the environmental
    checklist, given locally available capacity and technology.

6.  Thejustification o f the DPFP rests on demonstrating the following two hypotheses: (i)
    that the DPFP processes that are put inplace are functional and sustainable and (ii)     that
    the DPFP investments planned and implementedfollowing the processes do achieve the
    desiredoutput.

7.  The first of these hypotheses will be tested duringthe project but is expected to be
    justified for the following reason. Acceptable systems and procedures have been designed
    by the GOM for provincial and district management o f small scale infrastructure
    investments, but are currently badly understood by local administration personnel and
    weakly implemented. The DPFP does NOT intend to use a parallel system of procedures
    butto improve the existing government systems andprovide the necessary instruments
    and training to ensure their effective and efficient application. This "mainstreaming"
    approach will reduce complexity and enhance sustainability. The grant funds will
    therefore flow through the DPPF o f the province according to improved, but standard
    government procedures, with increased efficiency and effectiveness due to significant
    capacity building efforts under the project. The intention i s therefore to strengthenthe
    capacity of the districts to manage increased revenue transfers over time, thereby
    increasing the confidence o f the G O M to enhancethe demand-driven decentralized
    approach to provision o f infrastructure and service delivery by local administrations.

8.  The secondhypothesis assumes that the decentralized planning and financing framework
    for local investments leads to the identification, selection and prioritization of
    economically and socially viable investments. While evidence on decentralization i s mixed,
    this i s largely a function o f whether fiscal and administrative decentralization are pursued
    together and whether there effective beneficiary participation inplanning along with
    downward accountability to communities inplan implementation. Frequently
    administrative decentralization i s not accompanied by fiscal and capacity buildingefforts.
    (see Ndegwa Working Paper). The DPFP aims to avoid these risks ina limitedbut
    concerted way. By
    ensuring that administrative reform and capacity buildingefforts are complemented by



                                               - 52 -

    additional financial resources are available through the LIGs, learning-by-doing will result
    ineffective deconcentrationofplanning andmanagement (see Annex 2 for detailed
    description).

9.  Evidence on Economic Rates of Return
    Where financial and technical support is available to local administrations, the evidence
    suggests that small scale projects involving limitedinvestments ininfrastructure generally
    have highrates o f return compared with larger-scale investments. There are numerous
    examples from African countries. Under the LGDP Iin Uganda, upon which the DPFP i s
    closely modeled, the MTR 2002 assessments for the education and roads sectors as a
    whole from the social and economic benefit perspectives are as follows:

        0   cost-effectiveness ratios of the education sector investments - 24%-30%
            cost-effectiveness ratios o f the road sector investments - 29%-37%
        0   cost-benefit analysis ratios for a typical water subproject investment - 15%-20%
        0   overall social benefits - 100% o f LGDP Iinvestments, and
        0   overall economic benefits - 100% of the LGDP Iinvestments

10. The ex-post analysis of the Zimbabwe Urban I1project concludedthat "one of the greatest
    achievements o f the Urban I1project was to make scarce resources available for urban
    local authorities to access, improve and maintain quality infrastructure which i s expected
    to lead to better living standards for the population". While the complex nature o f the
    benefits coupled with a lack of data made it impractical to calculate the ERR of the
    various primary infrastructureprojects, for the Urban I1housing and related infrastructure
    subprojects, a sample of projects ledto the calculation o f an average ERR o f 24.3%. This
    was double the GOZ's Public Sector InvestmentProgramhurdle-rate o f 12%. Under the
    Zimbabwe RDC Pilot Project, the assessment concluded "there i s increasedpositive
    economic impact as a direct result o f the project. The provision o f infrastructure i s a major
    achievement of the project. Furthermore, the cost o f implementingthese projects i s
    effectively reducedthrough the mode of implementation which involves comprehensive
    provincial review and monitoring of district level project planning".

11. Inearlier projects, such as the Ghana LGDP (1994), the improvements inroads and
    drainage were expected to produce ERRs ranging from 68-100% and markets, bus
    stations and sewerage o f 15-35%. For the Chad Public Works and Capacity Building
    Project (1994), ERRs were 20-60% for draining improvements and 20-30% for urban
    roadrehabilitation. At project completion o f the Second UrbanDevelopment Project in
    Djibouti (1999), ERRs o f 20-30% were confirmed for improvements inroads and
    drainage inseveral neighborhoods. Ex post rates o f return for road rehabilitation inthe
    recently completed Social FundI1Project in Madagascar ranged from 41% to over 100%.

12. The DPFP menu of investments is similar to that o f the projects mentioned above. I t is
    expected that most investments will be in social and economic sectors (roads, education,
    health, drainage, water etc.), some indistrict housing and office infrastructure (ring-fenced
    as LIGl) and a small amount for community-based rehabilitation and improvement of


                                              - 53 -

    infrastructure (LIG3).

13. Educationand health sector investments
    The investments insmall education andhealth care facilities generally result ingains inthe
    efficiency of the education system while the out-of-school benefits include the
    improvement of the income-earning potential and skills of graduating students, among
    others. The constructiono f new health facilities contributes towards decentralized access
    by ruralpopulations to preventative as well as curative healthcare services. The positive
    effects would be fewer work days lost through illness and death, increased quality o f life
    and reducedhousehold expenditure on medical care, transport and supplementary food. A
    comparative analysis o f the costs o f standard desks and classrooms procured under
    Uganda LGDP and non-LGDP approaches (discretionary and conditional) show
    significant differences inunit costs.

14. Roads sector investments
    Many roads inrural Mozambique are ina state o f disrepair and many needed tertiary roads
    do not exist, mainly due to lack of funds from the central government and limited
    own-source funding of the local administrations. The availability of funds from DPFP-type
    projects inother countries have resultedinmany benefits, including vehicle operating cost
    savings from reduced road roughness, savings inpassenger and goods travel times,
    improved access to public facilities and markets by remote rural populations, savings in
    road maintenance costs and accident costs and benefits interms of avoided higher costs of
    later reconstruction. Where traffic i s generally low, the mainbenefit of upgrading roads,
    footpaths and associated drains i s to improve access for public transport. A cost
    effectiveness index depends on the density of population near the roadfootpath, with
    cost-effectiveness increasing with density.

15. Water supply investments
    Inmany similar projects, water supply sub-projects oftenprovidenew supplies and
    protection of existing supplies at schools and clinics. InUganda's LGDP, the typical
    choice was for a stand-pipe investment at parish level. The average ERR was 17% on a
    standard standpipe likely to serve 100 households. The benefits were based on willingness
    to pay and timekost savings. The benefits of providingclean and reliable water supplies
    are many -time and effort-savings by the main water carriers (especially women) ,
    reduced livestock and human illness causedby water-borne disease and a more productive
    rural population due to increase inwater quality and quantity.

16. Social Benefits
    The infrastructure investments under DPFP are small and district-based, including water,
    drainage, solid waste management, sanitation, markets, clinics, primary schools, tertiary
    roads etc. I t is difficult to quantity the benefit of each individual project. However, in
    aggregate it i s possible to demonstrate that these improvements inthe physical
    environment and delivery o f services have positive effects on the health and productivity
    o f the community. Most district populations suffer from diarrhea, fever, malaria,
    tuberculosis etc. These are infectious diseases exacerbated by worsening physical living


                                                - 54 -

    conditions. Household memberssuffer loss of working days and school days due to illness.


17. Employment Generation
    Although employment generation i s not a specific objective o f the DPFP, employment
    gains are expected to be significant. Mozambique is constrained by the existence of
    small-scale contractors inrural areas with appropriate skills. This i s largely due to the
    limited, lumpy and unreliable nature of investments made by districts that result inerratic
    demand and untimelypayments. It i s expected that DPFP LIG funds, increasingly reliable
    and predictable procurement processes and the specific capacity buildingactivities planned
    for the private sector, will result inemployment gains with a significant multiplier effect.
    For example, ex-post observation inZimbabwe shows that jobs were created inthe small
    and medium-scale domestic contractors and supply firms. Inaddition, giventhe nature of
    the physical investments made under the DPFP (schools, healthposts, roads, water
    supplies, markets etc.), it i s expected that a number of local employment opportunities will
    be created. It should offer some additional opportunities for off-farm employment for the
    rural population and maintenance of existingjobs inthe more built-upareas.

18. CapacityBuildingthrough Learning-by-doing
    Although the above sections discuss the social and economic benefits o f particular types of
    investments ininfrastructure, it must be emphasizedthat the objective of the DPFP is one
    of capacity-building, with service delivery an indirect objective. As a result the major
    efforts o f the DPFP are inbuildingcapacity of district administrations and provinces to
    provide infrastructurethrough learning-by-doing usingDPFP LIGs and the training
    programs to be supported under component three. GivenMozambique's scale and
    diversity, in order to effectively implement the PARPA poverty alleviation program it is
    critical that local administration buildthe capacity to deliver services inan efficient and
    effective manner.As the Minister of Finance expressedit, "PARPA is the what, DPFP is
    the how". Inmaking resources available, along with support for learning-by-doing and
    additional training and policy reform, the DPFP will support districts to rigorously plan
    investments with their communities, develop skills to turn these plans into implementable
    projects and contracts and to manage these investmentsmore effectively than before.
    These efforts cannot but result inmore efficiently designedand managed sub-projects by
    the local administrations, inaddition to a greater overall number o f projects. The district
    eligibility andperformance evaluation system of the DPFP is such that it shouldprovide
    strong incentives for the local administrations to efficiently and cost-effectively deliver
    services to their constituents in a transparent and accountable manner.

19. Fiscal Impact
    According to Mozambique's Public Expenditure Management Review o f 2001, neitherthe
    deconcentrating nor the decentralizing reforms pose risks for the fiscal balance at present.
    "Neither the deconcentrated provinces and districts nor the decentralized municipalities
    have unsustainably large entitlements to central government resources. Moreover
    municipal debt i s modest and largely short term (and regulatedby the MPF). Second, both
    district and municipal capital and recurrent expenditures are inline with their


                                              - 55 -

    corresponding revenues. At present there does not appear to be a risk o f budget deficits at
    either the district or municipal levels. However, further improvements inthe quality and
    quantity o f service delivery at the district andmunicipal level will be constrained by
    available own source revenues as well as central government transfers."

20. The size o f the DPFP i s not expected to change this picture o f local budget deficit risks.
    However, it i s expected to support the improvement inservice delivery at a local level due
    to increased availability o f resources through the LIGs.Within the project's lifetime, it i s
    expected that significant policy decisions must be made regarding changes to the
    intergovernmentalfiscal transfer system including the establishment o f districts as a budget
    entity and increased discretionary transfers to both provincial and district capital budgets.
    The project will also seek to support nascent efforts to improve own-source revenue bases
    and collection efficiencies. However, given the weak fiscal base inmany rural districts, it i s
    not expected that significant proportions o f district budgets will be funded with own
    revenues for the foreseeable future. Emphasis will continue to be on expenditure
    management but revenue-raising incentives and programs will be included under the LIG,
    capacity-building and policy reform components.

21. Summary
    Insummary, the discussion above indicates that the two hypotheses-functional and
    sustainable processes and intendedoutputs achieved ininvestments - are likely to be
    viable. It must, however, be emphasized that the objective o f the DPFP i s capacity
    buildingo flocal administrations rather than large-scale immediate and direct benefits to
    the population per se. However, buildingthe capacity o f local administrations, evidenced
    by small-scale investments indistricts under DPFP, should signify the potential for
    considerable increases inrural service delivery andproductivity inthe long term. The net
    present value o f investments incapacity buildingwill be difficult to attribute and quantify,
    but should neverthelessbe considerable. This is also, however, conditional on the long
    term GOM commitment to increasing deconcentration and decentralization of fiscal and
    administrative functions to lower levels o f government and to increasing downward
    accountability o f local governance inMozambique.




                                               - 56 -

                               Annex 5: Financial Summary
                MOZAMBIQUE: Decentralized Planning and Financing Project
                                     Years Ending



                        /               +      IMPLEMENTATIONPERIOD
                         Year1    1 year2   I Year3   [ Year4   1 year5  IYear6  IYear 7
Total Financing
Required
 Project Costs
  Investment Costs        8326.0     7230.1    9127.3   11560.0   10047.0     0.0     0.0
 Recurrent Costs            0.0         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0
Total Project Costs       8326.0     7230.1    9127.3   11560.0   10047.0     0.0     0.0
Total Financing           8326.0     7230.1    9127.3   11560.0   10047.0     0.0     0.0
Financing
   IBRDllDA               6927.3     6390.0    8298.8   10667.4    9716.7    0.0      0.0
  Government              1398.7      840.1     828.5     892.6     330.3    0.0      0.0
      Central               0.0         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0    0.0      0.0
      Provincial            0.0         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0    0.0      0.0
  Co-financiers             0.0         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0    0.0      0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries     0.0         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0    0.0      0.0
Other                       0.0         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0    0.0      0.0
Total Project Financing   8326.0     7230.1    9127.3   11560.0   10047.0    0.0      0.0
Mainassumptions:




                                           -57-

                             Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
               MOZAMBIQUE:Decentralized Planning and Financing Project

Procurement

   1, The project has five components: (i)    Participatory District Planning; (ii) Investment Grants;
                                                                                   Local
   (iii)Capacity Buildingfor Local Administration; (iv) Support for Decentralization Reforms; and (v)
   Support for Project Implementation which will be under the responsibility o f the National Directorate
   for Planning and Budget inthe Ministryo f Planning and Finance. Management o f Local Investment
   Grantsand Training Budgets under components 2 and 3 respectively will be decentralized to provincial
   govemments through their ProvincialDirectorate of Planning and Finance.

   2. The Ministry o f Planning and Finance, which will have overall responsibility for the
   implementation o f the project, will establish a Project Coordination and Support Unit(UCA) to manage
   the project. The UCA, which will include a Project Coordinator, a FinancialManager, and a team o f
   Procurement Specialists (duringthe first year after Grant Effectiveness, and thereafter, at least on
   full-time Procurement Specialist with additional support as may be deemed necessary by the
   association, all such professionals with qualifications experience and terms and conditions acceptable
   to the Association) trained inBank's procurement rules, will be responsible for (a) oversight and
   management o f the whole decentralized procurement system, (b) carrying out the I C B procurement o f
   goods and services for the Participatory District Planning component (c) carrying out all procurement
   o f goods and services for the Decentralization Reform component, (d) carrying out the procurement o f
   goods, works and services, as needed, for the U C A itself, (e) carrying out any I C B based procurement
   o f works financed by the LIGgrant funds, (0for reviewing and assuring the quality o f procurement by
  the provinces anddistricts for works under the Local Investment Grants Component and for training
  services under the Capacity Building Component, and (8) for development o f procurement capacity in
  UCA, provinces and districts. Procurement o f works, goods, and services financed under the Local
  Investment Grants component will be carried out directly by the provincial and district administrations,
  with (i)  technical assistance from a ProvincialWorks and Procurement Advisors specially contracted to
  support them, and (ii)  oversight by the Management Quality Assurance Contractor and the UCA.

  3. Consulting services, goods and works financed by IDA under this project will be procured in
  accordance with the provisions o f the World Bank Guidelines for Selection and Employment o f
  Consultants by World Bank Recipients (the Consultant Guidelines) published inJanuary 1997, revised
  inSeptember 1997 andJanuary 1999, andthe Guidelines for Procurement underIBRDGrants and
  IDA Grants, January 1995, revised January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. For any
  International Competitive Bidding(ICB) for goods and works, the implementing agencies will use
  Standard BiddingDocuments and contracts issued by the Bank. For the selection o f consulting firms,
  the implementingagencies will use the Request For Proposal (RFP) for selection o f consulting firms
  and contracts issuedby the Bank. For works and goods under National Competitive Bidding(NCB)
  the implementing agencies will prepare National Competitive Bidding(NCB) documents acceptable to
  Bank. For procurement o f works under US$30,000 and goods under $30,000 by provinces and
  districts, fvred price contracts will be awarded on the basis o f written solicitation issued to at least three
  qualified suppliers after evaluation o fbids received inwriting.




                                                    - 58 -

ProcurementMethods

4. It is not possible to determine inadvance the exact mix o f works, goods, and consultant services to
be procured under the Local Investment GrantsComponent, becausethe grants mechanism is designed
to operate on a demand-driven basis inwhich the districts and provinces will select their own packages
o f activities each year. However, an estimated projection o f aggregate amounts o f procurement under
each category was made at appraisal for purposes o f overall procurement planning. The methods to be
used for procurement are described below, and the estimated amounts for each method are summarized
inTable A after the appraisal. The proposedthreshold contract values for the use o feachmethodare
shown inTable B.

Procurement o f Works

5. Works procured under the Local Investment Grants may include construction, expansion,
improvement or rehabilitation o f schools, health posts, administration buildings, administrative staff
housing, rural roads and small bridges, potable water wells, pumpsand small pipedsystems, latrines,
markets, small irrigation structures, and other small scale community level infrastructure. Works
contracts equal to or above US$0.5 million are not anticipated. Consequently, the project would not be
expectedto use ICB procedures for works procurement. Works contracts estimated to cost
US$lOO,OOO or less will use simplified NCB documents (already approvedby Bank for use inthe
Municipal Development project) consistent with the complexity o f the work and the needs o f the local
works contract industry. Contracts below US$0.5 million equivalent will be awarded following N C B
procedures, usingstandard biddingdocuments agreed inadvance with IDA.

6. Smaller works contracts estimated to cost less than US$30,000 equivalent will be procured on the
basis o f at least three quotations received inresponse to a written invitation, which will include a
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion time, a basic
form o f agreement acceptable to IDA, and relevant drawings, where applicable.

7. For District and Province level grant fund related procurement involving costs less thanUS $
5,000, Bank Guidelines for Simplij?ed Procurement and Disbursementfor Community Based
Investments will apply.

Procurement o f Goods

8. Eligible goods under the Local Investment Grantscomponent will include fi.uniture and equipment
associated with LIG financed infrastructure construction or rehabilitation investments or construction
materials purchased by district administrations as inputsto community-based infrastructure
subprojects. Goods to be procured under the other components will include vehicles, computers, office
equipment and W t u r e , etc. Where possible, contracts for the same goods will be grouped into
biddingpackages o fmore than US$200,000equivalent andprocured following International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, usingBank-issued Standard BiddingDocuments (SBDs).
Goods with estimated values o f US$200,000 or less per contract may be procured usingNational
Competitive Bidding(NCB) procedures and standard biddingdocuments agreed with IDA. Contracts
for goods which cannot be grouped into larger bidding packages and estimated to cost less than
US$30,000 equivalent per contract may be procured using shopping procedures based on a model
request for quotations satisfactory to IDA.

Limitedquantities o fvehicles and office equipment as specified inthe Procurement Planmay be


                                                 - 59 -

procured from UNDP's Inter-Agency Procurement Service Office inaccordance with the provisions o f
paragraph 3.9 o f the Guidelines.


Selection o f Consultants

9. Consultant services will be contracted under this project inthe following areas o f expertise:
support for participatory district planning, management quality assurance for local investment grants,
support for planning and coordination o f training, institutional development, studies, training, design
and supervision o fcivil works, andrelated subjects.

10. Firms: All contracts for firms, except for small and simple contracts estimated to cost
US$lOO,OOO equivalent or less, would be procured using Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) in
accordance with Chapter I1o f the Consultant Guidelines. Services for tasks that meet the requirements
set forth inparagraph 3.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines and are estimated to cost US$lOO,OOO
equivalent or less per contract may be procured inaccordance with provisions o f paragraphs 3.1 and
3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. Shortlists o f consulting firms for services estimatedto cost
US$lOO,OOO equivalent or less per contract may be composed entirely o f national consultants in
accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.7 o f the Consultants Guidelines, unless international
eligible consultants have expressed interest.

11. Individuals: Specializedadvisory services would be provided by individual consultants selected on
the basis o f their qualifications for the assignment and hired inaccordance with the provisions o f
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 o f the Consultant Guidelines.

12. Sub-projects (Grants Component): The project will finance implementation o f investment
sub-projects determined on priority investments indistrict plans.The grant approval criteria have been
laid out but do not require ay contribution by the district or community. However, financial
management and accounting systems are being introduced to ensure proper use and account o f the
grant funds. Procurement for the subprojects will follow simplifiedprocedures appropriate to the
amount o f the grant.

ODeratina Costs

13. Operating costs such as office supplies, telephone charges, fuel and maintenance for project
vehicles, in-country travel, document reproduction, and similar items may be procured using
administrative procedures as set forth inthe Project Implementation Manual andwhich are acceptable
to IDA. The plan andbudget for the UCA's Operating Costs will be reviewed and approved by the
Bank annually.

PriorReview of Procurementby the World Bankand the ProjectCoordinationUnit

14. "Prior review" refers to the submission o f procurement documents for "no objection" by the
supervisingandaccountable entity, which may be: (a) the World Bank according to the Procurement
Guidelines, or (b) the Project Coordination and Support Unit(UCA). The proposed thresholds for
prior review by Bank are summarized inTable B. The prior review by the U C A is also indicated in
Table B.




                                                  - 60 -

ProcurementManagement
 15, Procurement activities will be carried out by the Project Coordination and Support Unit(UCA) and
the provincial and district administration (under supervision o f the UCA). The U C A will include
full-time Procurement Specialists whose responsibilities will include: (i)   maintaining a data base on
procurement actions for all contracts, (ii)   carrying out and/or review o f procurement actions for all
project components prior to their review by the World Bank, (iii)       assist and facilitate procurement
actions under the project, (iv) provide technical assistance and training to personnel o f the U C A and the
[provincial and district administration, (v) coordinate with and support the consultant Works and
Procurement Advisors who will provide direct technical assistance on subproject planning,
procurement and contract supervision to the provincial and district administration, (vi) maintain files o f
all standard procurement documents, (vii) prepare quarterly procurement reports, (viii) assist the Bank
to carry out annual procurement reviews, and (ix) oversee semi-annual procurement audits by
independent external agencies and take action on the reports arising therefrom. The specific tasks o f
each o f the procurement specialists will be defined by the Project Coordinator.

16. Each province will have a ProvincialWorks and Procurement Advisor posted to the Public
Buildings Departmento f the ProvincialDirectorate o f Public Works and Housing. The Public
Buildings Department staff, supported by the Advisor and overseen by the Project Procurement
Specialist based inthe UCA, will undertake all procurement for LIG financed subprojects managedat
provincial level. Duringfirst six months after effectiveness these individuals will receive special
training on procurement procedures and procurement documentation. The training programs will be
repeatedly to build capacity. Further, as the number o f districts inthe program increases, the work
load on the provincial staff will expand. At this time, additional procurement staff will be providedto
the provinces, as needed.

Procurement RiskAssessment
17. The main entities to assess is the UCA, the provincial offices and the district offices. U C A has
done some procurement inthe context of the project preparation activities. It is a new organization that
has one procurement specialist with some prior procurement experience ina Bank funded project.
However, as most o fthe procurement inthis project will be conducted without prior review by Bank,
and as mucho f it will also be done by the provinces and the districts who have very limited exposure to
such procurement, the risk for the project is rated High. Further, the capacity o f U C A needs to be
enhanced by employing a senior and experience procurement staff (initially for one year period) with
capability to organize the overall system o f decentralized procurement, to monitor its operation and to
guide the development o f the procurement activities andto develop the capacities o f the widely spread
out procurement staff inthe provinces and the districts. Plans and funds have also beenincluded inthe
project for capacity building and for period procurement audits.

18. Actions that will be taken to minimize risks o f procurement problems are: (i)       provision o f training
inprocurement to UCA staffandthe ProcurementOfficer, to ProvincialWorks andProcurement
Advisors and personnel o f the Public BuildingDepartment, and to District Accounts and Works
Technicians; (ii) performance of periodic procurement audits, including field inspections, by
independent external experts inprocurement work; (iii)preparation o f a procurement plan with the
participation o f all the relevant institutions and individuals; and (iv) creation o f a monitoring and filing
system for all procurement actions which would be maintained by the UCA's Procurement Specialist,
and (v) periodic training andcapacity buildingo f staff with a non-fungible budgetfor procurement
training.



                                                   - 61 -

RiskMitigationMeasures

                     Action                                Timing                   Action by

 Provision o f Training inprocurement to: Initial within three                  by independent
 0  UCA staff                                     months o f effectiveness      external experts in
 0  Procurement Officer                           and then periodically (six    procurement

 0  Provincial Works and Procurement              months to one year as         work
     Advisors                                     needed)

 0  Personnel o f Public Building
    Department
 0  District Accounts and Woks
    Technicians
 Periodic Procurement audits and field            Annually                      by independent
 inspections                                                                    external experts in
                                                                                procurement
                                                                                work
 Preparation o f Procurement plan                 By negotiations and           By UCA with
                                                  thereafter reviewed and       participation o f all
                                                  updatedperiodically           relevant
                                                  (annually)                    individuals and
                                                                                institutions
 Creation o f a monitoring and filing             Within three months o f       Procurement
 system for all procurement actions               effectiveness                 specialist U C A

 Provide non-fungible budget for                  By Appraisal                  Recipient
 procurement training




ProcurementPlan

19. At appraisal, the World Bank and DNPO preparedthe procurement plan for the project which will
provide the basis for the aggregate amounts for the procurement methods (per Table A). At the
beginning of each calendaryear, the UCA will updatethe ProcurementPlanwith a detailed
procurement schedulefor the coming year.

ProcurementManualas partof ProjectImplementationManual

20. The Project Implementation manual beingpreparedwill have a separate detailed set of chapters
spelling out the various procures and the roles and responsibilities at UCA, the provinces and districts
and guidance on use of different methods of procurement, among other topics. The manual will also
contain Bank's June 8,2000 Memorandum Guidance on Shopping.




                                                - 62 -

      Procurement Reportingand Supervision
      21. A Procurement Management Report, showing procurement status and contract commitments, will
      be compiled quarterly by the U C A for inclusion inthe project's quarterly progress reports.

      22. The Bank will carry out an annual ex post review of procurement actions not subject to prior
      review. This should cover a sample o fnot less than 20 % of the contracts signed.

  Procurement methods (Table A)

                                Annex 6(A) ProcurementArrangements

                 MOZAMBIQUE :DecentralizedPlanningandFinancingProject


                          TableA: Project Costs by ProcurementArrangements
                                          (US$millionequivalent)




                                              (0.37)                                                         (0.37)
Goods & Equipment                 6.02                                                                        6.02
                                (4.82)                                                                       (4.82)
Consulting Services                                                                        11.23      0.79   12.02
                                                                                           (9.65)    (0.33)  (9.98) -
Training                                                                     2.00                     1.65    3.65
                                                                           (2.00)                    (1.65)  (3.65) -
Incremental Operating Cost                                                   4.90                             4.90
                                                                           (3.94)                            (3.94)
Grants                                                         19.24                                         19.24
                                                             (19.24)                                        (19.24)
TOTAL                             6.02         0.46            19.24         6.83          11.23      2.34   46.29
                                (4.82)        (0.37)         (19.24)       (5.88)          (9.65)    (1.87) (42.00)




                                                    - 63 -

 Prior review thresholds (Table B)

                  Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'

                                    Contract Vatu                                                            ect to
                                       Threshold                                                             W
                                   (US$thousand                                                               s)
 I. Works
                                          >500                           ICB                        Prior (WB)
                                        100-500                         NCB                         Prior (WB)
                                         30-100                         NCB                 Prior(WB) Firstthree, the
                                                                                                    prior(UCA)
                                          5-30                      3 Quotations             Post(WB), Prior(UCA)
                                                                                             YR1, thenPost(WB and
                                                                                                       UCA)
                                           <5                    Simplified shopping           Post (WB and UCA)
 !. Goods
                                         >200                            ICB                        Prior(WB)
                                         50-200                         NCB                          Post(WB)
                                          5-50                      3 quotations             Post(WB), Prior(UCA)
                                           <5                    Simplified shopping            Post(WB and UCA)
 1.Services

 :irms                                   >loo
                                         <loo                          QCBS                         Prior(WB)
                                                                         CQ                    Prior (WB) YR1 then
                                                                                                     Post(WB)

 idividuals                               >50                             IC                        Prior(WB)
                                         10-50                            IC               Firstthree, then Post(WB)
                                          <IO                             IC                 Post(WB), Prior(UCA)
                                                                                               YR1 then Post(UCA)

                 Total value of contracts subject to prior review:         12.25
                          Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:             High
      Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed:              One every six months
                                                                           (includes special procurement supervision for
                                                                           post-review/audits)
RiskMitigation measures: See paragraph 17 above.


"Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult "Assessment o f Agency's Capacity to Implement
 Procurement" and contact the Regional ProcurementAdviser for guidance.




                                                     - 64 -

            Annex 6(B): Financial Managementand DisbursementArrangements
                 MOZAMBIQUE:DecentralizedPlanningand FinancingProject

Financial Management
1. Summary ofthe FinancialManagementAssessment

Organizational Structure


The Project exists at three levels; central, provincial, and district (see detailed org. charts at the
end of this Annex). The implementingagents o f this Project include the National Directorateof
Planning and Budget (DNPO) inthe Ministry of Plan and Finance (MPF), and the Provincial
Directorates o f Plan and Finance (DPPFs) and District Administrations (AD) inthe Provinces of
Sofala, Manica, Tete and Zambezia. The three levels perform the following activities:
   .
Central level:
   ..   Project supervision by an inter-ministerial committee
        Project management by the DNPO
        Project implementation and coordination with provincial-level implementing agents by the
        UCA (or PCU) at the DNPO

   ..
Provincial:
   .    Project supervision by a provincial inter-ministerial committee
        Project management by the DPPF
        Project implementation and coordination with district-level implementingagents by the
        Provincial Project Coordination Unit (UPP). The Provincial UPP also works directly with
        DPPF staff involved inthe management o f the Local InvestmentGrants Component (LIG
        Component).

District (LIG Component):
   .
   ..   Project supervision by the DPPF and Provincial UPP
        Project management by the DPPF incoordination with the District Administrator
        Project implementation by the District Administration (AD), including the involvement of
        the new positions o f District Accountant and Works Technician.

Project Components
The Project has five components as follows:

   1)   ParticipatoryDistrict Planning
  2)    Local Investment Grants
  3)    Capacity Buildingfor Local Administration
  4)    Support for DecentralizationPolicy
  5)    Support to Project Implementation




                                                 - 65 -

          Strengths and weaknesses of the controlenvironment inMozambique

 Financial management in Mozambique i s weak. Systems that are designed well on paper
 are not implemented in practice. Also, there are pieces o f the puzzle missing, such as a
 comprehensive and up-to-date set of Procedures Manuals for government budgetingand
 accounting that includes Project financial management procedures; uniform application
 throughout the government o f systems for financial management and budgetary
 execution; and information systems sophisticated enough to produce timely and accurate
 information for reporting and control purposes. Add this to a weak internal and external
 audit system, and a weak judiciary, and there i s very little accountability inthe system.

 Reforms are underway in all o f the areas mentioned. Stronger systems and oversight
 capacity are being built. However, as the country requires external financing to meet its
 development goals, especially inthe fight to reduce absolute poverty, it i s not practical to
 hold all assistance until such time as the control environment i s strong enough to function
 on its own.

 Therefore, Projects take a "ring-fenced" approach to ensure funds are utilized as per the
 objectives agreed on for Project implementation.


Supervision
Financialmanagement supervision will be carried out regularly by the project FMS at least once a
year. Inaddition, the project would be submittedto regular SOE reviews as requiredby the
World Bank.

   ..
The FMS will also:
   .    Conduct a FMsupervisionbefore effectivenesddisbursement;
        Review the quarterly FMRs as soon as they are submitted to the World Bank; and,
        Review the annual Audit reports and Management letters from the external auditors and
        follow-up on material accountability issues by engaging with the TTL, Client, and/or
        Auditors.

Accounting System, Accounting Policies and Procedures
The Government accounting system is based on manual, single entry, cash-based system. Human
capacity for modern accounting i s extremely weak, especially in the provinces. The quarterly
execution reports prepared by the DNCP (since 2000) do not permit a comparison between
budget allocations and actual expenditures by sector.

Inspite ofthese weaknesses, the Projectwill needto adopt systems that are not incompatible with
those of government. This i s inpart due to the capacity-building objectives o f the Project, which
envisages strengthening the capacity o f local government to plan, execute, report on, and maintain
local investments, under government systems.




                                                - 66 -

Therefore the accounting system will use government procedures as they exist on paper, while
insisting on proper application o f those procedures. In order to achieve this, intensive training,
and inspection and oversight o f the system to ensure compliance, will be required. Project
management will also carefully study what additional procedures will need to be adopted at the
implementingagents to ensure complete and accurate recording andreporting.

The central UCA will use a double-entry cash-based system to produce consolidated financial data
on the entire project. This will be maintainedon an information system still to be determined.

The Provincial UPP will also be trained to use the double-entry cash-based system, and it is
envisaged that both central and provincial levels will adopt the same software to manage project
data and reporting.

The Province and Districts, which will work the LIG Component, will use a single-entry cash
based system. A computerized Grants financial management module i s being developed for the
Provinces, and manual books of registry will be used in the Districts. The Districts will function
as collectors of primary-level data, and will report to the Provincial DPPF. It will be up to the
Province to incorporate district-level financial data into the integrated financial accounts and to
then send this data to the central level for overall consolidation and reporting.

Books of registry
In addition to any information system installed, and the books, such as bank books, needed to
maintain an accurate and complete record of transactions, the various implementing agents will
maintain a set of additional books of registry for control purposes. These books include:
   1.   A FixedAsset Register at each level
   2.   A Contracts Registerat each level
   3.   Books of control for document deliveries and controlled stationery such as checks

Budgeting
For the purposes of the WB grant financing of centrally-managed components, the U C A will
produce annual procurement and disbursement plans that will be used to monitor and plan cash
flow needs. For the LIG Component, the Project Management unit will communicate budget
limits (as the State does) to the implementing agents (the Provincial DPPFs), and budgets will be
prepared in accordance with government practice and then consolidated into the overall Project
Budget and ImplementationPlan.

The UCA and UPP Coordinators will be responsible for authorizing expenditures for their
respective components in accordance with the agreed budgets.

Reporting (Financial Monitoring Reports)
   ..
The following consolidated quarterly FMRswill beproducedby the UCA:

        Sources and Uses o f Fundsby Project category
        Uses o f Funds by Project Component


                                                 - 67 -

   ..   Output MonitoringReport (type of monitoring informationto be defined)
        Procurement MonitoringReports

The formats were finalized during negotiations and the Project will be capable of producing the
FMRsby effectiveness.

Project Financial Statements
In addition to the monthly reconciliations and quarterly monitoring reports, the Project will
produce annual Project Financial Statements for analytical and audit purposes. These Financial
Statementswill be composed of:

   1, A Consolidated Statement of Sources and Uses o f Funds(showing IDA and Counterpart
        Funds as well as funds provided by donors);
  2.    A Statement reconciling the balances on all Bank Accounts to the bank balances on the
        Statement of Sources and Uses o f Funds;
  3.    SOE Withdrawal Schedule, listing individualwithdrawal applications relatingto
        disbursementsby the SOE Method, by reference number, date and amount;
  4.    A Cash Forecast for the next two quarters;
  5.   Notes on significant accounting policies and accounting standards adopted by management
       when preparing the accounts; andon any supplementary information or explanations that
        may be deemedappropriate by management to enhance the presentation o f a "true and fair
       view.I'

Monitoring
Project monitoring will take the following forms:
  ...  Management oversight by the UCA of the Provincial UPP and the LIG component, and by
       the Provincial UPP o f Provincial and District LIG financial management;
       Quality Assurance contract for quarterly supervision and review o f the LIG Component
       implementation;
       Annual external audit of the Project finances.

Impact of Procurement Arrangements on Financial Management
Procurement at the central level will be under the management o f the Senior Procurement
Specialist and it i s expected that all the international procurements and other large national
procurements would be managed out o f the UCA.

At the provincial and district level, procurement will be under the management of the UPP for
components other than the grants. This unit will be closely supervised by the UCA.

For the LIG, there will be criteria established for the procurement o f works and services under the
grant component that will endeavor to ensure a simplified yet controlled procurement process.
The models that already exist on other community-basedprojects for simplifiedprocurement will
apply and will be adapted to this Project. There will be directly hired procurement staff at the
provincial level to oversee the procurement for grants.


                                                 - 68 -

Staffing and Training
The central UCA has a financial manager on staff. A central-level accountant, reporting to the
Financial Manager, with relevant qualifications will needto be recruited.

The financial management capacity at the four Provincial Directorates of Planning and Finance is
weak. In the Provincial Directorates of Planning and Finance most o f the staff at the Department
of Public Accounting do not hold an accounting qualification. The staff at the Provincial
Directorates of Planning and Finance does not have experience in handling World Bank-financed
projects.

However, some staff has experience in handling financial management o f other donor-funded
projects. They have been exposed to the concept o f accounting and reporting to various levels
(including central level and donors).

The Project will appoint a Supervisory Accountant to the Provincial UPP. This Supervisory
Accountant will report to the Provincial Project Coordinator. This Supervisory Account will
work exclusively with the DPPF Accountant appointed to manage the LIG Account, and the
Districts managing LIG funds. The UPP will also appoint another accountant to the team to
manage transactions for other DPFP components.

The DPPFs will also appoint a qualified and experienced Provincial Grant Accountant, acceptable
to the Bank, to manage the Local Investment Grants (LIGs). Reporting to the Director of the
DPPF with oversite by the Supervisory Accountant, the Provincial Grant Accountant should be
capable o f managing financial management operations o f the Local Investment Grants at the
provincial level.

District Administrations have very weak financial management capacity. None of the districts
visited have experience inhandling the World Bank-financed project. The staff handling financial
management issues at districts administration is not experienced and qualified accountants.

Each participating district administration will need intensive training to be able to manage grant
accounts. The District Administrator and hisker staff will work under the guidance of the
Supervisory Accountant and in direct collaboration with the Project Accountant at the DPPF on
financial management o f the Local Investment Grants (LIGs). In order to be eligible for local
investment grants, the participating Districts will need to appoint District Accountants acceptable
to DPPF to coordinate the implementation and financial management of project activities at the
District level.

Training on the new financial management system will be initiated before project effectiveness.
Additional on-the-job training will most likely be necessary.




                                                - 69 -

RISKASSESSMENT


 Country Risks
The overall conclusion of the Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) dated
December, 2001 i s that `)public sector financial management systems in Mozambique are very
weak, as evidenced by the Report of the Tribunal Administrativo of the Government General
Accounts Report for 1998(1)and 1999, and will require substantial strengthening over several
years. In the interim, risk of waste, diversion and misuse of funds are assessed as high. The
public sector financial environment in Mozambique denotes a situation of high fiduciary risk:
material receipts and payments are excludedfrom the budget andfrom Government accounting
and reporting system; accounting systems and standards are outmoded; internal and external
auditing require substantial support; and parliamentary oversight requires strengthening                               ...
Efforts have been made in recent years to reduce the fiduciary risk through (among other
measures) the strengthening of the internal audit capacity of the IAD, and the creation of
external audit capacity within the AT. Both of these efforts (as well as others) need to be
intensij?ed, because there is still a lot of work to be done in this area. ''

(I) TheGovernmentGenemlAccountsReport (Conta GeraldoEstado, CGE)w apubkshedandaudized the TAfor thefirst time during2000

Project Risks

Again from the CFAA: "Because of the highfiduciary risk, IDA has taken special measures to
ensure adequate financial management of its portfolio. Project management units are ofen
established to manage IDA-financed projects and Bank funding is "ring-fenced"                                 to mitigate
fiduciary risk. Accounting staff is hired as consultants, typically on salaries higher than civil
service salaries, to work on projects, even when a Ministry implements those projects. IDA
projects are invariably audited by one of the "Big Four" international auditfirms.                         "



Specific to this Project, but not unique in Mozambique, are the risks o f decentralized financial
management ina weak control and low capacity environment. Government accounts are regularly
late and incomplete. Accountants at the Provincial level interviewed on other aspects o f Project
design, mentioned the weak compliance of districts with government reporting procedures, and
the weak capacity of the provincial level to insure accountability at the district level. The same
problems and delays are experienced betweenProvincial and Central level.

Risks include:

    1)  Illiquidity at all levels delaying project implementation through lack of counterpart funds;
    2)  Weak financial management capacity delaying implementationthrough faulty and untimely
        reporting, or misapplication o f resources;
    3)  Delays inimplementation due to the time and capacity required to train staff to an
        adequate level to manage a ring-fenced, and decentralized Project management structure.




                                                           -70-

                                                 Risk Assessment
                                             H      I S       l M l N              Comments
Inherent Risk
1. Corruption                                X
2. Poor governance                           X                                            **
3. Weak Judiciary                            X
4. Weak Management capacity                             X                                 **
OverallInherent Risk                         X                                            *
Control Risk
1.Implementing Entity                                           X                         **
2. Funds Flow                                           X                     Counterpart funds
3. Staffing                                                     X                         **
4. Accounting Policies and                                      X                         **
Procedures
5. Internal Audit                                               X                         **
6. External Audit                         I         I         / X I          I            **            I
7. Reporting and Monitoring                                     X                         **
8. Information Systems                                          X                         **
Overall Control Risk                                             X                        **

*     In order to mitigate the weaknesses o f the FM systems in Mozambique, a "ring-fenced''             financial
      management strategy, with dedicated bank accounts, and Project Financial Procedures Manuals, will be
**    developed for this Project.
      These items are considered moderate, not substantial or highrisk as long as mitigating factors, as described
      in the FM Action Plan, are put in place, and a separate Project Coordination Unit is set up at central and
      provincial levels.

2. Audit Arrangements

Internal Audit
The Inspectorate General o f Finance (IGF) (Inspecpio Geral das FinanGas), has limitedcapacity
to oversee Project implementation.

Each Central and Provincial Directorate of Planning and Finance has a DepartmentlSection o f
Revenue and Internal Audit (Departamento/Sec@o de Receitas e Fiscalizapio). In those
Departments/Sections there i s a shortage of experienced staff in auditing and accounting as well.


Taking into account that the internal audit functions are weak, there needs to be strong
supervision and quality assurance at all levels of the Project.

Therefore, the day-to-day supervision o f accounting functions will be assured by the organization
structure of the Project, which calls or a Financial Manager at the Central Level, and Supervisory


                                                   -71  -

Accountants at the Provincial Level contracted by the Project.

A Management Quality Assurance contract will be signed to perform reviews of the
implementation o f the LIG Component and compliance with Project procedures.

External Audit
Relevantly qualified, experienced and independent auditors will be appointed on approved terms
o f reference. The external audit will cover all World Bank funds and Counterpart funds. The IDA
Grant Agreement will requirethe submission o f audited financial statements (consolidated) to the
Bank within six months after the year-end.

Besides expressing a primary opinion on the audited financial statements in compliance with
International Auditing Standards (IFAC/INTOSAI pronouncements), the auditor will be required
to include a separate paragraph commenting on the accuracy and propriety o f expenditures
withdrawn under SOE procedures and the extent to which these can be relied upon as a basis for
grant disbursements. Regarding the Special Accounts, the auditor will also be expected to form
an opinion as to the degree of compliance with World Bank procedures and the balances at the
year-end.

In addition to the audit report, the auditor will be required to prepare a separate Management
Letter giving observations and comments, and providing recommendations for improvements of
accounting records, systems, controls and compliance with financial covenants in the IDA
Agreement.

3. DisbursementArrangements

Banking Arrangements: World Bank grants in Mozambique are generally controlled through
separate bank accounts (Special Accounts (SA)) managed by a Project Coordinating Unit.
Normally, inWB grant management in Mozambique, the G O M agrees to open a separate Project
Account (PA) where counterpart funds are deposited in agreed amounts and managed by the
U C A to fulfill counterpart financing requirements.

This Project will adopt the SA and PA structure.         The Provincial Project Units (UPPs) will
manage provincial-level Second Generation Special Accounts (SGSAs) for IDA funds and Project
Accounts for government funds. The DPPF will be a grantee under Component 2 and will receive
grant disbursements from the SA. These grants are 100% grant-financed, and will be managed by
a government accountant, reporting to the DPPF, who will be supervised as well by the Project's
Supervisory Accountant at the Provincial level. The Grant account will receive advances from the
Special Account at the beginningo f the year on submission o f approved plans, and thereafter will
receive replenishments o f eligible expenditures to continue to finance approved activities.

The Recipient may withdraw an amount from the Special Account sufficient to meet eligible
expenditures for a period of 90 days. For the Special Account 90-Day Advance, applications for
replenishment to the special accounts should include a reconciliation statement for the special
account in the standard format showing, the deposits received from the Bank, the amount


                                                 -72-

advanced to each decentralized project location, on the date on which each advance was made
and the amount awaiting documentation from each o f these locations.                 In addition, the
reconciliation statement should identify each lower level UPP which did not account for an
advance within the 90-day accountingcycle with an explanation for the delay.

Districts will open accounts to receive Grant disbursements.          Each district will maintain two
accounts, one for larger works contracts, which will be managed as a zero-balance account, only
receiving transfers when invoices are presented for payment. The second will be managed on an
imprest basis, receiving an initial advance, and then replenishment on presentation o f adequate
justifications o f eligible expenditures.

Disbursement Method: Disbursements will be transaction-based (replenishment, reimbursement,
direct payment and payments under Special Commitments) with full documentation or against
statements o f expenditure as appropriate.

Use of Statement of Expenditure: Disbursements will be made on the basis o f SOEs for: (i)
contracts with consultant firms less than $100,000 equivalent each; (ii)   individual consultants less
than $50,000 equivalent each; (iii)   contracts for civil works less than $100,000 each; (iv)
contracts for goods and equipment less than $200,000 each; and (v) training, incremental
operating costs, grants and audits.

Definition of Incremental Operating Costs: The term "Operating Costs" means the incremental
expenses incurredby the Recipient on account o f the Project implementation, management and
monitoring, including maintenance o f information system, office supplies, insurance for, and
maintenance and operation o f vehicles, travel and salaries o f support staff, and travel o f civil
servants involved inProject support activities, excluding salaries o f civil servants.

SpecialAccount: A Special Account will be opened and maintained ina bank acceptable to IDA
and managed by the Project Coordinating Unit. Based on the project' s five year implementation,
the Authorized Allocation o f the Special Account will be $2.8 million, representing the estimated
amount needed for a four-month period. It has been agreed that there will be Second Generation
Special Accounts established for the UPPs, in Meticais, and that funds would be advanced to
cover expenditures for a 90-day period rather than the usual 30 day period.
Applications for replenishment to the Special Account should be submitted monthly, regardless o f
amounts disbursed, and must include reconciledbank statements as well as other appropriate
documentationneeded to support the 90-day advances and Second Generation Special Accounts
which are to be established for the UPPs. (see discussion above)

Flow of Funds: The chart at the end o f this Annex illustrates the banking and flow o f funds
arrangements.




                                                  - 73 -

               Expenditure Category                  Amount in                    Financing Percentage
                                                    US$ million
    (1) Works                                             0.2        100%of foreign expenditures
                                                                     80% o f local expenditures
    (2) Goods                                             4.7        100% of foreign expenditures
                                                                     80% of local
    (3) Consultants' Services (excl. Trainers)            8.7        86%

    (4) Training and Audits                               3.4        100%

    (5) Local Investment Grants                          19.2        100% of amounts disbursed

    (6) Operating Costs                                   3.7        80%

    (7) Refunding of Project PreparationAdvance           1.9        Amount due pursuant to Section 2.02(c) of
                                                                     the DGA

    (8) Unallocated                                       0.2

   ITotal Project Costs                                 42.0

    Total IDA                                     1     42.0      1

   CONCLUSION
   The project financial management risk i s assessed as being very moderate provided that the
   financial management arrangements are properly implemented and the financial management
   action plan satisfactorily addressed in practice. Based on the evaluation above, the Project will
   satisfy Bank financial management requirements if it complies with the following plan.

   Financial Management Action Plan


                     Action                                   Due Date                     Conditionalitv
FMRformats agreed                                  Negotiations                         Negotiations
Qualified and experienced Financial                'rior to negotiations. Must be in
Manager appointed to the Project                   imeto be trained on FMS
Coordination Unit to supervise the entire
financial management structure o f the
Project.
Relevantly qualified external auditor              iffectiveness                        Condition of
appointedon approvedterms o f references.                                               Effectiveness
Financial Management System (FMS)                  Effectiveness                        Condition of
designedand installedat the central level.                                              Effectiveness
This includes:
   .   Procedures Manual
       Information System


                                                        - 74 -

    ..  Training
        Abilitv to DroduceFMRs
Financial Management System (FMS)                   Prior to disbursements to the        :ondition of
    ..
designedand installed at the provincial             provincial level.                    3ffectiveness to
level. This includes:                                                                    'rovince
        Procedures Manual
        InformationSystem
        Training
Qualified and experienced Project                   Prior to disbursement o f grant      2ondition of
Accountants appointed to the Project                funds other than grants to a         Iisbursementof
Coordination Units o f the Provinces to             Province. Must be intime to          'roject Funds to
manage the flow of funds at provincial level be trained on FMS                           he Provincial UPP
outside o f the Grants.
Qualified and experienced Supervisory               Prior to disbursement of grants       Condition of
Accountants appointed to the Project                to a Province. Mustbe intime         Effectiveness of
Coordination Unitsof the Provinces" to              to be trained on FMS                  Grants to the
supervise the management o f the Grants                                                   Provincial level
account at the Provincial Directorateso f
Planning and Finance and inparticipating
Districts.
Financial Management System (FMS)                   Prior to disbursements
designedand installed at the district level.
    ..
This includes:
    .  Procedures Manual
       Information System
       Training
 Designated staff appointed to handle the           Prior to disbursement o f LIG2        Condition o f
 financial management issues of the Project and LIG 3 to each District.                   Eligibility for
 at participating Districts.                        Mustbe intime to betrained            Grants
                                                    on FMS.
 Management Quality Assurance contract              Within six months of
 signed, and evaluation of the Grants'              Effectiveness
 financial management compliance as part
 o f M O A TORS.
   *       Initially intwo provinces a supervisory accountantwill be appointedto each province. Ifthe volume of
           work does not warrant a position for eachprovince, fiture SupervisoryAccounts can work 1 per 2
           provinces or regionally.




                                                       - 75 -

         Organization Charts of the DPFP: Central, Provincial and District Levels



                                             I
                                  Comite de Supervisao
                                  MPF, MAE, MOPH, MADER  1
                                             I           I

                                       Grupo Tecnico
                                  MPF, MAE, MOPH, MADER

n
'i
I-I  CootdenadorTwnlco



  1                   '    I


                       I-




                                                  - 76 -

          I     0.0 de Edlflcawes.DPOPH          1




           Planeamawnto e Ordenamento Terrltorlal,
                 TBVllM PlaaneameoloTB"IO"Bl
                       .




- 77 -

[ .,
 Equipe de Apoio Tecnico         II     D P O P H ~    ; II           DPPF;          -1
                                                                                ~~
     na Planificacao                 Assessor de Obras     Supervisor de Contabilidade

   8. `.'\


               9   ___________I_
                   Eiementosdo   1
                   Grupo Tecnico                           Auxiliar de
                  de Planiflcacao 1
                                _j




 Pessoal Existente do Quadro




  PessoalNovo no Quadro




                                                      - 7%-

                                                                                  t
            Disbursement and Flow of Funds Arrangements for the DPFP


                Washington                                                             Central
               Credit Account                                                         Treasury
                                                                                      Account
                                              .<3
CENTRAL LEVEL  USD


                                           %         Suppliers of
                                                     Goods and                        Account
                                    USDlMTs            Services      +%MTs

--t
PR VIN IAL EVEL
                                                                                        Central
                                                                                      Treasury
                                                                                      Account
                         MTs                                                         at Province




                                                                                Provincial
                 Special
                                    MTs


                                                                  LIG 1 Administrative Infra.

                                     Province 1                       LIG 1 Suppliers
                                       Grants                           of Goods and
                                      Account                              Services




                         1          MTs            MTs


DISTRICT LEVEL        District 1                       District 1
                      District                         District




                                                  4
               LIG 2 Soci -Econ. Infra.
               MA                             LIG 3 Commu ity Infra.



                   LIG 2 Suwliers




                                                     - 79 -

                              Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
             MOZAMBIQUE: Decentralized Planning and Financing Project




                                             I                             I                     I
                                                                                              ~
First Bank mission (identification)                   06/22/1998                0612211998
Appraisal mission departure                           11/01/2002                05/05/2003
Negotiations                                          07/25/2003                07/25/2003
Planned Date of Effectiveness                         0111512004

Prepared by:
Lance Morrell


Preparationassistance:


Bank staff who worked on the project included:
        Name                                          SDecialitv
Lance Morrell                         Team Leader
Alan Carroll                          Team Leader
Kate Kuper                            UrbanSpecialist
Aniceto Bila                          Operations Officer
Joao Tinga                            Financial Management Analyst
Marius Koen                           Senior FinancialManagement Specialist
Subhash Dhingra                       Senior Procurement Specialist
Natalino Nascimento                   Civil Engineer
LaurenWojtyla                         Financial Specialist
Louis Helling                         Decentralization Specialist
Albert0 Ninio                         Senior Counsel
John Hatton                           Environmental Specialist
Bridie Champion                       Disbursement Officer
LuKang                                Program Assistant
IsabelNhassengo                       Procurement Assistant
Rildo Santos                          Team Assistant




                                              - 80 -

                           Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
              MOZAMBIQUE:Decentralized Planning and Financing Project


A. Project Implementation Plan




B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Proposed "Environmental Impact Assessment" and "Resettlement Policy Framework" for
    DPFP, John Hatton -- March, 2003

2. "Diagnosis o f Public Sector and Private Sector Systems and Capacities for Decentralized
    Management of Small-Scale Public Works," Natalino Nascimento- June, 2002 (in
    Portuguese)

3. "Participation, Transparency, and DownwardAccountability inDistrict Planning in
    Mozambique," Rodrigo Serrano      -- August 2002

4. Financial ManagementAssessment Report, Joao Tinga, Lauren Wojtyla and Marius Koen --
    October 2002 and updated June 2003.

C. Other

Small-scale Infrastructure inMozambique," Louis Helling -- August, 2000
1. "The Policy and Institutional Framework for DecentralizedPlanning and Management of


2. "Strategy Document for DecentralizedPlanning and FinancedProgramme" (Draft, Version 3
revised),DNPO/MPF & UCA -November, 2001 (inPortuguese)

3. "Report o f Initial Assessment Missions to the Provinces," UCA, DNPO/MPF- February,
2002 (inPortuguese)

4. Financial Flows and Financial Management Systems for Provincial and District
Administrations," Adrian Fozzard -- February, 2002

5. "Baseline Study and Capacity BuildingProposals concerning Management o f Public Building
Constriction at Provincial and District Levels inthe Context o f PPFD," Mahomed Ayob - March,
2002 (in Portuguese)

6. "Identification of Best Practices for Community Animation inthe District Planning Process,"
Patrick Matakala and Eunice Cavane -March, 2002 (inPortuguese)

7. "Conditions for the Expansion o f PPFD inNew Provinces and Districts," Gulamo T a j e~
Anselmo Zimba -- April 2002 (in Portuguese)



                                                - 81 -

Context of PPFD," Francisco Mucanheia e Filimone Meigos -- April 2002 (inPortuguese)
8. "Diagnosis o f the Institutional Capacity BuildingNeeds of District Administrations inthe


9. "Report o f Provincial and Central Level Consultations concerningthe PPFD Strategy
Document," Henriques AndrC e Anselmo Zimba - June, 2002 (inPortuguese)

10. "Dossier o f Documentation for DPFP Pre-AppraisalMission," UCA & DNPO/MPF -July,
2002 (inPortuguese)

11, "Analysis o f the Flow of Funds, Flow of Information, and Documentary Processesof the
Mozambican Government Investment Budget (01) System As I t Relates to Project Financial
Management," (revised version) Lauren Wojtyla - October, 2002


Anselmo Zimba -- February, 2003 (inPortuguese)
12. "Baseline Assessment of Existing Human Resources inManica and ZambCzia Provinces,"


13. "Technical Note: Formal Bases for Community Participationand the Organization for
Consultation inDistrict Planning," J. Oscar Monteiro -- December, 2002 (in Portuguese)


Consultation in District Planning," J. Oscar Monteiro -- December, 2002 (in Portuguese)
14. "Legal Opinion: Formal Bases for Community Participation and the Organization for



Draft)," - U C A & DPFP Technical Team w/ Filimone Meigos -- March 2003 (inPortuguese)
15, "Guidelines for Community Participation and Consultation in District Planning (Discussion

"Approaches to Sectoral Coordination of Small Scale Rural Investment," (Discussion Draft),
Jeremy Gottwals & Anselmo Zimba -- March, 2003.
*Including electronic files




                                              - 82 -

                                             Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                           MOZAMBIQUE: Decentralized Planning and Financing Project
                                                                 26-Jw-2003
                                                                                                                          Difference between expected
                                                                                                                                   and actual
                                                                      Original Amount in US$ Millions                            disbursements'
 Project ID   FY   Purpose                                        IBRD         IDA                   GEF   Cancel. Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO49878      2003 MZ-EMPSO                                           0.00      120.00                 0.00    0.00   68.10       36.50       0.00
PO72080      2003 PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM                               0.00       0.00                  0.00    0.00   27.47         6.38      0.00
PO78053      2003 HIV/AIDS Response Project                          0.00       0.00                  0.00    0.00   58.89         0.00      0.00
PO69824      2002 Higher Education Project                           0.00       60.00                 0.00    0.00   60.55        -3.52      0.00
PO01808      2002 MZ-MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                   0.00      33.60                  0.00    0.00   30.47         4.92      0.00
PO73479      2002 MZ - Communication  Sector Reform                  0.00       14.90                 0.00    0.00    13.30       -0.63      0.00
PO01785      2002 MZ-ROADS a BRIDGES MMP                             0.00      162.00                 0.00    0.00   176.03      48.29       0.00
PO01808      2001 Mineral Resources Project (NRMCP)                  0.00       18.00                 0.00    0.00    16.40        2.06      0.00
PO49874      2000 ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT                             0.00      26.00                  0.00    0.00    16.62       14.48      0.00
PO70305      2000 Coastal and Marine Biodiversity MGMT               0.00       5.60                  0.00    0.00     5.10        4.80      0.00
PO42039      2000 RAILWAY a PORT RESTR                               0.00      100.00                 0.00    0.00   68.83       45.69       0.38
PO35919      2000 COASTAL MANAGEMENT                                 0.00       5.60                  4.11    0.00     3.48        3.53      2.35
PO01786      1999 Education Sector Strategic Program(ESSP)           0.00      71.00                  0.00    0.00   54.44       52.60       0.00
PO01799      1999 AGRIC SECTOR PEP                                   0.00      30.00                  0.00    0.00    18.97      20.14       0.00
PO52240      1999 NATIONAL WATER I1                                  0.00       75.00                 0.00    0.00    66.66       34.75      0.00
PO39015      1998 NATIONAL WATER I                                   0.00      36.00                  0.00    0.00   23.44        20.68      0.00
PO01759      1997 TRANSBORDER PARKS                                  0.00       0.00                  5.00    0.00     0.19        5.00      0.00
PO01792      1996 HEALTH SEC RECOVERY                                0.00      98.70                  0.00    0.00    10.79       21.20      0.00
PO01804      1994 MZ 2nd road and coastal                            0.00      188.00                 0.00    1.66    12.99       14.42     14.30
PO01780      1994 MZ GAS ENGINEERING (ENGY)                          0.00      30.00                  0.00    3.47     0.30        4.22      4.22

                                                          Total:    0.00    1074.40                 9.11      5.12   733.03      335.54      21.25




                                                                    - 83 -

                                        MOZAMBIQUE
                                      STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                    HeldandDisbursed Portfolio
                                         May 30 2003
                                                  -
                                       InMillions US Dollars

                                                        Committed                         Disbursed
                                                      IFC                               IFC
FY Approval    Company                          Loan   Equity    Quasi    Partic  Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
2001           SEF Grand Prix                   0.46     0.00      0.00    0.00    0.27   0.00    0.00  0.00
1999           SEF ROBEIRA                      0.16     0.00      0.00    0.00    0.16   0.00    0.00  0.00
1998           BIM-INV                          0.00     0.30      0.00    0.00    0.00   0.30    0.00  0.00
2000           BMF                              0.00     0.20      0.00    0.00    0.00   0.20    0.00  0.00
1997/01        MOZAL                           25.00     0.00      0.00    0.00   13.32   0.00    0.00  0.00
1999           Maragra Sugar                    10.30    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00
1992           Polana Hotel                     0.18     0.00      0.00    0.00    0.18   0.00    0.00  0.00
2000           SEF Ausmoz                       0.72     0.00      0.00    0.00    0.45   0.00    0.00  0.00
1997           SEF CPZ                          1.00     0.00      0.00    0.00    1.00   0.00    0.00  0.00
1997           SEF CTOX                         0.73     0.00      0.00    0.00    0.73   0.00    0.00  0.00
2000           SEF Cab0 Caju                    0.58     0.00      0.00    0.00    0.51   0.00    0.00  0.00
                      Total Portfolio:         39.13     0.50      0.00     0.00   16.62   0.50    0.00  0.00



                                                    Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval    Company                             Loan     Equity     Quasi     Partic
1999           Mozal Swap                          9.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
2003           Novobanco RI                        0.00       0.00      0.20      0.00

               Total Pending Commitment:           9.00       0.00      0.20      0.00




                                              - 84 -

                                                         Annex I O : Country at a Glance
                      MOZAMBIQUE: Decentralized Planning and Financing Project
                                                                                       Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                                  Saharan        LOW-
                                                                Mozambique            Africa    income            Development diamond'
2002
Population,mid-year (millions)                                           18.4           686        2,495                          Life expectancy
GNI per capita (At/as method, US$)                                        200           450          430
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                                           3.7           306        1,072

Average annual growth, 1996-02
Population (%)                                                            2.1            2.4         1.9
Laborforce (%)                                                            2.1            2.5         2.3          GNI                                        Gross
                                                                                                                  per                                       primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                                                             capita                                  nrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulation below nationalpoveWline)                           69
Urban population (% oftota/poPulation)                                     34             33          30
Life expectancyat birth (years)                                           41              46          59
Infantmortality (per 1,000live births)                                    126           105           81
Child malnutrition (% ofchildren under5)                                   26                                            Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)                         57             58          76
illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                                        54             37          37                  -
Gross primaryenrollment I%of school-age population)                        92             86          95                            Mozambique
    Male                                                                  104             92         103                            Low-incomegroup
    Female                                                                 79             80          87

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                             1982       1992           2001         2002
                                                                                                                   Economic ratlos.
GDP (US$ billions)                                             3.6        1.9            3.4         3.6
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                                   6.0       15.6           26.5        23.7
Exports of goods and services/GDP                              8.3       13.9           21.8        23.5                               Trade

Gross domestic savings/GDP                                   -11.9      -17.2           12.8         8.9                                 T
Gross nationalsavingsIGDP                                                                5.4         3.6

Current account balancelGDP                                 -13.7       -19.0          -46.7
Interest payments/GDP                                          0.0        2 3            0.2         0.8
Total debVGDP                                                  3.5      276.8          129.5       128.1
Total debt service/exports                                     0.2       19.7            7.6         8.4
Present value of debVGDP                                                                26.7
Presentvalue of debvexports                                                             78.9                                         Indebtedness
                                            1982-92 1992.02             2001           2002     2002-06
(average annualgrowth)                                                                                           1         -Mozambique
GDP                                              2.4           8.1       13.0            8.3
GDP Der caDita                                    1.1          5.7       10.6            6.1                     i                   Low-incomegroup               I
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                             1982       1992           2001         2002          Growth of Investmentand GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                   33.8       32.0           26.7        26.8             T

Industry                                                      32.6       16.3           27.6        27.7          60

   Manufacturing                                                          7.6           15.3        15.4          40

Services                                                      33.6       51.7          45.7         45.5          20
                                                                                                                   0
Private consumption                                           97.7      104.6           76.4        60.1          -20
General governmentconsumption                                 14.1       12.6           10.8        11.0         I
Imports of goods and sefvices                                 26.2       46.7           35.4        38.2                      -GDi              - O ' G D P


                                                         1982-92 1992-02               2001         2002
(average annualgrowth)                                                                                            Growth of exports and Imports(x)

Agriculture                                                    3.1        6.7           12.6         7.2                                                           I
Industry                                                      -3.7       17.3          20.1         15.1          40
   Manufacturing                                                         18.8          27.2          6.2
Services                                                       8.6        3.1            8.1         0.3          20


Private consumption                                            0.2        4.3           -2.1        10.9           0

Generalgovernmentconsumption                                   0.0        5.4           17.9        14.7         -20
Gross domestic investment                                      5.6       12.0          -10.0         3.9
Imports of goods and services                                 -1.9        4.3          -14.9        16.6

* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will be incomplete.




                                                                                  - a5 -

                                                                                                             Mozambiaue

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                         1982    1992     2001     2002     1 Inflation (%)                                     1
Domesticprices
(% change)                                                                   50

Consumer prices                          17.7    45.1       9.0     16.8     40

Implicit GDP deflator                    17.5    44.6      10.6     10.8     30
                                                                             20
Government finance                                                           10
(% of GDP, includes current granfs)                                           0
Current revenue                          19.2    20.3      18.2     18.0               97    96     89        00        01     02
Current budget balance                    3.2     4.4       3.7      2.2                -GDP       deflator
Overall surplusldeficit                   -5.0   -10.0    -16.5    -15.8                                      - 0 ' C P I


                                                                                                                                I
TRADE
                                         1982    1992     2001     2002
(US$ millions)                                                                Export and Import levels (US) mill.)

Total exports (fob)                       229     139      703      682   11,500   T
  Cashews                                  44      18       31        51
  Prawn                                    39      65       81      108
  Manufactures                                     14       13        13     1,000

Total imports(ci0                                 745    1,063     1,263
  Food                                                      72        99       500
  Fuel and energy                                           41        43
                                                                          I                                                      I
  Capital goods                                            396      525          0

Exportprice index (1995=100)               90      90       87        85             96    97    98     99    00        01

Import priceindex (1995=100)              110      93       82        61                  Exports           Imports          O2
Terms of trade (1995=100)                  81      97      106      106

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                         1982    1992     2001     2002
(US$ millions)                                                              1 Current account balanceto GDP (%)                  I
Exportsof goods and services              337     304    1,008     1,187       0
Importsof goods and services              893     860    1,578     1,637       5
Resource balance                         -556    -556     -570     -650      -10
                                                                             -15
Net income                                -20    -183     -254     -190      -20
Net current transfers                                        0         0     -25
                                                                             -30
Current account balance                  -497    -352   -1,604               -35

Financing items (net)                    356      392    1,607               -40

Changesin net reserves                    141     -40       -3     -192      .45
                                                                             -50
Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)
Conversionrate (DEC, /ocallUS$)          37.8  2,566.5 20,703.6 23,678.0

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                         1982    1992     2001     2002
(US$ millions)                                                                Comporltlon of 2002 debt (US) mlll.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed       125   5,130    4,450    4,610
  IBRD                                      0       0        0         0
  IDA                                       0     417      777      985                      G: 371

Total debt service                          1      63       69       103
  IBRD                                      0       0        0         0
  IDA                                       0       3        7         7
Compositionof net resourceflows
  Official grants                         101     726      656
  Official creditors                       60     171       93      229
  Private creditors                         0      -3      -30       -37
  Foreign direct investment                 0      25      480
  Portfolioequity                           0       0        0                                      E: 1.028
World Bank program
  Commitments                               0     289      229      180         -                                   E Bilateral
  Disbursements                             0                                 1 IBRD
                                                  106       52      149       3 -IDA      D other multilateral      F Private
                                                                                                                      --
  Principalrepayments                       0       0        3        2       > - IMF                               G Short-tern
                                                                                                                      -
  Net flows                                 0     106       49      147
  Interestpayments                          0       3        4        5
  Net transfers                             0     103       44      142

>=




                                                      - 86 -

                                  Additional Annex 11: Summary
                 MOZAMBIQUE: Decentralized Planning and Financing Project

 Summary of UNCDFExperiencein Nampula

Beginning in 1995, the UNCapital Development Fund(UNCDF) carried out a small-scale infrastructure
development project inNampula Province. As a result o f implementation difficulties attributed to weak
institutional linkages to local government structures, low levels o f community participation inplanning and
implementation, and resultant concems regarding ownership and sustainability, this project was
reformulated. The successor project "Support to Decentralised Planning and Finance inNampula
Province" began implementation in 1998.

The Nampula DPFP was developed inclose collaboration with the UNDP supported Economic
Management Programme whose Technical Assistance Component to the National Directorate o f Planning
and Budget(Output 2.2) supportedthe development o f strategic and operational planning and budgeting
systems at provincial, and later, at district level. As a result o f this collaboration, inSeptember 1998 the
MinistryofPlanningandFinance (MPF) andtheMinistryof StateAdministration (MAE)jointly published
a set o f official Guidelinesfor District Development Planning.

On the basis o f these guidelines, the Province o fNampula supported by the UNCDF project embarked
upon a pilot programme to promote more effective district development planning and community
participation through the devolution o f increasing administrative and financial responsibilities to the district
level. The programme is executedby the Provincial Directorate o f Planning and Finance (DPPF), as an
integral element o f the decentralised planningprogramme o f the MPF. As part o f the Nampula pilot
initiative, the UNCDFand the Government o f the Netherlands provided funding to the provincial capital
investment budget to enable direct fiscal transfers to the district level. A technical assistance component,
partly funded by the UNDP, operates alongside these initiatives with the principal objective o f building
capacity and creating the conditions for the effective programming and management o f these funds andthe
resultinginfrastructure investments.

From January to July 2000, an external Mid-Term Evaluation (MTE) o f the Nampula DPFP was
undertaken. The MTE grantedthe Project with developing an effective and replicable system for
participatory and decentralised district planning. The "Nampula approach" was recognised by the G o M
and donors as one o f the most coherent and potentially sustainable initiatives o f its kindinMozambique.
At the same time, the MTE acknowledged that the pilot phase was far from complete and notedthat there
were a number o f key aspects that required further support, particularly inthe areas o f participation, plan
implementation, local financing, capacity buildingand local economic development, inorder to make the
approach more replicable.

InOctober 2000 a stakeholder workshop was heldinMaputo to review the findings ofthe MTE. At this
time, the G o M expressed its official interest not only inreplicating the methodologies developed in
Nampula but inworking to upscale the DPFP into a National Programme with the support o f the
UNCDFNNDP, the World Bank and bilateral donors. This interest provided further justification for the
continuation o f the Nampula project, not only as an important "laboratory" or testing ground for the
national programme but also as a "school" which can help to provide advice andtraining for personnel
from other provinces.

As a result, a second phase o fthe UNCDFLJNDP DPFP was approved in2002 with bilateral co-financing


                                                      - 87 -

from the Netherlands, Norway and Switzerland. PhaseI1continues to support Nampula Province in
improving and consolidating DPFP systems as well as piloting new elements such as district finance
including revenue mobilizationand recurrent cost budgeting, strengthening local economic development and
natural resource management dimensions o f district plans, and linkingdistrict planningto town planningin
small rural municipalities. Inaddition, Phase 11will introduce the DPFP approach to Cab0 Delgado
Province andprovide support to MPF at central level for decentralization policy development and
monitoring and evaluation as well as to the Ministry o f Public Works instrengthening systems for
procurement, management and maintenance o f local infrastructure investments.

Since the GOM request inOctober 2001 for IDA support inexpanding DPFP coverage to the four
provinces o fthe central region and infurther developing the policies and methodologies required for the
eventual formalization o f a National Program for Decentralized Planning and Finance, the WB Task Team
and the PPF financed DPFP Coordination and Support Unit (UCA) inthe MPF have worked closely with
UNCDF staff andproject personnel. A joint U N C D F N B mission at the early stages o f WB supported
project formulation and frequent contacts at headquarters and field level have reinforced this collaboration.
UNCDF personnel have reviewed and commented upon preparatory studies and on draft P A D elements
duringproject preparation.

At present the following specific areas of collaboration are foreseen before andduring the first year of IDA
financed DPFP implementation:
development o f ajoint framework for monitoring and evaluation (to be adapted and applied at project level
as required);
development o f manuals and training materials for district planning methodologies (based on Nampula
materials refinedto facilitate field use by personnel at various levels);
development o f official GOM guidelines for community participation and consultation indistrict planning
(based on Nampula experience and on the results o f studies and consultation processes supported by the
PPF);
development o f common procedures and standarddocuments for decentralized works procurement and
contracting (jointly with MOPH usingmaterials from Nampula and those adapted from M D P to fit DPFP
requirements);
support for GOM decentralization reform processes (linkingUNCDF decentralization advisor inMPF with
DPFP funded policy consultancies and capacity building activities).

Insubsequent years, further areas oftechnical collaboration insupport ofpolicy andmethodology
development and fieldtesting will be defined. It has been agreed that an annualjoint IDA-UNCDF
supervision mission will provide a basis for planning this collaboration, monitoring progress inreform and
field operations, and coordinating the development o f future financial and technical assistance to the
GOM's nationaldecentralization program should policy and institutional conditions warrant.




                                                   - 88 -

                       Additional Annex 12: Monitoring and Evaluation
               MOZAMBIQUE: Decentralized Planning and Financing Project

Objectives of the M&E System

An effective M&E system will be put into place as a means of assessingthe progress, impact and
sustainability of the DPFP, as well as generating information and lessons to inform and guide the
future development o f the national decentralization program. The M&E system will be sufficiently
comprehensive to meet the requirements o f the different stakeholders(]), whilst at the same time
beingrelatively simple to implement giventhe capacity constraints faced inthe field.

Inaddition, the M&Esystem for the DPFPproject will havethe following specific objectives:
   0     To provide the GoM and the World Bank with regular monitoring information regarding
         project performance andprogress, thus enabling them account for funduse and to take
         corrective action where necessary.
   0     To provide project management and support teams at the national, provincial and district
         levels with timely and accurate information to assist inthe ongoing management, planning
         and review o f the program.
   0     To track progress against Key Performance Indicators as defined inthe project logical
         framework as well as indicators requiredfor Performance Assessment o f District
         Governments (SADD).
   0     To specify a community-basedmonitoring system that provides key information for the
         exercise of community oversight of district planned and managed activities.
   0     To strengthen government and civil society capacity inmonitoring and evaluation of local
         development planning andplan implementation.

Types of Reporting and Monitoring

Activity reporting and compliance monitoring will be undertaken on a regular basis to ensure that
the activities detailed in the project manual and annual work plans are being carried out in an
efficient and accountable manner. A particular focus will be on ensuring that the management of
the Local Investment Grants (LIGs) by provincial and district institutions and officials i s in
compliance with established financial management and procurement procedures.

Performance monitoring and evaluation will assess the extent to which project activities are
achieving their stated outputs, outcomes and results, as a basis for an effective ongoing process of
implementation, supervision and review. This will require effective systems and procedures are
put in place to document, measure and evaluate progress; to take corrective action where
necessary; to disseminate information, lessons and best practice to all key stakeholders; and to
solicit feedback from project partners and beneficiaries.

Two kinds o f data will be routinely collected and presentedfor each component:
   1) Progress (Activity) Reporting
   2) Results (Output) Monitoring



                                               - 89 -

Progress Reports will be produced by each provincial government with the assistance o f
Provincial Project Units and technical assistance providers on a quarterly and annual basis for
Components 1-3 (Decentralized Planning, Local Investment Grants, and Capacity Building
Components). Progress reports for Components 4 and 5 (Support for Decentralization Reform
and Project Management) will be prepared at central level by the UCA. These reports will
consolidated and linked to standard Financial Management and Procurement Reports on a
quarterly basis to constitute the project's Financial Monitoring Reports for submission to the
World Bank.      Annual Progress Reports will track achievements vis-his approved annual
workplans and will be presented in preliminary form in time for the annual review mission each
November.

Results MonitoringReports will be produced once each year and will track outputs against targets
defined for each Key Performance Indicator (KPI) as well as indicators to be used for the District
Performance Assessment System (SADD). Annual Results Monitoring Reports will be presented
in preliminary form for consideration during the November annual review mission and finalized
during the first quarter o fthe subsequentyear.

Institutional Arrangements for M&E

Effective institutional arrangements will be put in place to coordinate and oversee the M&E
mechanisms established for the DPFP project. These arrangements will need:

        To operate at all levels (national, provincial, district and community) with data collection
        and presentation responsibilities clearly defined at each level.
        To be based, as far as possible, on the institutional arrangements for project
        implementation, so as to linkmonitoring to the ongoing processeso f project planning,
        implementation and review.
        To ensure that M&E information from each level i s aggregated and disseminated to meet
        the information needs o f each type o f stakeholder.
        To be harmonized, as much as possible, with the institutional arrangements of other
        related programs and projects inthe field o f decentralizationand district planning.
        To encourage participation and partnership in M&E processes andperformance
        improvement by the differentstakeholders at all levels.

Given the range and volume of data to be collected and reported through these processes, a
manageable and standardized set o f reporting and monitoring forms have been designed, together
with instructions on how and when to complete them and are included in the project M&E
manual. Mechanisms will be put inplace to coordinate, aggregate and consolidate the data so that
it meets the specific requirements of target users at different levels. At the provincial level the
Provincial Project Coordinators and Monitoring Technicians will play a lead role in gathering and
consolidating data, with the M&E Specialist in the U C A playing a similar role at the national
level.

Mechanisms and instruments will also be put inplace to validate the accuracy and reliability o f the
information provided in the various monitoring reports.          These will take a number of forms,


                                                 -90  -

including:


   0    Regular field visits and spot-check visits to the districts by the UPP, TA contractors and
        provincial staff to assess the accuracy o f district level information and reports.
   0    Regular field visits and periodic spot-check visits to the provinces and districts by U C A
        staff (and inparticular the UCA's M&E Coordinator), as well as by central government
        officials (members of the Steering Committee and its Technical Group).
   0    Community and beneficiary surveys (to be conducted as part of the qualitative monitoring
        contract)
   0    Specially commissioned external assessments, where there i s aparticular cause for concern
        about the reliability of the information andreporting systems.
   0    Bi-annual supervision missionsby the World Bank, ledby the Task Team Leader.
   0    Mid-term and other forms o f project evaluation

Given resource constraints and the large number of districts that will be coveredby DPFP project,
a quality assurance approach will be adopted in carrying out these processes. Provinces and
districts that are found to have reliable monitoring and reporting systems in place will be visited
less regularly than those that do not.

Performance Indicatorsfor M&E

Quantitative and qualitative indicators have been developed for the DPFP to assess the impact of
the project and to measure progress towards project outcomes and outputs. A number o f process
indicators have also been identifiedto measure such things as the efficiency and effectiveness of
program activities.

With respect to the longer-term impact o f the project, the main focus will be on its institutional
impact rather than on its downstream contributions to poverty reduction and socio-economic
development. This is not because the downstream impact i s unimportant but because the main
objective of the DPFP i s to generate practical lessons, methodologies and instruments to inform
the emerging national decentralization program and to create the necessary capacities and
conditions under which it i s possible to decentralize further functions, responsibilities and
resources to the district level.

The DPFP M&E system will also track the infrastructure investments financed by Local
Investment Grants to provinces and districts, including those for administrative infrastructure
(LIGI),  socio-economic infrastructure (LIG2) and community infrastructure (LIG3). LIG related
data will include the nature o f investments financed; information related to their procurement,
physical and financial execution; and the nature of local participation in their planning,
implementation and expected benefits. The Management Quality Assurance (MQA) contractor
will play a particularly important role in ensuring that LIG provided resources are correctly used
by provincial governments and district administrations.

With respect to indicators relating to community participation, a sample baseline survey of
community perceptions o f the district governments will be carried out by the Participation



                                                 -91  -

Monitoring (PM) consultancy that will be contracted by the U C A to monitor and report on
qualitative aspects o f community involvement inplanningand plan implementation.

Analysis, Assessment and Evaluation of Project Performance and Impacts

Monitoring information will be analyzed, assessed and reviewed on a regular basis to inform the
on-going processes o f planning and review. This i s to ensure that corrective action i s taken
promptly to address obstacles and constraints to project progress and performance.             These
processes will largely take place at the provincial and national levels. However, at the district and
sub-district levels progress reports will be prepared for discussion by the consultative councils.

An integral and distinctive feature of the assessment and review mechanisms will be the
introduction o f the District Performance Evaluation System or SADD, as the basis for the
determination and adjustment of LIG2 and 3 grants for the subsequent year. The purpose of
SADD is to identify, acknowledge and reward good practice rather than to punish
under-achievement. Districts with the lower rating will be provided with guidance and support to
enable them to improve their performance insubsequent years.

An independent mid-termevaluation of the DPFP will take place during the second half of 2005
to evaluate all key aspects o f the project. This evaluation will assess progress toward the project's
development objective, outcomes and outputs, to evaluate the extent to which the critical
assumptions are holding, to recommend mid-termadjustments where necessary in project design
and operation, and to assess the kinds o f policy and legislative reform that are still necessary to
ensure the future success and sustainability of the project in the context of the Government's
decentralization policies and programs. The independent mid-termevaluation will be followed by
(and help to form the basis for) a formal Mid-Term Review of the DPFP in the first quarter of
2006.

Participation, Dissemination and Feedback Processesfor M&E

Mechanisms will be put into place at all levels to ensure broad stakeholder participation in the
monitoring and evaluation processes themselves, and more especially in the processes of
dissemination and feedback. These will help to create awareness and accountability in the M&E
processes, to ensure that lessons and best practice are effectively disseminated for the purposes of
replication and policy change, to facilitate the exchange of information about models and
approaches to decentralization at the district level, and to solicit a wide range of ideas and
suggestions for overcoming constraints and taking the participatory planning processesforward.

At the national level these mechanisms will include the holding o fperiodic stakeholder workshops
(comprising govemment ministries, development partners, NGOs, academics and researchers and
other interested parties) to discuss lessons learnedfrom the World bank financed DPFP project, as
well as from the UNCDF supported project and other related initiatives. More regular updates
and discussions will also take place at the informal Donor Group on Decentralization that i s
convened and chaired by the UNDP in Maputo. A t the provincial level, consideration will be
given to establishing stakeholder working groups on decentralization, along the lines of the group


                                                 - 92 -

that has recently been established in Nampula. Inter-provincial workshops will also be held to
enable the provinces involved inthe DPFP to compare progress as well as to exchange experience
and lessons learned. At the district level, a summary of the findings and recommendations o f the
annual provincial monitoring reports will be producedfor discussion and comment by members o f
the consultative councils and local fora.

Capacity Building and Institutional Linkagesfor M&E

A capacity buildingprogram will be designed and implemented for the DPFP in order ensure the
efficient and effective operation of the M&E systems put in place. This will be targeted in
particular at officials at the provincial and district levels who are involved inor have responsibility
for M&E, as well as at members o f consultative councils and local fora at the district and
sub-district levels. Training will also be provided for UCA staff and members of the Technical
Group (which supports the National SteeringCommittee).

It will also be important to develop effective linkages with other relevant M&E and MIS systems
inorder to maximize the efficiency and benefits of data collection and analysis. At the global and
strategic levels the DPFP M&E system will exchange data with the PARPA monitoring system as
well as those linked to the Public Sector Reform Strategy and SIFAP as well as MADER's Rural
Development Strategy and PROAGRI. In addition, at the operational level the project will
collaborate with the UNCDF projects and other provincial support programs employing the DPFP
approach in order to avoid unnecessary duplication o f effort, as well as to facilitate collaborative
M&E activities and the exchange of information and ideas regarding M&E tools and
methodologies. Close linkages will also be developed with academic, research and survey
organisations with relevant M&E experience at the district level, as well as with NGOs,
cooperation agencies and other organisations that have or are developing systems for
community-basedmonitoring o f local development activities.

(1) As noted earlier in this report the target users of the M&E system will include (i)
                                                                                      national government ministries, especially the MPF, MAE,
MADER and the MPOPH; (ii) the World Bank; (iii) provincial governments; (iv) districts, administrative posts and localities; (v) communities
and NGOs; and (vi) other development partners.




                                                                     - 93 -

                             REPUBLICA DE YWANBlQUE
                      MlNlSTERlODO PLAN0 E FINANGAS
                              GABINETEDA MlNlSTRA

N' a34nswwm
Maputo,August)3,2003

Mr. Ducus y.nS
Country Director for kzrmbique
TheWorldRank office

Subject: Letter of Sector Commitment Oecenbrlitedffrnning and Finance
                                          -
           Projact

Dear Mr.Mans,

I am writing on behalf of the Government of Mozambique in order to express the
govemment's commitment to the implementation of ttre Decentralized Planning and
Finance Pmject (DPFP). The DPFP represents the govemment's effart to strengthen
the rob of the districts and the rural communitiesin the planning and management of
ha1 c)evelopmnt and is a vital contribution to the process of g b h / m h s taking   .
place in Mozambique. I believe that the outcome of this project will be the
improvement of kxal administration capacity to plan in a participatory way and to an
eficient and transparent management of the msoums channelled to poverty
alleviation in the ~ r aareas.
                         l                                                            ,



The government of Mozambique has started a gradual decentralization of the public
administration aimed at making planning and management of local development
prvcesses more effective. One of the aspects of this pnxess is the modemisat& of
public msoum planning tools at thepmvincial and district levels, as &/ as processes
interconnecting the state administration and local mmunities. In order to reinforce
this process. the Govemment of Mozambique asked the WorM Bank, UNCDF and
otherpartners for support regarding the preparation of the programme, and a strategy
design was imdiate/y staded so as to direct the expansion of DPFP at the national
level.

The DPFP is being designed based on the Govemment's main policy orkntatkm
methods, namely its 2000.2004 five year programme, the Absolute Poverty Reducthn
Action Plan (PARPA), the Strategy for the Public Sector Refom, and the State
Financial Administration Refom, Programme. The Action Plan for Absolute Poverty
Reductbn, which is increasingly becoming the method that directs state institutions,
emphasizes the importance of gcmd govemance at the /mal level including
decentralizedplanning and the development of bask infrastructums, as key objectives
of its implementation.

The Govemment's Programme sees the participation of citizens in the social and
economic life of the country as the ideal apptwch to find better Solutbns for the

problems faced by local communities. Thus, dialogue is the government's basic
method in the consultationand search for better ways of addressing tjw needs of the
population.    The fiveyear programme allows for the decentralization and
c)econcentration of public administration as pillars of the state's modemisation
process. The transfer of responsibilities and specific competencies to Coca1 bodies,
thus legitimatising their initiatives and pmvkiing them with tools for deliveringsenhs,
is an impodant basis for the decentralisationprocess. A way of tracking the attainment
of this ob&tiive  is by the existence of decentralised public organisations which am
autonomous and transparent in the decision making processes and effective m
delivering of public services.

Recently, under the govemmentk propasal, the Parliament approved the Local State
Bodies Act with a view to establishing a public administrationthat is mom appropriate
to the present development p m s s of the country. The Local State Bodies Act
establishes organisatbnal principles and noms for the functioningand competencies
of state bodies at thepmvince, district, administrativepost and kcality levels. Thislaw
is going to "tribute  to fie materialisation of the deconcwntration and decentralization
of public planning and management processes.

As part of these efirts the government is designing a National Planning and
Decentralised Finance Programme. The design of this pmgramme is based on the
pilot experience in NampulaProvince, where such methodologieswem tried in the last
few years in order to put into practice         participatory district planning within the
framework of the Mozambican state system. The programme aims at gradually
introducing in the national tem'tory, amongst other things, the following elements: (i)
Strategic and participatory districtplanning. (0 Participatory governance in the design
of the District Development Plans and through local community participation in the
implementation of district plans, (iii) Introduction and or strengthening of public
msoum programming tools at district level; (iv) Appropriate prpcedures for ihe
management of funds directed to public investment projects at district level; and (v)
Decentralized system for the preparatrbn, negotiation and management of contracts,
as well as the implementation and quality contml of small scale public wolks at the
district level.

The Decentralized Planning and Finance Project (DPFP) is going to intpduce these
elements in Zambezia, Tete, Manica and Sofala provinces based on the WorM Bank
financing. In addition to the elements mentioned above, institutional capacity buiMing
of local actors will be a key element in the implementation of DPFP. taking into
amunt that all the work will be cam'& out through the people and institutions that
belong to the communities, districts and pmvincial bodies. This will contribute to
individual training and the impmvement of the functioning of said institutbns, thus
guaranteeing the sustainability of the process and work methods. This issue wiN be
discussed in mom detail in a letter of Sector Policy to be provided prior to the r"
review of thepmject in 2006.

The Govemment of Mozambique is equally committed to fhe mobilisatbn of msoums
and partnerships aimed at speeding up the introduction of the DPFP methochkgkal
ftamework to the remaining provinces of the country in order matenalise the National
Decentralized Planning and Finance Program in the forthcoming years. Thus OWP,
together with other initiatives taking place in the country, is pangto deepen the
decentralisation process throughproviding support to development and dissemination
of new tools and planning end management methodologiesfor local government.

    . . ..


           Wth a view to creating the necessary conditions to implement the National
           Decentralized Planning and Finance Program, in the project's appraisal mission,
           which took plam in May 2003, the follawhg aspects to be canied out by the
           government were agreed upon:

                 Provide the legal basis br the reoqjanisatbn of public administrationat district
                 level (Local State Bodies Act Approved by the Parfiament)
                                               -
             a   Recognize the legitimacy of the District Cons~ltativeCouncils within the
                 framewrkofDistrict Planning(Firstversionoftheprepared Guidelineswhichis
                 cunently in consultationat theprovinciallevel).

                Revision of the District Administration stafi in order to assure the required
                profile for the decentralized management of investments: fina&accounting
                and supervisionof small scale works.

                Establish the &a1      framework for District Development Plans within the
             .  framework of the NationalPlanning System

                Provide methodologicalguidance for district finances:/ma/ mevenue, budgeting.
                spending and amuntancy, etc.

             .  Increasing the percentage of the State Budget allocated to ttre districts via
                provincial budget to fund discretionaryinvestments

                Establishing the district as a Budget Unit

          Thus,.the Decentralised Planning and Finance hject is in a tangible way going to
             .
          contributeto:

                Meet PARPA's objectives with regard to the reduction of a h l u t e poverty
                through planning and management of msoums at district level, h i c h
             .  addresses the basic needs of rural communities and promotes local socio
                mnotnic development.

                Strengthen institutions and local actors that belong to the community, the
:,:             districts and provincial bodies at the same time contributing to individual
                tmining and improved performance.

                Develop working methodologies within the norms defined by the State's central
                bodies to support the provinces and the districts in the development of
                p m s s e s and methods, which com-cpondto the reality of each area of the
                country.

                Support consultationprocesses and d k t i v e decision making institutions in a
                way that ensures the partkipation of various civil Society members in the
                districts, particulady women and the mast disadvantaged people in nml
                communities,thus giving greafer importance to &a1 actors.

          As such, the DPFP is an integralpad of the currentpublic sector mefixmprocess. The
          decentralisation of planning and budget subsystems and budget execution is           81)
          important objective of SISTAFE, which will allow for a greater Rexibility in transpamnt


                                                                                                   _-

,.. ..
       8-




          planning end management of reswms at local level by public manegers. The LocaJ
          State Bodies Refom,is aimed at fonnelishg the r r h of the Dishict Gowmmnt as 8
          budget unit as well as reinfarclng its d e as a public seN)cB and "I/devebptmnt
          manager through a new orgenisational model.

          In #nctushn, t b Gomment of Mozambique wishes to &rate             its interest m ttm
          i-ta-          dtheDecentralisedFinance andplenningprgiect andistropeturthat
          IDA wll suppod the Gowemmt in the cunent rempracess in order to i m p w the
          penWmance of ttm publk sector with a view to reducing M u t e poverty and
          increase the abiiity d h a / instilubns toplan in a paMipetoty way and implement in
          a transparent mannerpublic initiatives at district level.




                                   MinisterLofuPknning a d Finance
                                                 h D i uh g o


