                                             Document of 

                                          The World Bank 





                                                                          Report No: ICR00001308




                   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                   (Grant No. H0670)

                                                 ONA 


                                                GRANT 


          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 29.9 MILLION (US$42.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT) 


                                                  TO 


                                THE REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE 


                                               FOR THE 


                     DECENTRALIZED PLANNING AND FINANCE PROJECT 




                                          September 30, 2009 





    Urban and Water (AFTUW)
    AFCS2
    Africa Region

    This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
    of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
i   authorization.
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective September 25, 2009)

                       Currency Unit = New Meticais (Mtn)
                               27.30 MZN US$ 1
                               1 MZN = US$0.037

                                  FISCAL YEAR

                             January 1 - December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
DDP       District development plan
DCC       District consultative council
DPFP      Decentralized Planning and Finance Project
FRELIMO   Frente de Liberta~ao de Mo~ambique
GTZ       Gesellschaft fUr Technische Zusarnmenarbeit (German Technical Cooperation)
M&E       Monitoring and evaluation
PARPA     Action Plan for the Reduction of Absolute Poverty
RENAMO    Resistencia Nacional de Mo~ambique
UNCDF     United Nations Capital Development Fund.
UNDP      United Nations Development Program




                           Vice President:      Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                  Acting Country Director:      Peter Nicholas
                          Sector Manager:       Jaime Biderman
                       Task Team Leader:        Ali Alwahti
                                                (formerly Kate Kuper)
                                                        MOZAMBIQUE

                    DECENTRALIZED PLANNING AND FINANCING PROJECT

                                                           CONTENTS


1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design ..............................................................1 

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ..............................................................6 

3. Assessment of Outcomes..............................................................................................................12 

4. Assessment of Risk tC?' Development Outcome ........................................................................... 15 

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .....................................................................16 

6. Lessons Learned ...........................................................................................................................21 

7. Comments on Issues Raised by BorrowerlImplementing AgencieslPartners ........................23 

Annex 1: Results Framework Analysis ............................................................................................24 

Annex 2: Project Costs and Financing ..............................................................................................27 

Annex 3: Outputs by Component..................................................................................................... 28 

Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ...........................33 

Annex 5: List of Supporting Documents ..........................................................................................35 

Annex 6: SummaI)' of Borrower's ICR ...........................................................................................36 

MAP (IBRD 33451Rl) .......................................................................................................................54 

A. Basic Information
                                                                               ,Decentralized Planning
Country:                  Mozambique                 Project Name:
                                                                                and Financing Project
Project ID:                P001807                   LlC/TF Number(s):         IIDA-H0670
ICR Date:                 :09/30/2009                ICR Type:                 ;Core ICR
                                                                               IREPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:        SIL                       Borrower:
                                                                               iMOZAMBIQUE
Original Total
                                                                               iииии
                          XDR29.9M                   Disbursed Amount:         XDR29.8M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:           iXDR29.8M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 ~inistryofPlanning and Development

Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                       Revised 1 Actual
       Process               Date                Process            Original Date
                                                                                           Date(s)
Concept Review:           10/2112002      Effectiveness:             02/16/2004            04/16/2004
Appraisal:                0511612003      Restructuring(s):
Approval:                 11120/2003      Mid-term Review:           06/01/2006            0611912006
                                          Closing:                   06/30/2008            03/3112009


~.   Ratil1gs Summary ..
C.l Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                            Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                         Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                    Satisfactory
Borrower Perfonnance:                                Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance(by ICR)
          Bank                     Ratings                  BOlTower                    Ratings
Qualityat Entry:          Satisfactory               Government:               Satisfactory
                                                     Implementing
Quality of Supervision:   Highly Satisfactory                                  Satisfactory
                                                     Agency1Agencies:
Overall Bank                                         Overall Borrower
                          Satisfactory                                         Satisfactory
Performance:                                         Performance:
C.3    Qll~lity   at Jrlltry and Implementation Performance Indicators
       ltnplementation                                                          QAG Assessm.cnts (if
                                     Indicators                                                                                    Rating
         PerfOl'munce                                                                             .my)
 Potential Problem Project No                                                Quality at Entry
                                                                                                                   None
at any time (YesfNo): .                                                      (QEA):
Problem Project at any time Yes                                              Quality of Supervision
                                                                                                                   .None
<X~~fN ()):    .. . . . . . . . .                                            :(q~A):
DO rating before
                          :Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:



                                                                                                           Oriuinal
                                                                                                              ""
Sector Code (as % oftotal Bank fjmlllcing)
Central government administration                                                                           30                         30
General water, sanitation and floodprotection sector                                                        15                          15
Other social services                                                                                        5
Roads and highways                                                                                          20
Sub-national government administration                                                                      30
                                           :.::::.:::.::::.:..................:.............. 




Theme Code (as % of total    B~nk    financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                                                                       20                        20
Decentralization                                                                                              20                        20
Participation and civic engagement                                                                            20                        20
Rural policies and institutions                                                                               20                        20
Rural services and infrastructure                                                                             20                        20


           Positions                                                                                                   At Ap[)roval
Vice President:                                                                                          Callisto Madavo
 .~ .. Ц'+~, Director:       Peter Nicholas                                                              Darius Mans
Sector Manager:              Jaime M. Biderman                                                       Jaime M. Biden;nan
yr()j~:t!~~m Leader:         Ali Alwahti (formerly Kate Kuper)                                                    ...ll
                                                                                                     !Lance Morr..e .......... .
ICR Team Leader:             Ali Alwahti
ICR Primary Author: .        Wen~y    Schre.iber Ayres
F.       Results Framework Analysis 


Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document) 


Improve the institutional capacity of District Administrations to plan and manage small 

infrastructure investments in response to community demand. 


Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority) 


The project development objectives were not revised. 


(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                                  Original Target                       Actual VaJu(
                                                    Values (from                         Achieved at
     Indicator           Haseliue Value
                                                       apJ)rovaJ                       Completion or
                                                     documents)                         Target Yt'ars
                   Percentage of districts with District Development Plans and Annual Investment Plans
Indicator 1 :
                   approved
Value
quantitative or    Nil                          80 percent           None              100 percent
Qualitative)
Date achieved      04/16/2004                                                          03/3112009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                   Percentage of districts with District Consultative Councils organized and approving
Indicator 2 :
                   district plans and implementation reports
Value
quantitative or    Nil                          80 percent           None               00 percent
Qualitative)
Date achieved      ;04/16/2004                                                        03/3112009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                   Percentage of districts in which participants in planning processes express satisfaction
:Indicator 3 :
                   with responsiveness and accountability of district administration
Value
                                                                                      Not measurable as
quantitative or    Nil                          60 percent           None
                                                                                      specified
Qualitative)
Date achieved      04116/2004                                                          03/3112009
                   A 2009 study of community participation and consultation found that the project made a
Comments
                   major contribution in creating structures for community participation. Some 81 percent'
(incI. %
                   of respondents to a survey said they were aware of district investments and 88 percent
achievement)
                   of these expressed satisfaction with the results
                   Percentage of districts rated good or excellent on annual local investment grant
Indicator 4 :
                   performance.
Value
                   Nil                          50 percent           None             :67 percent
'quantitative or
9ualitative)
Date achieved     04116/2004                                                          03/3112009
Comments
(incl. % 

achievement) 

                  Percentage of districts at national level adopting DPFP approach and methodologies for 

Indicator 5 :
                  participatory planning and governance.
Value
                                                                                      100 percent (128 of
quantitative or   Nil                         60 percent             None
                                                                                      128 districts)
Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/16/2004                                                          03/3112009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                  Key administrative and fiscal instruments adopted supporting transparent district
Indicator 6 :
                  planning and management.
Value
quantitative or   Nil                         80 percent (4 of 5)    None             100 percent (5 of 5) 

Qualitative) 

Date achieved     04116/2004                                                          03/3112009 

'comments 

(incl. % 

achievement) 


(b) Intermediate OutcoDle Indicator(s)
                                                Original Target                          Actual Value
                                                                       Formally
                                                 Valut:'s (from                           Achieved ~lt
      lndicator          Baseline Valm.'                             Revised Target
                                                   approval                              Completion or
                                                                         Values
                                                 documents)                              Target Y(~ars

G.       Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
           nate ISR                                                           Actual Oisbursement')
 No. 
           Archived 
                                     1)0                            II>          (USn millions)
          05/1112004             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     1.28
  2       11110/2004             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     4.86
   3      04/18/2005       Moderat~lySatisfactory . Moderately Unsatisfactory              5.81
  4       06/29/2005       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Unsatisfactory               7.68
   5      1011112005       Moderately Satisfactory . Moderately Satisfactory               9.38
  6       04110/2006       Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory              12.54
  7       0911912006             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    15.65
  8       01/29/2007             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    22.07
  9       1011712007             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    28.74
  10      03/24/2008             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    36.32
  11      07110/2008             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    40.13
  12      12119/2008             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    43.73
  13      03/31/2009             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    45.03
H.             Restructuring (if any)

Not Applicable

I.             Disbursement Profile

                             -          Original           Founall\1 R@vised        Aaual
             50

             40


             30 

      "" 

      c
     ~
     ii 20
     ....
     W'\
     =       10 


              0

                                                                                                        ...
                   N
                   CI
                   't
                   =-
                   0
                   N
                        g
                        't
                        =-
                        0
                        N
                                 N
                                 CI
                                 lJ"I
                                 =>
                                 0
                                 f'j
                                           't.
                                           (';/
                                           lJ"I
                                           =>
                                           =>
                                           N
                                                   N
                                                   Ci
                                                   \l1li
                                                   0
                                                   0
                                                   N
                                                           't
                                                           CI
                                                           \III
                                                           0
                                                           0
                                                           f'j
                                                                  N
                                                                  CI
                                                                  "'"
                                                                  CD
                                                                  0
                                                                  N
                                                                        ~
                                                                        "'"
                                                                        0
                                                                        =>
                                                                        N
                                                                               .. .
                                                                               N
                                                                               Ci

                                                                               =-
                                                                               0
                                                                               N
                                                                                     g;
                                                                                     0
                                                                                     0
                                                                                     N
                                                                                            N
                                                                                            Ci
                                                                                            D'I
                                                                                            0
                                                                                            =>
                                                                                            N
                                                                                                  g
                                                                                                  D'I
                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                  CD
                                                                                                  N
                                                                                                        Ci
                                                                                                        ...
                                                                                                        CD
                                                                                                        CD
                                                                                                        N
1.      Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design

1.1     Context at Appraisal

1.      Country and sector background. At the time when the project was being prepared in the
early-2000s, the government of Mozambique had committed itself to decentralize decision
making authority and responsibility for service delivery to subnational administrations with the
aim of rapidly reducing rural poverty and of strengthening citizens' participation in fostering the
nation's development. A 16-year civil had ended in October 1992 with the signing of a peace
accord by the leaders of Frente de Liberta~ao de Mo~ambique (FRELIMO) and the Resistencia
Nacional de Mo~ambique (RENAMO). Mozambique held in 1994 its first multiparty elections
for president and parliament, giving substantial victories to FRELIMO. In 1996, the constitution
was amended to allow for decentralization of power, with the objective to "organize the
participation of the citizens in the solution of the problems proper of its communities and
promote the local development and the deepening of democracy.") The government in
November 1996 approved the local authority law? In 1997, it adopted laws to provide for local
government. 3 Elections of 1998 allowed for the first time elected municipal governments as part
of the reform to provide representative government and to promote the decentralization of
political authority. These covered 23 cities and 10 of 128 district towns judged to have sufficient
capacity to execute their new responsibilities. Future elections were to cover increasing numbers
of district towns in line with increasing capacities. However, until these capacities were built,
the central government would retain control of the planning process through appointed district
administrators.

2.      The government during 1998 - 2001 piloted approaches to decentralized planning and
finance under a grant from the United Nations Capital Development Fund (UNCDF) with
additional financial support from the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) and the
Government of the Netherlands. The project, which was managed and executed by the
provincial administration of Nampula, included funds for implementation ofprojects that were
identified and prioritized through a participatory planning process at the district level. In
addition, the project supported extensive training in participatory planning, financing, and
monitoring and evaluation.

3.      On the basis of the findings of the pilot, the government articulated its commitment to
decentralized planning and finance in its Action Plan for the Reduction of Absolute Poverty
(PARPA) 2001-05. Decentralized planning and finance was expected to facilitate several ofthe
PARPA's objectives. The first was to accelerate poverty reduction by increasing provision of
basic infrastructure and services--education, health, water, and roads-in rural areas, while
increasing the efficiency of their delivery to contain costs. The PARPA acknowledges that this
would require substantial decentralization of decision-making authority and of responsibility for
execution of projects. The second objective was to increase the transparency, accountability, and
quality of public sector planning and execution to ensure that the resulting investment choices

    Law 6/96, July 5, 1996.
2   Law 9/96, November 22, 1996.
    Law 2/97 approving the legal framework for the implementation of the local municipalities February 18, 1997
and law 11197 defining and establishing the legal-juridical regime of the municipal finances and patrimony.

                                                       1

responded to local preferences and that they were implemented efficiently. The third was to
raise the efficiency and effectiveness of the public service. The government further set out its
vision for decentralized service delivery in its 2001 Global Strategy for Public Sector Reform.
This included measures to transfer greater responsibility to provincial, district, and service
delivery levels in all sectors, complemented by increasing organizational integration, allowing
the administrators at headquarters to focus on facilitating and supervising service delivery rather
than directly managing services.

4.    Following the successful pilot of decentralized planning and finance in Nampula, the
government sought advice and financial assistance from development partners, including the
World Bank, to replicate the approach in additional provinces.

5.      Rationale/or World Bank involvement. The World Bank's involvement in the project was
valuable for several reasons. First, the Bank's global experience with fiscal and administrative
decentralization and with participatory planning processes helped to inform the overall design of
the project and ensure that the project suited Mozambican circumstances. Its experience working
on these issues in Uganda, Zambia, Malawi, Zimbabwe, South Africa, Kenya, and Mozambique
itself were particularly relevant. Second, the Bank's experience in working in partnership with
other development partners helped in establishing a coordination framework that brought
together all development partners behind the government's strategy, eliminating duplication and
waste. Third, engagement with multiple sector ministries and agencies (including public sector
reform, rural development, municipal development) helped in ensuring the participation of
relevant government entities in the district planning process. Fourth, the Bank was able to bring
substantial financial resources to the effort, enabling the government to expand the geographic
coverage of the decentralization initiatives and to commit to the approach for a longer term.

6.      Contribution to higher-level objectives. The project was a central element ofthe
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), discussed by the World Bank's Board of Directors on
November 20, 2003 (the project was presented to the Board together with the CAS). The CAS
was based on three pillars: improving the investment climate, expanding service delivery, and
building capacity and accountability. The project in particular supported the CAS pillar of
building capacity and accountability by helping to develop the capacity of local authorities
through learning by doing to identify, appraise, and implement small-scale infrastructure projects
using grant resources. The project was also expected to help improve service delivery by
supporting the decentralization of services to local authorities who would be more accountable to
citizens than central government officials. The project complemented others in the portfolio
aimed at increasing the effectiveness of the public administration, including the Public Sector
Reform Project, and the Municipal Development and the Decentralized Planning Project (also
presented to the Board with the CAS). The Bank's CAS was itself aligned with the government's
development program, PARPA. This was built around six pillars, including (a) education; (b)
health; (c) infrastructure; (d) agriculture and rural development; (e) good governance, legality,
and justice; and (d) macroeconomic and financial policies.

7.     The project was again a major element of the Country Partnership Strategy, discussed by
the Bank's Board of Directors on May 30, 2007. This is based on three pillars: increased
accountability and public voice, equitable access to key services, and equitable and broad-based


                                                2

growth. These pillars are aligned with the three pillars of PARPA II. The project in particular
supports the first of the CAS pillars, by supporting measures that bring government closer the
people and by promoting public participation in investment planning and execution.

1.2     Original Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators

8.       The development objective of the project was to improve the institutional capacity of
district administrations to plan and manage small infrastructure investments in response to
community demand. The project was envisaged as a preparatory phase of long-term support
from the International Development Association for decentralization, which would support more
comprehensive and formally-institutionalized decentralization once the government adopted a
national decentralization policy and strategy.

9.     The project appraisal document and the Development Credit Agreement specified six key
performance indicators. These were:

и      80 percent of districts with approved district development plans and annual investment
       plans

и      80 percent of districts with district development with district development councils
       organized and approving district plans and implementation reports.

и      60 percent of districts in which participants in planning processes express satisfaction
       with responsiveness and accountability of district administration.

и      50 percent of districts rated good or excellent on annual local investment grant
       performance.

и      60 percent of districts at national level adopting Decentralized Planning and Finance
       Project (DPFP) approach and methodologies for participatory planning and governance.

и      Key administrative and fiscal instruments adopted, supporting transparent district
       planning and management, including.
       (a)  Guidelines for community participation and consultation in district planning
       (b)  Formalization of district as a budget unit
       (c)  Operational rules and procedures for district finance published
       (d)  Provincial budget allocation to districts established for district infrastructure
            maintenance
       (e)  3 percent per annum increase in share of state investment budget programmed at
            provincial level with district input into plans.

10.     A table in annex 1 of the project appraisal document provides further information on the
project's monitoring framework, including outputs by component, and sources of information to
track progress with the indicators.



                                                3

1.3   Revised Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification

11.    Neither the project's development objectives nor key performance indicators were
formally revised during implementation.

1.4    Main Beneficiaries

12.     The primary target beneficiaries were the inhabitants of the 49 districts in Mozambique's
four central provinces, estimated to be over 7 million people, who were expected to benefit from
more efficient and effective service delivery. The four provinces-Manica, Sofala, Tete,
Zambezia-were among the poorest in Mozambique, with the proportion of people living under
the poverty line ranging from 63 percent in Manica to 88 percent in Sofala. Rural households,
women, and marginalized groups were specifically expected to benefit through rules that ensured
their participation on local consultative councils and other consultative bodies. Private sector
actors-including engineering consultants, contractors, works inspectors, and community-based
artisans-were expected to benefit from capacity building activities and from opportunities to
implement investment projects.

1.5    Original Components (as approved)

13.     The project comprised five components: (a) participatory district planning, (b) local
investment grants, (c) capacity building for local administration, (d) support for decentralization
policy, and (e) support for project implementation.

14.     Component 1: Participatory district planning (US$8.76 million). This component was
to finance development of a district-level participatory planning system based on civil society
consultation and participation. It would deepen and expand the experience of the decentralized
planning and finance pilot focusing on Nampula province.

15.     Component 2: Local investment grants (US$19.24 million). This component was to
provide grants for implementation of small rural infrastructure investments consistent with
specified criteria and induded in approved district development plans. Three types of grants
were envisaged. Type 1 grants were to finance district administrative infrastructure and were to
be managed by the provincial administration. Type 2 grants were to finance small-scale public
infrastructure identified through a participatory planning process. Eligible subprojects included
primary schools, health posts, rural water supply and sanitation systems, small-scale irrigation
works, feeder roads, bridges, and rural markets. The provincial and district administrations were
to be jointly responsible for contract management and financial management. In addition, the
provincial administrations were to mentor and help build the capacity of district administrations.
Type 3 grants were to provide very small funds (about US$20,OOO per year) to district
administrations to use to implement micro-projects as a means of learning by doing.

16.   Component 3: Capacity building for local administration (US$8.52 million). This
component was to finance activities to build the capacity of local administrations to carry out



                                                 4



                                                                                 --------_._-
their functions more effectively. Eligible activities included training in basic public
administration, in planning and budgeting, and in selected technical subjects.

17.     Component 4: Support for decentralization policy (US$I.51 million). This
component was to on a demand-driven basis finance technical assistance for policy analysis and
for the further development of the institutional and policy framework for decentralization.

18.     Component 5: Support for project implementation (US$8.26 million). This
component was to support a small core team of project staff at central and provincial levels who
would coordinate implementation ofthe project in accordance with World Bank procedures.
This component was also to finance specialized technical assistance as needed to ensure that the
project coordination team and relevant government entities had the skills they needed to perform
effectively.

1.6    Revised Components

19.     The components were not revised.

1.7     Other Significant Changes

20.      The project's design and implementation arrangements were not changed significantly
during project execution. However, scope and scale, schedule, and funding allocations were
adjusted during the course of implementation to reflect changing country circumstances and
lessons learned from the early years of project execution. One year after the start of the project a
decision was made to allow district administrations to make payments for public infrastructure
projects (type 2 grants). This required appointing qualified accountants within district
administrations to ensure that financial management was carried out in accordance with
government and Bank guidelines. By the second year of project implementation, 49 district
administrations were successfully handling financial management with minimal input from
provincial administrations. In addition, the project scope expanded in 2007 to cover the seven
districts of Maputo province. Finally, funds were reallocated to account for some activities
originally envisaged under the project being financed instead under the Public Sector Reform
Project (including preparation of the decentralization policy) and overestimates in the project
appraisal document of the costs of some activities. New activities were added for financing
under the project, including measures to strengthen the Mozambican Tribunal Administrativo,
the country's supreme audit institution, and allow it to conduct for the first time audits of
district's financial accounts. The changes in the project did not lead to a change in objectives,
and were not significant enough to warrant a formal restructuring.

21.     The project closing date was extended twice. The first extension of six months from June
30, 2008 to December 31, 2008 was granted to allow completion of the final annual cycle of
projects financed under the local investment grants. The extension was also needed to permit the
government to prepare the follow-on National Decentralization Planning and Finance Program,
including preparing key policy reforms, carrying out public consultations, and continuing key
capacity building and planning activities. The second extension to March 31, 2009 was given to
allow time to undertake a study of community participation in district planning, to finalize


                                                  5

several studies, and to prepare inputs for the follow-on National Decentralization Planning and
Finance Program.

22.     The Development Grant Agreement had two substantive amendments. The February 21,
2008 amendment allowed for 100 percent disbursement for eligible expenditures and reallocated
the proceeds of the grant among the various disbursement categories. The change to 100 percent
financing was made possible by the adoption by the Bank in 2004 of new financing parameters
for its Mozambique program, and was needed to smooth implementation. The reallocation of
funds (about 10 percent ofthe original grant amount) was required to finance (a) the Tribunal
Administrativo's activities for subnational audits; (b) the training and capacity building of
Maputo districts which were included in the project in 2007, and (c) support for continued
project implementation. The changes were widely discussed with the stakeholders and were
approved by Bank management, because they strengthened the ability of the project to meet its
objectives.

23.     The amendment of July 21, 2008 reallocated grant proceeds within categories to correct
an error in the February 21, 2008 amendment regarding the undisbursed amount of the Project
Preparation Facility. The Bank's financial management specialist discovered the error while
conducting a review during the project's April 2008 mission.

2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1    Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

QAG-No QAG at entry.

24.     Several factors of project preparation and design positively affected implementation. The
project design was based on the findings of a thorough pilot carried out in Nampula province
under support of the UNCDFIUNDPlNetherlands. This identified the capacity building support
that would be needed to enable provincial and district administrations to fulfill their new
responsibilities. It also demonstrated effective approaches for engaging citizens in the district
planning process and in monitoring implementation of agreed plans. The project design was
based on sound analytical work carried in Mozambique cind in other countries. This included the
2002 report "Participation, Transparency, and Downward Accountability in Mozambique"
prepared by an international expert drawing on experiences in Mozambique and in Uganda,
which provided detailed guidance on creating participatory processes and structures. The design
further drew on the findings of the Mozambique Municipal Development Project, the Uganda
Local Government Development Project, and the Kenya Local Government Reform Program.
These demonstrated that a comprehensive approach was required to obtain results, involving
policy and institutional reform, capacity building of communities and of all levels of
government, provision of grants to promote learning by doing, and project implementation
support. The project included activities addressing each of these areas.

25.     The project appraisal document noted alternative approaches, the trade-offs between
them, and the rationale for the final decisions. The document generally foresaw the risks the
project would face and identified adequate mitigation measures, although it underestimated the

                                                6

risk regarding government's willingness to further fonnalize the district planning system, which
it considered to be negligible.

26.      A thorough appraisal of procurement and financial management arrangements helped to
ensure that resources were used as intended. The project was classified appropriately as
environmental assessment category B (partial assessment), because of the potential environment
risks associated with the as-yet to be identified small-scale infrastructure. The Environmental
Assessment report prepared for the project was publicly disclosed on May 15, 2003. This
established the procedures to be used to identify potentially negative environmental and social
impacts of subprojects and the specified the actions required to mitigate such impacts. In
addition, the Borrower prepared an environmental and social management framework and
resettlement policy framework, specifying in detail procedures to be followed to be followed
during the planning, design, construction, and operation phases of subprojects to identify and to
mitigate potential adverse impacts. The monitoring and evaluation framework was adequate,
with generally well-specified outcome and output indicators and baseline and target values. By
the time of Board presentation the project implementation plan had been appraised and found to
be realistic and of satisfactory quality and the procurement documents for the first year's
activities were complete and ready for the start of project implementation. Conditions of
effectiveness were appropriate. 4 In addition to the standard financial covenants, the
Development Grant Agreement included covenants designed to ensure that the project met its
objectives. These included covenants requiring submission of the Letter of Sector Policy, use of
guidelines for community participation, application of environmental and social safeguards, and
submission of a midtenn review.

27.      In summary, the design was appropriate to meet the project's objectives.

2.2      Implementation

28.     The Bank team responded to start-up challenges with intensive supervision, and
downgraded the project's rating for implementation progress to moderately unsatisfactory in
April 2005, one year following effectiveness. It learned from implementation experiences and
proactively proposed new ways of doing things when it became apparent that early approaches
had failed. For example, the Bank proposed hiring an individual consultant into the project
coordination unit to oversee the training program when proposals from firms proved too
expensive. When it became apparent that district accountants lacked the skills to handle

4
          Conditions of effectiveness were: (a) relevantly qualified external auditors appointed on approved terms of
reference; (b) The Recipient has appointed procurement specialists for the project coordination unit; (c) he Recipient
has opened the project accounts and an initial deposit of counterpart funds equivalent to US$100,OOO has been made
therein; (d) the financial management system has been designed, installed, and the ability to prepare financial
management reports demonstrated at the central and provincial levels; (e) revised project implementation manual
submitted; (t) The Recipient has published in its official gazette, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association, the notice of adoption of Guidelines for Community Participation and Consultation in District
Planning.




                                                          7

financial management in accordance with Bank procedures, the Bank team recommended
recruiting fresh school graduates for the posts. These people possessed higher-level skills than
many of those already in the accounting posts, were eager to participate in training to continue to
upgrade skills, and were willing to move to where they were most needed. The Bank team also
never lost sight of the higher purpose of the project-to build government's systems for
sustainable decentralized delivery of services--emphasizing that this goal should ngt be
compromised to reach disbursement targets. A number of the project aide memoires noted the
importance of institutionalizing the district participatory planning process, the need of creating
permanent posts for qualified accountants and works technicians at the district level to oversee
project implementation, and the value of establishing decentralization-related courses at
government training institutions for long-term capacity building.

29.     Recognizing that many of the factors required for the project to meet its objectives were
outside the control of the project coordination unit, the Bank team consistently encouraged the
leadership, commitment, and monitoring of the political and executive levels of government at
national, provincial, and district levels. It also responded flexibly to requests to finance activities
not identified at appraisal stage, if such activities would strengthen decentralized service
delivery. This included support to strengthen Tribunal Administrativo to conduct audits of
districts' financial accounts, and support for audits of 49 districts' accounts-the first such audits
to be conducted in Mozambique. This area of work resulted in substantial improvement in
financial management at district level, critical for effective decentralized service delivery. The
Bank also agreed to finance preparatory work for the proposed National Decentralized Planning
and Finance Program. Proactive supervision led to improved implementation performance and
an upgrade in September 2006 to satisfactory in the rating for implementation progress.

30.     The project coordination unit was staffed appropriately with well-qualified staff,
including specialists in procurement, financial management, engineering, and monitoring and
evaluation. The head of the coordination unit sought and implemented advice on ways to
improve its overall performance.

31.      The midterm review provided a comprehensive assessment of three development partner-
supported initiatives in decentralization against a common framework and against their original
objectives to identify lessons learned across projects that could be reflected in the design of a
new nationwide program. (The three projects were the UNCDFlNetherlandslNorway funded
initiative covering Nampula and Cabo Delgado; the Bank-supported project, and (c) the German
Technical Cooperation/Irish-supported project in Sofala, Manica, and Inhambane.) This
identified implementation challenges and presented an action plan to address them. It also
recommended integrating the three projects into the proposed nationwide program once the
modalities for that program had been agreed. Such modalities had not been agreed by the time of
the project's closing, so such integration was not carried out.

32.     The Bank's lead role in the decentralization partners' working group was critical in
increasing the effective of aid for decentralization. The Bank's leadership helped in forging
consensus on policy and institutional issues and approaches for participatory planning and
capacity building, and encouraged all to adopt a common approach. These efforts have led to



                                                  8

agreement by all to align support behind the government's National Decentralized Planning and
Finance Program, once it has been fully prepared.

2.3    Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation, and Utilization

33.     Design. The project appraisal document included a logframe with generally well-
specified outcome and output indicators, and with baseline and target values for most indicators
(see annex 1). The outcome indicators are appropriately focused on intermediate outcomes
such as strengthened legal and regulatory frameworks for intergovernmental relations, improved
administrative capacity, and increased accountability of subnational governments and
functionaries to higher levels of government and to citizens-rather than on improved service
delivery or better governance. However, a few indictors are not measurable and some of the
targets were not realistic. The project's detailed design for monitoring and evaluation was
contained in a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation manual prepared during preparation
that provided clear guidelines for use by the provincial and district administrations.

34.      Implementation. Implementation of the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system took
longer than expected, due to a lack of qualified staff in the provincial and district administrations
to undertake this responsibility. To overcome this constraint the project financed M&E
specialists attached to the provincial coordination units. They were responsible for working with
the 'implementing agencies and with district administrations, and for compiling provincial
progress reports as inputs to the project's quarterly and annual progress reports. The Bank team
reported on the functioning of the project's M&E system in each aide memoire, noting steady
progress in implementation during the project's life. By the project's midpoint the information
generated was comprehensive and of reasonable quality. One deficiency in implementation of
the M&E system was the very late study of community participation to learn beneficiaries
perceptions of performance of district administrations, one of the project's key performance
indicators, which was not carried out until early 2009. Since this was the first perceptions'
survey, observing a trend in perceptions over the project life is not possible. The project also
financed citizen report cards in two districts to pilot this tool in measuring citizens' views of the
quality of services. However, due to government's plans to institutionalize the use of citizen
report cards as part of its regular monitoring through the national statistical system, the project
did not follow-up with further efforts in this area. Another deficiency was the failure to
institutionalize the sharing of M&E information with the project stakeholders in a structured,
regular way between districts and among different levels of administration. The project
coordinating unit developed a learning strategy and work plan to address this issue under the
forthcoming national program.

35.     Utilization. The government and Bank teams used the monitoring information to identify
areas of particular challenge and to develop measures to address them. Specifically, the teams
observed the shortcomings in the participatory processes in many districts and therefore in the
quality of district plans. This led the government in 2008 to establish unit within the district
governmental structure of units dedicated to planning and finance and to preparation of
guidelines for district financial management. It also led to the preparation of training manuals
for decentralized planning to be used by the technical teams and the training institutes,
production of new guidelines for elaboration of the five-year district development plans, and


                                                 9

greater supervision at provincial level of the district planning process. They also noted the slow
pace with which the small-scale infrastructure projects were being implemented, and discovered
severe weaknesses in the capacity of private contractors to formulate realistic bids and to execute
the works in accordance with the contracts. This finding led to a decision to provide training to
private contractors on these and other issues.

2.4     Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

36.      The project complied with all fiduciary policies. Project accounting and auditing were
consistently conducted in accordance with the Development Grant Agreement. Nearly all audit
reports was submitted on time and had minor, if any, qualifications. However, the project did
not comply fully with environmental and social safeguards. Although initial safeguards
materials and training were rigorous and subsequent annual safeguards reviews were conducted,
the latter were not always accompanied by sufficiently extensive field visits. The Bank team in
2008 carried out an extensive review of safeguard compliance, and discovered that provincial
and district field technicians did not always correctly apply the project's environmental and
social management framework prior to undertaking works. This was largely due to the high
turnover of the local works technicians and the insufficient continuous training provided to the
new staff at a local level. Of the 25 subprojects reviewed, deficiencies were found in two where
insufficient attention had been paid to environmental and social issues. (One of these involved a
cattle dipping station, which was the only one of its kind constructed under the project.) In view
of these findings, the Bank team in July 2008 downgraded compliance with environmental and
social safeguards to moderately satisfactory. The team also requested that the government
prepare a training plan and implement it to ensure that such problems did not arise in the future.
They also advised the government to take immediate action to mitigate the potential
environmental and social impacts of the cattle dipping station and market stall. The government
subsequ.ently organized a provincial level safeguards workshop in close collaboration with the
Ministry of Environment for key provincial, and local staff to help them to understand the
Bank's safeguard policies and relevant national legislation and to familiarize them with the
content of the project's safeguard tools and the appropriate methodology for applying them
throughout the life of a project. The workshop included field visits to project investment sites
for hands-on experience in applying safeguard tools. The Bank's environmental safeguard
specialist participated in the workshop as resource person. The Ministry of Environment
continued to develop the safeguards training module for central, provincial, and local staff for the
project up to closure in preparation for the follow on national program.

2.5    Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

37.     Encouraged by the successes in fostering decentralized service delivery in select
provinces, the government in March 2008 requested the Bank and other development partners to
finance the National Decentralized Planning and Finance Program, which will scale up the
decentralization approach to cover all provinces and districts in the country. The program is
designed as a single strategy and program ofthe government (commensurate with a sector-wide
approach), which all development partners will support. The national program will have two
sources of finance. The first is budget support channeled through the treasury to support
implementation of investments at district level. The second is a common fund into which the


                                                10 

Bank, other development partners, and the government will pool finance for policy reforms and
technical support to provinces and districts. This will be the first common fund that the Bank
will finance from the start of a project in Mozambique, an approach which may be extended to
other new projects. The Bank approved the concept in June 2008. It has been working closely
with the government and development partners to prepare the detailed program. Appraisal and
Board approval are planned for late 2009. This new program is aimed at ensuring the gains
achieved so far in creating systems for decentralized service delivery are sustained and scaled up.

38.     One contentious issue that has emerged during the design of the program is the use of the
budget transfer provided to the districts. The government in 2007 promoted its use for
productive investments, such as agricultural production and agro-processing, rather than for the
public infrastructure (schools, health centers, roads, water and sanitation systems, and the like)
that the decentralization projects have largely supported. Given that most productive
investments are privately owned and are not reflected in district development plans, development
partners have been concerned that the approach will undermine the participatory district planning
process that the decentralization projects have established.

39.     However, the government in 2008 decided to split the transfer into two parts, the larger of
which was for productive investments (called the Orr;amento de lnvestimento de Iniciativa
Local), and the other for infrastructure investments and for operations and maintenance reflected
in participatory district plans (referred to as "delta"). Each district in 2008 received an equal
allocation for delta of about US$95,000. The government's medium-term expenditure
framework, approved by the council of ministers on August 25, 2009, provides for a near
quadrupling in the amount of funding for the delta over the next four years from about
US$98,250 per district in 2009 to US$382,000 per district in 2012. The medium-term
expenditure framework does not provide an increase for productive investments, which remains
at an average per district ofUS$317,000 between 2009 and 2012 (see table below). Together the
overall transfers to districts amount to about 3 percent of the national budget.
                                                       . .)
E xpen dOtures Iior n' . t I nvestments (fil'If 0 f metIcalS
        I            lstnc                    Ion
                                    2009                  2010             2011                2012
Productive investments            1,094,703             1,094,703             1,095,543       1,095,543    I
Socioeconomic infrastructure        339,549               715,468               981,790       1,320,248
Subtotal                          1,434,252             1,810,171             2,077,333       2,415,791
Local agencies of the state                               200,000               200,000         200,000
Total                               1,434,252           2,010,171             2,277,333       2,615,791
                           , .                                                            ..
Source: Cemino Fiscal De MedlO Prazo 2010-2012 (medlUm.term expendIture framework), Mmlstry of Plannmg
and Development and Ministry of Finance, approved by the council of ministers August 25,2009.

40.    The government allocates the funds for productive investments to districts on the basis of
a formula that includes (a) district population, (b) the size ofthe district territory, (c) the district
poverty levels, and (d) factors linked to the capacity to collect revenues, but allocates the delta
equally by district. It plans to introduce by 2012 a formula for the allocation of the delta.
Development partners are continuing their dialogue with the government on the allocation
formula and on the size and use of the budget transfers to districts.




                                                   11 

3.     Assessment of Outcomes

3.1    Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation

41.     Objectives. The project's overall objectives were, and remain, relevant. They reflect the
importance of strengthening district administrations to effectively deliver services and to achieve
development results. As mentioned in section 1.1, the project's objectives are consistent with the
objectives of Mozambique's PARPA 2001-05. They are also consistent with the country's
PARPA II (2006-09). The project's objectives are in conformity with the objectives of the
Bank's 2003 CAS and its 2007 Country Partnership Strategy, both of which explicitly name
building capacity and accountability and expanding service delivery as critical goals.

42.      Design. The design was and remains relevant. The overall design was appropriate to
support the substantial policy and institutional reforms, capacity building required to enable
provincial and district administrations to successfully deliver infrastructure and services for
which they were newly responsible, and to support the initial phase ofa long-term program for
decentralized service delivery. The design was based on analytical work carried out in
Mozambique (the 2002 participation, transparency, and downward accountability report and
others) and in other countries. These studies show that strengthening decentralized service
delivery requires a comprehensive approach to obtain results, ranging from policy and
institutional reform, to strengthening capacity at all levels of government, to creating
mechanisms to strengthen accountability mechanisms of local governments downward to citizens
and upward to higher levels of government. In addition, studies indicate that providing some
resources for implementation of small infrastructure projects is an effective approach to building
capacity through learning by doing.

43.     Implementation. Implementation arrangements were relevant. At the time the project
was prepared the Ministry of Planning and Finance was responsible for planning and budget
preparation, so was the natural home for project implementation. Later when the ministry split
into two, the project remained with the Ministry of Planning and Development because the
project focused more on planning than on finance. Implementation arrangements at the
provincial and district levels were also relevant. In each of the four provinces, the provincial
directors of planning and finance (later the provincial directors of planning and development)
were responsible for implementation of activities at provincial level. This was appropriate, given
their role as coordinators of line ministry activities in the province. District administrators were
responsible for implementation of activities at district level, under the guidance of the provincial
directors. Arrangements for coordinating activities between provincial and district levels worked
reasonably well, especially in the later years of the project. The project financed advisors
attached to the provincial project coordinating units to support districts in financial management,
works supervision, participatory planning, management of training, and monitoring and
evaluation. The project's arrangements for interministerial coordination were relevant. An
interministerial steering committee comprising the national directors of the ministries of
planning and finance, agriculture and rural development, public works and housing, and state
administration met regularly to provide overall policy, strategic, and operational direction.




                                                12 

3.2    Achievement of Project Development Objectives

44.      The project achieved its development objectives of improving the institutional capacity of
district administrations to plan and manage small infrastructure investments in response to
community demand. The outcome indicators have been achieved. Specifically:

45.      Percentage of districts with district development plans and annual investment plans
approved. By the end of the project, all 56 districts participating in the project were preparing
participatory district development plans and annual investment plans that were approved by
district development councils. This exceeds the original target value of 80 percent of districts
doing so.

46.      Percentage of districts with district consultative councils organized and approving district
plans and implementation reports. All 56 districts participating in the project established district
consultative councils who were meeting at least twice a year to review and approve district plans,
to review implementation reports, and to provide overall oversight and guidance for the
improving service delivery at district level. This exceeds the original target value of 80 percent
of districts doing so.

47.     Percentage of districts in which participants in planning processes express satisfaction
with responsiveness and accountability of district administration. This indicator is not
monitorable as formulated. However, a study of experiences in Mozambique of community
participation and consultation in district planning completed in March 2009 found that the
project made a significant contribution to establishment of consultative mechanisms at district
level. The study included a survey of people's perceptions of the performance of district
administrations. Some 81 percent of respondents said they were aware of district investments
and 88 percent of these expressed satisfaction with the results.

48.      Percentage of districts rated good or excellent on annual local investment grant
performance. By the end of the project, some 67 percent of districts (33 of 49) were rated good
or excellent in executing their investment grants, under the annual performance evaluation
framework established under the project. This is due largely to the good performance of the
district works technicians and accountants whose positions were initially financed under the
project, but were then main streamed into the district administrations. This performance exceeds
the original target value of 50 percent of districts doing so.

49.     Percentage of districts at national level adopting DPFP approach and methodologies for
participatory planning and governance. All 128 districts in Mozambique had adopted the DPFP
approach by the end of the project. All the districts are using the project-supported strategic
planning and annual planning and budgeting approaches. This exceeds the original target value
of 60 percent of districts doing so.

50.    Key administrative and fiscal instruments adopted, supporting transparent district
planning and management. Five major administrative and fiscal instruments were adopted with
support of the project. Guidelines for community participation and consultation in district
planning were published in the official gazette in August 2003. The district was made a formal

                                                 13 

budget unit through adoption in August 2003 of the law on local organs of state and its
implementing regulations adopted in November 2005. Operational rules and procedures for
district finance were published in 2008. Provincial budget allocations to districts were
established for district infrastructure maintenance in 2007 through budget instructions to the line
ministries (education, health, water, and the like). The share of the state investment budget
programmed at provincial level amounted to 4.7 percent of the state budget in 2006,3.7 percent
in 2007, and 3.9 percent in 2008. The adoption of five instruments exceeds the original target
value offour.

51.    The project's substantial intermediate outcomes and outputs are described in detail in
annex 3.

3.3    Efficiency

52.    Not applicable. The project appraisal document did not present economic or financial
analyses for the project. This is appropriate since the project focused on capacity building and
technical assistance.

3.4    Justification of Overall Outcome Rating



53.     Achievement of the objectives of the project is rated satisfactory. The project objectives,
design, and implementation arrangements were and remain relevant. This is demonstrated
through the government's commitment to strengthen and scale up of efforts for decentralized
service delivery through a new multi donor National Decentralized Planning and Finance
Program, scheduled for presentation to the Bank's Board in late 2009. The project achieved its
development objective, with a slight delay of nine months. High relevance and satisfactory
achievement of objectives justifies an overall outcome rating of satisfactory for the project.

3.5    Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

54.    None.

(aj    Poverty impacts, gender aspects, and social development

55.     The project appraisal document noted the importance of improving services for the poor,
for women, and for frequently marginalized groups. The project ensured that the concerns of
these groups were taken into account in the district planning and implementation process by
supporting the preparation of guidelines for community participation (adopted into law through
regulations issued in 2005) that specifY that a minimum of 30 percent of representatives of
consultative councils are women and that other disadvantaged groups are represented. In
addition, community participation specialists attached to provincial project coordination units
helped in mobilizing disadvantaged groups to participate in consultative forums. Improved
public services will certainly benefit low-income people, women, and other marginalized groups,
as they are the least able to afford private substitutes. The project's measures to promote broad
citizen participation in selecting projects and in overseeing their implementation is likely to be

                                                14 

increasing the transparency and accountability of resource use, and of promoting social
development more broadly.

(b)    Institutional change/strengthening (particularly with reference to impacts on longer-
term capacity and institutional development)

56.     The project helped to bring about key policy and institutional reforms aimed at increasing
the effectiveness and efficiency of decentralized service delivery. It supported the formulation
and adoption of several important laws and implementing regulations. These included the
regulations (decree 1112005) to implement the 2003 law on local organs of state (law 08/03).

57.      The project also supported the development and adoption of standardized manuals for
district participatory planning. The national Institute for Municipal and Public Administration
Training is now using these as the basis oftheir training courses in the subject area. In addition,
the project supported preparation and adoption of guidelines for district strategic planning,
budgeting, and finance. These policies and institutional reforms now form the basis for
integrated territorial planning and finance in Mozambique. Finally the project supported an
institutional analysis and preparation of a strategic plan for the Tribunal Administrativo, which
led to substantial increases in its capacity to carry out audits.

(c)    Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive and negative)

58.     The government provided for the first time in 2007 direct budget transfers to the districts.
This was not foreseen at design stage, but is an important step in the decentralization process. In
addition, the project supported institutional strengthening of Mozambique's Tribunal
Administrivo to enable it to conduct the first ever audits of district financial accounts. This led
to significantly improved financial management at district level during the project period.
Support for the Tribunal Administrivo was not envisaged at design stage.

3.6    Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

59.    None.

4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

I Rating   I Low to negligible
60.      The risk to development outcomes is rated low to negligible. The government has
demonstrated its commitment to decentralized service delivery since the mid-1990s. It launched
the first pilot program in 1998 in Nampula, and gradually expanded coverage to reach all ten
provinces by 2008. During this period the government adopted several key pieces of legislation
that created districts as budget entities and that established a framework for decentralized
planning and financing. The government has recently finalized a decentralization planning and
finance strategy, which forms the basis of the forthcoming National Decentralized Planning and
Finance Program-the vehicle for government and development partner support for scaling up



                                                15 

and deepening the decentralization processes that have already been put into place. Finally, the
government is in advanced stages of preparing an urban strategy.

61.     While central government commitment to decentralization is not in doubt, there has been
concern that emphasis since 2007 on promoting the use of budget transfers for productive
investments rather than for socioeconomic infrastructure could limit the role of the district
administrations in decision-making and thus the value of the structures that the earlier projects
have helped to build. However, the government has recently indicated through its 2009 medium
term expenditure framework that it will in the future give primacy to funding of socioeconomic
infrastructure. Indeed, the allocation for socioeconomic infrastructure is projected to exceed that
for productive investments by 2012 (see section 2.5 for additional information). The provision
of a minimal level of funding in the form of block grants for implementation of district plans is a
precondition for development partners' support for the National Decentralized Planning and
Finance Program.

62.     The benefits of the capacity building support of the project are likely to be sustained.
The majority of staff trained under the project in financial management, procurement, contract
management, and technical design remains in the government, with many moving to more senior
positions. Further, the government is institutionalizing the capacity built under the project by
creating posts in the civil service for the functions carried out by project-supported experts. For
example, of the 100 district accountants and works technicians hired and trained under the
project, 95 were still in their posts at the end of the project, 35 with permanent positions and all
being paid by the districts. In addition, much of the training done as part of the capacity building
was done through or in collaboration with the Institute for Municipal and Public Administration
Training (a national institute with three regional training sites). Many of the training modules
are now part of the curriculum of the relevant state education institution. This has involved close
collaboration with the Ministry of Public Service and with the Ministry of State Administration.
In this way, the project manuals were aligned and harmonized with the national system of
training in public administration. The National Decentralized Planning and Finance Project will
continue the work on capacity building for local government officials started under the project.

63.    Sustainability of the infrastructure investments that the project financed is likely. The
government through the relevant line ministries is allocating funds for the operation and
maintenance of district infrastructure. Each of these measures indicates that government's
commitment to decentralization remains strong and that it will continue with the multi-decade
process required to build local government capacity for effective service delivery.

5.      Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1    Bank Performance

(a)    Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry (i.e., performance through lending
phase)




                                                16 

64.    The Bank's overall performance in ensuring quality at entry was satisfactory. The
Bank's performance in identification was satisfactory. The government had indicated its
commitment to decentralization through the adoption of key laws and through piloting of
decentralization approaches. Based on the successful experiences, it requested the participation
of the World Bank in financing the expansion of the program to Mozambique's four central
provinces. The Bank responded appropriately, preparing a sector investment loan, and providing
extensive advice with design and safeguard issues. The project's design reflected lessons learned
from the pilots in Mozambique and from experiences in other countries embarking on
decentralized service delivery.

65.     The Bank's performance in preparation and appraisal was satisfactory. The project
implementation plan had been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
Procedures for environmental screening of small infrastructure projects had been agreed.
Processes for procurement and fiduciary management had been assessed and steps agreed to
ensure that funds were used as intended. A manual for monitoring and evaluation had been
prepared, and a logframe with reasonably well-specified indicators and baseline and target values
developed. Appraisal of implementation arrange1J1ents was satisfactory and agreements reached
on the roles and responsibilities of the Ministry of Planning and Finance, the project steering
committee, and the project coordinating units at central, provincial, and district levels.

(b)    Quality ofSupervision (including offiduciary and safeguards policies)

I Rating   I HS
66.     Bank performance in supervision was highly satisfactory. Supervision was intense
throughout the project implementation period. Although three Bank staff served in the role of
task team leader-one from identification to Board presentation, one until late 2008 when the
final extension of the closing date was granted, and one until the project closed--each was
thoroughly familiar with the project before taking over, because he or she had served as a team
member. The two country directors, the sector manager, and the sector leader have actively
overseen project implementation to help ensure that the project remained on track to meet its
objectives.

67.     The Bank fielded some 13 supervision missions during the project's nearly five years of
implementation. Missions took place at least two times a year, and often more. Missions lasted
one to two weeks each and typically comprised four or more members, including foreign and
local consultants investigating a range of technical and operational issues. To ensure very
regular contact with the project implementers, the Bank team held video conferences in the
periods between missions. Most of the missions included a field visit to a number of districts in
each of two provinces.

68.     Aide memoires consistently highlighted key issues and presented detailed action plans to
help the implementing agencies address obstacles. Supervision routinely reported on monitoring
and evaluation, compliance with safeguards and with legal covenants, performance of project
management, and issues with interministerial coordination. An in-depth review of safeguard
compliance in 2008 resulted in the discovery that application of the project's environmental and
                                               17 

social management framework was uneven. Without this proactive supervision of safeguard
compliance, the deficiencies would not likely have been revealed. The team immediately offered
advice to the government on measures to address the deficiencies and brought in a Bank
safeguard specialist to conduct training for key provincial and local staff. The team continues to
closely follow the issue in the preparation of the national program.

69.     The team responded proactively to challenges as soon as they arose and offered
pragmatic and effective solutions to them. It did not hesitate to nudge the project coordination
units and the government officials by pointing out that failure to comply with agreed actions
could lead to suspension of disbursements or other consequences.

70.     The Bank team consistently rated project performance indicators realistically. It rated
implementation performance moderately unsatisfactory one year after effectiveness. It upgraded
the rating to satisfactory only in 2006 when the project demonstrated clear improvement in
performance.

71.     While noting progress with project implementation, the Bank team remained focused on
achieving several important goals, even at the expense of quicker disbursement. Chief among
these was the objective of main streaming the approach in government systems. To achieve this
goal, the Bank team insisted that the positions of district works technicians and accountants be
made permanent in the district administrations, and that the project coordination unit be
integrated within the Ministry of Planning and Development and that its contract staff serve in
the role of advisors and not decision-makers. The Bank team proved highly flexible in agreeing
to restructure the project to support the government's proposed national decentralized planning
and finance program once the modalities had been agreed (this did not happen, because
preparation has taken longer than expected). The Bank team has also been instrumental in
guiding the preparation of the government's program, including facilitating development of a
single M&E framework to be integrated with the government's systems and identifying
procedures for procurement and financial management.

72.     The Bank team also played a key role in advancing development partner harmonization
by engaging actively in and often leading the partners' decentralization working group. The
Bank led, or participated in, joint reviews of three development partner-supported
decentralization projects, once of which served as the Bank project's midterm review. This
engagement has paid off, and all development partners are now preparing to jointly support the
government's proposed national program. The Bank's supervision in the areas of harmonization
are best practice and will certainly increase the effective of aid for decentralization.

(c)    Justification ofRating for Overall Bank Performance



73.     The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. In lending, the Bank responded to the
government's request to support its program for decentralized service delivery. Drawing on
lessons learned from Mozambique and global experience, it assisted in designing a project that



                                                18 

would serve as the foundation for a future nationwide program. Quality at entry was
satisfactory .

74.     In supervision, the Bank played a critical role in focusing the project on the major
objectives of mainstreaming decentralization into government systems. Bank supervision
missions were also instrumental in keeping implementation on track; the project closed with only
a slight delay and all funds were utilized. Supervision regularly reviewed compliance with
fiduciary, environmental, and other safeguards. The Bank maintained a close dialogue with
policy makers, technical staff, and development partners throughout implementation. The Bank
responded proactively and effectively to find solutions to challenges. A rating of satisfactory for
ensuring quality at entry and a rating of highly satisfactory for supervision justify an overall
rating of satisfactory for Bank performance.

5.2    Borrower Performance

(a)    Government Peryormance



75.      The government's performance in implementation was satisfactory. Government
ownership and commitment to decentralized service delivery was strong. In a clear sign of
commitment, it adopted in late 1990s several key pieces of legislation and started piloting
decentralization approaches with development partner support. Based on the findings of the
pilots, it sought of additional development partners to expand coverage of the decentralization
model. In the subsequent years, it continued to adopt legislation and implementing regulations to
deepen decentralization. It generally honored its commitments to mainstream mechanisms for
decentralization, including creating permanent posts in district administrations for works
technicians and accountants, adopting guidelines for district participatory planning, budgeting,
and finance, and institutionalizing provision of block grants to districts. It has also advanced
preparation of a national decentralization planning and finance program to expand and deepen
the decentralization.

76.     However, performance could have been stronger in several areas. First, the government
never prepared a national decentralization policy, although it had planned to do so at the time the
project was approved. Such a policy was intended to clarify the roles and responsibilities of
various levels of government and provide a unifying framework for development partner
support. However, preparation of such a policy proved politically difficult, with some
government officials arguing that the issue is adequately dealt with in the constitution. Instead of
a policy, the government decided to produce a decentralization strategy to clarify responsibilities
across different levels of government and to serve as the unifying framework. This had still not
been adopted by the time the project closed (a draft has been prepared and is under consultation).
An approved strategy is required to underpin the proposed national program, and is expected to
be adopted soon. Second, government had difficulty in providing its counterpart funds on time
or in the agreed amounts. This resulted in 2008 in an amendment to the legal agreement to allow
for 100 percent Bank financing of all project activities. Third, the government did not fully
comply with the covenant regarding requiring it to ensure that implementing agencies applied the

                                                19 

agreed environmental and social safeguard procedures prior to commencing a subproject.
However, it did take the necessary measures to fully comply with the covenants, thus correcting
deficiencies, once the in-depth safeguard review revealed these deficiencies, including providing
extensive training through the Ministry of Environment's Environmental Audit Unit for key
provincial, and local staff tasked with overseeing application of safeguard policies and relevant
national legislation. Fourth, the government in recent years has promoted the use of block grants
to districts for productive investments (using its own funds), rather than for the public
infrastructure projects that are typically presented in district plans (These started off as
unconditional grants and were originaliy considered a major step forward for sustainability and
decentralization). However, the lack of clarity on the criteria for selection of projects for funding
has proven confusing for provincial and district administrations and for beneficiary communities.
Although many countries do combine grants for economic and productive investments in one,
lessons learned suggest that it is better to separate funds for productive investments and to
allocate their management to specialized instruments and agencies. Otherwise, there is a risk
that public funds are used to finance privately-owned investments, and thereby undermine the
legitimacy of the participatory planning process. Recognizing these weaknesses based on
experiences in the first few years and constant dialogue on the issue with the Bank team, the
government in August 2009 decided to significantly increase the proportion of the state budget
allocated for financing of district plans, while keeping funds for productive investments flat,
indicating a commitment to supporting district capacity to plan and manage small infrastructure
investments.

(b) Implementing Agency Performance



77.     The performance of the Ministry of Planning and Development was satisfactory. The
ministry satisfactorily carried out its responsibilities. It generally provided the required
leadership to motivate and guide the provincial directors of planning in implementing the tools
for decentralization. However, the ministry did not maintain adequate channels of
communication with the other ministries concerned with decentralization, the ministries of
finance, state administration, agriculture and rural development, and public works and housing.
As a result coordination of activities among these ministries was weak.

78.     The project coordination team performed capably throughout implementation. It
responded to early suboptimal performance by strengthening its staff at both central and
provincial levels. Indeed, it brought the best-performing provincial staff to central level to
ensure good communication between these levels and strong oversight of provincial
administrations. Later it worked with change management consultants to build a more effective
management team and improve working methods. This led to improved performance. The
project coordination team complied with all fiduciary safeguards. It prepared quarterly project
progress reports on time, and used the monitoring information to tackle implementation
challenges. It also consistently complied with the Bank's procurement, financial management,
and reporting requirements. However, its oversight of compliance with environmental and social
safeguards was not adequate (see section 2.4). Measures are being incorporated in the national
program to ensure that provincial and district teams receive continuous training on application of

                                                20 

the environmental and social management framework and resettlement policy framework, and
that the district and provincial administrations perform their oversight responsibilities
adequately. The coordination team established a monitoring and evaluation system and
consistently tracked and reported on progress with achieving project implementation benchmarks
and with progress towards outcomes.

79.     Looking forward, the government has established a department for decentralized
planning in the Ministry of Planning and Development to coordinate the national program. This
will be staffed by senior officials of the ministry who are dedicated to functions related to
intergovernmental relations. The technical team will include advisors from the current project
teams.

(c)    Justification ofRatingfor Overall Borrower Performance



80.      The overall performance of the borrower was satisfactory. The government demonstrated
its commitment to the project, from identification to completion, although it did not always
comply with counterpart funding obligations. It also took inconsistent positions with respect to
the use of block grants to districts, which called into question its commitment to empower
district administrations to make planning decisions. However, the government has recently
indicated that it plans to substantially increase funding for block grants to implement district
plans.

81.     The Ministry of Planning and Development performed adequately. The project
coordination team performed capably throughout implementation. It handled procurement and
financial management in accordance with Bank guidelines, and ensured that the project.

6.     Lessons Learned

82.     Designing and implementing a program for active learning helps project managers
to quickly identify issues and find solutions to them. Throughout project implementation, the
Bank team actively sought to learn from experiences and to apply the lessons learned. For
example, reports on lessons learned from implementation of works revealed serious weaknesses
of capacity of private sector contractors. The revelation led to a decision to provide training
courses for contractors on the procedures and requirements for developing bidding proposals. It
also led to the introduction of routines and establishment of standard timeframes to verify and
monitor progress in implementation of works and payments, to development of a database of
prices for reference purposes, and to development of a template for the supervision reports to be
provided to independent supervisors.

83.     Intensively supervising projects with complex designs and an evolving context is
critical to ensure project implementation stays on track. Intensive supervision of the project
by the Bank helped in identifying and addressing issues quickly and therefore to keep the
implementation on track and focused on its broad goals.



                                               21
84.     Having in place a training plan and institutionalizing training courses in
government systems can ensure that project stakeholders develop the skills they need to
successfully implement the project in accordance with government and Bank guidelines.
The Bank team continuously followed the impact of various approaches to training and found
that institutionalizing training courses in the national training institutions was the most effective
and sustainable approach. Unfortunately, the lack of a training plan for development of province
and district level staff left many without the necessary knowledge and skills to consistently apply
Bank procedures, such as the environment and social safeguards.

85.      Effective mechanisms for development partner harmonization increase the
effectiveness of aid. All development partners supporting decentralization in Mozambique have
worked closely together to learn from each other and develop a common approach to
decentralization. This hard work has paid off and all are now preparing to pool resources in
support of the proposed national program. This is expected to guarantee the long-term
sustainability of the decentralized planning and finance. Having in place strong mechanisms of
partner harmonization also facilitated the dialogue between partners and the government on the
importance of providing block grants to districts to finance implementation of participatory
district plans, without which community participation would be meaningless. Speaking with one
voice, the development partners were eventually able to persuade the government to first restore
and then increase funds for implementation of district plans.

86.     Thoroughly preparing a project monitoring and evaluation system prior to the start
of a project will ensure that stakeholders can track progress towards the project objectives
as soon as implementation starts. Preparation before the start ofthe project of a
comprehensive monitoring and evaluation system, including baseline and target values, enabled
project implementers to start tracking project performance soon after effectiveness. Consistent
reporting on progress with the indicators helped in ensuring that project was successfully
completed with only a slight delay. Including an indicator on application of the environmental
and social management framework will help ensure that project implementers and their
supervisors pay adequate attention to the issue.

87.     Combining support for policy and institutional reform with assistance to strengthen
local government capacity is essential for success. Lessons from the early decentralization
projects in Mozambique demonstrated that subnational administrations would need considerable
strengthening before they would be able to effectively deliver services. The project included
substantial support for training in planning, budgeting, procurement, financial management, and
contracts management at provincial and district level administrations. It also supported capacity
building of the Tribunal Administrativo to carry out audits at the district level. In addition, it
provided funds for constructing infrastructure through learning-by-doing, and considerable
backstopping throughout the process of planning and executing infrastructure works. The efforts
of the project were complemented by support from related projects, such as the Public Sector
Reform Project, which financed the roll-out of the state financial management system (known as
e-SISTAFE) to all central ministries, all ten provincial governments, and 50 of 128 districts.
These efforts to build capacity are already showing results, as demonstrated by the successful
completion by districts of over 800 small infrastructure projects.



                                                22
88.     Simultaneously building mechanisms of upward and downward accountability is an
effective approach for strengthening accountability. The project provided support for
strengthening of the Tribunal Administrativo and for the conduct of audits of district financial
accounts, a tool for upward accountability. The information revealed through the audits has
helped to strengthen public financial management at the district level. The project also included
support for mechanisms of downward accountability, including establishment of consultative
counsels, preparation of district plans through participatory processes, dissemination of
information about the plans and their execution, and surveys of citizens' perceptions oflocal
government performance. The use of both these approaches is expected to steadily increase
accountability of government to citizens.

7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrowerllmplementing Agencies/Partners

(a)    Borrowerlimpiementing agencies

See annex 6.

(b)    Cofinanciers

      (a) Other partners and stakeholders (e.g. NGDs/private sector/civil society)




                                               23 

   Annex 1: Results Framework Analysis

   1.      Project Development Objective. The development objective of the project was to
   improve the institutional capacity of district administrations to plan and manage small
   infrastructure investments In response to community demand.

   2.     Table (a) presents the project's key performance indicators and outcomes. Table (b)
   presents the project's intermediate outcome indicators.

   (a)      Project Development Objective Indicators

                               !                                                                                          .
                                                                                        Actual Value Achieved at
                                   Baseline     Original             Revised
          Indicator                                                                           Completion
                                    2004      Target Values        Target Values
                                                                                              March 2009 

I. Percentage of districts wit       Nil        80 percent 
           None                    100 percent
district development plans
and annual investment plans
approved.
2. Percentage of districts wid       Nil       80 percent              None                     100 percent
district consultative councils .
organized and approving
district plans and
implementation reports.
3. Percentage of districts in        Nil       60 percent             None           Not measurable. However, a
which participants in plannin~                                                       2009 study of community
processes express satisfaction                                                       participation and consultation
with responsiveness and                                                              found that the project made a
accountability of district                                                           major contribution in creating
administration.                                                                      structures for community
                                                                                     participation. Some 81 percent of
                                                                                     respondents to a survey said they
                                                                                     were aware of district investments
                                                                                     and 88 percent of these expressed
                                                                                     satisfaction with the results.

                                                                                    In addition, the majority of
                                                                                    respondents stated that there is
                                                                                    now much more interaction and
                                                                                    dialogue between government and
                                                                                    citizen and that local plans and
                                                                                    budgets reflect communities'
                                                                                    priorities.

                                                                                     Women are increasingly involved
                                                                                     in the development dialogue.
                                                                                     Most consultative councils have
                                                                                     women representatives in
                                                                                     executive roles, some as president
                                                                                     and others as secretaries or
                                                                                     treasurers. Although only half the
                                                                                     councils have achieved the
                                                                                   I guideline 000 percent female
                                                               I                     representation, the great majority


                                                    24 

                                                                                           are close to achieving this, and
                                                                                           some exceed it.
 4. Percentage of districts            Nil             50 percent             None                      67 percent
 rated good or excellent on
 annual local investment grant
 performance.
 5. Percentage of districts at         Nil             60 percent             None          100 percent (128 of 128 districts)
 national level adopting DPFP
 approach and methodologies
 for participatory planning and
 governance.
 6. Key administrative and             Nil             80 percent             None                     100 percent
 fiscal instruments adopted by                          (4 of 5)                                         (5 of 5)
 government supporting
 transparent district planning
_and management.
   ...........




    (b)      Intermediate Outcome Indicators

                                                                                                            Actual Value
                                                                   Baseline          Original Target        Achieved at
                                                                    2004                 Values             Completion
                                                                                                            March 2009 

  Project outputs from each component 

  Component 1: Participatory district planning 

  Percentage of districts with functioning planning teams in 
       Nil               80 percent             100 percent 

 -'place 

  Percentage of districts with grant funded projects based 
         Nil               80 percent             100 percent 

  on approved district plans 

  Percentage of administrative posts with functioning 
              Nil               80 percent             100 percent 

  consultative councils 

  Percentage of consultative council with representatives of 
       Nil        I      v   percent            94 percent 

  civil society groups (including community authorities) 

  Percentage of districts effectively implementing 
                 Nil        !      80 percent           Not measured. 

  communications strategies 

  Component 2: Local investment grants 

  Percentage of type 1 & 2 grant projects with funds 
               Nil               80 percent             100 percent 

  disbursed and properly accounted for based on approved 

  plans 

  Percentage of type 3 grant projects with funds disbursed           Nil               70 percent             100 percent 

  and properly accounted for based on approved plans 

  Percentage of districts with district accountants appointed 
      Nil             None specified    I      100 percent 

  and integrated into local administration staff 

  Percentage of type 1 grant works properly executed as 
            Nil               80 percent             85 percent 

  planned and within specifications 

  Percentage of type 2 grant works properly executed as 
            Nil               80 percent             96 percent
 .planned and within specifications
! Percentage of districts with type 3grant works completed           Nil               75 percent             97 percent
. as planned and with community oversight
                                                                                                                                 и


  Percentage of districts with works technicians appointed           Nil               100 percent            100 percent
  and integrated into local administration staff                                                                                 I

и Component 3: Capacity Buildin2 for Local Administration
  Percentage of targeted provincial and district financial           Nil               80 percent            100 percent

                                                            25 

  staff in each of 4 provinces trained to manage and
  account for grant funds
  Percentage of targeted department of public works and              Nil          80 percent                100 percent
и housing/education staff in each of 4 provinces trained to                                         i
  procure and supervise type 1 & 2 funded works 

  subprojects 

  Percentage of districts with staff trained and able to 
           Nil          80 percent                100 percent 

  adequately manage, supervise and report on type 2 & 3 

  funds and subprojects 
                                                  i

  Number of provinces with human resource development                Nil        None specified      ! too percent with 



  plans and annual training plans 
                                                                 и annual training plans,
                                                                                                      none with HR plans
и Percentage of district administrative personnel who have           Nil          70 percent            Not measurable.
I participated in training courses for professional
  development                                                 I            !


и Component 4: Support for Deeentralization Policy
  Official guidelines for district consultative councils             Nil          Publication           Complete in August
  publishedи                                                                                            2003
и Formalization of district as a budget unit                         Nil       Adoption of law          Complete in August
                                                                                                        2003
 Operational rules and procedures for district fmance                Nil          Publication           Complete in 2008 

 published 

 Percentage increase of state investment budget allocated 
          Nil       3 percent per year     Indicator not well-
 for provincial planning and management with district                                                 specified. However,
 input                                                                                                allocations were
                                                                                                      4.7% of state budget
                                                              i
                                                                                                      2006, 3.7% 2007,
                                                                                                    , 3.9%2008.
                                                                     Nil          Allocation          Done in 2007


                                                                     Nil             Done                      Done

                                                                     Nil             Done                      Done

                                                                     Nil             Done                      Done
                                                                     Nil             Done                      Done




                                                              26 

Annex 2: Project Costs and Financing


                                                      Appraisal Estimate                              Pel'centage of 

                Components                                                                             Appraisal 

                                                        (USS millions)

 1. Participatory district plannill~                        8.17                                          122%
 2. Local investment grants                                19.24                    19.96                 104%
 3. Capacity building for local                                                      7.84                  98%
                                                            7.98
     administration
.4. Support for decentralization policy                     1.44                    2.98                  207%
 5.  Support for project implementation                     7.58                    7.96                  105%
                             Total Baseline Cost
              ............................ 

                                                           44.41                   48.68                  110%
 Physical Contingencies                                     0.55
 Price Contingencies                                        1.33
                                Total Project Costs        46.29                   48.68                  105%
           Total Financing Required                        46.29                   48.68                  105%




(b) Project Financing (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          '1'и . f' ('
                                                            yp c 0 0 -     Appraisal     Actual/Latest P             f
                                                                            J;' t'          fj'   и      ercentage 0
                  Source of .Funds                                         .1:,8 ]mate     i.stmlate
                                                            financing                                    Appraisal
                                                                         (US$ millions) (USS millions)
Government of Mozambique                                                         4.29          3.51          82%
International Devel()pment Association                                          42.00                       108%




                                                                27 

Annex 3: Outputs by Component

1.      Component 1: Participatory district planning. The outputs of this component are
satisfactory. Specific outputs by subcomponent include:

2.   Subcomponent 1: Building capacity for formulation ofdistrict strategic plans with
community participation

и      All 56 participating districts have functioning technical teams with clear responsibilities
       in the local planning process.

и      All 56 participating districts have constructed projects with grant funded projects based.
       on approved district plans.

и      All 56 participating district administrative posts have functioning consultative councils.

и      All district consultative council have representatives of civil society groups (including
       community authorities).

и      Some 13 training manuals on participatory district planning prepared, covering issues
       such as district diagnostics, preparation of development strategies and action plans,
       production of district economic and social plan and budget, monitoring and evaluation,
       and organization and functioning of local consultative councils.

и      Training of some 40 trainers of trainers, 110 members of provincial level planning teams,
       and 1,706 district technical staff in participatory planning based on the manuals.

и      Guidelines for preparation of the district land-use plan prepared. These will facilitate the
       integration of land-use planning and natural-resource management into the district
       development planning processes.

и      Some 18 land-use plans prepared. The work included diagnosis of the present situation,
       production of thematic maps of current land use, administrative divisions, population,
       infrastructure and facilities, physical conditions, and trends in settlement expansion.

и      Some 30 staff trained on use of geographic information systems.

и      Some 32 specialists trained in environmental management and land-use planning.

и      Some 20 trainers of trainers educated in land-use planning, environmental management
       and environmental impact assessment.

и      Some 127 government technicians trained on the use of geographical positioning
       systems.



                                                28 

и      Some 12 provincial trainers (including provincial jurists) trained on government policy
       and the land-use planning law.

3.    Subcomponent 2: Building capacity ofcivil society to participate effectively in the
planning and implementation ofthe plans

и      Guidelines for community participation and consultation in district planning published in
       the official gazette in August 2003. These provide guidelines for the composition and
       operation of consultative councils. Due to these guidelines, all consultative councils
       include at least 30 percent women, and representatives of vulnerable and disadvantaged
       groups and of geographically remote communities.

и      Some 713 local consultative councils, 56 district councils, 168 local councils in the
       administrative posts, and 489 local councils in the localities established.

и      Three networks for community participation established.

и      Training of some 11,300 consultative council members, 555 district technical specialists,
       and 28 provincial technical specialists in participatory planning.

4.     Subcomponent 3: Developing and implementing a communications strategy

и      Communication strategy formulated.

и      Training of media (radio and television production staff) completed, a regional seminar
       on the new law on local organs and participatory planning carried out, provincial level
       meetings with radio producers and sessions of open radio with public debate on
       participatory planning conducted, among other communications activities.

5.     Component 2: Local investment grants. The outputs of this component are satisfactory.
Specific outputs by component included:

и      Type 1 (district administrative infrastructure): 73 properly executed as planned and
       within specifications. Another 13 initiated, but not executed successfully. Projects in
       this category absorbed US$4.7 million.

и      Type 2 (small-scale public infrastructure projects under provincial management): 298
       properly executed as planned and within specifications. Another 13 initiated, but not
       executed successfully. Projects included health centers, schools, water supply and
       sanitation systems, markets, and rural roads and bridges. Projects in this category
       absorbed US$13.27 million.

и      Type 3 (small projects under district management): 403 properly executed as planned and
       within specifications. Another 26 initiated, but not executed successfully. Projects
       included furniture for schools and health posts, small scale water supply and sanitation


                                               29
       systems, market stalls, and other small scale projects, often to complement those being
       constructed under type 1 or 2 grants. Projects in this category absorbed US$l.72 million.

и      By 2007, all districts were receiving funds for maintenance through budget instructions to
       the line ministries (education, health, water, and the like). However specific instructions
       to guarantee its registration in the annual budget for each district are still lacking.

6.    Component 3. Capacity building for local administration. The outputs of this
component are satisfactory. Specific outputs included:

и      All targeted provincial and district financial staff in each of 4 provinces trained to
       manage and account for grant funds, and mainstreamed into the civil service. These
       included 49 accountants and 51 works technicians, of whom 95 were still in their posts at
       the end ofthe project, 35 with permanent positions and 23 with temporary positions, but
       all having their salaries paid by the districts.

и      All targeted department of public works and housing/education staff in each of four
       provinces trained to procure and supervise type 1 and 2 funded works subprojects, and
       mainstreamed into the civil service.

и      Guidelines for district finances prepared and disseminated .. These are being used to
       standardize operating procedures for bUdgeting and financial management.

и      Accounting personnel trained in financial and budget management, data processing, tax
       collection and records keeping, and audit and internal control techniques.

и      Baseline survey and evaluation of training needs conducted and training teams
       constituted.

и      District and provincial technical staff trained in management and public administration.

и      Annual training plans elaborated and implemented.

и      Institutional analysis of the Institute for the Municipal and Public Administration
       Training-Beira measures to build capacity carried out.

и      Some 13 new short modules in district management developed.

и      Specialized courses in local administration developed and approved for state training
       institutes. These included a post-graduate courses in local management and graduate
       courses in local development.

7.      Component 4: Support for decentralization policy. The outputs of this component are
satisfactory. Specific outputs included:

и      External Control: Support to Tribunal Administrativo:

                                               30
       o  Institutional analysis and strategic plan for the Tribunal Administrativo (supreme
          external audit institution) prepared.
       o  Audits of 48 districts' financial statements conducted in 2006, the first audits of
          district finances in the country's history.
       o  Some 107 district financial statements audited in 2007
       o  Capacity building exercises with the judiciary of the tribunal completed.
       o  Audit manual elaborated.

и      Intergovernmental fiscal relations study completed in May 2008. This describes the
       current situation and lays out options for transferring responsibilities from the central
       level and the provincial levels to the district level. The study has informed the
       development of the government's decentralization strategy.

и      Analysis of Experiences Relating to Community Participation and Consultation in
       District Planning in Mozambique, completed in March 2009. This provides an in-depth
       assessment of the mechanisms for community participation established under the project
       in the north, central, and southern regions (Niassa, Nampula, Tete, Zambezia, Manica
       Inhambane and Gaza Provinces).

и      Performance evaluation system for provinces and districts prepared and put into use.

и      Analysis of District Finances in Mozambique completed in March 2009. This analyzes
       the current situation of district finances in Mozambique and proposes improvements
       based on theoretical considerations and international good practice.

и      The district made a formal budget unit through adoption in August 2003 of the law on
       local organs of state and its implementing regulations adopted in November 2005.

и      Operational rules and procedures for district finance published in 2008.

и      Draft guidelines for financial management manual produced to draw out the elements of
       financial management relevant to districts from the larger public finance manual prepared
       by the Ministry of Finance. In the context of the financial management system law these
       guidelines are a reference manual for the execution of revenues and expenditures in the
       districts.

и     Background studies to inform the joint review of development partner-supported
      decentralized planning and financing projects completed.

и     Inputs to the formulation of the National Decentralized Planning and Finance Program
      provided.

8.      Component 5: Support for project implementation. The outputs of this component
are satisfactory. Specific outputs included:


                                                31
и   Project management support successfully in the areas of overall coordination,
    procurement, financial management, auditing, works supervision, monitoring and
    evaluation, participatory planning, and others.




                                         32 

Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team Members
                                                                             Responsibility!
           Names                         Title                 Unit
                                                                               ~peciaJty
Lending
Lance Morell                 Team Leader                     AFTUI    Local government
Alan Corell                  Team Leader                              Decentralization
Kate Kuper                  Urban Specialist                 TUDUR    Urban and local government
Aniceto Bila                 Operations Officer              AFC02    Project quality
Joao Tinga                   Financial Management Analyst    AFTFM    Financial management
Marius Koen                  Senior Financial Management              Financial management
                                                             AFTFM
                             Specialist
Subhash Dhingra              Senior Procurement Specialist   AFTPC    Procurement
Natalino Nascimento          Consultant                      AFTUI    Civil engineering
Lauren Wojtyla               Financial Specialist            AFTFM    Local government finance
Louis Helling                Decentralization Specialist 
   AFTUI    Decentralization
Alberto Ninio                Senior Counsel 
                LEGAF    Legal agreement
John Hatton                 'Environmental Specialist 
      AFTEN    Environmental safeguards
Bridie Champion             Disbursement Officer 
           LOA      Disbursements
LuKang                       Program Assistant 
             AFTUI    Program assistance
Isabel Nhassengo             Procurement Assistant 
         AFTPC    Procurement assistance
Rildo Santos                 Team Assistant 
                AFTUl    Team assistance
SupervisionllCR
Lance Morell                 Team Leader 
                         Local government
Kate Kuper                   Senior Urban Specialist 
       AFTUW Urban and local government
Ali Alwahti                  Urban Specialist 
              AFTUW Urban and localg()vernment
Boris Utria                  Sector Leader 
                 AFTEG pesig~and implementation
Antonio Chamuco           . Procurement Specialist           AFTPC Procurement
Theresa Marissa J. Gamulo Procurement Analyst                AFTUW Procurement
Isabel Nhassengo-            Procurement Assistant           AFCS2 Procurement Assistance
Massingue
Cary Anne Cadman            .ForestrySpecialist              AFTEN    Environment
Jonathan Nyamukapa           Senior Financial Management     AFTFM    Financial management
                            Specialist
Joao Tinga                   Financial Management Analyst    AFTFM Financial management
Suzanne Morris               Senior Finance Officer 
        CTRFC Financial management
Brighton Musungwa            Senior Finance Officer 
        CTRLP Financial management
Teresa De Jesus S. McCue     Finance Analyst 
               CTRDM Financial management
Uri Raich                   Urban Specialist 
               AFTUW Urban and local government
Caroline Winter              Senior Social Development 
     AFTCS Social development
                            Specialist 

Arbi Ben-Achour             Senior Social Development 
      AFTCS    Social development
                            Specialist 



                                                 33
Serigne Omar Fye            Senior Environmental Specialist AFTEN      Environmental issues
Victor Vergara              ~CapacitЦ Buil~itlgSpecialist   WBI        Capacity building
Adelina Mucavele            Team Assistant                  AFCS2     'Team assistance
Salma Chande                Team Assistant                  AFCS2      Team assistance
Rafael Saute                Communications Officer          AFREX     Communications
Lurdes Samuel Malate        Executive Assistant                        Team assistance
Amaral
Anne Louise Grinsted        Extended term Consultant        AFCS2 Urban and locaJgovemment
Slaheddine Ben-Halima       Consultant                      AFTUWProject il11plementation
Natalino Nascimento         Consultant                      AFTUW Civil engineering
Jose Macamo                 Consultant                      AFTUW Public sector issues
Mafalda Duarte              Consultant                      AFTUW Capacity building
Wendy Ayres                 Consultant                      AFTUW M&E and Implementation
                                                                  and Results Report

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                   Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                                                    US$ thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                                    travel and consultant costs)

Lending
 FYOO                                          18.63                            96.5 

 FYOI                                          18.24                           124.8 

 FY02                                          40.34                           186.6 

 FY03                                          41.28                           316.6 

                          Total:              118.49                           724.5
SupervisionllCR
 FY04                                          25.23                           130.2 

 FY05                                          25.39                           157.3 

 FY06                                          23.62                           153.7 

 FY07                                          64.32                           237.2 

 FY08                                          56.30                           209.5 

 FY09                                          30.72                            49.3 

                          Total:              225.58                           937.2




                                                 34 

Annex 5: List of Supporting Documents

Mozambique Country Assistance Strategy, October 20,2003. 


Mozambique Country Partnership Strategy, April 24, 2007. 


Development Grant Agreement, December 19,2003. 


Project Appraisal Document, October 15,2003. 


Midterm review aide memoire, August 2006. 


"Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations in Mozambique," May 2008. By Jamie Boex, Abdul Hal, 

Eduardo Nguenha, Rudinei Toneto Jr. 


"Analysis of Experiences Relating to Community Participation and Consultation in District 

Planning in Mozambique. North Center and Southern Regions (Niassa, Nampula, Tete, 

Zambezia, Manica Inhambane And Gaza Provinces)." March 2009. Massala Consult and SAL 

CDS. 


"Analysis of District Finances In Mozambique," March 2009. By Jamie Boex and Angelo 

Macuacua. 


Quarterly and annual progress reports prepared by the Ministry of Planning and Development. 


Borrower's Implementation and Completion and Results Report, September 2009. 


Other project files, project supervision reports, aide memoires, back-to-office reports, financial 

audits. 





                                                 35 

Annex 6: Summary of Borrower's ICR




                        REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE 

                 MINISTRY OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT 


                   NATIONAL DIRECTORATE OF PLANNING 

                    Decentralized Planning and Finance Project 





  The Decentralized Planning and Finance Project Implementation 

                   Completion and Result report 



                            Government Contribution




                                 (Grant No. H0670)

                                      ONA 


                                     GRANT 


     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 29.9 MILLION (US$42.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT) 



                                        36
                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS 



AT     Administrative Tribunal
CLD    District Local Council
CPCI   Community Participation and Consultation Institution
GOM Government of Mozambique
LIG    Local Investment Grant
LNF    Training Needs Survey
LOLE State Local Body Law
OLE    State Local Body
PARPA Action Plan for Reduction of Absolute Poverty
PEDD District Development Plan
PESOD District Economic and Social Plan and Budget
PPF    Project Preparation Facility
SIFAP Training Institutes for Government and Local Authority Employees
SISTAFE State Financial Administration Law




                                          37 

                                                                CONTENTS 


Basic InfoID1.ation: .................................................................................................................................. . 


1. Assessment of the operation's objective, design, implementation, and operational experience ..... ..

     1.1.     Objective .................................................................................................................................. . 

     1.2.     Project Rationale ..................................................................................................................... .. 

     1.3.     Design ...................................................................................................................................... . 

     1.4.     Implementation and the outputs ............................................................................................... . 



2. Assessment ofthe outcome ofthe operation against the agreed objectives ...................................... 



3. Evaluation of the borrower's own perfofll1ance ............................................................................... . 



4. Evaluation of the performance of the Bank, any co financiers, or of other partners ........................ . 



5. Description of the proposed arrangements for future operation of the project ................................ .. 



6. Assisting the preparation of the Bank's ICR .................................................................................... . 





                                                                        38 

Basic Information


             PPF Agreement                               February 6, 2001 to March 31,2004
             Initial Value of PPF                        US$779,000
             Value of PPF Increase                       US$I,150,000
             Pre-Appraisal                               June 26 to July 12,2002
             Appraisal                                   May 8-9, 2003
             Negotiation                                 July 22-25, 2003
             Approval of Project by World Bank           November 20, 2003
             Signature of Financing Agreement            December 19,2003
             Value of World Bank Financing               US$42,000,000
             Value of Government Contribution            US$4,290,200
             Total Value                                 US$46,290,200
             Effectiveness                               April 16, 2004
             Duration of Project                         54 Months (To end in 2008)
             End Value, Government Contribution in US$   US$3,500,000
             End Value, World Bank Contribution in US$   US$45,170,000
             End Value, World Bank Contribution in SDR   SDR 29,770,207




                                         39 

1. Assessment of the operation's objective, design, implementation, and operational experience

1.1 Objective

1.      The program development objective is to improve the institutional capacity of district
administrations to plan and manage small infrastructure investments in response to community
demand. The project has achieved its objectives and sub-objectives of the five components and
the key performance indicators have been met.

2.      The project has contributed to create increasingly favorable conditions for strengthening
the elements required for decentralization in rural districts. The project supported further
development and implementation of the policies, institutions, systems and capacities. Training
and technical assistance have been provided to assist in the development of district plans, both
strategic and operational, by local administration staff with the participation of rural
communities and their representatives organized in local consultative councils. Learning-by
doing built public sector capacity for operationalizing and implementing these plans through a
system of demand driven Local Investment Grants complemented by capacity building in
financial management and civil works management

1.2 Project Rationale

3.     The GaM in its PARPAJPRSP has defined participatory district planning as the
cornerstone of its approach to improve rural governance and a key contribution to accelerating
poverty alleviation in rural communities. The Cabinet level decision to adopt the Nampula pilot
as the basis for a national approach to Decentralized Planning and Finance led directly to
Ministry of Planning and Finance's request that the IDA develop its next rural support project in
line with this approach. The definition of the National DPFP Strategy and the gradual
development of elements of an associated methodological framework as well as the increasing
prominence of the DPFP National Steering Committee further reflect this commitment.

4.     The proposed local administration (OLE) reform legislation as well as already
implemented Community Authority decrees and the guidelines for the organization and
operation of District Consultative Councils and Locality Councils/Fora are broader indications
an increasing focus on the responsibility and nature of district administration. Furthermore,
Decentralization! deconcentration of service delivery systems constitutes a key objective Public
Sector Reform, as does capacity building and staff strengthening at local levels.

5.      In terms of fiscal policy Ministry of Finance has started the process of increase the share
of resources which are programmed and managed at provincial, and eventually at district, levels
irrespective of their attribution to territorial or sectoral budgets. The district was formalized as a
budget unit and begun to strengthen the district's revenue base also evidence commitment to
move toward an institutional framework.

1.3 Design

6.     During project preparation, an extended dialogue between the GaM and the IDA has
taken place, linked to broader discussions concerning reform of rural administration, fiscal and

                                                 40 

governance systems organized under the UNDP convened "Informal Donor Working Group on
Decentralizati on."

7.     As a result of these discussions a medium term reform agenda has been agreed with the
relevant ministries, the Ministry of Planning and Finance, and the Ministry of State
Administration, including the following elements that were achieved:

./ Legal framework for district planning
./ Enabling legislation for district administration organization (OLE Legislation)
./ Formal legitimating of district consultative councils
./  Formalization of the district as a budget unit
./ Define and publish operational rules and procedures for district finance (revenues and
   expenditures)
./ Budget allocation established for district infrastructure operations and maintenance
./ Define framework for increased district retained revenues
./ % Increase of public investment budget allocated for planning and management at
   provincial leveL

8.      The Project design included an operational organization and structure considered
appropriate to meet its objectives. The management and support units for implementation of the
project were established, in particular: (i) at the central level, a Supervisory Committee made up
of National Directors of participating ministries; a Technical Group consisting of technicians
from the National Directorates making up the Supervisory Committee, and a Support Unit for
implementation of the project consisting of members with expertise in various technical
assistance specialties; (ii) at the provincial level, a Supervisory Committee made up of Provincial
Directors participating in the project; a Provincial Decentralization and Training Team made up
of technical specialists from the Provincial Directorates participating in implementation of the
project, and a project implementation support group consisting of technical staff with expertise in
various specialties of relevance to the project; and (iii) at the district level, a District Planning
Team made up of technical specialists from various district services. The Supervisory
Committees are responsible for ensuring the coordination and strategic emphasis of the
implementation of the project while the Technical Group, Provincial Technical Team and the
District Technical Team form the operating units for implementation of the project.

9.      However, the overall Project Objective was too ambitious for the short time frame. The
project supports the improvement of the capacity of district administrations to plan and manage
small infrastructure investments. The nature of the program is complex and slow as training of
the District Planning Teams and community participation institutions is a long term process. So,
PPFD was a capacity building and training project that requires the establishment of premises
and strong basis support for results and sustainability against pressure for results and budget
disbursement.




                                                41 

1.4 Implementation and the outputs

1.41.        Preparatory Activities for the Decentralized Planning and Finance Project (PPF)

10.      The PPF activities were carried out from February 2001 to March 2004 with a budget
estimated at US$I,929,OOO, including the initial budget of US$779,000 plus a supplementary
amount of the order ofUS$l,150,OOO. The activities performed in preparing for the DPFP can
be summarized as follows: (i) Studies to assist with the formulation of the project; (ii)
Preparation of conditions for the appraisal of the project; (iii) Preparation of conditions for the
project negotiations; (iv) Preparation of conditions for presentation of the project to the Board of
Executive Directors of the World Bank and for effectiveness of the project; (v) Preparation for
the implementation of the project; and (vi) Plan for 2004 and Project Launch. Throughout this
entire process the Government guided the proceedings with the participation of all actors and
made the decisions necessary for the success achieved. The DPFP became effective with effect
from April 15, 2004, in the four provinces of the central region of Mozambique (Manica, Sofala,
Tete and Zambezia), and expanded into the Province of Maputo, making a coverage of 56
districts in all as of 2007, together with inclusion of the Administrative Tribunal in the list of
participating institutions at the central level as of2005.

1.4.2       Project Implementation

Component 1. Participatory District Planning

11.      Component 1 has three subcomponents; one concerns the districts capacity to formulate
district strategic plans with community participation, the second the ability of civil society to
participate effectively in the planning and implementation of the plans and thirdly the
development and implementation of a communications strategy.

12.      Component 1.1 has resulted in the development of 13 training manuals on participatory
district planning regarding a) district diagnostics, b) development strategies, c) action plans, d)
PESOD (district economic and social plan and budget), e) monitoring and evaluation, and f)
organisation and functioning of local consultative councils. To implement the use of manuals 40
trainers of trainers were trained and 110 members of provincial level planning teams and 1,7065
district technical staff received training in participatory planning based on these manuals. 56
districts have elaborated and are implementing their PEDD (District Development Plan).

13.    In addition, 18 land-use plans have been prepared. The work included preparation of a
diagnosis of the present situation of the Structure Plan leading to production of thematic maps of
the present use of the land, administrative division and population, infrastructure and facilities,
physico-natural conditioning factors, settlement expansion trends and summary of the main
problems. In this area of the environment and land-use planning various courses were organized.

Other training activities included: 

./      Geographic Information Systems, attended by 30 trainees; 



5 The   fact that these are the same specialists who also benefit from other training courses is not taken into consideration.

                                                                  42
./     National instructors in Environmental Management and Land-Use Planning, benefiting
       32 technical specialists;
./     Land-use planning, environmental management and environmental impact assessment for
       20 Provincial Directorate for Coordination of Environment technical staff who will act as
       trainers;
./     Geographical positioning systems use for 127 technicians from the district planning and
       infrastructure services and Provincial Directorate for Public Works and Housing;
./     Land-Use Planning Methodologies for provincial technical staff in Manica, for 14
       Provincial Directorate for Coordination of Environment technical specialists;
./     Course on Government Policy and the Land-Use Planning Law for 12 provincial trainers
       (including provincial jurists);
./     Land-Use Planning for 112 technical

14.      In terms of subcomponent 1.2., which is the demand side of the participatory process, the
Guidelines for Organization and Functioning of the Community Participation and Consultation
Institutions (CPCIs) have been distributed in all the districts and form the basis for the
establishment of Local Councils at all levels and 713 local consultative councils at the all level
of district being 56 District Local 'Councils, 168 Local Councils in the Administrative Posts and
489 Local Councils in the localities.

15.     The consultative councils have an important role in the checks and balances of the system
at local level. The CLD which is at district level brings together members from lower tiers 
Administrative Posts, localities and village. Meetings of CLDs have been held to approve district
strategic plans and budgets (PEDDs and PESODs). Further, 3 networks for community
participation have been established.

16.    Concerning the training of Civil Society and Rural Communities, 11,886 persons have
been trained in the three modules, this total comprising 11,303 Consultative Council members,
555 district technical specialists and 28 provincial technical specialists.

17.      The meetings and sessions of the local councils served as the basis, up to that point, for
promoting the submission of records and accounts. The local council sessions generate minutes
which are formally drawn up and archived, and these serve as instruments for monitoring and
analyzing the implementation of the activities in the context of the PEDD. All the districts
attached great importance to conducting their Consultative Council meetings, and in fact held
some special sessions. The local council meetings were used for: (i) approving plans of
activities; (ii) hearing about problems and setting of priorities, plus discussion and approval of
proposed projects for inclusion in the PESOD; (iii) discussion of local problems; and (iv)
discussion and approval of the district balance sheets and reports.

18.    Within subcomponent 1.3, prior to formulation of a communication strategy there must
be specific plans for communication. The strategy formulation process was accordingly only
completed in 2009. During the project implementation period activities of communication were
continuously carried out. These activities included training of media (radio and television
production staft), a regional seminar in Manica concerning LOLE and participatory district



                                               43 

planning, provincial level meetings with radio producers and sessions of open radio with public
debate on participatory.

Component 2: Subsidizing of Local Investments

19.     The purpose of this component was to create capacity for decentralized action for
effecting small-scale public investments at the local level, by establishing a mechanism for
financing small-scale infrastructure works and facilities. The component is designed to
complement the training activities carried out in Component 1 by means of its practical
application.

20.     During the implementation period 826 micro projects representing a value of US$19.69
million against the US$19.24 million estimated in the PAD were successfully completed. The
redistribution ofthe investment value by LIG categories was as follows:

./    In the context of LIG 1, 86 micro projects totaling US$4.7 million were successfully 

completed; 

./    In the context of LIG 2, 311 micro projects totaling US$13.27 million were successfully 

completed; 

./    In the context of LIG 3, 429 micro projects totaling US$1.72 million were successfully 

completed. 


21.     The chief constraints include: (i) The continuing lack of adequate response from the
private sector, due to repetition of many calls for bids; (ii) The District Works Technicians leave
because they can get better working conditions elsewhere - this is a problem which complicates
supervision and monitoring of works in the districts; (iii) The fact that some works have been
brought to a standstill because the feeder roads are unusable due to the flooding which has
severely impacted the provinces in the central zone.

Component 3 Capacity Building for Local Administration

22.    Component three has two objectives - to improve the capacity of district staff to manage
and implement the local investment funds and to build the capacity of district staff with regards
to their general competencies and responsibilities. The component has fulfilled its key
performance indicators.

23.    Results expected and achieved include the following:

Sub-component 3.1:

./     Within the context of the DPFP 100 district technical officers were hired (as opposed to
       the 98 planned), these being made up of 49 accountants and 51 works technicians. Of
       those hired, 5 cancelled their contracts and 95 were still in post at the end of the project,
       35 with permanent positions and 23 on a temporary basis, but all having their salaries
       paid by the districts.



                                                44 

      The Guidelines for District Finances were prepared, which will be used to standardize
      operating procedures in the financial and budget management area.

      A study was made of district finances covering 14 districts in the provinces of Maputo,
      Manica, Sofala, Tete, Zambezia, Nampula and Niassa that produced a diagnosis of
      district finances in Mozambique together with recommendations to the Government on
      the strategy to follow in this area.

      The accounting personnel benefited from training in the following areas: (i) Financial
      and budget management; (ii) data processing; (iii) tax collection and recording of
      amounts collected; and (iv) Audit and internal control techniques.

Sub-component 3.2:

./    Baseline survey and evaluation of training needs (LNF) was conducted and technical
      team for training support were constituted, 40 technicians were trained in LNF, and the
      technical teams conducted the survey at 49 districts and all relevant provincial
      directorates.

      Courses and Staff Capacity Building resulted courses in management, study grants
      (Institute for Municipal and Public Administration Training) in public administration,
      modular classes, courses in areas outside the scope of SIFAP, technical staff at district
      and provincial and managers benefited from the above mentioned activities.

      Annual training plans were elaborated and implemented and 40 technical staff was
      trained in the elaboration thereof.

      An institutional analysis and capacity building oflFAPA-Beira was conducted as well as
      cooperation between Brasilian School for Financial Administration and IFAPA-Beira. 13
      new short modules in district management were developed.

      Specialized courses in local administration were elaborated as a) post-graduate courses in
      local management and b) graduate courses in local development were approved by the
      Higher Institute for Technical Sciences.

      Integration of SIFAP improved as SIFAP included modules in district management in
      their training modules, 12 (x2) manuals of training in district management were
      elaborated and a thematic working group on district management was created under
      auspices of National Authority for Public Function (now the Ministry of Public
      Function).

      The human resource strategy has not been elaborated; due to institutional changes falling
      under Ministry of Finance and Planning.

      The final assessment was that: (i) all districts of the five provinces benefited from the
      training; (ii) the province are established and functional, are familiar with the situation of

                                               45 

       the districts and have the capacity to provide the support needed and consistent with the
       work of the district technical teams; and (iii) the new competencies and capacities
       developed as a direct result of the training were: (l) Financial management and
       procurement; (2) Planning; (3) Reporting; (4) Archives and documentation; (5) Working
       with communities; (6) Works management; (7) Human resources; (8) Management; (9)
       Planning and land use.

       This assessment also warrants assuming that the results expected in terms of development
       of capacities, improvement of local administration and in the services provided by local
       authorities will, in general, be achieved. In addition, the results expected as regards
       strengthening the public service training system can be said to have been partially
       achieved, although more time will be needed for the impacts to become evident.

Component 4. Contributing to the improvement of the political and institutional
framework for decentralization

24.   The purpose of this component was to support development of policies and
methodologies that wi11lead to greater decentralization of the country's fiscal, administrative and
governance systems.

i.  In the External Control Area - the partnership with the Administrative Tribunal was started
    in 2006 and includes:

   ./ Support for performance of financial audits in the districts with a view to developing
      local competencies based on identification of shortcomings and irregularities and
      proposed remedies, functioning as an inducer of good governance (teaching aspect) and
      ensuring that perpetrators of any irregular acts will be held responsible. Accordingly,
      audits were carried out with DPFP assistance in the districts of the provinces of Sofala,
      Niassa, Manica and Tete in 2005, and in 2007 in the provinces of the provinces of Sofala
      and Zamb6zia, while in 2008 the districts of Tete and Maputo province were audited .

   ./ With audits now being done annually it is expected that the managers of public funds will
      feel constrained to comply more strictly with the procedures in effect, which will increase
      and improve careful management of public funds in the districts .

   ./ Institutional Analysis of the Administrative Tribunal This study produced a diagnosis
      of the financing and performance of the AT, together with a proposal for institutional
      improvement with emphasis on the decentralization process .

   ./ Preparation of the Executive Project for Improving the AT - Following the results of the
      institutional analysis, an executive project for improving the AT was prepared. The final
      document was appropriately amended to bring it into line with the AT's Corporate Plan.
      It identifies the frame of reference and provides a summary of the problems and
      suggested solutions, and further presents the operating framework together with each of
      the areas considered with the respective goals, activities and budget.


                                               46
       ./ Improvement of the legislation and procedures, including: (i) Legal reform of the
          Executive Project for institutional improvement for deconcentration of the AT; (ii)
          Preparation of the Manual of Mandatory Instructions of the AT; and (iii) preparation of
          the proposal for restructuring of the AT and revision of procedures and manuals,
          including monitoring of implementation.

       ./ The support furnished for the AT also included a number of staff-training actions, both
          internal and also short-term courses outside Mozambique 6, in the fields of: (i)
          Accounting, auditing and case judgments; (ii) System of performance evaluation and
          personnel development; and (iii) the RAP system and in-service training for technicians
          on: (i) Methods and Techniques for Performance of Audits of Public Works, and (ii)
          Planning, Internal Control and Organizational Development together with Analysis of
          Processes and Preparation of the respective Reports and Votes. The AT was also given
          assistance for training government technical specialists and managers in the management
          and management accounts areas.

11.    In the Planning and Finance Area, the activities carried out in the context of the DPFP
       specifically included:

       ./ Support to provinces and districts in the preparation of the Performance Evaluation
          System and budget.

       ./ Formulating and designing a system for preparing and managing the State Budget with
          view to its computerization, thus establishing the link between the central, provincial and
          district agencies. (Technical Assistance) .

       ./ A study was made on intergovernmental fiscal relations (IFR), the objective being to
          analyze intergovernmental fiscal relations in Mozambique. The study was made by two
          coordinated teams (Receipts and Expenditures). The findings were discussed in a
          workshop on decentralization organized jointly by the Ministry of Planning and
          Development and the Ministry of State Administration.

iii.  Regarding the Environment - The activities concerning physical and land-use planning
       comprised:

       ./ Production of a set of methodological Guidelines for preparation of the District Land-Use
          Plan, which will enable the Government of Mozambique to integrate land-use planning
          and natural-resource management into the District Development Planning processes,
          thereby strengthening the capacities currently existing in the provinces and districts .

       ./ Creation of a data bank following a consultancy which resulted in design and production
          of a functional computer program suitable for building a data base including land-use and
          environmental data for promoting sustainable national development and taking the
          district as the basic building block for planning purposes. This tool will ensure an

         carried out in the context of the technical cooperation furnished by the Official Audit Office (Tribunal de Contas) of
6 Activities
Pernanbuco, Brazil

                                                               47 

         improvement of the technical quality of data analysis and will create the necessary
         conditions for standardization of the data model to be used in setting up information
         systems on the districts and municipalities of Mozambique, so as to make them
         compatible and permit the making of comparative analyses of the overall situation in the
         country. Technicians from all the provinces have been trained in use of the data bank.

      ./ Thematic maps - It is hoped that the Ministry for Coordination of Environment will
         systematize, compile and provide thematic maps of 128 districts. As of the end of the
         project maps of only 20 districts had been delivered.

Component 5. Support for implementation of the project

iv. Project Management - The main activities carried out in this context were:  (i) coordination
    and supervision of the project; and (ii) financial management of the project, including:
    Adjustment to the accounting system, internal auditing of the project accounts in the
    provinces and other routine activities.

v.  Financial Implementation - For the performance of the activities of the DPFP, an amount
    corresponding to US$48,720 million was disbursed and used.

VI.  Monitoring   and Evaluation - The monitoring system for the DPFP was established by a
      consultancy. The Performance Evaluation System is one of the four modules making up the
      DPFP monitoring system:

      ./ Participatory Monitoring of the Quality of the Services Provided, intended to be done by
         the Technical Assistance firms hired for the purpose (T&B Consult and CESO), whose
         contracts ended in 2006;

      ./ Performance Evaluation System (PES);

      ./ Monitoring ofpolicy and project management processes;

      ./ Monitoring of the activities of the Annual Investment Plan.

25.      The project's performance was found to be good (100% Good or Excellent).

2.  Assessment of the outcome of the operation against the agreed objectives

26.     The project achieved its development objectives of improving the institutional capacity of
district administrations to plan and manage small infrastructure investments in response to
community demand. The outcome indicators have been achieved. Specifically:

./ Percentage of districts with district development plans and annual investment plans
   approved. By the end of the project, all 56 (49 initially previewed) districts (100%)
   participating in the project were preparing participatory district development plans and



                                                48 

   annual investment plans that were approved by district development councils. This exceeds
   the original target value of 80 percent of districts doing so.

v'  Percentage of districts with district consultative councils organized and approving
   district plans and implementation reports. All 56 (49 initially previewed) districts
   participating in the project established district consultative councils who were meeting at
   least twice a year to review and approve district plans, to review implementation reports, and
   to provide overall oversight and guidance for the improving service delivery at district level.
   This exceeds the original target value of 80 percent of districts doing so.

v'  Percentage of districts in which participants in planning processes express satisfaction
   with responsiveness and accountability of district administration. This indicator is not
   monitorable as formulated. However, a study of experiences in Mozambique of community
   participation and consultation in district planning completed in March 2009 found that the
   project made a significant contribution to establishment of consultative mechanisms at
   district level. The study included a survey of people's perceptions of the performance of
   district administrations. Some 81 percent of respondents said they were aware of district
   investments and 88 percent of these expressed satisfaction with the results.

v'  Percentage of districts rated good or excellent on annual local investment grant
   performance. By the end of the project, some 67 percent of districts (33 of 49) were rated
   good or excellent in executing their investment grants, under the annual performance
   evaluation framework established under the project. This is due largely to the good
   performance of the district works technicians and accountants whose positions were initially
   financed under the project, but are now mainstreamed into the district administrations. This
   performance exceeds the original target value of 50 percent of districts doing so.

v'  Percentage of districts at national level adopting DPFP approach and methodologies for
   participatory planning and governance. All 128 districts in Mozambique had adopted the
   DPFP approach by the end of the project. All the districts are using the project-supported
   strategic planning and annual planning and budgeting approaches. This exceeds the original
   target value of 60 percent of districts doing so.

v'  Key administrative and fiscal instruments adopted, supporting transparent district
   planning and management. Five major administrative and fiscal instruments were adopted
   with support of the project. Guidelines for community participation and consultation in
   district planning were published in the official gazette in August 2003. The district was
   made a formal budget unit through adoption in August 2003 of the law on local organs of
   state and its implementing regulations adopted in November 2005. Operational rules and
   procedures for district finance were published in 2008. Provincial budget allocations to
   districts were established for district infrastructure maintenance in 2007 through budget
   instructions to the line ministries (education, health, water, and the like). The share of the
   state investment budget programmed at provincial level amounted to 4.7 percent of the state
   budget in 2006, 3.7 percent in 2007, and 3.9 percent in 2008. The adoption of five
   instruments exceeds the original target value of four.


                                               49 

3.  Evaluation of the borrower's own performance

27.     The commitments assumed by the Government relate to the actions for fostering political,
administrative and financial deconcentration and decentralization are being fulfilled and the
progress verified demonstrates the Government's commitment to the decentralization process. In
order to carry said commitments into practice, legislation was drafted and approved which guides
the deconcentration and decentralization process and the actions detailed below have been
implemented:

./ Approval of Law 8/2003, of May 19, 2003, known as the Law on Local authorities - LOLA,
   and of its implementing regulations, in 2005, created the conditions for speeding the
   decentralization process by strengthening the role of the provincial and district governments.
   The functions of the local governments were classified, together with their form of
   organization and manner of operation. Mention should be made of the commencement of
   implementation of the Strategic Plan for the Administration Sector, which is the instrument
   for putting the Government's Five-Year Program into effect.

./ The SISTAFE Law and its implementing regulations strengthen this commitment, in which
   connection special mention can be made of the establishment of the Single Treasury Account
   in the Ministry of Finance effective from the central and provincial levels and for 50 districts
   to date, which enables direct payment of expenditures and collection and classification of
   revenue in the Single Treasury Account.

./ Approval of Decree 512006 granting the Province Governors and District Administrators
   specific powers in the human resources sphere, thus creating the possibility to hire, locally,
   public officials and personnel to strengthen the district staff.

./ Approval of Decree 612006 setting out the typical structure of the District Government
   Staffing Chart, thereby making it possible for the districts to secure the personnel needed to
   meet the requirements deriving from the progress of the decentralization process .

./ Approval of the Guidelines for Community Participation and Consultation by Joint Decision
   (Despacho), published in the Official Gazette, establishing the bases for organization of the
   communities so that they will be able to participate actively in local governmental activity, in
   accordance with the Government's commitment to promote good community participation
   practices in the selection of the priorities to be included in the plans and budgets drawn up,
   and in the monitoring of the Government's actions. The Government believes that working
   closely in this fashion with the citizens, through the establishment of direct channels, will
   contribute to toward making the implementation of government policies more efficient and
   efficacious .

./ The instituting of the District Budget, including the State Budget for Discretionary
   Investment, while the commitment only fixed its increase through the provinces. The
   Government of Mozambique, taking into consideration the current legislation (SISTAFE)

                                               50 

    opted to set a discretionary budget ceiling for districts starting in 2006 at an amount of
    approximately US$300,000 per district. The same process was then continued for the 2007,
    2008, 2009 and 2010 fiscal years, always with annual increases from year to year based on
    the following criteria: (i) population; (ii) poverty index; (iii) size of the district's territory;
    and (iv) level of the district's expenditure and revenue collection. This decision on the
    Government's part will speed financial decentralization for effecting investments that are
    decided on by the communities in accordance with current legislation.

./ Approval of Decree 54/2005 approving the regulations governing the engaging of
   Contractors for Public Works or Supply of Goods and Provision of Services to the State. The
   establishment of new procurement rules by the State is a timely measure and one that will
   have a positive impact, with special emphasis in the deconcentration and decentralization
   spheres. Based on the acknowledged good practices, in the context of the Decentralized
   Planning and Finance Program, the Regulations also include a simplified contracting method
   for dealing with small-scale works, goods and services, which simplifies such contracting
   and procurement activities for the districts. The implementation process for the Regulations
   incorporates various actions that will directly benefit decentralization through the creation of
   procurement units - Procurement Management and Implementation Units (PMIUs) - in all
   State agencies and institutions at the central, province, district and local authority levels .

./ The establishment of Provincial Assemblies, of 43 municipalities and the strengthening of
   their institutional capacity, and of Local Consultative Councils at the district, administrative
   post, locality and community level, are also important steps on the way to political
   decentralization that the Government is implementing and which will facilitate the
   deconcentration and decentralization process.

./ Institutional training deserves special attention by the Government throughout the country;
   this training would be for decision-making and management staff in the provinces and
   districts. In this context, steps have already been taken to strengthen the capacity ofthe State
   institutions operating in the training area, as is the case with the IFAP As (training institutes
   for government and local authority employees) .

./ Also established and ready to commence operation is the Higher Institute of Public
   Administration, intended for advanced training of senior government officials, while, within
   the context of the Decentralized Planning and Finance Project (DPFP), the training strategy
   adopted will make it possible for the training needs in general and the preparation of the first
   provincial annual training plans to be handled by the provincial and district officials
   themselves, who by then will have been duly trained for the purpose. In this way, the
   demand will come from the districts and provinces, as a result of the district being made the
   basis for planning, while at the same time they will assume responsibility for the
   implementing of their training plans, with DPFP support within a self-sustaining and
   appropriate model run by the local provincial authorities .

./ The Decentralized Planning and Finance Project has also proved excellent in supporting the
   performance for the first time of audits of the country's district governments, and also in the
   reformulation of the legislation to permit deconcentration and decentralization of the

                                                 51 

   activities of the Administrative Tribunal, with the country being divided into three regions
   (North, Centre and South) for this purpose.

28.     However, in terms of project implementation, the project has been experiencing delays,
lack of timeliness in the flow of counterpart funds, which affected negatively the payment to
providers of goods and services and the implementation of the project activities. At the end of
the project there were no outstanding payments to be covered by government contribution.

4.  Evaluation of the performance of the Bank, any co financiers, or of other partners

29.    The Bank has played fundamental role to keep the project on track as well as to achieve
the main goal. The Bank missions has maintain close contact and dialogue with Government
giving rapid and positive response for the problems and questions related to the implementation
and management of the project.

30.     During the project implementation the Bank mission was made regular visit to the project
included field mission to supervise and monitor the implementation and discuss the progress and
strategy related to the decentralization process. Supervision regularly reviewed compliance with
fiduciary, environmental, and other safeguards. The Bank maintained a close dialogue with
policy makers, technical staff, and development partners throughout implementation.

31.    It must be highlighted some decision from the Bank has contributed positively,
proactively and effectively to find solutions to challenges and problems faced during the project
implementation:

./ Client connection has made financial system and operation much easier
./ The decision allowing for 100 percent disbursement for eligible expenditures and quick
   response of reallocation of the proceeds of the grant among the various disbursement
   categories has strengthened the ability of the project to meet its objectives and has had a great
   impact on the process of project implementation.
./ Moving from Washington to Johannesburg has alleviate the program and facilitated the
   communication

5.  Description of the proposed arrangements for future operation of the project

32.     The Government, through the Ministry of Planning and Development, in mid-2006 made
a joint review of the projects supporting decentralization in Mozambique. One of the
recommendations resulting from this review was that the Government ought to prepare a
National Decentralized Planning and Finance Program. The preparation of the National District
Planning and Finance Program comprised the drafting of basic documents, discussions with the
chief actors and negotiations with the partners. The process continued after the closing of the
project in March 2009, and the Government will continue paying close attention to the
effectiveness of the National Decentralized Planning and Finance Program.



                                                52



                                                                                   ------_._----
33.    The preparation of the National Decentralised Planning and Finance Programme is being
led by the Ministry of Planning and Development and The overall process is managed and
guided by the multi-sectoral supervisory committee composed of National Directors from the 6
relevant ministries and chaired by the Vice-Minister for Planning and Development.

6. Assisting the preparation of the Bank's ICR

34.   The Bank's ICR was prepared by a consultant that worked in strong collaboration with
the M&E specialist of the project. The preparation has included a field visit to two district of
Nicoadala a Maganja da Costa in Zambezia province.

35.    The Government has given a totalи support and follow up the preparation process,
including preparing crucial meeting to relevant persons and institutions, providing information
and conditions for work and discussion of the findings.

36.     In additional, the draft report was discussed and feedback and comment sent the bank
authorities.




                                                 53 

                                                                                                           tSRD 33451Rl
   :,
    '.   30*1"                                                                                   40' E
                                                                                                                       10" S
1000sj                    "




                              ~ Loke               T           z
                              ,~Maidwi'v
                              \.
                                ."\       ".  ..."                  "
                                                               -.r и 

                              J. - . . -.,и../ '\.. ........ r-'
                         I


                 ,.r
                  \...
                         \





IS'S                                                                                                                   IS' 5




                                                                                                  \

                                                                                                 {tAngoch..




                                                                         INDIAN OCEAN




                                                                    o    50        tOO   1SO 200 KJomor.m
                                                                    1     I          I    I   1
                                                                    I          I             I         I
                                                                    o          50        100          150Mlies




                                                                     MOZAMBIQUE
                                                                         o          SELECTED ClllES AND TOWNS
                                                                         <iI        PROVINCE CAPiTALS
                                                                         «          NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                    RIVERS
                                                                                    MAIN ROADS
                                                                                    RAILROADS
                                                                                    PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                    INTERNATIONAL SOUNDARIES
                                   lS'f
                                                                                                                 JANUARY 1007
