                                                                       71282

                                                     FINAL REPORT
                                                              August 2002




Participation, Transparency, and Downward Accountability
            in District Planning in Mozambique



                             Rodrigo Serrano
                              (consultant)




             Report prepared as an input for the design of the
              ―Decentralized Planning and Finance Project.‖
 Commissioned by the Water and Urban Group 1, Eastern and Southern Africa,
                              World Bank.
                                                                              1


CONTENTS

       List of Acronyms

       Executive Summary

I.     Introduction

II.    Analytical Framework
       1. Key Definitions
       2. A Participation and Accountability Perspective of a District Plan

III.   The Institutional Context for Local Governance
       1. Government
          1.1. Government Structure
          1.2. Policy Framework
          1.3. Statutory Framework
       2. Civil Society
          2.1. Social Capital
          2.2. Local Democratic Culture

IV.    The Decentralized Financing and Planning Program (DFPP) in Nampula—
       Strengths and Limitations
       1. The Program in a Nutshell
       2. Strengths & Limitations

V.     Issues, Options, & Mechanisms for Improved Local Governance
       1. Organizing Communities
           1.1. Principles for Creating Community Organizations
           1.2. Models of Community Organizing
           1.3. The Recommended Model
           1.4. Who Should Promote Organizing and How?
           1.5. Incentives
           1.6. Risks and Mitigating Measures
           1.7. Minimum Standards
       2. Structuring the Local Dialogue
           2.1. Organizational Structure
           2.2. The Content of the Dialogue
           2.3. Risks and Mitigating Measures
           2.4. Minimum Standards
       3. Executing the Action Plan
           3.1. Contracting
           3.2. Building
           3.3. Operation and Maintenance
       4. Accountability about Plan Implementation
           4.1. Organizational Infrastructure
                                                                          2


          4.2. Transparency & Communication
          4.3. Rewards & Sanctions
       5. Capacity Building and Training
          5.1.Principles for Effective Capacity Building
          5.2. Provincial Administration
          5.3. District Administration
          5.4. Civil Society

VI.    Conclusions and Recommendations
       1. The Institutional Context for Local Governance
       2. Strengths and Limitations of the Nampula Project
       3. Issues, Options, and Mechanisms for Improved Local Governance

VII.   Annexes
       1. Terms of Reference
       2. List of People Interviewed/Met
       3. Bibliographical References
                                                               3


List of Acronyms

AD          Administrador Distrital
CE          Conselho Executivo
CCD         Conselho Consultivo Distrital
CCPA        Conselho Consultivo do Posto Administrativo
CDL         Comissão de Desenvolvimento Local
DDP         District Development Plan
DPFP        District Planning and Finance Program
ET          Equipa Técnica
FL          Fórum da Localidade
GOM         Government of Mozambique
IG          Interest Group
LDF/DDF     Local Development Fund/District Development Fund
MAE         Ministério de Administração Estatal
MAMM        Moma, Angoche, Mogincual, and Mogovolas
MPF         Ministério de Plano e Finanças
NGO         Non Government Organization
PIP         Public Investment Program
PRA         Participatory Rural Appraisal
PTIP        Plano Trienal de Investimento Publico
SNV         Netherlands Development Organization
UNCDF       United Nations Capital Development Fund
WB          World Bank
                                                                                                             4


                                       EXECUTIVE SUMMARY1

INTRODUCTION
1. The purpose of this report is to provide diagnostic elements to assist in the design of the
participation and downward accountability system of the District Planning and Financing
Program that the World Bank and the Government of Mozambique are negotiating for
implementation in four provinces of the center region of the country.

2. The report is based on a three-week mission in Mozambique and the review of secondary
sources. During the mission I interviewed a broad range of stakeholders which included
government officials at the national, provincial, and district levels, donor agencies, consultants,
and civil society representatives from communities and NGOs. In addition, I visited three
experiences (UNCDF/UNDP‘s in Nampula, Concern‘s in Machaze, and ADEL‘s in Buzi) and
reviewed written materials.

ANALYTICAL FRAMEWORK
In this section I define three core concepts (participation, accountability, and community) and
present a framework for analyzing participation and downward accountability in district
planning. The framework is divided in four components, which correspond to the four stages of
the planning process:
 First, the rules and processes government applies during the diagnostic stage to gather
    community preferences regarding local development priorities.
 Second, the rules and processes government uses during plan preparation to translate
    community input into a district development plan. Important principles here are
 Third, the rules and processes government establishes during plan implementation to elicit
    community involvement.
 Fourth, the rules and processes government implements during the plan‘s monitoring and
    evaluation to enable communities to hold government accountable for plan implementation.

INSTITUTIONAL CONTEXT FOR LOCAL GOVERNANCE
The institutional context for local governance in Mozambique makes promoting true
participation and downward accountability a significant challenge. Key limitations are:
 the absence of elected district authorities and a district budget,
 a very centralized government structure
 poorly trained and equipped staff at the district level
 a thin stock of linking social capital to connect civil society with government decision-
    making
 a weak democratic culture at the local level, partly due to the recency of independence from
    colonialism, a protracted civil war, and a very young multi-party democracy

Despite these limitations, Mozambique also counts with positive assets and signals to start the
process of building good local governance. Some of them are:


1
 This is a very short summary of the analysis and recommendations contained in the report. A more detailed
summary appears in the conclusions and recommendations section.
                                                                                                   5


   government interest in developing a more statutory basis for civil society participation in
    government decision-making, through Consultative Councils at the District and PA level.
    Evidence of this are the Decree 15/2000 and a Draft Law of State Local Bodies.
   a thick stock of bonding social capital that could facilitate the thickening of linking social
    capital, as well as local experiences in developing linking organizations that serve as pilot
    models to be scaled up.
   a rich array of experiences with participatory district planning that have tested different
    methodologies and develop some local capacity for conducting them. The most promising of
    these experiences is the UNCDF/UNDP pilot in Nampula. This pilot has demonstrated that it
    is possible to mainstream a participatory district planning process managed by public
    officials using public administration procedures.

STRENGTHS AND LIMITATIONS OF THE NAMPULA PROJECT
The overall conclusion is that the Nampula model has several strengths that need to be preserved
as well as several limitations that should be addressed. Key strengths and limitations are
analyzed.

ISSUES, OPTIONS, AND MECHANISMS FOR IMPROVED LOCAL GOVERNANCE
Key recommendations to improve the participation and downward accountability component of
the DPFP being designed by the WB and the GOM are:
 Develop a strategy for creating linking social capital. The proposed strategy is twofold:
    create mandatory Forums de Localidades in each localidade and create incentives for the
    voluntary formation of Commissoes de Desenvolvimento Local (CDLs) at the povoacao
    level. Section V.1 discusses the advantages of this strategy as well as provides
    recommendations on who should be responsible for implementing it, on what incentives
    should be given for organizing, and the risks of this strategy.
 Improve the structures that the Nampula model has piloted for civil society-district
    government dialogue. It is recommended that the FLs act as an informal structure for this
    dialogue and that formal dialogue through CCs takes place at the PA and district level.
    Criteria for civil society representation in CCDs and CCPAs are proposed. Key issues that
    should be present in the production of the district plan are discussed, such as: (i) including an
    annex in the DDP where the List of Community Priorities identified in each CCPA is
    presented; and (ii) developing a plan for community self-help activities.
 Improve participation and downward accountability in subproject implementation by
    increasing transparency and information release about public procurement, creating
    community oversight committees and community-based operation and maintenance
    management committees;
 Creating conditions for downward accountability about plan implementation are suggested.
    They include: electing civil society representatives to participate in the CCs for a certain
    period of time and mandating instances for them to report back to their constituencies;
    ensuring that administrative rules for planning, budgeting, financial management, and
    procurement are transparent; develop an aggressive communication strategy; and a system of
    rewards and sanctions that provides incentives both the district staff and the local population
    to engage in good local governance.
 Strengthening the capacities of provincial and district officials, as well as community leaders
    and members. I discuss principles for effective capacity building, and make
                                                                                            6


recommendations for developing a professional development program at the provincial level,
a learning program that matches good and bad performing districts to exchange information,
the creation of provincial and district participatory development coordinators, and actions to
improve community capacities.
                                                                                                          7


I.      INTRODUCTION
1. The purpose of this report is to provide diagnostic elements to assist in the design of the
participation and downward accountability system of the District Planning and Financing
Program that the World Bank and the Government of Mozambique are negotiating for
implementation in four provinces of the center region of the country. Specific objectives of the
study (see Terms of Reference in Annex) are:
 To review the current rules, regulations and institutional arrangements for community
    participation and accountability in Mozambique.
 To propose institutional arrangements and mechanisms that will improve people‘s
    participation in decision making during the district planning process and during the
    implementation of the resulting district plans and projects.
 To review and propose ways (e.g. communication strategy, flow of information) in which the
    district administration or others handling public resources could report faithfully to
    beneficiaries on the intended and actual use of resources at the local level.
 To assess and propose institutional mechanisms through which local communities can
    regulate the behavior of district officials involved in the management of public resources and
    the provision of public services.
 To propose capacity building needs and institutional arrangements to improve participation,
    transparency and accountability at community and district levels.

2. The report is based on a three-week mission in Mozambique and the review of secondary
sources. During the mission I interviewed a broad range of stakeholders which included
government officials at the national, provincial, and district levels, donor agencies, consultants,
and civil society representatives from communities and NGOs (see Annex for a detailed list). In
my field trips I paid particular attention at three experiences: the UNCDF/UNDP‘s funded pilot
in Nampula, ADEL‘s program in the district of Buzi, province of Sofala; and Concern‘s
experience in the district of Machaze, province of Manica. I also drew from written material such
as mid-term evaluations, consultants reports, and the best practice study on community
participation in Mozambique funded as part of the DPFP formulation process 2 (see Annex for a
detailed list of the references consulted). By the end of the mission I had meetings to present my
preliminary observations with government officials and donors‘ representatives. A Draft version
of this report has been reviewed and discussed by a large number of people, to whom I want to
express my gratitude for their very useful feedback..3 In particular, I would like to thank Louis
Helling for his excellent feedback and contributions to the report. Finally, I would like to thank
all those who helped me during my stay in Mozambique

3. The Report is organized in five sections:
 The next section, section two, defines a framework of the key dimensions that affect the
   quality of a participatory and accountable district planning process;
2
 See Matakala and Cavane (2002).
3
 Ministry of Planning and Finance: Roberto Salomão, Eugénio Simbine and UNDP Technical Advisor Nelson
Amaro; Ministry of State Administration: Luciano Norte; Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development: Jose
Mathe; Consultants: Eunice Cavane, Patrick Matakala, Anselmo Zimba, Filimone Meigos, and Luis Artur; DPFP
Nampula: Castro Sanfins; DPFP Coordination Unit: Custodio dos Mucudos and Taquidir Bacar; Donors: Jan-
Willem le Grand (Netherlands Embassy), Havard Hoksnes (Norwegian Embassy), Bernard Weimer (Swiss
Cooperation), Rikke Fabienke (UNDP), and Kristin Wambold-Leibling (UNCDF); Aniceto Bila, Louis Helling, and
Kate Kuper (World Bank).
                                                                                                   8


   Section three analyzes the institutional context that exists in Mozambique for rural local
    governance.
   Section four describes the main features of the Nampula Project and analyzes its main
    strengths and limitations in terms of participation and downward accountability;
   Section five presents options and mechanisms for addressing the limitations of the Nampula
    Project;
   Section six summarizes the main conclusions and recommendations.


II.     ANALYTICAL FRAMEWORK
4. In this section I define key terms that are used throughout the paper and present a framework
for analyzing the district planning process from a participation and accountability perspective.

1. Key definitions
5. Three concepts that are at the core of this analysis and that require some sort of definition
are: participation, accountability, and community.

6. Participation. Despite the multiple definitions of participation, each one with a different
emphasis, most scholars agree that it is ―a process by which people, specially disadvantaged
people, influence decisions that affect them‖ (World Bank, 1992, p.177) as opposed to one where
decisions are imposed on them by hierarchical outside agencies. The rationale for promoting
participation is to ensure that communities play an active role in the decisions which affect their
lives and to make governments more accountable: ―as participation increases, vital information
not in the public domain becomes available and the voices of interested parties can help make
governments more accountable; both in turn enhance performance‖ (World Bank 1994, p.3).

7. Accountability. The concept of accountability stands on two pillars: answerability and
enforcement:
  Answerability is ―the obligation of public officials to inform about and to explain what they
    are doing‖ (Schedler 1999, p. 14). Answerability implies a double quest for information and
    explanation or justification. The informational dimension involves the right to receive
    information and the corresponding obligation to release all necessary details. It is basically a
    monitoring activity concerned with obliging power holders to exercise power in transparent
    ways. The argumentative dimension involves the right to receive an explanation and the
    corresponding duty to justify one‘s conduct. It forces power holders to justify their acts, to
    give valid reasons.
  Enforcement is ―the capacity of accounting agencies to impose sanctions on power holders
    who have violated their public duties.‖ (p. 14) The enforcement dimension of accountability
    implies rewarding good and punishing bad behavior. Depending on the severity of the
    offense, possible sanctions range from the destruction of reputation through public exposure
    and removal from office, through legal sanctions.
  There are many types of accountability (vertical, horizontal, political, bureaucratic, etc).
    This study is concerned with what the terms of reference describe as “downward
    accountability?. By this I understand (i) the acts of information and justification that district
    government officials give to the district population about the way in which public decisions
    are made and public monies are spent, particularly with regards to the welfare and
                                                                                                                 9


     development of the district; and (ii) the capacity of the local population and higher levels of
     government to impose sanctions/rewards on district officials in accordance to their
     performance.
   Viewed from the standpoint of the client or user of a public service there are two basic
    factors that influence accountability. ―One is the extent to which the public has access to
    alternative suppliers of a given public service. The question here is whether there is potential
    or scope for the public to exit when dissatisfied with a public service. The second is the
    degree to which they can influence the final outcome of a service through some form of
    participation or articulation of protest/feedback irrespective of whether the exit option exists.
    In other words, can they exert their voice in order to enhance accountability?‖ (Paul 1992, p.
    1048).

8. Community. As the Nampula Project‘s ―Dialogue with Civil Society Manual‖ states a broad
definition of the term community refers to ―the group to which a person feels that [he/she]
belongs to‖ (MPF/MAE 2002, ch. 2 p.13). Depending on how the group constitutes its identity
a community can refer to an ethnic community, a territorial community, a political community,
etc. I will use the term community to refer to a territorially-defined community—i.e., the lowest
territorial unit at which citizens feel they belong to a collective entity that conditions key aspects
of their everyday life. It seems to me that in Mozambique this unit is generally seen as the
―povoação‖. PRAs conducted in Machaze by Concern found that the local population feels that
the ―chefes da povoação‖ are the civil society leaders that best represent their interests, a finding
that reinforces the notion of the povoação as ―the community.‖ Matakala and Cavane come to a
similar conclusion.4


2. A Participation and Accountability Perspective of a District Plan
9. From a participation and downward accountability perspective, the district planning process
can be divided in four components, which correspond to the four stages of the planning process:
 First, the rules and processes government applies during the diagnostic stage to gather
    community input regarding local development priorities
 Second, the rules and processes government uses during plan preparation to translate
    community input into a district development plan
 Third, the rules and processes government establishes during plan implementation to elicit
    community involvement.
 Fourth, the rules and processes government implements during the plan‘s monitoring and
    evaluation to enable communities to hold government accountable for plan implementation.
Below I define some of the key features that each of these components. These features constitute
the standards with which to judge the quality of the local planning practice.

10. Gathering Community Preferences
a. Participation is inclusive; all the local population has the chance to express their preferences.


4
  Some people also refer to ―aldeias‖. This term was popular after independence, when people were brought together
into agglomerates called ―aldeias comunais‖. These agglomerates were defined according to some sort of land
subdivision and roads planning. Povoações, in contrast, only refer to an agglomeration of houses without any land
or roads planning.
                                                                                                 10


b. Participation is equitable. Minorities and underprivileged groups (the poorest, women, etc)
   have the chance to express their preferences.

c. Participation respects legitimate existing forms of organizing [as long as it doesn‘t contradict
   the other principles].

d. Participation is meaningful, that is, community members have appropriate conditions to
   exchange ideas and come to a consensus on what their priorities are. These conditions have
   to do with issues such as the size of the group, and how democratic are the rules for
   discussing and arriving at decisions.

e. Participation is aimed towards exogenous and endogenous interventions—i.e., it aims to
   identify not only solutions that should be provided by external actors but also actions that
   communities themselves can undertake to address their problems.

f. Participation is sustainable. The efforts to foster new spaces for civic participation are not
   confined to the lifespan of a Project but exceed it by becoming institutionalized. Attention
   should be given to two aspects of the institutionalization of participation: (i) the adoption of
   rules which structure decision-making processes and the allocation of authority and
   responsibility among actors, and (ii) the internalization of norms and practices related to civic
   participation.

g. Communities can express their needs and preferences freely, without being constrained by
   closed menus of options.

h. Community representatives are accountable to its members.


11. Translating Community Preferences into a District Plan
i. A transparent process is followed to reconcile the priorities that emerge from the community
    input with the priorities dictated by government sectoral policies. There are clear criteria to
    prioritize, and the criteria and results of the prioritization are known.

j. Community representatives have appropriated conditions to assess (and contest) whether
   government‘s proposed plan has adequately reflected community input.

k. The process ensures that sufficient resources are mobilized to attend the main preferences
   that come out from the participatory exercises. Resources include community contributions,
   private sector, NGO‘s, and government funding.

12. Involving Communities in Plan Implementation
l. Community representatives know the key information about the works and services they will
    receive that year in their community.

m. More advanced forms of community involvement include the community contracting and
   management of funds for simple works. This, however, is not a requirement.
                                                                                                         11




n. Communities (representatives) have the capacity to monitor the contractor‘s performance and
   have some mechanism to hold the contractor accountable.

o. Communities are trained in the technical skills and management model they need to operate
   and maintain the facility, and have access to the resources they need for this. Good practice
   varies significantly according to the nature of the service/good involved.

13. Accountability about Plan Implementation
p. Communities know the annual district plan and budget, and who is responsible for what.

q. Government and communities participate in a dialogue where progress in plan
   implementation is assessed. Government officials provide the information that justifies
   unfulfilled commitments, slow progress, as well as budgetary expenses (what has been spent
   and in what items).

r. There are institutional mechanisms for communities to assess government performance, and
   for government to feed that assessment into its civil servants‘ performance assessment.
   Rewards and sanctions taken as result of community assessment are informed back to
   communities.

14. The Institutional Environment. The effectiveness of the features discussed in the four
components is strongly influenced by the degree to which participation and accountability are
institutionalized both in the formal laws that regulate civic participation as well as in the norms
and practices that regulate daily citizen-government interactions. In general, it is clear that a
more favorable institutional environment will be one in which: (a) the local population and local
authorities perceive participation as a right rather than a ―favor‖/concession, and (b) participation
and accountability in planning are institutionalized as a form of governance, and there are clear
tools to guide the process and ensure minimum performance standards.


III.   THE INSTITUTIONAL CONTEXT FOR LOCAL GOVERNANCE
15. In this section I analyze key institutional elements of the way government and civil society
work in rural Mozambique that condition the quality of local governance.

1. Government5
16. Three dimensions of how state and government are organized that influence local
governance dynamics are: (i) how decentralized is the structure of government; (ii) how
supportive is the policy framework of a decentralized approach; and (iii) what legal and statutory
basis there is for civic participation and downward accountability.

1.1. Government Structure
17. Deconcentrated government in rural areas. Since the 1996 Constitutional Amendment and
the passage of municipal reform legislation in 1997 a dual logic of local administration was
established in Mozambique, differentiating between urban and rural areas. Municipal law

5
    For a detailed analysis of the government‘s institutional and policy framework see Helling (2000).
                                                                                                 12


provides that all urban areas and some rural conurbations are to be administered by elected local
governments (representative assemblies and mayors), with devolved powers to manage the urban
environment and to provide basic urban services on the basis of their own budgets, to be funded
through own-source revenues and intergovernmental transfers. In contrast, rural areas (where
77% of the country‘s population live) have been excluded from the process of political
decentralization, and are governed as part of a three-tier deconcentrated system (central
government, provincial government, and district administration).

18. Weak district government. District administrators (Administrador Distrital-AD) have few
clear competencies, and no specialized personnel or structures to deal with planning and
management of small scale rural infrastructure. Even though some districts have District
Development Plans (DDPs) and District Annual Plans (District PES) there is no legal
requirement to prepare them. There is no district budget. Since the district has no budget and all
funding decisions are taken either at the national or provincial level it is very hard for the local
population to hold district officials accountable. Double subordination (dupla tutela) of district
sector staff to the sector and to the district makes it very hard for the AD to hold district level
sector staff accountable, weakening even further ADs authority and his/her relevance in front of
the local population. The double subordination that happens at the district level replicates the one
that takes place at the provincial level where provincial directorates are responsible both to their
parent ministries as well as the provincial governor.

19. High turnover of district officials. The high turnover of district officials (from the AD to the
education sector technician) brings a source of great instability and uncertainty to any effort at
building improved capacities for participatory district planning. All reports about the Nampula
experience single out this factor as one of the key constraints for good performance. The main
cause of this appears to be lack of coordination and information sharing between the provincial
directorates. The mid-term evaluation of the Nampula Project summarizes it as follows:
―Problems of communication, coordination and information sharing between the provincial
directorates continue to impact negatively on the Project. One example is the transfer of district
directors and staff programmes without effective consultation between DPAC and the DPPF on
the possible consequences for the Project‖ (p. 21) An illustration of the impact of staff turnover
is that the Nampula Project‘s staff have observed that when trained staff are transferred a district
can go from being ―perfectly capable of executing the district planning methodologies‖ to seeing
the planning methodologies as ―(almost) a waste of time‖ (DPFP 1999, p. 35).

20. Lack of clarity about the status of the locality (localidade). The status of the locality in the
public administration system is unclear and confusing. Even though in legal terms the locality is
not a level of government, in practical terms, most (but not all) localities have a ―presidente da
localidade‖ who can be a civil servant or a temporary worker, and who is recognized as a
government employee. The position of presidentes is a remnant from the post-independence
period in which FRELIMO created Assembeleias do Povo at the locality level. These assemblies
(which are extinct) named a President, which became the presidente de localidade. Some of the
current presidentes de localidade are still those that were appointed by the assembleias do povo.
In others, FRELIMO or the Administrador Distrital have appointed a successor. This confusion
is furthered by the fact that government authorities have produced contradictory proposals of
how to formalize the role of the locality. One indicator of this lack of clarity is the substantial
                                                                                                  13


differences that exist between an earlier and a later draft of the Law for Local Organs of State
(both produced in 2000) which present different views of the role of the locality. One draft ―is
fairly general and states that the locality is the territorial unit aimed at ensuring citizen‘s
participation in solving problems that affect their respective communities and that its head is
selected among village or settlement leaders, and aided by two assistants who are also
community leaders. The other draft is more specific about the head of the locality being
appointed by the governor of the province and being subordinate to the head of the
administrative post. In addition, it mentions a consultative council at the locality level which
advises the head of the locality and is composed of village leaders, community leaders,
traditional chiefs and other acknowledged leaders‖ (Sterkenburg et al 2000, p. 12). Government
officials are currently considering a third draft of this Law.

1.2. Policy Framework
21. The current national development planning framework is composed by three instruments: (i)
a medium-term (5 years) strategic orientation for all development planning, outlining political
and socioeconomic goals and major strategies; (ii) a three-year rolling public investment
program (Programa de Investimento Público or Public Investment Program—PIP)6 to translate
the development program into actions and projects; and (iii) the annual Economic and Social
Plan (Plano Economico e Social or PES), as an instrument to link planning and budgeting. PIP
resources are allocated by the Ministry of Planning and Finance to line agencies or sectors and
provincial administrations, which permits provinces to develop provincial PIPs. Ten to fifteen
percent of investment resources are decentralized to provincial level. The Provincial Directorate
of Planning and Finance is responsible for programming and execution of the decentralized
component of the PIP. The PES has traditionally been used as a workplan to be implemented and
monitored at provincial level. The districts also produce annual workplans and quarterly reviews
that are sent to the province.

22. District budget management is quite limited. Districts neither manage the capital budget nor
the civil service component of the recurrent budget. Districts, for the most part, manage their
own source revenues for the acquisition of goods and services, though they also have some
control over the hiring of contract workers. District recurrent budgets are determined both
centrally and locally (legally the district budget has no standing). The personnel component of
the budget is determined centrally by the civil service system. Districts have little input into the
personnel share of the recurrent budget. On the other hand districts themselves are responsible
for developing the goods and services component of their recurrent budgets, mainly because they
are responsible for financing their own non-wage recurrent expenditures. With regards to district
development budget, each year as part of the annual budget process, the district administration
submits capital expenditure proposals to DPPF. As part of the deliberations about the provincial
budget, district development allocations are determined. Districts are then informed of the
approved and their allocations. The district itself does not administer the funds; rather, funding is
transferred to the implementing agency. (WB report, 2002).

23. Although the TORs for this study did not include an analysis of the planning system, it
should be noted that the existing system presents serious problems in terms of integrating
territorial plans coming from different levels, sectoral and territorial planning, and strategic and
6
    Formerly known as Plano Trienal de Investimento Público-PTIP.
                                                                                                                   14


operational plans. More specifically, there are at least two bottlenecks that the current policy
framework presents for local governance are:
 First, there is a tension or discrepancy between territorial and sectoral planning which has not
    been reconciled yet. It is not clear how district plans integrate into the national planning
    process . The idea is that strategic district plans will integrate into strategic provincial plans,
    and that district PES will integrate into provincial PES. However, this is a new planning
    strategy that is in the process of being discussed and implemented.
 Second, since there is no untied public funding for investments at the district level it is
    important to survey if there is sectoral funding available in the main policy areas where the
    local population demands government intervention. The main gap I perceived was in the area
    of micro-credit for local economic activities—ranging from agricultural activities (small
    animals, farm infrastructure), to small businesses, etc.

1.3. Statutory Framework
24. There is no legal framework for district planning and investment financing in Mozambique.
The only government regulation that exists are a set of Guidelines for District Development
Planning issued in September 1998 by the Ministry of Planning and Finance (MPF) and the
Ministry of State Administration (MAE). It was on the basis of these Guidelines that the
province of Nampula embarked upon a pilot program of decentralization which aims to promote
more effective district development planning and community participation through the
devolution of increasing administrative and financial responsibilities to the district level. The
program is being executed by the provincial Directorate of Planning and Finance.

25. Decree no 15/2000. In June 2000, the GOM approved Decree 15/2000 to ―establish the ways
to link local organs of state with community authorities.‖ The Decree was regulated in August of
the same year by MAE. Community authorities are defined as ―people who exercise a specific
form of authority over a specific community or social group.‖ It identifies three broad categories:
traditional chiefs, village secretaries, and other legitimated leaders. The last category is a very
broad one that encompasses a wide variety of potential leaders (economic, social, religious or
culturally based). Therefore, there is no discrimination.7

26. Main obligations of these authorities are to:
 Disseminate government laws and policies among community members
 Collaborate with government in keeping peace, and fighting crime, including specifically the
    illegal exploitation of natural resources.
 Mobilize and organize communities for local development activities. This includes: building
    and maintenance of certain kind of water, education, and health facilities, cemeteries, roads,
    latrines, agricultural markets and fairs

7
  The main problem I found in terms of discrimination is how political party leaders are treated. Everyone knows
that ―secretarios de bairro‖ are the political leaders of FRELIMO at the village level. While this kind of leaders are
treated as a specific category of community leaders, the village-level leader of RENAMO (delegado) is not
mentioned at all. Indeed, according to a chefe do posto administrativo, by law RENAMO‘s delegados cannot even
convey village-level meetings. This differential treatment of political party local leaders does not appear to be
justified. Either both can be recognized as community leaders or none of them can. This kind of inconsistency is part
of the entanglement of state and party that was characteristic of the socialist, single party government Mozambique
had until the 1990s.
                                                                                                              15


   Participate in the civic education of community members about sustainable natural resource
    management, premature weddings,
   Mobilize and organize people for tax payment,

27. Community authorities are granted specific privileges as official representatives of their
communities, including the right to display official state symbols in their homes/seats and to
wear state provided uniforms. In some provinces they are also provided with bicycles and/or
radios. In addition, community authorities are authorized to retain a fixed percentage of the taxes
they collect, specifically of the ―National Reconstruction Tax‖ levied on a per capita basis on all
adults.

28. The most controversial aspect of this decree is the fact that community authorities are also
tax collectors. Tax collection is a quintessential government activity. Those who collect taxes,
even if it is a private firm, are doing it in representation of government. It is confusing then to
mix in the same position the functions of being a representative of civil society and representing
government for raising taxes. This role ambiguity can lead to conflicts of interest. For instance, a
community authority may restrain himself from holding government accountable on its promises
(part of his role as rep of civil society) for fear that government may retaliate trying to change
him as the community authority (and thereby losing the income he makes by raising taxes). Since
most community authorities are lineage-based traditional authorities changing community
authorities will not be so easy for government without losing credibility, but this cannot be ruled
out. Given that this decree is in the process of being implemented, it is hard to assess how much
this ambiguity in the role of community authorities vis-à-vis state and their local constituencies
may compromise the process of fostering legitimate and active community representatives.

29. Since there is no prospect that government will modify this decree, the question for the
program is whether there are ways for benefiting from the potential offered by the recognition of
the importance of community representation. One way could be to broaden the set of
representatives of civil society that participate in the forums and councils so that community
authorities do not monopolize the role of civil society representation (I discuss how to do this in
section V.1).

30. Draft Law on Local Organs of State.8 This Law, if approved by the National Assembly, will
provide a clear legislative basis for (a) an ―integrated model‖ of local administration which
would strengthen the territorial logic of public organization vis-à-vis the sectoral and streamline
the administrative structure by consolidating functions in fewer district services or directorates
under the supervision of the district administrator, (b) district governments to engage in the
preparation, budgeting and implementation of district development plans, and (c) the
establishment of Consultative District Councils. It will also strengthen the role of the AD and
reduce the inefficiencies generated by the ―double subordination‖ principle. Strengthening the
role of AD is critical for creating clearer downward accountability relations.

31. The Draft Law also proposes to establish the level of localidade as the last level of
government and to create the position of ―chefe da localidade‖ which does not exist so far. It will
8
  This is based on one of the versions of the Draft Law (November 2000) mentioned before, which was the only one
I had direct access to.
                                                                                                                 16


create Consultative Councils at the three levels (district, administrative post, and locality). The
Law norms the composition, functions, and schedule of each of the three councils (see Table 1).

Table 1. Features of the Consultative Councils Proposed in the Draft Law of Local Organs of State
                           CC Distrito                    CC Posto Administrativo              CC Localidade
Composition       AD                                     Chefe do PA                      Chefe de localidade
                  Members of District Govt               Chefes de localidade             Community authorities
                  Chiefs of PA                           Presidents                       Representatives from
                  Municipal council presidents           Community authorities             economic,
                  Community authority                     representatives at the PA         professional, social
                   representatives at the District         level                             and cultural
                   level, should be invited from          Representatives from              organizations
                   every locality.                         economic, professional,          Other social or
                Representatives from                      social and cultural               professional leaders
                   economic, professional, social          organizations                     living in the locality
                   and cultural organizations
Purpose        Express opinions about:                    Express opinions to the          Express opinions to the
                Cultural, social, and economic            Chefe do PA on how to             Chefe da localidade on
                   issues that require coordination        address fundamental issues        how to address
                   among public agencies or                that affect the welfare and       fundamental issues
                   between the latter and local            living conditions of the          that affect the welfare
                   communities.                            local population.                 and living conditions
                Proposed district plan and                                                  of the local population.
                   budget
                ―balanço‖ of the annual plan
                   and budget
                fees to be applied to service
                   provision within district
                   responsibilities
Functioning     Meets every 3 months                     Meets every month                Meets every 15 days
                Conveyed and presided by the             Conveyed and presided by         Conveyed and
                   AD                                      the chefe do PA                   presided by the chefe
                                                                                             da localidade

32. Two comments about this proposal:
 The distinction between the purpose of each of the three councils is not clear, particularly
    between posto administrativo and localidade. I believe that at the localidade level it will be
    more productive to have a Forum da Localidade, formed by civil society representatives,
    rather than a CCL (I explain the reasons for this in section V.). Apparently, this is the
    position taken in the other version of the Draft Law.
 The frequency of meetings seems too high for the resources and capacities of the different
    actors. Given the high opportunity cost of holding each of these councils, it is important not
    to overdo them.


2. Civil Society
33. There are two dimensions of civil society dynamics that are critical for a local governance
program: the type and quality of social capital that exists in the rural areas and the quality of the
democratic culture at the local level.
                                                                                                                         17


2.1. Social Capital
34. In terms of social capital (the capacity for collective action) rural communities in
Mozambique display a wide variety of civil society groups (formal and informal). While some of
these organizations are present across villages (e.g., traditional authorities) others are very
incipient forms of collective action present in only a few villages (e.g., CDLs). The main ones
are:
 Community-based Natural Resource Management Committees
 Water user groups
 Women‘s groups. Organização da Mulher Moçambicana.
 Farmer organizations (associações de camponeses)
 Micro credit groups, often associated with the local fair
 Religious organizations
 Youth groups (sports,
 Cultural groups (dancing groups
 Grupos dinamizadores
 Political (presidente da célula—FRELIMO, and Delegado da RENAMO)
 Traditional authorities (regulos, chefes de povoação, cabos, sagutas, etc.).
 CDLs (Comissões de Desenvolvimento Local) or other denominations for community
     (povoação)-wide level organizations. This type of organizations have been promoted by
     some NGOs.

35. There are two types of social capital that are important for local governance:
 Bonding social capital: the strong ties connecting family members, neighbors, close friends,
    and business associates. These ties connect people who share similar demographic
    characteristics.
 Linking social capital: consists of the vertical ties between poor people and people in
    positions of influence in formal organizations (banks, agricultural extension offices, the
    police). This dimension captures a vitally important additional feature of life in poor
    communities: that their members are usually excluded—by overt discrimination or lack of
    resources—from the places where major decisions relating to their welfare are made. (WB
    2000, p128).9

36. Thick stock of bonding social capital. The system of traditional authorities in Mozambique
provides a strong foundation for collective action within the community. Traditional authority in
Mozambique is a lineage based system of governance rooted in pre-colonial institutions of
leadership and social organization. During the period of Portuguese colonial administration,
traditional authorities were frequently co-opted through a system of indirect rule in order to
maximize social control for forced production, labor mobilization and tax collection at minimum
cost to the metropole. As a result, the legitimacy of historically important forms of indigenous
social organization was often compromised.10 The attempt of the post-independence state to
9
 Scholars that prefer to avoid the term social capital refer to linking social capital as the ―political capabilities of the
poor‖ (Moore and Putzel 1999).
10
   The position of régulo was created by the colonial domination system called Indigenato. The indigenato was a
―dualistic system of local government under which Mozambican subjects were governed by chiefs (regulos) and
Portuguese citizens by administrators; a correspondingly legal system under which Mozambicans were subject to
customary law and citizens to Portuguese civil codes; a dualistic system of land tenure [...] and of labor regulation.‖
                                                                                                                    18


eliminate this system and replace it with a politically based organization (secretários de bairro)
failed in many parts of Mozambique to create an effective substitute for traditional institutions in
providing a consensual authority for maintaining social order and organizing collective action.
With Decree 15/2000 the GOM shifted its position towards traditional authorities and started a
process of legitimating them as community authorities.

37. The traditional system has three key positions: the most important one is the ―régulo‖ who
has authority over a regulado (a territory equal or smaller to a localidade); the povoações within
a regulado are controlled by a ―chefe da povoação‖ or cabo, and every ten families in a povoação
there is the chefe de familia. Both the chefe da povoação and da familia are subordinated to the
régulo. The attributions of these leaders include some of the ones they had during the colonial
period (land allocation for cropping, resolving legal disputes, etc) but also encompass spiritual
and cultural aspects of the community life. Traditional authorities do not make decisions on their
own but consult with a ―council of elders‖ and other influential persons.

38. Traditional authorities should be the entry point of an approach that seeks to work with
communities. Being the entry point doesn‘t mean working only with them but through them. The
important point is that they provide a social structure through which a development program can
mobilize the collective energy that exists at the community level. They are the people who have
the authority to convey a community meeting, who in consultation with other influential people
can designate other activists to participate in development activities, etc. So, even if some of
these traditional authorities may not represent well their constituencies, they should be the
conduits for engaging and linking the community with external actors.

39. One of the key aspects that an approach that aims to work through traditional authorities has
to attend to is improving the quality of representation of these leaders. Regulos have a history of
locating the investments that come to their region close by to the village where they live. This is
what the Portuguese did when regulos worked for them, and NGOs say they have seen this
tendency very much alive in recent experiences of community investment prioritization. NGOs
have developed ways to minimize this—e.g., taking first a vote only among community members
and then asking the régulo for his opinion about the result. What is clear is that, in many cases,
the opinion of the régulo alone is not a good proxy for the preferences of his constituency.

40. Thin stock of linking social capital. In contrast to the thick stock of bonding capital that
exists in rural communities, the stock of linking capital is much thinner. The rural population has
few organizations that enable them to participate in decision-making structures. During the post-
independence period there was an attempt to create such structures but they failed. The socialist
government created Grupos Dinamizadores at the povoação level and Assembeleias do Povo at
the localidade level. Some of these structures ceased to function (e.g., nearly all assembleias do
povo) and others proved unable to provide benefits to rural communities (e.g., many secretários
de bairro). As a result, links between the population and the state progressively weakened and

(O‘Laughlin 2000, p. 16). The position of régulo was hereditary and often vested in a lineage of pre-colonial
political eminence. ―Regulos and cabos were paid by the colonial state through commissions on tax collection,
labour recruitment and cash-crop sales within their areas. Within their areas of jurisdiction, [regulos] controlled the
distribution of land classes as indigenous reserves, heard cases under evolving but restricted versions of local
customary law, organized recruitment of forced labour, and enforced forced cropping‖ (p.17)
                                                                                                     19


the responsiveness of public decision-making to local concerns and priorities similarly
diminished, leaving an increasing deficit in linking social capital in rural Mozambique.

41. In most parts of Mozambique there is no tradition of autonomous rural cooperatives that
enable peasants to link with the market on more advantageous terms. Lately, some NGOs (such
as OLIPA in Mecuburi) have developed a very interesting work in creating associações de
camponeses for marketing crops. Other promising initiatives are the efforts at building
community-wide organizations such as SNV‘s CDLs in the MAMM region in the province of
Nampula. Interestingly, what the CDL members I met with highlighted about the value added of
having a CDL was allowing them to link up better with the district government. As I said before,
though, these experiences still cover a very limited number of povoações.

42. Building up the stock of linking social capital appears as one of the critical challenges for
good local governance. As the WDR 2000 states: ―Researchers and practitioners have long
recognized that the bonding and bridging social capital in local organizations is necessary but
insufficient for long-term development. In Kenya a participatory poverty assessment found more
than 200,000 community groups in rural areas, but most were unconnected to outside resources
and unable to help poor people rise out of poverty. The creation of linking social capital is
essential, and external support has often been important in its emergence.‖ (WB 2000, p. 129)

2.2. Local Democratic Culture
43. Weak democratic culture in the rural areas. Good local governance requires a democratic
political culture at the local level where citizens and government officials perceive participation
as a right and accountability as a duty, where opposing views are accepted and even encouraged
and addressed through deliberation and bargaining. This democratic ethos is still weak in
Mozambique. Democracy is still a very recent phenomenon, being only over ten years since the
end of the civil war. Both the socialist post-independence experience and the civil war
encouraged a highly hierarchical, military order where deliberation and dissent were not favored.

44. All the field officials I talked to stressed that one of the constraints for downward
accountability is that it is not part of the political culture in Mozambique, and specially in the
rural areas, that poor people will criticize or question or demand explanations to a government
official in relation to his or her performance. In part this is reinforced by another trait of the local
polity, which several interviewees mentioned, government intolerance to dissent: ―the person
who questions anyone from the district government is considered from the opposition, so then
people do not want to express their opinions.‖ Citizens have little confidence in the
government‘s ability to solve their problems because of the low quality of public service, the top-
down culture of party and government representatives, and the weaknesses in the functioning of
the police and law enforcement agencies.

45. Community members often express their dissatisfaction in indirect ways, and so it is
important to be sensitive to this. For instance, in a group meeting with members of a CDL I
asked if they agreed with the fact that the president of the localidade was also the president of the
CDL. Rather than saying that they strongly disagreed with this (which according to a local
external observer was their real opinion), they made more indirect references saying that the
president of the CDL ―is very busy‖, ―he has a lot of other things to do.‖ Only after I posed the
                                                                                                 20


question of whether they would prefer to elect someone among themselves they openly said that
this was their real preference.

46. The absence of elections for local authorities in rural districts eliminates the possibility of
political party competition as a realm for building up local democratic practices. Consultative
Councils will constitute the main arena for citizens representation and deliberation at the district
level. It is important to preserve these Councils as institutions based on a logic of consensual
deliberation and avoid the logic of political party competition to take over civic consultative
processes.

47. Interesting experiences with community participation and district planning. There is a wealth
of experiences, mostly led by NGOs but not only, that are slowly helping to create a more
democratic relationship between government and civil society. Matakala and Cavane (2002), for
instance, provide a detailed analysis of six important experiences implemented in the country,
namely:
   i. Projecto de Planificação e Finanças Descentralizadas (UNCDF/PPFD) de Nampula-
       Província de Nampula,
  ii. Projecto de Desenvolvimento Local de Milange (Ibis/PDLM)- Província da Zambézia;
 iii. Plano de Desenvolvimento Distrital (PDD) de Maganja da Costa- Província da Zambézia;
 iv.   Projecto de Desenvolvimento Comunitário (DEC), da Cooperação Austríaca em Búzi -
       Província de Sofala;
  v. Projecto de Desenvolvimento Rural (PRODER) de Gorongosa - Província de Sofala; and
 vi.   Programa de Desenvolvimento Humano Local (PDHL) de Guro - Província de Manica.



IV.    THE DECENTRALIZED PLANNING AND FINANCING PROGRAM (DPFP) IN
NAMPULA – STRENGTHS & LIMITATIONS
48. In this section I describe the main features and analyze the strengths and limitations of the
DPFP with respect to participation and downward accountability.

1.     The Program in a Nutshell
49. A core principle of the DPFP is to operate within government structures and procedures.
Therefore, for the formulation of the District Development Plan (DDP) the program has followed
the ―Guidelines for District Development Planning‖ elaborated by MPF and MAE in 1998.
These Guidelines outline a four-stage process (table 2).
                                                                                                                            21


Table 2. Main Stages of the District Development Plan and Annual Plan Formulation [incomplete]
(gray areas indicate community participation)
       Activity                            Purpose                                                How
First Stage—Launching of the District Plan
1.Formation of the ET Creating the technical team that will coordinate          The AD nominates 5 or 6 persons among
                      the formulation of the District Plan                       the District Directors and technicians.
                                                                                Accountable to the CE
2. Meeting to Launch     First broad picture of the district                   The AD convenes the 1st CCD
the Plan                 Ask CCD members if want to have a DDP
                         Presentation of DDP methodology
Second Stage—Diagnosis of the District (first chapter of the Plan)
3.Public Planning   Gathering community input about priority                    Each Chefe do PA convenes CCD/PA
Meeting             problems and solutions                                      ET can organize PRAs in some
                                                                                 communities
4.Gathering of data     Gather statistical data from the different sectors      ET gathers data in consultation with the
                                                                                 relevant sectors
5. Preparation of     Generate visual tools to inform decision-making           ET prepares them.
Cartographic maps
Third Stage—Definition of the Development Strategy
6. Summary of         Have a picture of the key bottlenecks and most            Based on an analysis of the diagnosis, the
Problems and          urgent problems in terms of issues and territory           ET formulates a summary of the key
Potentialities                                                                   problems and potentialities of the district
7. Formulation of a   Identify strategic lines of intervention                  Based on an analysis of the summary of
Development Strategy                                                             problems and potentialities the CE and ET
Proposal                                                                         formulate a Development Strategy Proposal
8. Discussion of the  Gather feedback from civil society about district         The AD convenes the 2nd CCD
Proposed Strategy     government‘s proposal
Fourth Stage—Identifying the Action Program and Approving the DDP
9. Negotiation        Ensure that the proposed actions will have the            ET and district authority formulate the
                      support from the relevant actors                           Matrix of actions and responsibilities after
                                                                                 exhaustive consultations and negotiations
                                                                                 with all potential funding and implementing
                                                                                 agents.
10. Approval of the       Consolidate all the different activities in one      CE approves the DDP.
DDP by the CE and          document and wrap-up the planning process.           The AD convenes the 3rd CCD.
the CCD.                  Ask CCD if it wants to continue meeting to
                           monitor DDP implementation, and if so, how
Fifth Stage— Social and Economic Plan for the District (District PES)-- Plano Economico e Social Distrital
11. Formulating the       Analyze what has been accomplished of the         ET leads the formulation process
District PES               DDP and decide what are realistic goals to        Consults with civil society through CCs
                           achieve in the following year.                    ET discusses district priorities with
                                                                              provincial authorities and discusses the
                                                                              priorities of the province for the district.
12. Consulting with       Civil society gives feedback about the Plan       AD conveys a CCD
civil society              and approves it                                   ET modifies the District PES according to
                                                                              CCD feedback
13. Approving District    Ensuring all sectors in the district subscribe    ET presents the District PES to the CE for
PES                        to the District PES                                its revision and approval.
14. Incorporating the     Ensuring that provincial sector directorates      Meetings with provincial directorates to
District PES in the        have taken into account District PES in their      explain the final version of the District PES
Provincial PES             provincial planning                                and argue the case for its inclusion in
                                                                              Provincial PES
15. Assessing             have feedback from civil society about plan       Organization of CCDs and CCPAs to assess
Implementation             implementation                                     progress achieved in implementation of
Performance                                                                   District PES

AD: Administrador Distrital; CE: Conselho Executivo; PA: Posto Administrativo; ET: Equipa Técnica; DDP: District
Development Plan.
                                                                                                                     22


50. As the table shows, there are four instances where communities participate in the
formulation of the DDP, and three instances in relation to the District PES.11 There are two basic
instruments for community participation: Consultative Councils and Participatory Rural
Appraisals (PRAs).

51. Consultative Councils. These councils take place at two levels: District (CCD) and Posto
Administrativo (CCPA). During the formulation of the DDP:

    the main role of the CCPAs is to gather community preferences about priority problems and
     solutions. This is why they take place during the diagnosis stage. In some districts, after the
     DDP is approved, these councils are a platform for dissemination of its contents.

    The main role of the CCDs is to ensure that the community agrees with the way the district
     government interpreted and translated community preferences and diagnosis data into the
     DDP. This is why each of the three CCDs are scheduled for receiving community feedback
     about a specific product designed by the District government: on an initial district diagnosis,
     on a draft of the strategy, and on the final DDP which includes the matrix of actions.

52. During the formulation and evaluation of the District PES, the District government can hold
CCDs and CCPAs. These councils have two main roles:
 Assess whether the Annual Plan reflects well the consensus reached in the DDP
 evaluate plan implementation performance and hold accountable those responsible for
   decisions.

53. Criteria for civil society representation in and overall composition of the CC is as follows:
 encompassing in terms of interest groups: government at the district and administrative post
    levels; representatives from provincial government; churches; traditional authorities; political
    parties; voluntary associations; grassroots organizations (grupos dinamizadores, etc);
    international donors acting in the district; women associations;
 encompassing in terms of geographic areas: invitations should be extended to all the
    administrative posts
 legitimate representatives: those that attend the meeting should be the person each
    group/organization recognizes as its leader.
 The CC is an open Forum, anyone interested can attend.
 Invitations are extended to organizations and communities, not to individuals
 Organizations can send more than one representative

54. Guidelines for organizing the CC are:
 Take place in the District capital.

11
  The District PES is the Annual Plan the District has to operationalize its DDP. It contains all the goals and
activities the district plans to achieve for that year. Public investment proposals for the Provincial PIP are also
included in the District PES. Since the District does not have an annual budget, all the activities of the Annual Plan
need to include their financing source. District PES in the Nampula Project have three sections: a brief introduction
that links the PES with the goals of the DDP; a summary of the district annual plan; and tables that show PES
indicators for each sector—e.g., how many students will begin first grade. Throughout the text I use Annual Plan
and District PES interchangeably.
                                                                                                              23


       There is no economic compensation for assisting to the CC
       Invitations are made at least two weeks before the CC
       Frequency: it is proposed to have a CCD every 6 months
       Logistics are the responsibility of the District government with the support of civil society.
        Lunch is offered to the participants.

55. Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA) Tools are the second instrument the program uses to
elicit community participation. PRAs are an instrument to identify LDF/DDF investments
through the annual planning cycle. In some districts, the results of PRAs were also an input for
preparing the DDP.12 The Nampula Project‘s Civil Society Manual includes a Toolkit of PRA
methods and encourages the planning team to draw from it as they see fit.

56. Regarding the implementation of the Actions Plan:
 Infrastructure is built by contractors hired by the provincial level administration. There is no
    community involvement in infrastructure building.
 Operation and maintenance are the responsibility of each sector. Community involvement in
    O&M depends upon each sector policy.


2. Strengths & Limitations
57. The DPFP in Nampula offers a strong starting point to promote participatory district
development. Some of its key strengths are:
(i)    Making district administration the driver of the participatory district development plan.
       This is a significant departure from most district development experiences where NGOs
       are the drivers. This is very important for (a) generating government ownership about the
       plan, (b) strengthening the relevance of district government for the local population, and
       (c) building sustainable capacities in the country‘s civil service.

(ii)       Following (and influencing) the methodology and guidelines for district planning
           elaborated by the national government. The best indicator of the institutional impact of
           the Project is that both government and donors consider it the model on which to build up
           a national level model of district planning and financing.

(iii)      The concept of district planning is solid. It goes beyond the ―laundry list‖ approach of
           listing community demands which is often found in many participatory planning
           exercises (in many social funds, for instance). Instead it proposes the development of a
           strategic vision which drives the prioritization process.

(iv)       The Project‘s methodology represents a significant departure from the traditional practice
           of designing top-down plans without citizens input.

(v)        The concept of Consultative Councils at the District and Posto Administrativo as an
           interface between civil society and government is good. It needs to be improved (see
           below) and the DPFP is working on it, but it is a structure that has been widely accepted

12
  The reason for this is that UNCDF introduced the DDP in 1996 and some districts (such as Mecuburi) had already
participated in a UNCDF-funded program (1993-96) during which PRAs were done.
                                                                                                  24


        at the government and NGO communities and the effort should be put in strengthening it
        rather than creating a new one. Moreover, in those districts that are more advanced
        (Mecuburi) they are becoming an effective vehicle to create a culture of local dialogue
        between district government and the local population. The AD in Mecuburi has been
        organizing CC not only for formulating DDP and annual plans but also to deal with
        unexpected issues. For instance, when more money for building roads became available
        than what was planned the AD conveyed a CC with all the representatives from groups
        affected by or interested in the roads. The exchange led not only to substantive
        discussions about the key places to locate these investments but also to written
        agreements about counterpart contributions from NGOs, projects and other groups active
        in the district.

(vi)    The representation of civil society respects existing forms of organization and
        representation.

(vii)   When events to gather community preferences are organized, simple rules for having
        meaningful participation appear to be followed: dividing the participants in smaller
        discussion groups, focusing on the causes rather than the symptoms of a problem, voting,
        separating men and women in voting, etc.

(viii) The population is able to express their preferences without apparent distortions, since the
       menu of options for investments/actions is open. This is important since the experience of
       some social funds that used closed menus in participatory planning processes has resulted
       in significant distortions of community preferences (communities ask for schools
       although this is not their priority because there is funding for that). The fact that there is
       untied funding available (through the LDF/DDF) is an important enabling condition to
       prevent this kind of distortions.

(ix)    Having organized Consultative Councils at district and/or administrative post level in
        over a dozen districts, the program has amassed a rich experience on how to organize
        these events, what works and what does not that should be tapped on.

(x)     It has experimented with a rich variety of PRA methods that provide public officials with
        a complete set of instruments for finding out community preferences and concerns.

(xi)    The Project has the position of Participatory Development Technician at the provincial
        level. For the second phase, this function will be strengthened with an Advisor for
        Participatory and Gender Methodologies. These are good decisions since provincial and
        district staff have very little training in participatory methodologies and continuous
        technical assistance and supervision are needed for a sustainable transfer and build up of
        these capacities.

(xii)   The successes of the Project are due to one of its core organizational strengths: a strong
        learning capacity and flexibility in confronting the many challenges that emerge during
        implementation. The Project began as an innovative participatory planning and financing
        project with a relatively narrow mandate and it was during implementation that its staff
                                                                                                25


       discovered new governance and institutional challenges they needed to address for the
       Project to perform well. The process of learning and addressing those new challenges led
       to a project design that has been continually evolving. Therefore, it is important to
       understand that many of the limitations that I analyze in the next point did not result from
       failing to execute the original design of the Project but rather they represent the new set
       of issues or ―new frontier‖ that the Project uncovered during implementation. Many of
       these new issues are part of the Project‘s agenda for its second phase that is currently
       initiating.

58. Its main limitations are:

Gathering Community Preferences
(i)   There is no systematic methodology to ensure that the process of gathering community
      preferences is inclusive enough. There are three key deficiencies:
       the lack of clear and transparent criteria for the ―bottom-up‖ selection of CCD/CCPA
          members opens up the possibility that not all community representatives are invited—
          i.e., a District Administrator that does not get along well with certain traditional
          authorities, for personal or political reasons, may not invite them. According to the
          Mid-term evaluation, ―selection has largely been top-down by the district
          administrators‖ (p. 27).
       Those who participate in the CCDs/CCPAs do not necessarily carry a mandate
          representing the preferences of their constituencies. For instance, the regulos or
          chefes da povoação—whose presence would guarantee an inclusive territorial
          coverage—do not have to hold public meetings before going to the CCs to find out
          what the preferences of their constituencies are. As mentioned before the opinion of
          these authorities cannot be equaled with their constituencies‘ preferences.
       CCDs and CCPAs alone are not enough to ensure inclusive representation—broad-
          based participation below the PA level is needed to guarantee real inclusion. While
          PRAs and community meetings allowed a deeper look into community preferences,
          they only took place in a few communities and not in all districts. Even CCPAs were
          not held systematically in all PAs in all districts. In Angoche, for instance, there was
          a CCPA only in one of the three PAs (Aube).
      Overcoming these deficiencies means to create a system of participation that is
      encompassing, transparent, and truly representative.

(ii)   The DPFP approach does not ensure that participation is equitable enough. Minorities
       and underprivileged groups do not have specific mechanisms to make their voices heard.
       Participation of women in the CCDs and CCPAs has been low (UNCDF 2000, Matakala
       and Cavane 2002). The poorest among the poor often do not have time to attend
       meetings, much less at the PA level. Other groups that are not organized may not be able
       to influence decisions without a conscious effort to listen to them. For instance, a woman
       in one of the community meetings I had said that no one was taking care of orphans
       whose parents had died of AIDS. A more sensitive approach to fostering interest-group
       organization could foster the creation of a group of community members around this
       issue.
                                                                                                                    26


(iii)    The approach to plan activities that can represent endogenous solutions to local problems
         seems underdeveloped. There is no mention in the DDP or the District PES about what
         are the responsibilities of the communities for local development. The experience of DEC
         in Buzi offers an interesting model of how to organize and develop a package of
         community actions for local development (see next section for a description).

(iv)     The core and mandatory elements of the process for gathering community preferences is
         not standardized. There is no Operational Manual outlining the steps, criteria and
         procedures for community participation. The Manual for Consulting Civil Society
         (Manual #3) is more a PRA Toolkit than a Manual for Community Participation. It does
         not specify (i) the scale at which gathering preferences should take place (povoação,
         localidade, PA), (ii) how encompassing it is (throughout the district, in some regions
         only), (iii) the instrument (PRA, CCPA, public meeting?) and the rules for applying it,
         (iv) the product and its format. For instance, Manual 3 (civil society) does not mention
         any rules for organizing CCPAs or its composition, nor the timing of these events in the
         planning process.

(v)      The program has followed a ―learning process‖ approach which values
         experimentation.13 While a learning approach may have made sense in the initial phase of
         the program, its replication to the national level should not proceed without a clear and
         detailed set of rules. The lack of an Operational Manual contributes to creating confusion
         among staff about the purpose of the different instruments. The Mid-Term Evaluation
         showed that there was confusion about when and why consultative meetings and/or PRAs
         take place at the Posto Administrative or community level, or how this fits into the
         planning cycle. Among the district planning team, ―some regarded the PRA as a tool to
         collect data, others to identify development needs and again others regarded PRA as a
         tool to confirm priorities already set in the district plan. In terms of the ‗dialogue under
         the tree‘ it is possible that there was some confusion between such dialogue as it relates
         to the preparation of the district development plan, and the dialogue that is part of the
         annual LDF planning cycle‖ (Pijnenburg and Artur 2000, p. 6)

(vi)     An effort needs to be made to improve the pedagogical aspects of the three Manuals, to
         make them more user-friendly (more parsimonious, step-by-step explanations, more
         visual aids, etc). Training manuals at the level of the district staff technicians need to be
         developed.


Translating Community Preferences into the DDP and the Annual Plan
(vii) As the Matakala and Cavane report say it is difficult to assess the integration of
       community participation in the planning process (p.8). In my opinion the problem does
       not lie so much in the fact that decisions are driven by the district government officials
       (the AD, the ET, etc) as the authors argue but instead in the fact that: there are no clear
       rules for how community preferences are taken into account in the prioritization process,


13
   This approach coupled with the fact that different districts started at different points explains why districts have
followed different processes.
                                                                                                                  27


        and there are no clear rules for explaining the decision making process to community
        members.
         There are two important preconditions for taking community preferences into
           account. First, to have a product that represents the community vision, a product that
           basically says ―in the Posto Administrativo X the community has reached the
           conclusion that the first problem they want to solve is the lack of water, the second is
           the inaccessibility of the road x, etc.‖ As I said before it is not clear whether decision
           makers have that kind of product in their hands when making decisions. It would be
           useful to have in the DDP document an Annex where the community vision is
           presented. This would allow to contrast the vision that emerged from civil society and
           the one that resulted from government consultation with civil society. 14 A second
           precondition is to have rules or guidelines for making decisions about the strategy and
           the matrix of projects. Manual 1 has good advice on this.
         The Manuals do not provide any methodology or guidelines for how the technical
           team should explain and justify proposed decisions and actions to civil society. The
           provincial team of the program as well as some district teams have generated a good
           amount of experience in the dynamics of these events that should be tapped on to
           produce practical guidelines.

(viii) There are no rules to ensure that the local population is informed about the results of the
       CCDs. The program does not establish how community representatives should inform
       back to communities nor does it do any follow up on whether this dissemination took
       place or not.

Executing the Actions of the Plan
(ix)  In contrast to the design phase of the DDP, where there are explicit mechanisms to
      involve the community, when it comes to implementing the planned actions the presence
      of the community becomes less visible. The reason for this was to balance the trade off
      between participation and efficiency by emphasizing participation during plan
      formulation and efficiency during the implementation stage. While this concern is
      understandable, it is advisable that the balance is attempted within each stage of the
      planning process (formulation, implementation) rather than between them.15

(x)      There are no rules for how communities can monitor the performance of contractors.

(xi)     Community participation in operation and maintenance also seems weak. Micro-projectos
         do not have operation and maintenance plans (DPFP 2002, p. 23).



14
   The core sections of the DDP represent the consensual vision of all the actors in the district. The Annex presents
the input from Civil Society that was used for generating that vision. Studies of the massive experience with
participatory municipal planning implemented in Bolivia have this as one of the key lessons (see Goudsmit and
Blackburn 2001).
15
   Also, the trade-off between participation and efficiency becomes less clear when one considers that participation
during implementation is important for community ownership, and therefore sustainability and effectiveness.
Evaluating efficiency not only in terms of the building process but also in terms of the benefits the infrastructure
produces changes the cost-benefit equation of participation.
                                                                                                                    28


Accountability about Plan Implementation
(xii) The process to inform communities about the content of the DDP and the Annual Plan
      does not ensure an adequate level of information.

(xiii) The fact that CCDs are open forums rather than councils—i.e., participants are not
       members that have been elected for a certain period of time—means that participants can
       change from one CC to the next one. In a forum anyone invited can attend to but they do
       not hold any responsibility to be held accountable for. This hurts good communication
       between government and civil society as well as accountability. A representative that has
       participated throughout the design of the DDP will be in a better position to control its
       implementation through Annual Plans because will be more in tune with the objectives of
       the overall strategy. Also these representatives can be held accountable by the CC in
       relation to their responsibilities of acting as a representative of civil society. Phase two of
       the Nampula program, which is starting now, is trying to address some of these issues.
       The technical team is in the phase of thinking through solutions and piloting them in a
       few districts.16

(xiv)    The program does not require nor has it established written guidelines or procedures for
         communities to assess plan implementation performance. Instead, the program leaves this
         option open for the CC to decide. If the CC decides to continue meeting to accompany
         plan implementation ―it is up to the council to start discussing the modalities, frequency,
         and the relationship between the council, the district government and the DDP.‖ (Manual
         #3, ch. 5, p. 55). Leaving it as a voluntary act appears more as a formal than a substantive
         act since it would be unlikely that the CC will decide not to supervise implementation.
         This is not the more important point, however. What is more important is that the
         program should have a set of instruments to guide the assessment of plan implementation
         performance (what has been and what has not been accomplished and why, what has
         been the government budget for the district and how has it been spent, etc). The Nampula
         Project is concerned about this issue and has accompanied very closely the one district
         (Mecuburi) that has had the experience of assessing its Annual Plan through a CCD. The
         results of this experience are encouraging. Community representatives questioned the
         decision of the provincial government of stopping building the road due to lack of
         funding for fuel. These representatives said that there was fuel but that it was sold by the
         workers assigned to the road. The provincial government made the commitment of
         looking into that claim and finished the road. The program should have a learning
         component to find out what conditions facilitated that in cases such as Mecuburi
         downward accountability worked well.

(xv)     There are no mechanisms for government to take the input that comes from civil society
         assessment of the plan implementation and use it to feed its civil servants‘ performance
         assessment, and to inform back to community about the actions taken.


16
   Since they are considering different alternatives it is not possible to define yet how the team will address these
issues. Rather than presenting here the alternatives they are considering I will bring them in the next section where I
refer to the main issues and options that the Decentralized Finance and Planning Program should bear in mind for
design.
                                                                                                                     29


(xvi)    One of the difficulties that the DPFP in Nampula had with respect to accountability was
         related to the delays in producing annual plans. Without an annual plan it is very hard to
         hold anybody accountable for anything since there are no concrete agreements. So far,
         there is only one district (Mecuburi) that has done it.



V.      ISSUES, OPTIONS & MECHANISMS FOR IMPROVED LOCAL
        GOVERNANCE
59. From a participation and accountability perspective, there is a core tension that runs through
the program the GOM and the World Bank are designing, namely, that it aims to improve local
governance in a context where some of the key governance reforms (elected local authorities,
devolution of certain fiscal and policy powers to the district level, etc.) are not in place and, most
likely, will not be during the lifespan of the program. The key question, then, is whether there is
room for real enhancement of local governance without putting in place those reforms first. I
believe the answer is in the affirmative for two interrelated reasons:

    First, there are significant measures that can be adopted to ―democratize‖ the current
     deconcentrated system (by improving the participation and control that civil society has on
     government) which should result in better development outcomes than with the current
     system.

    Second, the process of democratizing the deconcentrated system can contribute to laying the
     groundwork for subsequent structural reforms. By fostering a more active and organized civil
     society, a more responsive civil service, and a culture of local dialogue, the program can ease
     government fears about decentralization in rural areas as well as improve the chances that it
     will be successful. This is partly the experience that Bolivia had with its social fund.17

60. The challenge for the program is to try to do both. To meet this challenge the program
should support a process of institutional reform of the local governance system in Mozambique.
Four overarching principles of this reform process should be:
 Gradualism. Innovations should be tried out first in a limited number of districts and
   gradually expand them to others.
 Endogeneity. Proposed innovations should draw from and build upon the reservoir of good
   practices already tried in the country. The main reference here is the Nampula Project but it
   also includes other experiences tried by different donors and NGOs.
 Sustainability. Institutional innovations should not create ad-hoc structures and processes but
   rather should develop embryonic components of a future full-fledged local governance
   system. Given the current context of Mozambique (i.e., a low interest, at least in the short
   term, in a deep decentralization reform of district administration), the main implication of
   this is that the chosen structure should work with the current structural conditions that district
   administration has. This means that the goals of this structure should be such that the current

17
  When the first social emergency fund was created (in the late 1980s), Bolivia was a very centralized country. In
1994 Bolivia launched one of the most radical experiments in decentralization—through the Law of Popular
Participation. The social fund‘s experience helped allay policymakers‘ fears of decentralization by showing the
success of the participatory approach in delivering basic services. (Serrano 1999)
                                                                                                     30


    administration is capable of accomplishing them with the resources it has. Improvements can
    be made by improving capacities through training and technical assistance, as well as some
    administrative reforms to improve planning and accountability procedures. But the Project
    should restrain from creating an over-ambitious structure that is sustained only on the basis
    of the Project‘s fresh inflow of money, but is not sustainable after the project ends.
   Institutionalization. Related to the previous principle, it is desirable that the proposed
    innovations are backed up by government regulations, decrees or laws. This not only
    legitimizes their implementation vis-à-vis those sectors of the civil service that may be more
    reluctant to them, but also allows for a more harmonious and uniform implementation of
    them.

61. In this chapter I will analyze the type of institutional innovations the program should
consider to improve participation and accountability in district planning. Following the
framework I have been using so far, I will organize the discussion around four sets of issues:
 How should communities be organized for an effective participation in district planning?
 How should the dialogue between government and civil society be structured?
 How to ensure participation and downward accountability in the implementation of
    subprojects?
 How to ensure accountability about plan implementation?


1. Organizing Communities
62. For the rural population to participate effectively in district planning and local governance it
needs to have an organizational infrastructure that enables it to participate in decision-making
processes. The analysis of community organizations in Mozambique has produced two important
findings: first, that there is a thin stock of linking social capital (see para. ); and second, that the
Nampula model needs to be strengthened to attain a more inclusive and equitable system of
representing communities in the processes of gathering and translating community preferences
into district plans. Based on these findings, I recommend the Program to thicken the stock of
linking social capital by fostering the formation of community organizations. Main issues to
discuss are:
 What principles should guide the assessment and formation of community organizations?
 What models of community organization exist in Mozambique and which one is more
    suitable for the program?
 Who should encourage the formation of these organizations and how?
 What incentives are required for these organizations to work well?
 What are the risks of promoting community organizations and how can the program
    minimize them?
 What minimum standards should the program establish to assess performance?

1.1. Principles for Creating Community Organizations
63. Before analyzing the models of community organizing that exist in Mozambique, it is useful
to lay out some principles that should guide both the assessment and the formation of community
organizations. Community organizations should be:
 Encompassing and inclusive, all citizens have a chance to participate, and particular attention
    is paid to enable the participation of disenfranchised groups (poorest, women, etc)
                                                                                                              31


    Democratic, all members have the same opportunity to express their opinions, and there are
     rules to make this effective.
    Autonomous, the members of the organization make decisions on their own and based on
     their best judgment. External actors do not interfere to manipulate decisions for their own
     advantage.
    Internally Accountable, there are rules for representatives to inform and give explanations to
     members about their performance and for members to sanction/reward representatives.
    Binding, representatives are granted certain authority to represent members and the decisions
     they made are respected by the latter.
    Sustainable and institutionalized, citizens view their organizations as legitimate forms for
     channeling their voice rather than as requirements to access one-time benefits.

1.2. Models of Community Organizing
64. Here I will analyze different forms of linking organization that exist in Mozambique and
propose the one that appears more suitable for government to encourage as part of its local
governance system.

65. One option could be to rely only on traditional organizations. Although the program should
work with traditional authorities it is not advisable to rely only on traditional authorities. These
authorities already have a number of responsibilities that they perform and it would be a mistake
to overburden them. Rather they should be strategic partners in creating new organizations that
complement the roles that these authorities play.

66. Mozambique offers two models of community-wide organization: one that puts more
emphasis on territorial-level organization and usually is two-tiered (starts at the povoação level
and then goes to the localidade/PA or regulado level), and another that puts more emphasis on
interest-group representation at the localidade level.

a. Two-tier territorially-based model:
 Comissões de Desenvolvimento Local (CDLs) in Nampula. This is the model tried by SNV in
    four districts of Nampula. It basically consists of an organization that represents a minimum
    of 150 families and a maximum of 500 families—number depends on distances among
    houses and social relations but they often coincide with a povoação. The CDL is represented
    by 25 to 35 members18 elected by the community who participate in one of 5 sub
    commissions (family affairs, hygiene and sanitation, maintenance of roads and other
    infrastructure, youth and sports, and women‘s issues). One member of each sub commission
    occupies a position in the five-member Management Committee (Comité de Gestão).
    Positions include president, vice-president, secretary, vice-secretary, and treasurer. One third
    of the total representatives of the CDL has to be women. Every three months each sub
    commission has to explain in a public meeting what it has been doing during that period.
    SNV‘s proposal is that the president of each CDL will participate in a ―Forum of CDLs‖ but
    no Forum has been created so far. Forums will be a realm of civil society at the localidade or
    posto administrativo level from which to participate in the CCPA. SNV is in the process of
18
  In contrast to what the SNV official told me in the interview, SNV‘s mid-term evaluation says that there are
between 12-14 elected members (Sterkenburg et al 2000, p. 36). This discrepancy may be due to changes that were
introduced after the mid-term evaluation.
                                                                                                   32


    systematizing the methodology to create a CDL. SNV has 2 technicians (called Assistentes
    de Desenvolvimento Local—ADL) assisting the formation and consolidation of CDLs in
    each district. Level of effort required to create a CDL takes between three and six months
    (Sterkenburg et al 2000, p. 37). Even though several years of experimenting with the
    formation of CDLs have allowed SNV to shorten this time, for a program that wants to start
    with this it will take them a considerable time to set up these structures.

   Núcleos de Desenvolvimento da Povoação (NDP) and Núcleos de Desenvolvimento do
    Regulado (NDR) in Buzi. This is the model of community representation tried by DEC in
    Buzi. It consists of a two tier structure. It starts at the povoação level where NDPs are formed
    in every povoação. An NDP consists basically of a six member committee formed by the
    chefe da povoação, two activists (young, literate people that act as the secretary of this
    committee), and three people elected by the community. The six members of each NDP go a
    to a meeting at the sede do regulado where they elect the NDR. The NDR is formed by 11
    members of which there are three women and three men that come from the elected members
    of the NDPs, 2 are activists, the régulo and two of his sagutas (who are chiefs of 10 families).
    Chefes do posto or presidentes de localidades can also be members of the NDR (see Roque
    and Tengler 2001 for more details).

b. Interest-group model:
 Comissões de Desenvolvimento da Localidade (CDLs) in Machaze. This is the model tried by
    Concern in the district of Machaze, province of Manica. It basically consists of a Forum at
    the Localidade level where representatives from a wide set of interest groups get together to
    discuss their problems and possible solutions. The number of interest groups varies according
    to the localidade but in principle there is no limit to it. In the localidade I visited there were
    17 groups. Some of them were: youth, women, health, teachers, Link School-Community
    (―Ligação Escola-Comunidade,‖ a sort of PTA), traditional authorities, religious leaders,
    ―curandeiros‖, ―parteiras tradicionais‖, water user groups, merchants, farmers, etc. Each
    interest group gets together in a public meeting and elects a representative to participate in
    the monthly meeting of the CDL. Each interest group discusses its own agenda and presents
    it at the monthly meeting of the CDL. Each interest group presents the concern/proposal that
    deems more important, the CDL puts them together in a document and sends them to the
    district government. The representative of each interest group works jointly with chefes da
    povoação for conveying meetings and reaching out to those community members who might
    be interested in participating in the meetings of the interest group.

1.3. The Recommended Model
67. Some criteria to evaluate which option to pursue are: (i) the level of effort that it would take
to promote such a model and whether the government of Mozambique is capable and willing to
make that effort; (ii) how well each model represents the different voices/interests in a
community.

68. Before analyzing the pros and cons of each model let me say that what I would propose the
program is to pursue a twofold strategy with regards to civil society organization:
  Creating Forum da Localidade in every localidade, and
                                                                                                  33


   Having incentives for the voluntary (or optional ) creation of CDLs and other types of
    community organization (peasants associations, natural resource management groups, etc).

69. The main problem with the territorial approach is that it implies a huge level of effort. In any
district there could be from fifty to more than a hundred povoações. Mandating the creation of
such a number of community organizations would be a very taxing and unfeasible aim given the
weak capacities that exist to carry this through. An alternative could be to make level-level
organization optional, creating incentives for the voluntary formation of this CDLs and making
partnerships with NGOs to promote this effort. This is the route that the Nampula Program is
going to follow. Traditional authorities should be key strategic partners to promote CDLs.

70. Focusing the efforts of the program on the localidade has several advantages:
 it will help to make the localidade an effective realm of civil society organization and
    communication with district governments. This goes in the same direction the government is
    pursuing through the Law of OLE of giving more relevance to the localidade. So far, it‘s
    status is fuzzy and its relevance is low.
 Its scale for aggregating social interests and demands seems more adequate than povoação
    and Posto Administrativo. The posto administrativo is too high a level for organizing
    communities—in some cases the distances are too big for people to go back and forth in the
    same day. The perspective the community has from the povoação level is very narrow, since
    most services and infrastructure impact a larger territory than the povoação. The risk is to fall
    into the problem many social funds have had of funding very small projects to keep many
    communities satisfied.
 The level of institutional support that it will require from the program seems realistic.
    According to the Concern technician that supported the Comissões in Machaze it would take
    four to six months to create this Forums in a District with one or two community facilitators.
 It accommodates well, and indeed potentiates, other community animation efforts. CDLs at
    the povoação level or associações de camponeses, water user groups, forest management
    groups, can all participate in the Forum. It also accommodates well the role of traditional
    authorities since they are also represented as an interest group.
 Since the FL includes a large number of actors it is very likely that people with better than
    average educational backgrounds will be present (e.g., professors, merchants, religious
    leaders) who can be important assets for having substantive discussions. [see Helling 1997, p.
    6, on the need to include the participation of the better educated elites while preventing them
    from dominating the process]

71. The main challenges of organizing at the localidade level are:
 There is a risk of creating artificial new interests—e.g., creating a farmers group in a region
    of fishermen. The methodology should be clear about not forcing or stimulating artificial
    groups.
 There is a risk that better-off people from the localidade may want to capture the benefits. If
    the better off are in the ―sede da localidade‖ they may influence the process to concentrate
    the benefits there.

72. Even though the combined model (interest group at localidades and CDLs at povoações)
appears to be more adequate to the goals and constraints of the program, this does not mean that
                                                                                                          34


this should be the only model to adopt in the country. Mozambique is at a stage of its
development of linking organizations at which it will profit from experimenting with different
models of linking organizations, letting these experiences develop, before legislating on the
subject. In Nampula, the territorial approach is already being tried out. The center provinces can
experiment with the combined approach. Five years from now both experiences would have
generated enough lessons to better inform policy-making.

1.4. Who Should Promote Organizing and How?
Who
73. The Nampula Project has two positions at the provincial level (a Participatory Development
Technician and a Participatory Methodology and Gender Advisor). A description of their
responsibilities appears in section V.5.1. This is a good idea that should be maintained in the WB
program. What needs to be added is to have someone at the district level in charge and trained to
be the facilitator of community organization and participation (for a description of his/her profile
see section V.5.2). This person should be part of the District Planning Team. There are two
options to select the person for this position:

    One option is to create a new position and recruit for it. The main drawback of this is that it
     implies extra expenses in a context that is very tight for this type of proposal.

    Another option is to draw from the existing human resources at the district level. The main
     risk of this approach is not finding someone with the minimum required profile among the
     district staff. The main advantages of this approach are that: (i) it‘s simpler because is
     someone that is already living there and knows the district, and (ii) cheaper, because it does
     not require extra payments. This would imply adding the task of community animation to the
     list of tasks that someone in the district staff already has (as it is done with all the members
     of the Equipa Técnica). If the animation task is too time-consuming, it may have to be shared
     among two or three people. If the presidentes de localidades or chefes do posto have
     individual characteristics that are compatible with the profile of a participation facilitator,
     they could also be considered as viable options for the job. In any case, the provincial
     coordinator of participation should survey and identify these persons in consultation with the
     DA. Those selected should be trained. The content of the training should include PRA tools,
     procedures for organizing communities, procedures for developing workplans for community
     self-help activities, etc.

74. In those districts where there is an NGO doing community work the district could make a
partnership with the NGO to facilitate the process. Still, it will be important to have someone in
the district government responsible for the liaison with the NGO on this issue.

How
75. General principles that should guide the formation of community organizations have been
already outlined [see V.1.1.]. Here I will propose more concrete guidelines for how to organize
FLs.19

19
  Comissões de Desenvolvimento Local can be organized following the model that SNV is developing [see V.1.2
for an overview of this model]. Detailed guidelines for organizing CDLs are being developed by SNV and I will
recommend that the program reviews them when they become available.
                                                                                                                         35




76. Forum da Localidade can be organized taking into account the following guidelines:
 The District Facilitator of Participation and the traditional authorities of the localidade
    convey a large meeting at the sede da localidade where leaders from the different povoações
    are invited (chefes da povoação, religious leaders, farmer groups, LECs, grupos
    dinamizadores, etc). The objectives and rules of the FL are explained. The existing formal
    and informal organizations acting in the localidade are identified. Discussion of what groups
    the participants want to form.
 each ―interest group‖ holds a public meeting with its members where two representatives of
    each interest group (a man and a woman) are elected to participate as representatives of the
    group in the FL.
 Statutes. The FL should have a statute with the basic rules that regulate FL functioning. A set
    of rules should concern the rights and obligations of the ―group interest‖ representatives and
    of the FL representatives in the CCPA and the CCD. Obligations should specify how reps
    have to report back to their constituencies the content of the meetings where they have
    represented the community. Procedures for changing reps should also be established. The FL
    should have authorities (president, vice-president, secretary, vice secretary, treasurer). At
    least one third should be women.
 Frequency of meetings. The frequency of meetings will very likely vary according to the
    dynamism that FL‘s members give to their Forum. Therefore, rather than imposing a fixed
    frequency, it would be better to keep this flexible—i.e.., letting each FL decide on the
    frequency with which it would meet, taking into account the requirements of the planning
    cycle and other initiatives that may originate in the interest groups of the locality or in
    external actors.

1.5. Incentives
77. Community organizing needs incentives. Participating in the planning process is good, but
not enough. The process of designing district development plans and annual plans takes a long
time20 during which the population‘s interest in organizing may falter. Two things that keep
communities interested in participating are:
 ―Technical assistance‖. Poor people appreciate when officials from government or NGOs
    reach out to them not just to listen to their problems but to give them advice on how to do
    things differently to improve their lives. For instance, in one of the community meetings I
    attended a woman said that she had learned many things about health care and nutrition with
    CARE that she had taught to other women in the community. But after CARE left, she said,
    ―no one from government did any follow up, and I lost my morale. If I had someone leading
    me, assisting my work, I will have the strength because someone would be appreciating my
    work and giving me advice‖. What this calls for is having sectoral policies with strategies for
    working with communities (either through community health agents, PTAs, ―model‖
    farmers, etc). In some sectors, such as education, this appears to happen to a certain extent
    through LECs (ligação escola-comunidade). Reviewing sectoral policies from this
    perspective could help identify how to strengthen existing initiatives and where the main
    gaps exist.


20
     Initially it took up to two years in Nampula to prepare DDPs, though they were able to reduce this time later on.
                                                                                                  36


   Tangible results. This is why all NGO efforts at community organizing always have a
    ―micro-projectos component‖ that allows people to perceive a quick and tangible result of
    their participation. In the WB program, this role could be played by the Community
    Infrastructure Improvement Facility. ―The objective of this facility would be to build the
    capacity of district administrations to plan and manage –jointly with communities— simple
    micro-projects. [...] communities would, with support from NGOs and local officials, prepare
    proposals for infrastructure improvements –such as structural repairs; small complementary
    facilities such as latrines, water points, fencing, etc; or the purchase of durable goods such as
    furniture—and submit them to the district administration.‖ (Note on FMS, p.3) This is a very
    good way of providing a quick and tangible product to community participation.

1.6. Risks and Mitigating Measures
78. Two risks of a state-sponsored strategy to promote the creation of linking organizations are:
 Political cooptation and manipulation. This can take place if government officials start
    meddling with community election of representatives for the FLs or the CCs. Academics are
    divided over this issue. Some consider that state-sponsored associations are very weak in
    terms of holding government accountable (Jenkins and Goetz 1999). Others, however, have
    found out that state-sponsored associations ultimately evolve into autonomous organizations
    (Fox 1996). While some rural areas in Mozambique do not show strong partisan dynamics,
    others do—fueled by the possible contestation of community authorities as well as electoral
    mobilization. NGOs that have facilitated community organizing processes in urban
    municipalities have reported serious attempts to politically manipulate the election of
    community representatives. Therefore, it is imperative that the project creates some
    safeguards to avoid or minimize the politicization of CCs, such as rules specifying that
    representatives should not be elected based on their political party identity, not allowing
    openly partisan discussions in meetings, etc, The program should closely monitor this issue
    during implementation to ensure that these rules are being enforced .

   Communities‘ mistrust of government‘s community organizing policy. Analysts of the
    Mozambican experience point out that rural communities are strongly distrustful of
    government. Indeed, rather than wanting to link with government, some community
    authorities may want to de-link even more from government. If this sentiment is very
    pervasive, community organizing efforts may be unsuccessful or take longer than expected.
    Keeping the FL as an autonomous space of civil society rather than as an interface forum
    may help mitigate this mistrust. More generally, one way to mitigate this problem is to be
    very respectful of the opinions and sensitivities of the local population and avoid imposing
    structures.


1.7. Minimum Standards
79. What indicators could the program establish to find out whether community organizing at
the district level has achieved minimum standards of performance? My recommendations, which
are based on the FL model but could also be applied to other potential models, are:
 Forum de Localidades have been established in every localidade of the district
 FLs have met with the frequency that they have agreed on
                                                                                                   37


   A sufficiently diverse number of interest groups have been formed in every locality.
    Although it is not advisable to impose the creation of specific interest groups, at least all
    those citizens interested in forming interest groups have been able to do so.
   Interest groups have met with the frequency that they have agreed on
   Interest group and FL representatives have been elected in a democratic way—i.e., through
    secret voting by their peers. If voting is not a practice that community members feel
    comfortable with, they should propose another method to legitimate their representatives.
   IG and FL meetings are scheduled at a time and location that is accessible to the majority of
    the citizens of the locality, and information about these meetings is transmitted in advance to
    allow people to make the needed arrangements to be present.
   The rules for participation and representation are widely disseminated through a public
    information campaign. At least the traditional authorities of every povoação should be
    informed about these rules and they should hold a meeting in the povoação to explain these
    rules to the community.
   There are trained community facilitators working under the supervision of the district
    administration


2. Structuring the Local Dialogue
80. In the previous section I have discussed an organizational structure for citizens to be able to
express their preferences and participate in a dialogue with government. In this section, I will
discuss the organizational structure or interface that is needed to sustain the dialogue between
citizens and government. The discussion of this topic can be organized around four broad
questions:
 What should be the characteristics of the organizational structure that provides the interface?
 What should be the main content of the dialogue and what instruments are needed to generate
    it?
 What are the main risks involved in the local dialogue and what are some possible mitigating
    measures?
 What minimum standards should the program adopt?

2.1. Organizational Structure
Levels of Dialogue and Respective Roles
81. A discussion about how to structure the local dialogue should start by clarifying what are the
levels at which this dialogue takes place and what are the roles of each level. In Mozambique,
there are four territorial levels: povoação, localidade, posto administrativo, and distrito. The first
issue to address is which of these levels are realms for civil society to get together and discuss
and agree on their main preferences, and which levels are for civil society and government
representatives to interact and agree on the district strategy. In my conversations in Mozambique
I have noticed that people tend to pose this discussion around two sets of issues:
 One relates to the role of the localidade vis-à-vis the posto administrativo.
 The other relates to the role of the posto administrativo vis-à-vis the distrito.

82. Localidade vs. Posto Administrativo. There are three possible options for defining the roles
of localidade and posto administrativo:
                                                                                              38


(i)     The localidade is a space where civil society is represented (e.g., Forum da Localidade)
        and the CC starts at the PA (CCPA),
(ii)    Both the localidade and the PA are an interface between government and civil society
        (Conselho Consultivo da Localidade-CCL- and CCPA) or
(iii)   The combination of the above: the localidade has both an FL and a CCL, and the PA has
        a CCPA

83. My suggestion is that the best option is the first one. In my consultations in Machaze
community members (and the administrador distrital) expressed that it was good to have an
instance where civil society could come together without the presence of government. It is a
prerequisite for minimum autonomous action and for encouraging people to take responsibility
for their own development. If government is present, two things tend to happen: community
members have a tendency to see participation as the presentation of demands on government,
and they have more reservations about speaking their minds freely. Being a Forum of civil
society does not mean that it doesn‘t serve as an interface with government. It does, but it is
more informal. Every month this Forum can communicate to the district government a summary
of their concerns, proposals, results accomplished, etc. Government officials can attend meetings
of this Forum on an ad-hoc basis to discuss specific issues, clarify doubts, ask community
members to help in specific interventions, etc. It would provide a more informal space for
interaction when needed. The formal spaces for interaction (Conselhos Consultivos) would take
place at the Posto Administrativo and the District level, and have pre-determined agendas,
mainly structured discussions around the planning and monitoring of the Strategic District Plan
and the Annual District Plan. The idea is to have a structure that combines formal spaces that
provide stable and structured interactions (Conselhos) with informal spaces that provide flexible
interactions (Forums).

84. One reason against option (ii) for not having a CCL is that it would raise the question of
how different is it from the CCPA. The government is clear that CC should take place at the PA
because this is the lower level of government. The risk of adding a CCL to the CCPA is to have
too many meetings with overlapping agendas and functions, and to tire people of participation.

85. Option (iii) would not only have the problems of option (ii) but it would make the scheme
even more complex and cumbersome, since it would require the creation of another institution
(FL) and the functions of the FL and CCL would get mixed up.

86. Posto Administrativo vs. Distrito. The main discussion here is whether it is necessary to
have two interfaces between civil society and government (CCPA and CCD) or whether having
a CCD is enough; in other words, what would be the added value of having a CCPA?

87. Two main risks with having CCs at the PA and district level rather than only one at the
district level are:
 the risk of overloading the participatory process and participants with too many meetings,
    discussions and prioritizations. Participation represents an important opportunity cost in
    terms of time and resources to travel, meet, and write up .
 the risk that if the CCPAs are not well structured the information that comes from the bottom
    (localidade) may get distorted before reaching the discussion in the district.
                                                                                                 39




88. Arguments in favor of having CCPAs are:
 Mozambican Law recognizes PA as a level of the public sector administration and the
    government is interested in dynamizing it as a source of support to the district administration.
    An indication of this interest is that the Draft Law of OLE specifies the creation of CCPAs
    and has been stated very clearly by government officials when I met with them.
 Some districts in Mozambique are very large and PAs are important structures to help the
    district in having a closer interaction with civil society. CCPAs, then, will be a way to widen
    the realm of interaction between civil society and government. In large districts, with too
    many localities, CCPAs can also provide a filter between FLs and CCD to make the process
    of prioritization and discussion more manageable, meaningful, and representative than it
    would be if all the localities‘ representatives go directly to the CCD.
 Strengthening the PA requires defining a more concrete working plan for the chefe do PA,
    who has a very vague work definition so far. CCPAs could be a vehicle for defining that
    plan. This plan or agenda should be based on an integrated perspective on the basic problems
    and potentialities of the PA, as well as on the cross-sectoral synergies that could be exploited
    at the PA.

89. My recommendation is for the Program to build upon government‘s interest in
strengthening PA by providing assistance in the development on guidelines and procedures for
CCPAs. These guidelines should:
 specify what is the added value of the CCPAs (e.g., develop a strategic view of the problems
    and potentialities of the PA, create synergies between the sectors that are present at the PA,
    provide a more concrete working plan for the chefe do posto, etc),
 provide clear rules for aggregation and prioritization of interests and demands that integrate
    them without distorting them.
 in addition, the government should have a plan to strengthen the capacities of the PA
    including training for PA staff, a budget for minimum operating costs, as well as minimum
    infrastructure (equipment, transportation, etc) to be able to work.

90. To sum up, my recommendation for the division of roles across the four territorial levels are
to see povoação and localidade as realms for civil society and both the PA and district as realms
for civil society-government interaction.

Principles for Structuring the Interface between Citizens and Government
91. Here I present some general principles that should be taken into account for creating this
infrastructure. The list of principles that I mention here do not attempt to be a comprehensive list
but rather to highlight some of the ones I consider important.

Definition of roles
92. At a general level, the roles of the different actors in the local dialogue are:

93. Citizens:
 participate in the discussion and implementation of district planning;
 elect the representatives that will interact with government;
                                                                                               40


   define their own agenda for local development which includes actions that should be
    implemented by government and others that can be implemented by self-help
   contribute resources for local development

94. The Posto Administrativo:
 develops and implements a development agenda for the posto administrativo, made up with
    input from civil society and from the district government
 implement directives that come from the DA
 coordinates and facilitates the logistics for CCPAs,
 collaborates in community organizing efforts

95. The District Administration:
 coordinates and leads the elaboration of the DDP and PES distrital
 implements national government‘s guidelines for promoting community organizations and
    for community participation in district planning;
 generates partnerships with NGOs in the district synergies
 promotes coordination of national and provincial interventions in the district
 facilitates dissemination of good practices across the district
 Monitors the implementation of the DDP and PES distrital

96. The National Government:
 provides general guidelines for the composition and rules for district planning; the program
    should develop detailed rules to implement these guidelines.
 Holds District Administration accountable for implementation of DDP and PES distrital

97. Organization of the Consultative Councils (PA and District)
 Statute. The councils should have a formal document that regulates the role of the councils,
    the council‘s composition, the rights and obligations of its members, the procedures for
    making decisions, etc.
 Membership. The civil society and government representatives that participate in the councils
    should have the status of members, meaning that for a certain period of time they will be part
    of the council and will be bind by certain rights and obligations.
 Composition. The majority of the members should come from civil society. Women should
    have an adequate representation. Civil society representatives should come from
    organizations of civil society that fulfill the principles outlined before (section V.1.1.)
    Government should designate officials from the different areas
 Size. The size of the councils should be such that it strikes a balance between maximizing
    representation and allowing for meaningful participation and input from all members.
 Autonomy. Councils should not be dominated by any local faction so that its deliberations
    reflect the real concerns and priorities of the district population.
 Transparency. Information about what happens in the CCs are widely disseminated
 Institutionalization. The roles and functioning of CCs are regulated through decrees/laws.
 Learning. The CCs develop the capacity to reflect upon their practice to identify ways of
    improving their functioning.
                                                                                               41


98. Relationship among levels
 Iterative: the three levels (localidade, PA, distrito) have to create a cycle of iterative
    interactions with flows of information that go from the bottom up (the lower level feeds the
    discussion in the higher level) and flows that are top-down (higher level provide inputs for
    influencing the agenda at the lower level).
 Mutual Accountability: lower levels are accountable to higher levels and vice versa for the
    commitments that each level has made.

A Possible Structure
99. Based on the previous principles and the experience of the Nampula Project I propose the
following organizational structure:
1. FLs at the localidade
2. CC at the PA
3. CC at the District level

100. Forum da Localidade. Several aspects of the structure of the FL have been covered in the
previous section. Here I will refer only to the linking between the FL and the CCs. There could
be between eight to ten people (half men and half women) that represent the localidade in the
CCPA. This group should include the president and the secretary of the FL as well as the
representative from the ―traditional authorities interest group‖ (if he is not one of them). The
other five to seven reps should be elected from different interest groups or elect those that
participate in more than one interest group. The FL should also elect those reps that will
represent the localidade at the CCD. By having reps from each FL at the CCD (something which
the draft OLE law proposes), it becomes easier to report back to communities the result of the
CCs.

101. The Conselho Consultivo do Posto Administrativo
 Source of the agenda. The agenda for discussion depends on the stage where the planning
   process is at, but in general it should represent a consensus between government and civil
   society.
 Who convenes. The chefe do Posto Administrativo (as a delegate of the District
   Administrator) is responsible for convening the CCPA.
 Composition. Government: chaired by the chefe do PA, other participants are presidentes de
   localidades, as well as other government staff based at the PA (nurse, extensionist). Civil
   society: there will be aprox. 20/21 representatives. If a PA has 2 localidades, each localidade
   would send 10 reps; if it has 3, it should send 7 reps; if it has 4, it should send 5.
 The CCPA elects eight to twelve people from each posto administrativo that should come in
   equal proportion from each localidade (if there are three localidades, four reps from each)
 The CCPA should meet at least twice a year.

102. The Conselho Consultivo Distrital
 Who convenes: the District Administrator is responsible for convening the CCD.
 Composition: Government: Chaired by the AD, other participants are the members of the
   Conselho Executivo, the chefes do PA, presidentes de localidades, district sector officials,
   provincial government reps. Civil society: 24 community representatives elected by the FLs
                                                                                                42


       (If there are 2 PA, 12 from each; if there are 3 PA, 8 from each; if there are 4 PA, 6 from
       each).
      The AD and CE invite four ―leaders‖ that are respected in the district because they have
       shown a commitment to district development (e.g., a priest, the director of an NGO that is
       very relevant in the district, an influential businessman, etc). 21
      The CCD should meet at least three times a year during the formulation of the DDP (to
       accommodate the 3 CCDs in one year) and at least twice a year in the following years.


2.2. The Content of the Dialogue
103. The dialogue between the local population and government is guided by the DDP and the
District PES. These plans contain the agreements reached between government and the local
population on the development strategy and actions for the district. Taking as a starting point the
five stage framework developed by the Nampula Project (see Table x above) I will suggest the
following changes:

First Stage- Launching of the DDP
104. The two key products of this stage are (i) the formation of the District Participatory
Planning Team and (ii) the first CCD where the DDP is launched.

105. District Planning Team. Matakala and Cavane (2002) propose to change the name and
composition of the Equipa Técnica implemented in Nampula. Their proposal is to name this
team ―Grupo de Planificação Participativa Distrital‖ (District Participatory Planning Group) and
conform this group with 22 members: District Administration (3), District Directions (5), NGOs
(2), PA chiefs (4), localities presidents (4), community authorities (4). (p.46)

106. Their argument for changing the name makes sense, namely, that the current denomination
of Technical Team implies that the nature of the planning process is only technical, neglecting
the non-technical side of this process—i.e., its community organization and public participation
component. (p. 44).

107. As to the proposed composition, I have my reservations. In principle, it is a good idea to
make this body more representative. However, the logistics of gathering and communicating
within such a large group of people seem quite daunting in the context of rural Mozambique. If
chefes do PA often find it difficult going to the district capital, it would be even worse for
locality presidents and community authorities. Rather than start by such a large membership, it
may be better to define first the ways in which each of these groups would contribute to the
substantive work, and then decide what form should their participation take.

108. The Technical Team should have between 6 to 9 people that come from the different
sectors that are present at the district level, plus one or two from the NGOs that are more active
in the district. One change that is necessary to make to the Nampula ET model is to include a
District Facilitator or Coordinator of Community Participation. Two lessons that the Nampula
Project learned about the composition of the Technical Team are:

21
     This is one of the proposals that the Nampula program is going to test.
                                                                                                  43


   it is preferable that District Directors are not part of the Team since they are very busy and do
    not have the time that is needed to put together the District Plan. Rather, the Directors should
    appoint the best candidate from their Direction.
   Team members should be selected based on merit and competence. The Project had problems
    in some districts because the District Administrators had appointed officials based on
    ―friendship‖ rather than competence.

First CCD
109. The proposal of creating FLs and of having a more structured representation brings up the
issue of whether the FL should be created before or after the 1st CCD. Some ideas:
 Creating the FLs prior to the first CCD. The advantage of doing this is that from the start it
    will be clear who are the representatives. The disadvantage is that forming the FLs may delay
    the planning process.
 Creating the FLs after the first CCD. The issue here is what should be the criteria to invite
    civil society reps. One possibility is to convey community meetings in each localidade to
    explain the process and ask the community to elect temporary reps to attend the first CCD.
    Another possibility is to invite only traditional authorities from every localidade. A potential
    problem with any of these options is if those who participate in the first CCD resent it if they
    are not elected during the FLs election of reps.

110. In the first CCD the District Planning Team presents a first diagnosis of the district that
will then be deepened during the diagnosis stage. This event could be a good opportunity for the
planning team to tell community leaders the ways in which interest groups could help in
gathering or confirming sector data (users of water pumps, kids at school, etc).

Second Stage—Diagnosis
111. Rules for involving communities in the district diagnosis can include:
 Interest group meetings. each ―interest group‖ holds a public meeting with its members. Each
   group has two tasks:
   (i)    Discuss and identify the priority problems of the group; they identify the three to five
          top problems and possible actions to address them. Actions should include what the
          group can do by self-help and the type of assistance they need from external actors.
   (ii)   Gather or confirm the information that the District Participatory Planning Team has
          requested.

   Forum da Localidade meeting. In the monthly meeting of the Forum da Localidade the
    representatives from each interest group present the group‘s conclusions. The secretary of the
    FL writes them down. A dialogue can take place as to what are the top three to five priorities
    the FL would like to present at the CCPA. PRA tools are used to structure the discussion.

   CCPA meeting. In the CCPA the president or the secretary of each localidade reads the Act
    of the FL. PRA tools are used to discuss the problems and priorities presented by the
    representatives and the top ten priorities for the PA are selected. The other problems and
    priorities identified by the interest groups are also registered. As a result two lists are
    generated: one with the top ten priorities of the PA, and another with the other problems and
    solutions identified by the FLs.
                                                                                               44




   The List of Community Priorities from each CCPA is included as an annex of the DDP.

Third Stage—Definition of the Development Strategy
112. At this stage takes place the 2nd CCD where the Planning Team presents a strategy
proposal for discussion. A possible sequence for this event is:
 first the Civil Society representatives from each CCPA present the top priorities of each PA
   and the other problems and possible solutions identified in the FLs and CCPAs.
 Afterwards, the Planning Team presents the strategy proposal and gives an explanation of
   and justification for the strategy. A tentative matrix of actions is presented and explicit
   references are made to the ways in which the Team took the List of Community Priorities
   into account.
 Discussion in small groups about the proposed strategy
 Groups feedback and plenary agreements.

Fourth Stage—Identifying the Action Program and approving the DDP
113. This stage involves negotiations between the Planning Team and the array of actors
responsible for implementing the actions included in the strategy. With regards to communities,
two key actions are:
 Discuss with the beneficiaries that will be receiving public investments about characteristics
    of the investment (location, possible types of technology, O&M requirements, etc) as well as
    what would be the counterpart that the community can put (either in of cash or in kind).
 The District Facilitator of Participation helps sector district officials to work with the
    different FLs to define the self-help activities that would be part of the Matrix of Actions.
    (see below some recommendations for how to do this).

114. In the Third CCD, the final plan is presented
 After presenting, discussing, and approving the DDP, the facilitator of Participation
   summarizes for the civil society reps what are the key pieces of information that they should
   bring back to their constituencies. This information should be written down. If the civil
   society reps are illiterate they should bring with them an assistant to write them down.
 Civil society reps are required to hold a meeting of the FL within two weeks of the CCD to
   report back about the contents of the approved DDP.
 Copies of the DDP are sent to each FL. A Jornal da Parede with the basic info of the DDP is
   posted in a public space in the localidade as well as in the building of the chefe do PA.

115. Toolkits for Mobilizing communities for self-help activities. District governments should
have a toolkit for engaging communities in self-help activities. DEC in Buzi has developed a
very interesting experience that could serve as a reference for developing such a toolkit. DEC has
organized what they call ―Civic education campaigns‖ which is divided in four broad modules
(see box 1).

Box 1. DEC Civic Education Campaigns in Buzi
DEC organized its civic education activities around four trimestral campaigns:
 Between January-march: a set of activities for cleaning roads, water source, houses, etc.
                                                                                                                   45


   Between April-June, this is the time when the ―capim‖ is dry and farmers burn it. Campaigns to burn in
    controlled and appropriate way and other activities to protect the environment are organized.
   Between July-September is the time when kids and youth have to go back to school for the second semester
    and, apparently, a time when many of them don‘t do it and drop out of school. Activities to find out who has not
    returned and why, concientization of parents about the importance of sending kids to school are organized.
   Between October-December is the beginning of the rainy season and a time when problems of cholera and
    malaria increase. Therefore, campaigns to combat these epidemics are organized.

In broad terms, each of these four campaigns falls within the responsibility of a different ministry. Public works
(roads, water), agriculture, education, and health. What DEC has done is to develop ―toolkits‖ for each of these
campaigns and is in the process of linking with each of the responsible sectors so they become the facilitators of the
different campaigns.


116. If the program wants to pursue this option it would need to develop a set of toolkits. The
approach could be to work with the different ministries in developing sectoral strategies for the
district directions to work with the community in self-help activities. Strategies could consist of a
set of training materials that district officials could draw from, depending on the activities that
have been agreed on in the DDP and annual plan. These toolkits, therefore, are not a ―closed‖
package that should be applied in a top-down fashion, but rather flexible tools that should
facilitate the organization of self-help activities:
 who will develop the toolkit? The nature of this activity suggests that this should be done at
    the national level to profit from economies of scale. MAE (in coordination with the relevant
    ministries) can have a bidding process where NGOs, universities, and public agencies can
    participate.
 Who will implement these campaigns? Staff of the relevant District Directions seem the
    more appropriate for this. With the exception of Public Works all the other sectors have
    district directions.
 The organization that develops the education strategy and packages should train provincial-
    level agents (NGOs and/or government) that will be responsible for training district level
    officials.

2.3. Risks and Mitigating Measures
117.One of the risks of having a local dialogue is that civil society participation is passive, and
not independent. Citizens are accustomed to listen rather than speak up, and government is
accustomed to speak and give orders rather than to listen. For each side to learn to do both things
at the same time and together, and to create a constructive dialogue will take time. One way to
mitigate this is through the creation of an instance for civil society to get together before its
interaction with government, such as the proposed FL. Since it is formed by peers only, it is a
less intimidating space than a CC, where government is present. In this instance, community
members should learn the basics of democratic deliberations. In addition, the program should
provide training to community representatives on the nature and goals of the CC and their rights
to voice their opinions during meetings. Also, district officials should receive orientations on
being respectful of communities opinions. But most of all, it will be important to educate local
actors about their roles in the CCs during the CCs themselves. The provincial and district
coordinators of participatory development should facilitate these meetings to create an enabling
environment.
                                                                                                           46


118. Another risk of a government-civil society dialogue is raising unrealistic community
expectations about the solution to their problems. The main incentive for communities to discuss
and prioritize their needs and to propose possible solutions is the expectation that some of those
problems will be solved. In a comprehensive process like the one proposed here, the magnitude
of the needs that come up is overwhelming. Since needs are always larger than resources, and
even more so in countries like Mozambique, government resources will be able to attend only a
small fraction of those problems. Unless explicit measures are taken to manage community
expectations the program runs the risk of generating high levels of community frustration which
can hurt the program‘s reputation and performance. I recommend the program to define a
strategy to manage expectations based on the following principles:
 a prioritization process that filters up to the district a manageable number of community
    priorities. The fact that community leaders will be participating throughout the whole
    prioritization process has the advantage that they will be aware of the process followed to
    aggregate (and reduce) the number of priorities that reach the district level.
 an aggressive communication strategy that creates a conscience among community leaders
    and members about (a) the magnitude of resources that the district has available for
    investments (this implies that the district has a rough notion of the district‘s ―budget
    constraint‖);22 (b) the meaning of a prioritization process (only some problems go up for
    consideration while others are left out); (c) the agreements reached and reflected in the final
    DDP document.
 stress the multi-year nature of the DDP so that communities know that they may not be
    attended in the first years but they may be later on.
 Increase the ―district budget‖ by coordinating with other investments partners (NGOs,
    businesses) so that they channel their resources to attend DDP priorities. This includes
    communities self-help activities.
 Facilitators of community meetings and CCs should be trained to repeat frequently the above
    information to communities.
 A common mechanism that rural investment programs develop to cope with high expectation
    levels (and the consequent political pressure) is to finance very small projects so they can
    cover as much territorial units as possible. The program should try to avoid this since it goes
    against the notion of having a strategic plan. Some programs have found this acceptable in
    the initial stages of the program so as to gain credibility and take some of the pressure off,
    and then slowly moving into larger projects that are more focused on certain areas of the
    district. My recommendation is for the Program to have this as a ―second best‖ alternative.
    The program can also use the microproyects approach of the Community Infrastructure
    Improvement Facility to have a more territorially-balanced response to demands.

2.4. Minimum Standards
119. I have already outlined minimum standards for participation in the FLs (section V.1.7).
Here, I will refer only to structure and content of the CCs and DDP:
 At least 70% of the members of the CCs should come from civil society
 At least one third of the members of the CCs are women
 Civil society representatives that form the CC have been elected by the local population
22
  Since districts don‘t have a budget in this case it means a rough estimate of the resources the national and
provincial administration will allocate to the district, as well as committments from other partners (NGOs,
businesses, etc).
                                                                                                 47


   CC dynamics (size, duration, languages, etc) allow for meaningful participation and
    exchange of ideas. Most of those who attended feel they had a chance to express their
    opinions and preferences.
   There are written records of the discussions and agreements that took place in every CC, as
    well as a signed list of those who attended
   Discussions in the CC are not manipulated by any faction in particular
   Most districts complete the DDP within less than a year and a half.
   A majority of the local population finds that the priorities that appear in the DDP reflect well
    the priorities expressed in the FLs and CCPAs
   Community representatives are capable of explaining what criteria led to the final district
    strategy
   Community representatives hold community meetings to inform back to the community the
    basic points that were discussed
   The DDP includes self-help activities that resulted from a consensus with communities.
   NGOs and other actors with investment resources consider the DDP a legitimate and useful
    instrument and use it to guide their investment decisions.

3. Executing the Action Plan
120. As previously noted this is one of the weaker areas of the DPFP in Nampula. Options for
improving community involvement in the implementation of the subprojects included in the
Annual Plan can be organized in three subgroups, depending on whether they relate to (i) the
contracting process; (ii) the building process; or (iii) the operation and maintenance process.

3.1. Contracting
121. One big divide here relate to who will do the contracting, that is, whether community
groups will be involved in any contracting and procurement of works and services or not. In the
short term, the government of Mozambique is reluctant to pursue community contracting
because of a concern that it will result in low-quality works. Since mounting a community
contracting operation requires strong political will to back it up (see de Silva 2000) and given
that it is not the only way to elicit community involvement in subproject implementation, this
option does not appear worth pursuing.

122. A minimum standard should be that the bidding process follows transparent methods to
ensure fairness and quality in government procurement, that the local population is informed
about these methods, and has the opportunity to voice its opinion about contract performance.
Some measures that can be implemented in this regard are:
 Use the CCD and CCPA to explain government procurement methods in simple terms
 For the Community Infrastructure Improvement Facility, invite 1 or 2 community
   representatives to the opening of the envelopes in the bidding of the works that will be
   implemented in the representatives‘ communities.
 Establish a database of certified contractors that tracks the performance record of these
   contractors (whether they have left unfinished infrastructure, or poorly constructed
   infrastructure). Establish community-based oversight committees (see next point) that can
   provide feedback on the performance of the contractor.

3.2. Building
                                                                                                                   48


123. Two proposed measures are to:
 Create Oversight Committees to complement the work of the Fiscal in monitoring the
   contractor‘s performance [see box 2].
 Give Oversight Committees some leverage, for instance, require the signatures of the
   committee before approving the next installment to the contractor.

In box 2, my recommendation is the creation of an oversight committee for each subproject. An
alternative would be to create a subcommittee of the Forum da Localidade that is responsible for
overseeing all subprojects in the locality. The main drawback of this alternative is that the
comparative advantages of the oversight committee would be lost, namely, the fact that the
overseers live nearby to the construction site and therefore have easy access to monitoring
progress on a periodic basis, plus the fact that peer pressure for the committee to perform well is
stronger when they belong to the beneficiaries‘ community than when they do not.

Box 2. Guidelines for the Establishment of an Oversight Committee
Its purpose is to oversee the implementation of the subproject, verifying that the works and services are being
performed according to what has been agreed in the contract (duration, cost and quality of the service).

Composition. It can be formed by 3 people, one of which should be a woman. The beneficiaries of the subproject
should elect these three people in a community assembly where the majority of the beneficiaries should be present.
This assembly should take place immediately after the provincial government has contracted the implementing firm.
The meeting should be recorded in an Act and the District Facilitator of Participation should attend the meeting. The
Facilitator should inform beneficiaries about the functions, responsibilities and procedures that regulate the working
of the Committee. People selected should have specific skills: be able to read and write, live in the community, be
willing and available to perform the work, have some experience or vocation with the activity.

Training. The program should develop a booklet or manual of Community Oversight with the basic functions and
procedures of the committee. Contents should be communicated in simple, graphic and easy to understand terms.
The program should train this Committee on the contents of the Manual before the works start.

Basic responsibilities of the Committee are:
 Read the contract signed by the contractor and the provincial government to understand the responsibilities of
    each entity involved in the implementation of the subproject.
 Know the details of the subproject: (i) type of works to be performed; (ii) types of materials and quantities that
    will be procured; (iii) timeline for completing the works; (iv) how much would it cost.
 Define a working methodology which should include: times at which the committee would visit the works site;
    forms that should be filled to register the comments about performance; form of participation in the supervision
    visits of the fiscal; define procedures to be followed when there are irregularities or problems in subproject
    execution.
 The Committee should agree with the community on how it will report back to the community on its assessment
    of the contractor—e.g., a monthly community assembly where the committee presents its report.

3.3. Operation and Maintenance
124. Two proposed measures are:
 Each subproject should have an operation and maintenance plan that outlines what are the
    responsibilities of the different actors, including beneficiaries/users. This plan should be
    informed by the corresponding sectoral policy. A review of sectoral policies should indicate
    if reforms are needed.
 Establish Operation and Maintenance Management Committees [see box 3]
                                                                                                                     49




Box 3. Guidelines for the Establishment of Operation and Maintenance Management Committees
The purpose of these Committees is to coordinate the process of discussing and defining the management model
that should be implemented to guarantee the investment‘s sustainability.

These committees can be formed and trained in a similar fashion to the Oversight Committees.

Responsibilities include:
 Know relevant details of the subproject: type of infrastructure; operational capacity; technical standards
   required by sector regulating agencies; how revenues and expenses are formed; staffing requirements.
 Meet with users to define a working procedures, which should include: management model most adequate to
   the local reality; norms and rules for operation; staff quantity and selection rules; training requirements; internal
   accountability and reporting mechanisms.



4. Accountability about Plan Implementation
125. Some conditions that facilitate accountability about plan implementation are:
 The existence of an organizational infrastructure (i) for civil society to act collectively when
   exerting control, and (ii) for government to listen and respond to civil society‘s demands
 Have transparent rules for planning, financial management, and procurement
 Have an aggressive communication strategy that ensures that key information is provided to
   the local population
 Rewards and sanctions.

4.1. Organizational Infrastructure
126. The thickening of linking social capital that will come as a result of the creation of Forums
da Localidade will have an important effect in creating an organizational infrastructure through
which the local population can ask for information and justification about government‘s
(in)actions. The different interest group organizations, such as parent-teacher associations,
farmers group, health center management committees will result in improve communication and
accountability. Besides the scheduled events that the Consultative Councils offer for
accountability, FLs can also schedule more informal meetings with specific government officials
to ask for information or explanation on issues that are a concerned of the population of that
localidade.

127. The institutional structure for government to meet with civil society already exists through
the CCDs and CCPAs. These Councils are key infrastructures for improved communication and
accountability. There are two main improvements that need to be introduced to enable better
accountability about plan implementation
  First, transform the CC in real councils instead of forums by establishing a system of
    representation where the members of the councils are elected for a significant period of time
    (two years at least). These representatives will have responsibilities with regards to their
    constituencies and the authorities of the CCs.
  Second, develop written guidelines for conducting these events to ensure that minimum
    contents of information are transmitted to the population (see below).

4.2. Transparency & Communication
                                                                                                50


128. Transparency and communication are interrelated. Transparent rules for making decisions
and releasing information need an effective communication strategy to enable the local
population to demand the enforcement of these rules and to act upon the information they
receive. An effective communication strategy, in turn, will not lead to increased accountability if
the rules for making decisions and releasing information are not clear.

129. Some of the rules that need to be transparent relate to:
1. Planning. The rules for planning have been discussed in previous sections.

2. Budgeting. Since District government does not have a budget, minimum rules for budgeting
   imply that district authorities have information about sector allocations for capital
   investments and recurrent costs with sufficient certainty and anticipation to be able to prepare
   annual district plans. This does not to appear to be the case in the current situation. District
   staff complain that they are not well informed about national and provincial plans and
   budgetary commitments. Sometimes, even the sectors at the provincial level are not aware of
   what their national headquarters have planned and budgeted for the province. This is
   something that needs to be worked out before the initiation of the program.

3. Financial management. Establishing financial management systems at the district and
   provincial level that allow expenditure monitoring and tracking.

4. Procurement. There should be clear rules for the thresholds for direct contracting, private and
   public bidding.

130. The program should have a strong communication strategy. This strategy should include:
 The issues about which the population should be informed:
   1. Plans and budgets. The District Development Plan; the Annual Plan and corresponding
       budgetary commitments that government and non-government agencies have made.
       Budget should disaggregate what would be funded through the District Infrastructure
       Facility, through the Community Infrastructure Improvement Facility, etc. The basics of
       the Mozambican public investment system is explained (PIP).
   2. Revenue collection. Taxes and fees that are collected in the district and what percentage
       comes back to the district.
   3. Flow of public and non government funds. Simple and clear explanations should be given
       about the origin of the funds (where do NGOs get their resources from, how government
       raises its revenues) and how the money moves until it gets to the district (transfer
       mechanisms and responsibilities, whether it stays in a subproject bank account or a
       general bank account, etc).
   4. Procurement and implementation. Who is the contractor, timetable, cost of each
       subproject, whether there is any provision for hiring local labor; how government
       supervises works; community oversight.
   5. Rewards and sanctions. Inform about the mechanisms the local population has to transmit
       is assessment of district performance and the way government will process that input and
       translate it into rewards and sanctions. (see below).
                                                                                                                     51


   Communication channels. As part of program design a popular communication specialist
    should identify what would be the most effective channels to communicate with the
    population. In many poor countries, radio is an effective means, but apparently it will not be
    in Mozambique since a very small percentage of the rural population has a radio set. Four
    possible channels are:
    1. Oral communication through the CCDs, CCPAs, FLs, and interest groups. The
       communication strategy should define what are the best issues to cover in each of these
       events. Information should be provided in the local languages
    2. Written forms include the ―Jornal da Parede‖ (large pieces of paper posted in strategic
       places). The communication specialist should suggest what would be strategic places to
       post the Jornal da Parede. If the Forum da Localidade has a building for community
       meetings, that would be a good place to post basic information. Again, information
       should be available in the local languages. Since a large percentage of the rural
       population is illiterate, written forms of communication should be seen as complementing
       the other forms.
    3. Community radios is an interesting channel that could be piloted in some districts to
       evaluate their effectiveness.
    4. An interesting innovation that the Nampula Project is going to pilot in its second phase is
       the establishment of Information and Communication Centers (see box 4).

Box 4. UNCDF’s Information and Communication Centers
An innovative development in this respect during the next phase of the NPPFD will be the establishment at the
district and administrative post level of Information and Communication Centres, linked to the district planning
processes. These will be piloted in a small number of districts, and then extended to all districts at both the district
and administrative post level. The centres will be relatively inexpensive structures, built or refurbished with funds
and resources from the Programme, NGOs and communities themselves. The centres will be ―owned‖ and operated
by the CCDs at the district and administrative post level, with advice and support from NGOs. Running costs will
be funded locally rather than by the Programme. Meetings of CCDs and CCD(PA)s will take place in these centres
rather than in government buildings as at present. The centres will provide a forum for communication and
information sharing on a range of issues related to the district planning processes, including such issues as
HIV/AIDS and adult literacy. Consideration will be given to the establishment of community radio in a number of
pilot districts to support the work of these centres.
Source: UNCDF (2002)

   The main responsibility for ensuring that information reaches the communities is of the
    District Participation Facilitator. The Facilitator should have detailed instruments to assist
    him/her in this work. The Program should prepare booklets containing the basic information
    that should be communicated, as well as the formats and channels for communication.


4.3. Rewards & Sanctions
131. As noted before, one of the key weaknesses for downward accountability in Mozambique is
the lack of political and fiscal decentralization. Without them the local population cannot vote
district authorities out of office if they are unhappy with their performance, or vice versa keep
them in office if they are satisfied with authorities performance. The challenge, then, is to find
surrogate mechanisms for political accountability. If we put this in terms of a principal-agent
framework we see that in Mozambique‘ rural areas there are two principal-agent relations:
                                                                                                                    52


    in the relationship between rural citizens and the national government, the former act as the
     principal since they elect the national government and the national government is the agent
    in the relationship between national government and district authorities, the former is the
     principal since it appoints and controls the performance of the latter who acts as its agent
    therefore, there should be some mechanism for the local population to control if the national
     government is doing well its job of controlling district government performance. From what I
     gathered in my field visit, the only mechanism that exists for doing this are the visits that the
     provincial governor (who act as delegate of the central government) makes to the districts
     where he has meetings with local citizens and government officials. The provincial
     Directorate of Apoio e Controle (DPAC) is responsible for the administrative assessment
     performance of district administration, but apparently it does not include citizens input about
     district‘s performance. Both mechanisms appear insufficient for establishing a system of
     incentives that promotes good downward accountability.

132. My proposal would be to improve the District Performance Assessment System and
establishing an Incentives for Good District Performance System. These systems should have
clear responsibilities and indicators.

132. District Performance Assessment System. This system should have output and outcome
indicators related to the participation of civil society in local governance.

133. Some of the key Output indicators should include:
 the establishment of Forums da Localidade
 the definition of a Plan for community self-help activities
 the organization of CCPAs and CCDs
 producing the DDP
 producing Annual Plans
 communication events to disseminate planning, budgetary, and service delivery information

134. Outcome indicators should reflect the degree to which the local population is satisfied with
public management and service delivery performance. In the last ten years, a wide set of tools
have been developed and tested all over the world to measure citizens satisfaction about public
action. Three of these are:
 citizen report cards are public accountability mechanisms based on citizen surveys of the
    performance and quality of government services. They allow citizens to monitor state
    performance.23 In addition, they:
    - provide quantitative information from the perspective of public service users which can
        help government agencies make changes and improve service;
    - can assist in prioritizing reform efforts and allocating public services;
    - aggregate and communicate poor people‘s realities to government officials, decision
        makers, and the public;
    - foster voice, discussion, and debate, and build demand for reform;
23
   Initially developed in Bangalore, it has since spread and is currently being used countrywide in India as well as in
other countries, including Ukraine, the Philippines, Vietnam, Ghana, Canada, Denmark, the United Kingdom and
the United States. For more information see Narayan (2002, p. 232-239).
                                                                                                 53


    -   treat users of public services as clients or customers whose voices matter in the design,
        delivery, and assessment of government services.
   Participatory monitoring and evaluation. There is great variation in the way organizations
    and researchers understand the meaning of participatory monitoring and evaluation. Despite
    the diversity in thinking and practice, a recent literature review identified five general
    functions of PM&E: impact assessment; project management and planning; organizational
    strengthening or institutional learning; understanding and negotiating stakeholder
    perspectives; and public accountability (Estrella and Gaventa, ?). It generally draws from a
    wide set of participatory learning methodologies that are available, such as PRA tools and
    others. In the case of impact assessment, for instance, local communities participate in the
    definition of the impact indicators, the collection of data, the analysis of data, the
    communication of assessment findings, and in post-assessment actions designed to improve
    the impact of development interventions.
   Beneficiary Assessments are one of the participatory monitoring and evaluation tools that
    several WB funded programs have been using. Two interesting experiences to visit are the
    Zambian Social Investment Fund (ZAMSIF), and the Peruvian Social Investment Fund
    (FONCODES).

135. Incentives for Good District Performance System. Incentives should operate at two levels,
one is the administrative rewards/sanctions that the District Administrator and district staff
receive for their performance. The other is the development rewards/sanctions that the district
population receive for the performance of both district administration and the local population.

136. Administrative Rewards. Since District administration staff is appointed rather than elected,
their incentives for good performance should come from those who control their administrative
careers, that is, the provincial administration. Suggested actions include:
 A comprehensive review of the system for administrative promotions should identify key
    reforms that are needed.
 Making DA responsibilities clearer as well as reinforcing his/her authority over sector staff
    are necessary. The current ambiguity in the role of the District Administrator is a crucial
    bottleneck for creating a more accountable district administration.
 The participation of district staff in the Participatory Planning District Team should account
    for extra points in the assessment of staff‘s performance.
 The provincial governor can establish an annual ―prize‖ that is awarded to the District
    Administrator and the Planning Team that has been more responsive to the local population
    and more engaged in promoting the development of the district. In the same way that during
    the socialist period there was something called ―emulação (?) socialista‖ for those officials
    that performed well the government can establish something as an ―emulacao da governação
    local participativa.‖

137. In terms of Development Rewards, provincial government allocations for the District
Infrastructure Facility and the Community Infrastructure Improvement Facility represent an
opportunity to reward/sanction performance. The agents that will benefit/suffer from this
incentive are the district population. This should mobilize the local population not only to
become more vocal about district administration performance but also to perform well those
actions that are their own responsibility. Two options for using these facilities as incentives are:
                                                                                                 54


   to define minimum performance standards (output and/or outcome related) in order to be
    eligible for allocations from this facility;
   to define a fixed allocation that all districts receive equally and a variable allocation that
    depends on performance.


5. Capacity Building and Training
138. Capacity building is a cross-cutting issue that lies at the heart of the program‘s goals. The
success that the program attains in terms of participation and accountability will depend to a
large extent on the degree to which provincial and district officials as well as communities
assimilate new skills, develop new habits and norms for interacting with each other as well as
new perceptions of their roles and potential.

139. In this section I will outline, first, some key principles for designing effective capacity
building initiatives, and second, the main capacities that the different actors involved in the
district planning process need to have to carry out this process. I will circumscribe the discussion
to those capacities that are related to participation and downward accountability.

5.1. Principles for Effective Capacity Building
140. Important principles for effective capacity building are:
 Ownership and institutionalization. Capacity building efforts should be aimed to the core
    public administration structure and to legitimate and institutionalized forms of community
    representation rather than to ad-hoc, project-created government and community structures.

   A demand-driven approach. A key principle in capacity building is the adoption of a
    demand-driven approach. Many studies have showed that capacity building initiatives often
    fail because the recipients were not truly interested in being trained or because the contents
    of the training package was not relevant for the local context. This has led to a consensus
    that receipients should take a greater role in determining the source and type of training and
    technical assistance required, and to the importance of institutional analysis and context-
    specific design of capacity building initiatives.

   Holistic. A holistic approach to capacity building should emphasize the range of capacities
    needed for effective service delivery and good governance—including budgeting,
    accounting, communication, internal management, revenue mobilization, and monitoring and
    evaluation—and extending capacity-building efforts beyond district officials to other actors
    (provincial officials, private service providers, NGOs, contractors, and community
    organizations).

   Exploit multiple channels for capacity building. Direct provision of technical assistance and
    training is not the only channel for capacity building. Other channels include demonstration
    effects (improve one‘s capacities because a peer has done it with positive consequences),
    competition effects (improve capacities to achieve a gain that otherwise will go to a
    ―competitor‖), demand effects (improve capacities because constituents demand it).
                                                                                               55


   An approach that focuses less on inputs (eg, learning sophisticated techniques of identifying
    needs), and more on the quality of the outcomes (eg. Do plans recognize the needs of
    different groups?).

   Linking capacity building to incentives. Often capacity building efforts fail because local
    actors lack incentives to learn. Some of these incentives can come from demonstration,
    competition, or demand effects.

   Methodologies should have an on the job, pedagogical, and hands-on approach.

   Measures to retain trainees in their positions are important to preserve the benefits of
    improved capacities.


5.2. Provincial Administration
141. Recommendations are:
 The provincial administration should have a Professional Development Program. This should
    provide structured opportunities for participation in longer-term professional development
    courses, not only for program staff and local counterparts but also provincial and district
    technicians involved in the district planning processes (within the framework of SIFAP, the
    Government‘s public administration training program linked to the Public Sector Reform
    Strategy). One of the program components should be devoted to participatory methodologies
    and downward accountability issues.

   The program should have a Provincial Participatory Development Coordinator/Advisor. For
    a description of the responsibilities and qualifications for this position see Box 5.

   Relevant sector staff should be trained on the new responsibilities that the program is
    proposing. For instance, staff from the DPOPH should be trained on the new methodologies
    for involving communities through Oversight Committees and Operation and Maintenance
    Committees. Sectors that don‘t have a district presence should train their staff on assisting
    communities to plan and implement self-help activities.

   Best practice and Demonstration effects. The program should establish learning mechanisms
    at the provincial and national level to identify good performers within the program and create
    instances to share and exchange experiences and learning. In addition, program‘s staff and
    appropriate provincial technicians should be encouraged to visit other related programs in
    Mozambique, as well as similar programs in other countries to enable them to gain valuable
    insights from other models and approaches.This includes not only the Nampula Project but
    also other WB and UNCDF programs in the region.
                                                                                                               56


Box 5. Draft Terms of Reference for the Provincial Participatory Development Coordinator

Key Responsibilities:
 To take the responsibility for ensuring that the district planning and financing processes supported by the
    program incorporate effective mechanisms for the active participation of local communities and women.
 To work with the District Technician for Participation and with NGOs to assist in the establishment of
    consultative councils (CCD) in all districts where the project is operating to ensure that district planning
    processes are brought closer to the community level to reflect local community needs.
 To work closely with the District Technician for Participation and NGOs to promote the creation of civil society
    organizations (Forums de Localidade, local development committees and other organizations and associations).
 To facilitate the institutionalisation of community representation on the CCDs at the district level, through
    assisting in the nomination/selection of representatives from the CCD (PA)s.
 To review the processes at the CCD and CCD(PA) meetings to include more time and greater opportunity for
    meaningful community interaction, discussion and influence.
 To assist in the establishment of participative systems for the local monitoring and evaluation of district plan
    implementation, and the feeding of results into the ongoing planning and review process.
 To develop training materials and programmes in participatory methodologies for provincial and district
    technicians and communities.
 To play a leading role in the development of an effective communications strategy for the program.
 To help ensure that key social issues (such as HIV/AIDS, environmental health, adult literacy, the needs of
    young people etc.), as well as strategies for addressing them, are reflected in the planning documents and
    processes
 To organise a gender analysis and develop a gender strategy for the program.
 To review and update strategic and annual plans to ensure that they have a clear gender focus.
 To organise gender awareness training for program management and staff, as well as all provincial and district
    decision-makers and officials involved in the program.
 To ensure that gender awareness is included as an important part of the discussions at CCD and PRA meetings.
   To develop strategies to increase the participation and influence of women at CCD and PRA meetings.
 Establish closer links with women's organisations to assist in mobilising women in the project areas.
 To develop links with UEM and other institutions to provide on-going research, support and advice to the
    program in the areas of community participation and gender.
 To devise and implement a counterpart capacity building programme for the local Participatory Methodology
    Specialist within the program team.
 To prepare regular reports on the above activities.

   Qualifications, Skills, and Experience
   Degree or equivalent in social sciences or a related field.
   Proven experience in the application of participatory methodologies in local development and planning.
   Proven experience in mainstreaming gender into local development and planning processes.
   Ability to participate constructively in multi-disciplinary teams.
   Experience in the development of training materials and methodologies in the areas of community participation
    and gender.
 Familiarity with the Mozambican context in relation to public sector decentralisation and community
    development.
 Experience in working with communities in the area of natural resources management would be an advantage.
 Experience in report writing.
 Fluent written and spoken Portuguese. Reasonable command of written and spoken English. Some knowledge
    of local languages would be an advantage.
Source: adapted from UNCDF (2002)
                                                                                                57


5.3. District Administration
142. District Administration‘s staff involved in district planning needs to be trained in the
methodologies for preparing the District Development Plan, the District PES, and (if it is piloted)
also the District Budget. They also need to have a general knowledge of the basic principles
underpinning a participatory approach to planning as well as the participatory methodologies that
will be used by the Program.

143. District Participatory Development Coordinator (DPDC). This Coordinator is a key
resource for developing community organizations and fostering their effective participation in
the planning process. Some of the skills the DPDC should have are:
 It would be a plus if the person has previous experience in participatory methodologies, but
    making this a requirement does not sound reasonable in the context of Mozambique.
 Operational Manual for Participatory District Planning
 Assisting communities to plan self-help activities
 PRA Techniques
 Know the local languages

144. In addition, the DPDC needs to approach community work with a certain attitude, which
includes:
 Have a deep sense of responsibility given that the actions that are carried out will have a
    strong impact on the well-being of the poor population of the country
 Have a participatory approach, meaning, being able to learn from and with the people
 Be very respectful of the people with whom they work
 Be interested in what community people know, say, and do
 Be sensitive about issues related to gender, environment, and vulnerable groups
 Be sensitive to those who have difficulties to express themselves orally and be able to
    motivate them to participate in the dialogue
 Be able to listen and be patient
 Be modest about their own knowledge and viewpoints

145. Limiting Turnover of Trained Staff. As mentioned before [see section III.1.1.] high
turnover of trained district officials has been a serious problem affecting the Nampula Project‘s
performance. All the capacities that are built through training are lost for the program when the
trained staff is transferred. According to the diagnosis of the Nampula Project, the solution to
this problem requires a concerted effort in DPAC and the Governors department to avoid the
transfer of key staff away from participating districts. Greater political support from the
Governors department and improved coordination and information-sharing across provincial
directorates should limit this problem.

146. Demonstration effects. The program should use the learning mechanisms established at the
provincial and national level to identify good performing districts and Planning Teams and create
instances for exchange between good and bad performing districts (eg, tour visits).
                                                                                                 58


5.4. Civil Society
147. To ensure the institutionalization of civil society participation in the district planning
processes, the program needs to develop an effective program of community capacity building,
in such areas as:
 Community organizing
 Community leadership
 Legislation about community participation
 Needs diagnosis
 Democratic processes to discuss community priorities
 Gender awareness
 Sectoral criteria for public investments,
 Importance of community contributions
 Community involvement in Operation and maintenance
 District planning
 Budget oversight

148. Some mechanisms and tools for doing this include:
 The best mechanism to create community capacities is the daily practice of participating in
   community organizations, in district planning, in project implementation, operation and
   maintenance, and holding government accountable.
 These practices should be supported by a framework of appropriate legislation and
   operational tools such as training manuals for the trainers and the trainees that include all the
   above mentioned issues.
 The District Coordinator for Participation should be the main responsible for training
   community representatives.
 He/She should organize workshops at the district/posto administrativo to provide this
   training, and ensure that communities receive the information they need to become actively
   involved in local development
 The Provincial Coordinator for Participation should support the District Coordinator in some
   training events.



VI.     CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
1. Institutional Context for Local Governance
149. The institutional context for local governance in Mozambique makes promoting true
participation and downward accountability a significant challenge. Key limitations are:
 the absence of elected district authorities and a district budget,
 a very centralized government structure
 poorly trained and equipped staff at the district level
 a thin stock of linking social capital to connect civil society with government decision-
    making
 a weak democratic culture at the local level, partly due to the recency of independence from
    colonialism, a protracted civil war, and a very young multi-party democracy
                                                                                                  59


150. Despite these limitations, Mozambique also counts with positive assets and signals to start
the process of building good local governance. Some of them are:
 government interest in developing a more statutory basis for civil society participation in
    government decision-making, through Consultative Councils at the District and PA level.
    Evidence of this are the Decree 15/2000 and a Draft Law of State Local Bodies
 a thick stock of bonding social capital that could facilitate the thickening of linking social
    capital, as well as local experiences in developing linking organizations that serve as pilot
    models to be scaled up.
 a rich array of experiences with participatory district planning that have tested different
    methodologies and develop some local capacity for conducting them. The most promising of
    these experiences is the UNCDF/UNDP pilot in Nampula. This pilot has demonstrated that it
    is possible to mainstream a participatory district planning process managed by public
    officials using public administration procedures.

2. Strengths and Limitations of the Nampula Project
151. Following the TORs, this consultancy has taken the analysis of the DPFP in Nampula as
the starting point for recommending an improved model of participation and downward
accountability in district planning in Mozambique. The overall conclusion is that the Nampula
model has several strengths that need to be preserved as well as several limitations that should be
addressed.

152. Some of its key strengths are:
(i)    Making district administration the driver of the participatory district development plan.
(ii)   Following (and influencing) the methodology and guidelines for district planning
       elaborated by the national government.
(iii) Going beyond the ―laundry list‖ approach of listing community demands, and instead
       proposing the development of a strategic vision which drives the prioritization process.
(iv)   The Project‘s methodology represents a significant departure from the traditional practice
       of designing top-down plans without citizens input.
(v)    The concept of Consultative Councils at the District and Posto Administrativo as an
       interface between civil society and government is a good instrument to create a culture of
       local dialogue at the district level.
(vi)   The representation of civil society in CCs respects existing forms of organization and
       representation.
(vii) When events to gather community preferences are organized, simple rules for having
       meaningful participation appear to be followed
(viii) The population is able to express their preferences without apparent distortions, since the
       menu of options for investments/actions is open, and there is untied funding available.
(ix)   The project has amassed a rich experience on how to organize CC, what works and what
       does not, that should be tapped on.
(x)    It has experimented with a rich variety of PRA methods that provide public officials with
       a complete set of instruments for finding out community preferences and concerns.
(xi)   The Project has the position of Participatory Development Technician at the provincial
       level, and recently also a Participatory and Gender Methodologies Advisor. This is a
       good decision to strengthen the support that the province gives to the districts in this area.
                                                                                                  60


(xii)   The Project has showed a strong learning capacity and flexibility in confronting the
        challenges that have emerged during implementation, many of which are being addressed
        in the second phase.

Its main limitations are:
153. Gathering Community Preferences
(xiii) There is no systematic methodology to ensure that the process of gathering community
        preferences is inclusive enough. There are three key deficiencies: (a) the lack of clear and
        transparent criteria for the ―bottom-up‖ selection of CCD/CCPA members opens up the
        possibility that not all community representatives are invited; (b) those who participate in
        the CCDs/CCPAs do not necessarily carry a mandate representing the preferences of their
        constituencies; and (c) Overcoming these deficiencies means creating a system of
        participation that is encompassing, transparent, and truly representative.
(xiv) The DPFP approach does not ensure that participation is equitable enough. Minorities
        and underprivileged groups do not have specific mechanisms to make their voices heard,
        which explains why women‘s participation has been low.
(xv) Planning activities that represent endogenous solutions to local problems is lacking.
        There is no mention in the DDP or the Annual Plans about community responsibilities for
        local development.
(xvi) The core and mandatory elements of the process for gathering community preferences is
        not standardized. There is no Operational Manual outlining the steps, criteria and
        procedures for community participation. While a learning approach may have made sense
        in the initial phase of the program, its replication to the national level should not proceed
        without a clear and detailed set of rules. The lack of an Operational Manual contributes to
        creating confusion among staff about the purpose of the different instruments.
(xvii) Pedagogical aspects of the three Operational Manuals need improvement to make them
        more user-friendly (more parsimonious, step-by-step explanations, more visual aids, etc).

154. Translating Community Preferences into the DDP and the Annual Plan
(xviii) It is difficult to assess the integration of community participation in the planning process
        because there are no clear rules for (a) taking community preferences into account in the
        prioritization process, and (b) explaining decision making to community members.
(xix) There are no rules for ensuring that the local population is informed about CCD
        outcomes.

155. Executing the Actions of the Plan
(xx) there are no explicit mechanisms for community participation in project implementation.
(xxi) There are no rules for communities to monitor contractors‘ performance.
(xxii) Community participation in operation and maintenance is weak. Micro-projectos do not
       have operation and maintenance plans.

156. Accountability about Plan Implementation
(xxiii) The process to inform communities about the content of the DDP and the Annual Plan
        does not ensure an adequate level of information.
(xxiv) The fact that CCDs are open forums rather than councils—i.e., participants are not
        members that have been elected for a certain period of time—means that participants can
                                                                                                 61


        change from one CC to the next one. In a forum anyone invited can attend to but they do
        not hold any responsibility to be held accountable for. This hurts good communication
        between government and civil society as well as accountability.
(xxv) There are no written guidelines or procedures for communities to assess plan
        implementation performance.
(xxvi) There are no mechanisms for government to take the input that comes from civil society
        assessment of the plan implementation and use it to feed its civil servants‘ performance
        assessment, and to inform back to community about the actions taken.
(xxvii) Delays in producing District PES have made it difficult to hold government accountable
        since these are the plans that contain concrete, short-term, committments.

3. Issues, Options & Mechanisms For Improved Local Governance
157. Despite the absence of a decentralization reform agenda (elected local authorities,
devolution of certain fiscal and policy powers to the district level, etc.) there is room for real
enhancement of local governance for two interrelated reasons: first, significant measures can be
adopted to ―democratize‖ the current deconcentrated system which should result in better
development outcomes than with the current system. Second, the process of democratizing the
deconcentrated system can contribute to laying the groundwork for subsequent structural
reforms.

158. The program should support a process of institutional reform of the local governance
system in Mozambique. This reform process should be: (a) gradual: innovations should be tried
out first in a limited number of districts and gradually expand them to others; (b) endogenous:
proposed innovations should draw from and build upon the reservoir of good practices already
tried in the country; (c) sustainable: innovations should not create ad-hoc structures and
processes but rather should develop embryonic components of a future full-fledged local
governance system. The Project should restrain from creating an over-ambitious structure that is
sustained only on the basis of the Project‘s fresh inflow of money, but is not sustainable after the
project ends; and (d) institutionalized: the proposed innovations should be backed up by
government regulations, decrees or laws.

3.1. Organizing Communities
159. The analysis of community organizations in Mozambique has produced two important
findings: (a) there is a thin stock of linking social capital; and (b) the Nampula model needs to be
strengthened to attain a more inclusive and equitable system of community representation in
district planning. Based on these findings, I recommend the Program to thicken the stock of
linking social capital by fostering the formation of community organizations.

160. I recommend a set of principles to guide both the assessment and the formation of
community organizations. Community organizations should be: encompassing and inclusive,
democratic, autonomous, internally accountable, binding, and sustainable and institutionalized
[see section V.1.1. for a description of these principles]

3.1.1. What model of community organizing?
161. Three alternative forms of linking citizens to government that exist in the country are
analyzed: (a) through traditional authorities, (b) through territorial-level organizations based at
the povoação level, and (c) through interest-group organizations based at the localidade level. I
                                                                                                 62


recommend to the program to pursue a twofold strategy with regards to civil society
organization:
 Creating Forum da Localidade in every localidade along the lines of the Machaze model, and
 Having incentives for the voluntary (or optional) creation of CDLs and other types of
   community organization (peasants associations, natural resource management groups, etc)
   such as in Nampula.
 Seeing traditional authorities as strategic partners in the creation of the above mentioned
   organizations.

162. This recommendation is based on the following analysis:
 The territorial approach implies a huge level of effort. In any district there could be from fifty
   to more than a hundred povoacoes. Mandating the creation of such a number of community
   organizations would be a very taxing and unfeasible aim given the weak capacities that exist
   to carry this out. An alternative could be to make povoacao-level organization optional,
   creating incentives for the voluntary formation of CDLs and making partnerships with NGOs
   to promote this effort. Traditional authorities are key strategic partners to promote CDLs.

163. Focusing the efforts of the program on the localidade has several advantages:
 it will help to make the localidade an effective realm of civil society organization and
   communication with district government. So far, its status is fuzzy and its relevance is low.
 Its scale for aggregating social interests and demands seems more adequate than povoação
   and Posto Administrativo.
 The level of institutional support that it will require from the program seems realistic.
   According to the Concern technician that supported the Comissões in Machaze it would take
   four to six months to create this Forums in a District with one or two community facilitators.
 It accommodates well, and indeed potentiates, other community animation efforts. CDLs at
   the povoação level or associações de camponeses, water user groups, forest management
   groups, can all participate in the Forum. It also accommodates well the role of traditional
   authorities since they are also represented as an interest group.
 Since the FL includes a large number of actors it is very likely that people with better than
   average educational backgrounds will be present (e.g., professors, merchants, religious
   leaders) who can be important assets for having substantive discussions.

164. Two risks of organizing at the localidade level are: (a) creating artificial new interests. The
methodology should be clear about not forcing or stimulating artificial groups; (b) better-off
people or ―local elites‖ from the localidade capturing development benefits. If the better off are
in the ―sede da localidade‖ they may influence the process to concentrate the benefits there.
Technical assistance for community organizing and training of community leaders should pay
attention to this issue.

165. Even though the combined model (interest group at localidades and CDLs at povoações)
appears to be more adequate to the goals and constraints of the program, Mozambique is at a
stage of its development of linking organizations at which it will profit from experimenting with
different models of linking organizations. At this point I will recommend passing legislation that
provides a framework for a broad set of linking organizations. Later on, government can assess
whether it is necessary to create more specific regulations.
                                                                                                   63




3.1.2. Who Should Promote Organizing and How?
166. Who? At the Provincial level, I recommend the creation of a Provincial Participatory
Development Coordinator (a description of his/her responsibilities appears in section V.5.1). If
there is no one in the provincial staff that could fill in the requirements for this position, a
national-level professional could be hired to train a provincial counterpart. At the District level, I
recommend the creation of a District Participatory Development Coordinator (for a description
of his/her profile see section V.5.2). This person should be part of the District Planning Team.
The provincial coordinator should collaborate with the DA in selecting/recruiting the person for
this job, and trained him/her. The content of the training should include PRA tools, procedures
for organizing communities, procedures for developing workplans for community self-help
activities, etc. In those districts where there is an NGO doing community work the district could
make a partnership with the NGO to facilitate the process. Still, it will be important to have
someone in the district government responsible for the liaison with the NGO on this issue.

167. How? General principles that should guide the formation of community organizations have
been already outlined [see V.1.1.]. Forum da Localidade can be organized taking into account the
following guidelines: (a) localidade‘s citizens define interest groups and decide in which one/s
they want to participate; (b) each ―interest group‖ elects two representatives (a man and a
woman) to participate as representatives in the FL; (c) the FL has a statute to regulate FL
functioning; (d) the frequency of meetings varies according to the dynamism of each FL.

3.1.3. Incentives
168. Community organizing needs incentives. Participating in the planning process is good, but
receiving its benefits may take a long time during which the population‘s interest in organizing
may falter. I recommend two kinds of incentives:
 ―Technical assistance‖. Poor people appreciate when officials from government or NGOs
    reach out to them not just to listen to their problems but to give them advice on how to do
    things differently to improve their lives. District and provincial sector officials should have
    strategies for working with communities (either through community health agents, PTAs,
    ―model‖ farmers, etc). Reviewing sectoral policies from this perspective could help identify
    how to strengthen existing initiatives and where the main gaps exist.
 Tangible results. An example of this will be a ―micro-projectos component‖ that allows
    people to perceive a quick and tangible result of their participation. In the WB program, this
    could be offered by the Community Infrastructure Improvement Facility.

3.1.4. Risks and Mitigating Measures.
169. Two risks of a state-sponsored strategy to promote the creation of linking organizations are:
 Political cooptation and manipulation. This can take place if government officials start
    meddling with community election of representatives for the FLs or the CCs. While some
    rural areas in Mozambique do not show strong partisan dynamics, others do—fueled by the
    possible contestation of community authorities as well as electoral mobilization. Therefore, I
    recommend that the project creates some safeguards to avoid or minimize the politicization
    of CCs, such as rules specifying that representatives should not be elected based on their
    political party identity, not allowing openly partisan discussions in meetings, etc, The
                                                                                                 64


    program should closely monitor this issue during implementation to ensure that these rules
    are being enforced .
   Analysts of the Mozambican experience point out that rural communities are strongly
    distrustful of government. Indeed, rather than wanting to link with government, some
    community authorities may want to de-link even more from government. If this sentiment is
    very pervasive, community organizing efforts may be unsuccessful or take longer than
    expected. I recommend keeping the FL as an autonomous space of civil society rather than
    as an interface forum to mitigate this mistrust. More generally, one way to mitigate this
    problem is to be very respectful of the opinions and sensitivities of the local population and
    avoid imposing structures.

3.1.5. Minimum Standards
170. My recommendations, which are based on the FL model but could also be applied to other
potential models, are:
 Forum de Localidades have been established in every localidade of the district
 FLs have met with the frequency that they have agreed on
 A sufficiently diverse number of interest groups have been formed in every locality.
    Although it is not advisable to impose the creation of specific interest groups, at least all
    those citizens interested in forming interest groups have been able to do so.
 Interest groups have met with the frequency that they have agreed on
 Interest group and FL representatives have been elected in a democratic way.
 IG and FL meetings are scheduled at a time and location that is accessible to the majority of
    the citizens of the locality, and information about these meetings is transmitted in advance to
    allow people to make the needed arrangements to be present.
 The rules for participation and representation are widely disseminated through a public
    information campaign.
 There are trained community facilitators working under the supervision of the district
    administration

3.2. Structuring the Local Dialogue
3.2.1. Organizational Structure
171. My main recommendation is that the structure for civil society-district government
dialogue should define the roles of the different territorial levels as follows:
 the levels of povoação and localidade as realms for civil society to get together and discuss
    and agree on their main preferences. Having an instance where civil society could come
    together without the presence of government is a prerequisite for minimum autonomous
    action and for encouraging people to take responsibility for their own development.
 the levels of posto administrativo and distrito as realms for civil society and government
    representatives to interact and agree on the district strategy.
 The added value of having a CCPA in addition to a CCD is to: (a) strengthen PA as a source
    of support to the district administration; (b) help large districts to have a closer interaction
    with civil society, and provide a filter between FLs and CCD to make the process of
    prioritization and discussion more manageable, meaningful, and representative; and (c)
    define a more concrete working plan for the chefe do PA and a development agenda for the
    PA, both of which are lacking.
                                                                                                 65


   The Program should assist government in the development of guidelines and procedures for
    CCPAs that: (a) specify the added value of the CCPAs; (b) provide clear rules for
    aggregation and prioritization of interests and demands that integrate them without
    significant distortions; and (c) include a strategy to strengthen the capacities of the PA.

172. I recommend some principles for organizing the Consultative Councils (PA and District)
related to their: statutes, membership, composition, size, autonomy, transparency,
institutionalization, and learning capacities, as well as principles to guide the relationship among
levels.

173. I propose the following organizational structure: FLs at the localidade, CCPA at the posto
administrativo, and CCD at the district level.

3.2.2. The Content of the Dialogue.
174. Taking as a starting point the framework developed by the Nampula Project (see Table 2) I
will recommend the following changes:

175. First Stage—Launching of the DDP. The two key products of this stage are:
 Formation of the District Participatory Planning Team. The Team should have between 6 to 9
   people that come from the different sectors that are present at the district level, plus one or
   two from the NGOs that are more active in the district, and a District Facilitator or
   Coordinator of Community Participation. For the composition of the Team: (a) rather than
   having District Directors as part of the Team (they are very busy) it is better if they appoint
   the best candidate from their Directions; (b) Team members should be selected based on
   merit and competence.
 The First CCD where the plan is launched. The program must decide whether the FL should
   be created before or after the 1st CCD. Pros and cons of each option are analyzed in the main
   body of the report.

176. Second Stage—Diagnosis. I recommend a process for involving communities in the district
diagnosis. The main recommendation is that as a result of this process, each CCPA produces a
―List of Community Priorities‖ which contains the top priorities agreed in the CCPA as well as
the other problems and solutions that were not prioritized. This List should be included as an
Annex of the DDP.

177. Third Stage—Definition of the Development Strategy At this stage takes place the 2nd
CCD where the Planning Team presents a strategy proposal for discussion. The main
recommendation here is that the Team should provide a detailed explanation of and justification
for the strategy, as well as explicit references to how the List of Community Priorities was taken
into account.

178. Fourth Stage—Identifying the Action Program and approving the DDP. This stage involves
negotiations between the Planning Team and the array of actors responsible for implementing the
actions included in the strategy. With regards to communities, two specific recommendations
are:
                                                                                                 66


   Discuss with the beneficiaries receiving a public investment what are the characteristics of
    the investment (location, possible types of technology, O&M requirements, etc) as well as
    what would be the counterpart that the community can contribute (either in of cash or in
    kind).
   The District Facilitator of Participation helps sector district officials to work with the
    different FLs to define the self-help activities that would be part of the Matrix of Actions. To
    do this, district governments should have a toolkit for engaging communities in self-help
    activities. It is recommended that the Program draws from DEC‘s experience in Buzi. DEC
    has organized what they call ―Civic education campaigns‖ (see box 1). To develop these
    toolkits the program should work with the different ministries in developing sectoral
    strategies for the district directions to work with the community in self-help activities. These
    toolkits are not a ―closed‖ package that should be applied in a top-down fashion, but rather
    flexible tools that should facilitate the organization of self-help activities.

3.2.3. Risks and Mitigating Measures
179. One of the risks of having a local dialogue is that civil society participation is passive, and
not independent. Recommendations to mitigate this are (a) the creation of an instance for civil
society to get together before its interaction with government, as a less intimidating space than a
CC for community members to learn the basics of democratic deliberations; (b) provide training
to community representatives and district officials; and (c) educate local actors about their roles
in the CCs during the CCs themselves .

180. Another risk is raising unrealistic community expectations about the solution to their
problems. I recommend the program to define a strategy to manage expectations based on the
following principles:
 a prioritization process that filters up to the district a manageable number of community
    priorities.
 an aggressive communication strategy that creates a conscience among community leaders
    and members about (a) the magnitude of resources that the district has available for
    investments; (b) the meaning of a prioritization process; and (c) the agreements reached and
    reflected in the final DDP document.
 stress the multi-year nature of the DDP so that communities know that they may not be
    attended in the first years but they may be later on.
 Increase the ―district budget‖ by coordinating with other investments partners (NGOs,
    businesses) so that they channel their resources to attend DDP priorities. This includes
    communities self-help activities.
 Facilitators of community meetings and CCs should be trained to repeat frequently the above
    information to communities.
 A common coping response to high community expectations is to spread resources evenly
    across the district through small projects. The program should try to avoid this since it goes
    against the notion of having a strategic plan. Some programs follow this approach only
    during the initial stage so as to gain credibility and take some of the pressure off, and then
    slowly moving into larger projects that are more focused on certain areas of the district. My
    recommendation is for the Program to have this as a ―second best‖ alternative. The program
    can also use the microproyects approach of the Community Infrastructure Improvement
    Facility to have a more territorially-balanced response to demands.
                                                                                               67


3.2.4. Minimum Standards
181. I have already outlined minimum standards for participation in the FLs (section V.1.7).
Here, I will refer only to the structure and content of the CCs and DDP:
 At least 70% of the members of the CCs should come from civil society
 At least one third of the members of the CCs are women
 Civil society representatives that form the CC have been elected by the local population
 CC dynamics (size, duration, languages, etc) allow for meaningful participation and
    exchange of ideas.
 There are written records of the discussions and agreements that took place in every CC, as
    well as a signed list of those who attended
 Discussions in the CC are not manipulated by any faction in particular
 Most districts complete the DDP within less than a year and a half.
 A majority of the local population finds that the priorities that appear in the DDP reflect well
    the priorities expressed in the FLs and CCPAs
 Community representatives are capable of explaining what criteria led to the final district
    strategy
 Community representatives hold community meetings to inform back to the community the
    basic points that were discussed
 The DDP includes self-help activities that resulted from a consensus with communities.
 NGOs and other actors with investment resources consider the DDP a legitimate and useful
    instrument and use it to guide their investment decisions.


3.3. Executing the Action Plan
3.3.1. Contracting
182. For the short term, it is not recommended for the program to pursue community
contracting since the government resists this approach on the basis that it will result in low-
quality works. Since mounting a community contracting operation requires strong political will
to back it up and given that it is not the only way to elicit community involvement in subproject
implementation, this option does not appear worth pursuing.

183. A minimum standard should be that the bidding process follows transparent methods to
ensure fairness and quality in government procurement, that the local population is informed
about these methods, and has the opportunity to voice its opinion about contract performance.
Some recommended measures that can be implemented in this regard are:
 Use the CCD and CCPA to explain government procurement methods in simple terms
 For the Community Infrastructure Improvement Facility, invite 1 or 2 community
   representatives to the opening of the envelopes in the bidding of the works that will be
   implemented in the representatives‘ communities.
 Establish a database of certified contractors that tracks the performance record of these
   contractors (whether they have left unfinished infrastructure, or poorly constructed
   infrastructure). Establish community-based oversight committees (see next point) that can
   provide feedback on the performance of the contractor.

3.3.2. Building.
184. Two recommended measures are to:
                                                                                                 68


   Create Oversight Committees to complement the work of the Fiscal in monitoring the
    contractor‘s performance. Their purpose is to oversee the implementation of the subproject,
    verifying that the works and services are being performed according to what has been agreed
    in the contract (duration, cost and quality of the service). The program should develop a
    booklet or manual of Community Oversight with the basic functions and procedures of the
    committee. [see box 2 for guidelines on the composition and responsibilities of these
    committees].
   Give Oversight Committees some leverage, for instance, require the signatures of the
    committee before approving the next installment to the contractor.

3.3.3. Operation and Maintenance
185. Two recommended measures are:
 Each subproject should have an operation and maintenance plan that outlines what are the
    responsibilities of the different actors, including beneficiaries/users. This plan should be
    informed by the corresponding sectoral policy. A review of sectoral policies should indicate
    if reforms are needed.
 Establish Operation and Maintenance Management Committees The purpose of these
    Committees is to coordinate the process of discussing and defining the management model
    that should be implemented to guarantee the investment‘s sustainability. [see box 3 for
    guidelines on how to create these committees]


3.4. Accountability about Plan Implementation
3.4.1. Organizational Infrastructure
186. The creation of community organizations will have an important effect in creating an
organizational infrastructure through which the local population can ask for information and
justification about government‘s (in)actions.

187. CCDs and CCPAs are key infrastructures for improved communication and accountability.
Two recommendations to enable better accountability about plan implementation are:
 First, transform the CC in real councils instead of forums by establishing a system of
   representation where the members of the councils are elected for a significant period of time
   (two years at least). These representatives will have responsibilities with regards to their
   constituencies and the authorities of the CCs.
 Second, develop written guidelines for conducting these events to ensure that minimum
   contents of information are transmitted to the population (see below).

3.4.2. Transparency & Communication.
188. Recommended rules to improve transparency are:
 Planning. The rules for planning have been discussed in previous sections.
 Budgeting. District authorities should have timely information about national and provincial
    sector allocations for capital investments and recurrent costs with sufficient certainty and
    anticipation to be able to prepare annual district plans. This does not to appear to be the case
    in the current situation and needs to be worked out before the initiation of the program.
 Financial management. Establishing financial management systems at the district and
    provincial level that allow expenditure monitoring and tracking.
                                                                                                69


   Procurement. There should be clear rules for the thresholds for direct contracting, private and
    public bidding.

189. It is recommended that the program implements a strong communication strategy, which
should include:
 The issues about which the population should be informed: plans and budgets, revenue
   collection, flow of public and non government funds, procurement and implementation, and
   rewards and sanctions system.
 Communication channels. It is recommend that the program hires a popular communication
   specialist to identify what would be the most effective channels to communicate with the
   population. Four possible channels are: (a) oral communication through the CCDs, CCPAs,
   FLs, and interest groups; (b) written forms through the ―Jornal da Parede‖ (large pieces of
   paper posted in strategic places); (c) community radios could be piloted in some districts to
   evaluate their effectiveness; and (d) Information and Communication Centers (see box 4) as
   the ones the Nampula Project is piloting. Information should be available in the local
   languages.
 The main responsibility for ensuring that information reaches the communities is of the
   District Participation Facilitator. The Facilitator should have detailed instruments to assist
   him/her in this work. The Program should prepare booklets containing the basic information
   that should be communicated, as well as the formats and channels for communication.

3.4.3. Rewards & Sanctions
190. The lack of political and fiscal decentralization deprives the local population from a key
accountability mechanism—i.e., voting. The challenge, then, is to find surrogate mechanisms for
political accountability. The two mechanisms that exist in Mozambique appear insufficient: (a)
in his visits to the districts, the provincial governor meets with local citizens and government
officials, but these meetings are rather ad-hoc; and (b) the provincial Directorate of Apoio e
Controle (DPAC) is responsible for the administrative assessment performance of district
administration, but apparently it does not include citizens input about district‘s performance.

191. My recommendations for establishing a system of incentives that promotes good
downward accountability are two:

192. First, to improve the District Performance Assessment System. This system should have
output and outcome indicators related to the participation of civil society in local governance
(suggestions are included). In the last ten years, a wide set of tools have been developed and
tested all over the world to measure citizens satisfaction about public action. Three of these are:
citizen report cards, participatory monitoring and evaluation, and beneficiary assessments.

193. Second, to establish an Incentives for Good District Performance System, which should
include administrative and development rewards:
 Administrative Rewards. Since District administration staff is appointed rather than elected,
    their incentives for good performance should come from those who control their
    administrative careers, that is, the provincial administration. Suggested actions include:
    1. A comprehensive review of the system for administrative promotions should identify key
        reforms that are needed.
                                                                                                  70


    2. Making DA responsibilities clearer as well as reinforcing his/her authority over sector
       staff are necessary.
    3. The participation of district staff in the Participatory Planning District Team should
       account for extra points in the assessment of staff‘s performance.
    4. The provincial governor can establish an annual ―prize‖ that is awarded to the District
       Administrator that has been more responsive to the local population and more engaged in
       promoting the development of the district. In the same way that during the socialist
       period there was something called ―emulacao socialista‖ for those officials that
       performed well the government can establish something as an ―emulacao da governação
       local participativa.‖

   Development Rewards, provincial government allocations for the District Infrastructure
    Facility and the Community Infrastructure Improvement Facility represent an opportunity to
    reward/sanction performance. The agents that will benefit/suffer from this incentive are the
    district population. This should mobilize the local population not only to become more vocal
    about district administration performance but also to perform well those actions that are their
    own responsibility. Two options for using these facilities as incentives are:
    1. to define minimum performance standards (output and/or outcome related) in order to be
        eligible for allocations from this facility;
    2. to define a fixed allocation that all districts receive equally and a variable allocation that
        depends on performance.


3.5. Capacity Building and Training
194. Capacity building is a cross-cutting issue that lies at the heart of the program‘s goals. The
success that the program attains in terms of participation and accountability will depend to a
large extent on the degree to which provincial and district officials as well as communities
assimilate new skills, develop new habits and norms for interacting with each other as well as
new perceptions of their roles and potential.
Capacities that the different actors involved in the district planning process need to have in the
area of participation and downward accountability include:

3.5.1. Principles for Effective Capacity Building.
195. Important principles for effective capacity building are: ownership and institutionalization,
a demand-driven approach, a holistic approach both in terms of training content and recipients,
exploiting multiple channels for capacity building, focusing less on the inputs and more on the
quality of the outcomes, linking capacity building to incentives, on the job, pedagogical, and a
hands-on approach, and measures to retain trainees in their positions.

3.5.2. Provincial Administration
196. Recommendations are:
 The provincial administration should have a Professional Development Program, and one of
    its components should be devoted to participatory methodologies and downward
    accountability issues.
 The program should have a Provincial Participatory Development Coordinator/Advisor. For
    a description of the responsibilities and qualifications for this position see Box 5.
                                                                                                 71


   Relevant sector staff should be trained on the new responsibilities that the program is
    proposing.
   The program should establish learning mechanisms at the provincial and national level to
    identify good performers within the program and create instances to share and exchange
    experiences and learning. Program‘s staff and appropriate provincial technicians should be
    encouraged to visit other related programs in Mozambique, as well as similar programs in
    other countries.

3.5.3. District Administration.
197. Four recommendations are:
 District Administration‘s staff involved in district planning needs to be trained in the
    methodologies for preparing the District Development Plan, the District PES, and (if it is
    piloted) also the District Budget. They also need to have a general knowledge of the basic
    principles underpinning a participatory approach to planning as well as the participatory
    methodologies that will be used by the Program.
 Create the position of District Participatory Development Coordinator (DPDC). For
    recommendations on the skills and attitudes that the DPDC should have see the main body of
    the report.
 Limiting high turnover of trained staff. Based on the experience of the Nampula Project, I
    recommend that the program takes the following measures to mitigate high turnover rates: (a)
    convey to the Governor‘s Department the importance of putting political pressure on
    Provincial Directors to avoid the transfer of key staff away from participating districts; and
    (b) promote effective coordination and information-sharing across provincial directorates.
 Demonstration effects. The program should use the learning mechanisms established at the
    provincial and national level to identify good performing districts and Planning Teams and
    create instances for exchange between good and bad performing districts (eg, tour visits).

3.5.4. Civil Society
198. To ensure the institutionalization of civil society participation in the district planning
processes, the program needs to develop an effective program of community capacity building,
in such areas as: community organizing and leadership, legislation about community
participation, needs diagnosis, democratic processes to discuss community priorities, gender
awareness, sectoral criteria for public investments, importance of community contributions,
community involvement in operation and maintenance, district planning, and budget oversight.

199. Some mechanisms and tools for doing this include:
 The best mechanism to create community capacities is the daily practice of participating in
   community organizations, in district planning, in project implementation, operation and
   maintenance, and holding government accountable.
 These practices should be supported by a framework of appropriate legislation and
   operational tools such as training manuals for the trainers and the trainees that include all the
   above mentioned issues.
 The District Coordinator for Participation should be the main responsible for training
   community representatives.
                                                                                             72


   He/She should organize workshops at the district/posto administrativo to provide this
    training, and ensure that communities receive the information they need to become actively
    involved in local development
   The Provincial Coordinator for Participation should support the District Coordinator in some
    training events.
                                                                                                                         73


ANNEXES
1. Terms of Reference
Background
   1. Since 1998 the Government of Mozambique has been piloting district planning and finance in Nampula
       province with support from the Netherlands, the United Nations Development Capital Fund and UNDP.
       The project‘s objective is to promote economic development and alleviate poverty by improving the
       provision and operation and maintenance of small-scale economic and social infrastructure. The basic
       assumption underlying the project is that the key for successful rural development is the improvement of
       local governance. Political, administrative and financial decentralization and genuine participation are
       essential and critical dimensions of this improvement.

    2.      The Government of Mozambique is developing a national program on Decentralized Planning and Finance
            and has requested funding from the World Bank to expand the Nampula experience to cover up to four
            provinces in the central region of the country. The project would have three components (i) Decentralized
            Planning (District planning), Finance and Works (ii) Capacity Building and (iii) Strengthening the National
            Policy Framework.

    3.      Similar to the Nampula pilot, the WB project would finance small public investments in rural areas and
            start long term capacity building of district and provincial administration. This would involve the
            strengthening of the capacities of Provincial and District administrations to plan and manage the provision
            of rural infrastructure, and to assist the central government ministries and agencies to develop national
            laws, regulations and guidelines for the decentralized management of infrastructure investment programs.
            The investment programs would be financed by provincially managed facilities using government
            procedures. Support would be provided to enhance works contracting and supervision, and to establish
            mechanisms for operation and maintenance.

    4.      The participation of civil society and communities in the planning and implementation of rural
            infrastructure and services is one of the main features of the DPFP. Following precedents set in Nampula
            and reflected in proposed legislation, communities would be organized in ―Consultative Councils? at
            district and at administrative post levels to ensure community representation and participation. The
            Nampula Project takes in consideration the administrative division of the country up to where the local
            government is represented (Chefe do Posto Administrativo). Other models of community participation tried
            elsewhere in the country are structured from the ―bottom-up‖ through Local or Community Development
            Committees, and it is generally believed that they enable better inclusion of the traditional leaders and
            minority groups at the grassroots level. There are several limitations to these models: in both it is not clear
            how the District Councils are formed and how their decision-making processes function, nor are the role,
            rights and obligations of district administration clear vis-à-vis District Consultative Councils.

Objectives of the study
5. The objective of the Participation, Transparency and Downward Accountability Study
is to support the design of the District Planning, Finance and Works Component of DPFP; specifically;

    (i)         To review the current rules, regulations and institutional arrangements for community participation and
                accountability in Mozambique.
    (ii)        To propose institutional arrangements and mechanisms that will improve people‘s participation in
                decision making during the district planning process and during the implementation of the resulting
                district plans and projects.
    (iii)       To review and propose ways (e.g. communication strategy, flow of information) in which the district
                administration or others handling public resources could report faithfully to beneficiaries on the
                intended and actual use of resources at the local level.
    (iv)        To assess and propose institutional mechanisms through which local communities can regulate the
                behavior of district officials involved in the management of public resources and the provision of
                public services.
    (v)         To propose capacity building needs and institutional arrangements to improve participation,
                transparency and accountability at community and district levels.
                                                                                                                     74



Scope of the work
6. The consultant will review the community participation and downward accountability under the Nampula pilot
project and familiarize him/herself with various relevant studies, especially the ―Best Practices for Community
Participation in District Planning in Mozambique? undertaken by government in the context of the DPFP
formulation and other international best practices in order to carry out the following tasks:

Participation
7. Participation is considered the key element of the planning process and should be inclusive and transparent to
ensure that the interest of the poorest and most marginalized groups of society are adequately represented. The
consultant will:
    1) Analyze and assess the nature and quality of community participation in district planning in the Nampula
         Pilot
    2) Identify important actors and groups in the district planning process and propose potential roles and
         strategies for inclusion in order to ensure equitable participation (who to include) in the DPFP, with special
         attention to the role of Community Authorities (Autoridades comunitárias)
    3) Define criteria for selecting participants for consultation (how)
    4) Propose institutional arrangements to ensure that participation is an integral part of project planning and
         implementation
    5) Define several possible approaches for community participation and flow of information that link local
         populations with district administration in the context of planning and plan implementation and identify
         their major strengths and weakness under Mozambican conditions (options)
    6) Define background information that would be made available to the stakeholders on a timely basis in
         advance of the consultative events
    7) Discuss with the government and other stakeholders their feasibility and sustainability under Mozambique
         conditions of such options
    8) Propose minimum standards, processes and mechanisms for community participation in district planning to
         be applied in the project (e.g. who to include, background information that should be made available by
         local government to local stakeholders, the criteria used for selecting participants, decision making
         process, etc.). Special emphasis should be given to community participation on the financing facilities
         (District Infrastructure and Community Infrastructure facilities) proposed under this project.

Accountability
8. The government is promoting the establishment of Consultative Councils (Conselhos Consultivos) as
representatives of communities in the local socio-economic and development initiatives, but the relationship with
government needs to be clarified. Based on the field visit to Nampula pilot and to Buzi (ADEL experience) the
consultant will:

    1) Identify present (formal and informal) accountability mechanism between local administration and
       communities in rural Mozambique
    2) Assess the existing accountability relations with specific emphasis on community authorities and identify
       their strengths and weaknesses
    3) Assess existing experience and proposals (including the proposed Local Administration (OLE) Reform
       legislation) for the creation and functioning of consultative councils and evaluate their potential
       contribution to improve downward accountability in the context of District Planning and Implementation
    4) Identify opportunity and constraints for improved accountability of district administration to local
       communities
    5) Given the constraints, propose viable options for promoting improve accountability in the DPFP
    6) Propose mechanisms and minimum standards for downward accountability for the project with particular
       emphasis on the allocation and use of resources made available through project financing facilities.( e.g.
       preparation and handling of annual reports, financial statements, monitoring and evaluation results, etc.)

Output/Products
           1 Summary of the current rules and regulations and institutional arrangements for community
               participation and downward accountability at the District level in Mozambique
           2 Issues and options for community participation and downward accountability for DPFP
                                                                                                                  75


             3   Propose strategy, guidelines, mechanisms and standards for community participation and
                 downward accountability in the DPFP
             4   Risk analysis given existing institutional, policy and political environment and possible
                 minimization strategy for community participation and downward accountability
             5   Given the existing institutional, policy constraints, propose an incentive system that could promote
                 community participation, transparency and downward accountability for the implementation of
                 DPFP

Level of Effort and Work Plan
18 days in Mozambique
10 days Report Writing (US)

Wk 1 – Maputo, interviews, with government, donors and NGOs
Wk 2 – Field visits: Familiarization with Nampula pilot project and visit to Buzi/ADEL
Wk 3 – Prepare a summary of initial conclusions to present in Seminar on Community Participation in District
Planning and Governance, Final Discussions in Maputo
Wks 4/5 - Draft and Revise Report (after departure to US)

The draft report is due by June 30, 2002 and final report (after comments) by July 30, 2002.

Report
The consultant will work closely with Aniceto Bila, Program Officer, WB Mozambique Country Office and
Custodio dos Mucudos at UCA, Ministry of Planning and Finance, with ultimate accountability to the Task Team
Leader, Alan Carroll, Lead Urban Specialist, Water and Urban Group1, Eastern and Southern Africa, World Bank.
                                                                                         76


2. List of People Interviewed/Met
National Government
 from the Ministry of Planning and Finance (MPF):
   - Director Domingos Lambo
   - Custodio dos Mucudos
   - Taquidir Bacar
 from the Ministry of State Administration (MAE)
   - Director Lourenço Mavie
 from the National Rural Development Directorate:
   - Director Gabriel Tembe
   - José Mate
   - Romão Cossa

Provincial and District Government
 2 District Administrators (Mecuburi and Machaze)
 2 group meetings with District Technical Teams (Angoche and Machaze)
 1 member of the District Technical Team of Mecuburi
 1 chefe do posto administrativo (Aúbe)
 1 presidente da localidade (Machaze)
 Provincial Coordinator of Participation, DPFP Nampula, Joao Olaia
 Provincial Coordinator of Technical Advisors, DPFP Nampula, Vicente Paulo.

Community Representatives
 1 Régulo in Machaze
 1 Religious Leader in Machaze
 Focus group with a CDL in Aube
 Focus group with a Comissão de Desenvolvimento da Localidade in Machaze

Donors, NGOs and Consultants
 Austrian Cooperation, Hemma Tengler
 Swiss Cooperation, Bernhard Weimer
 UNDP, Paolo di Renzio
 Dutch Embassy, First Secretary, Jan Willem le Grand
 SNV in Angoche, Ms. Jose
 Norwegian Cooperation, Second Secretary, Haavard
 Irish Cooperation, Concern, Facilitator in Machaze
 WB, Aniceto Bila, Louis Helling, Kate Kuper.
 Centro de Estudos de Democracia e Desenvolvimento, Carlos Roque
 OLIPA, Coordinator
 Consultant for UCA/MPF responsible for consultations with stakeholders about program
   design, Anselmo Zimba.
 Consultants responsible for Best Practice on Community Participation in Mozambique:
   Patrick Matakala and Eunice Cavane.
                                                                                             77


3. Bibliographical References
de Silva, Samantha (2000). Community-based Contracting: A Review of Stakeholder Experience.
        Washington DC: The World Bank.
District Planning and Financing Project (1999). Progress Report No. 4. Year Report 1999.
        Nampula.
Estrella, Marisol and John Gaventa (?). Who Counts Reality? Participatory Monitoring and
        Evaluation: A Literature Review. IDS Working Paper #70. Sussex.
Fox, Jonathan (1996). ―How Does Civil Society Thicken? The Political Construction of Social
        Capital in Rural Mexico.‖ In World Development, 24 (6): 1089-1103.
Goudsmit Into A. And James Blackburn (2001). ―Participatory Municipal Planning in Bolivia: an
        Ambiguous Experience,‖ in Development in Practice, 11 (5): 587-596.
Helling, Louis (1997). O Conselho Distrital de Desenvolvimento: Um Elemento Crucial na
        Responsabilização das Comunidades Rurais para o seu Próprio Futuro. Draft. Setembro.
Helling, Louis (2000). The Policy and Institutional Framework for Decentralized Planning and
        Management of Small-Scale Public Infrastructure Investment for Rural Development in
        Mozambique. Draft report. February.
Jenkins, Rob and Anne-Marie Goetz (1999). ―Constraints on Civil Society‘s Capacity to Curb
        Corruption. Lessons from the Indian Experience‖ in IDS Bulletin, 30 (4): 39-49.
Matakala, Patrick W. and Eunice Cavane (2002). Identificação de Melhores Práticas na
        Animação e Participação Comunitária no Processo de Planificação Distrital.
        Unpublished Manuscript, Programa de Planificação e Finanças Descentralizadas,
        Ministério de Plano e Finanças, Maputo, July.
Moore, Mick and James Putzel (1999). Thinking Strategically About Politics and Poverty. IDS
        Working Paper 101, October.
MPF (1998). Plano Distrital de Desenvolvimento. Orientações para Elaboração e
        Implementação. Maputo.
MPF/MAE/MOPH (2002a). Planificação Distrital. Manual No. 1. O Plano Distrital de
        Desenvolvimento. Maputo.
MPF/MAE/MOPH (2002b). Planificação Distrital. Manual No. 2 Ciclo Anual de Planificação.
        Maputo.
MPF/MAE (2002). Planificação Distrital. Manual No. 2. Dialogo com a Sociedade Civil.
        Maputo.
Narayan, Deepa (2002). Empowerment and Poverty Reduction: A Sourcebook. Draft. PREM,
        The World Bank, May 1.
O‘Laughlin, Bridget (2000). ―Class and the Customary: The Ambiguous legacy of the Indigenato
        in Mozambique.‖ In African Affairs 99, 5-42.
Paul, Samuel (1992). ―Accountability in Public Services: Exit, Voice and Control.‖ World
        Development 20, no. 7: 1047-1060.
Pijnenburg, Bart, Eunice Cavane and Luis Artur (2000). Qualitative Assessment of the
        Decentralized District Planning Program in Nampula. Maputo, July.
Roque, Carlos and Hemma Tengler (2001). Buzi no Phudji. Perspectivas de Desenvolvimento
        Distrital Participativo. Instituto Austríaco Norte Sul, Beira.
Schedler, Andreas. 1999. ―Restraining the State: Conflicts and Agents of Accountability.‖ In The
        Self-Restraining State. Power and Accountability in New Democracies, ed. Andreas
        Schedler, Larry Diamond, and Marc F. Plattner. Boulder: Lynne Rienner Publishers.
Serrano, Rodrigo (1999). Social Funds and Decentralization Policy in Bolivia. Draft.
                                                                                     78


Stenkerburg, Jan et al (2000). Decentralisation and Participatory District Planning in
       Mozambique. An Evaluation of technical Assistance provided by the Netherlands
       Development Organization SNV to Nampula Province. September.
UNCDF (2002). Draft Project Formulation Document. Support to Decentralised Planning and
       Financing in the Provinces of Nampula and Cabo Delgado.
UNCDF (2000). Summary Report of the Mid Term Evaluation June-July 2000. Project of the
       Government of Mozambique. Support to Decentralized Planning and Financing in
       Nampula Province.
World Bank (2000). World Development Report 2000/1. Attacking Poverty. Washington DC:
       The World Bank.
WB (1994). The World Bank and Participation. Washington DC: The World Bank.
WB (1992). Participatory Development and the World Bank, edited by B. Bhatnagar and A.
       Williams. Discussion Paper # 183, Washington DC: The World Bank.
WB (2002) Mozambique Decentralized Planning and Finance Program (DPFP). A Proposed
       Financial Management System.
WB (?) Fiscal Decentralization-Taking Stock and Looking Ahead.
