Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
IDA GRANT NUMBER H067 MOZ
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Decentralized Planning and Financing Project)
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated December 19, 2003 
 
Page  2
IDA GRANT NUMBER H067 MOZ 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated December 19, 2003, between REPUBLIC OF 
MOZAMBIQUE (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter from the Recipient  
(the Letter of Sector Commitment), dated August 13, 2003, describing a program 
designed to strengthen the role of districts and communities in the planning and 
management of local development, to modernize public resource planning tools at 
provincial and district levels, and to transfer responsibility and specific capacities to local 
administration, thus providing them with improved tools to deliver services (the Program) 
and declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program;  
 
(B) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
 
October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement  
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.  
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“District” means the administrative unit of the Recipient’s Provinces  
(as hereinafter defined) participating in the implementation of the Project, or any 
successor administrative unit, satisfactory to the Association for the purposes of the 
execution of the Project; 
Page  3
-
2
-
2
(b) 
“District Administrator” or “DA” means the official of the Recipient that 
has authoritative control of the administration of a District and referred to in  
Paragraph A (iv) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, or any successor thereto under any 
amendment to the administrative position of the DA, satisfactory to the Association for 
the purposes of the execution of the Project, under the  laws of the Recipient;  
 
(c) 
“DCCs” means the District Consultative Councils in the Project Districts 
created under Government Decree 15/2000 and associated regulations;  
 
(d) 
“DPPF” means the Provincial Directorate of Planning and Finance of the 
MPF (as hereinafter defined); 
 
(e) 
“Environmental Management Plan” or “EMP” means the plan based on 
the Environmental Assessment of the Project, adopted by the Recipient on
 
March 26, 
2003
,
describing the environmental planning, review, approval, mitigation, monitoring, 
training, technical assistance, and institutional measures under the Project referred to in 
Paragraph E of  Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(f) 
“Environmental and Social Screening Form” means a screening form 
included in the Environmental Assessment of the Project, for environmental and social 
impact assessment and audit of Subprojects under Part B of the project, to eliminate any 
adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable 
levels, or to enhance positive impacts; 
 
(g) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(h) 
“Guidelines for Community Participation and Consultation in District 
Planning” means the guidelines adopted by the Recipient pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.01 (f) of this Agreement, containing the methodology to be used by district 
administrations for involving their communities in the local development planning 
process; 
 
(i) 
“Infrastructure Investment Activity” means a Subproject determined 
priority investments in District plans comprising: (i) District administrative 
Infrastructure; (ii) Socio-Economic Infrastructure in the District; and (iii) Community 
Infrastructure Improvement, as defined in the PIM (as hereinafter defined); 
 
(j) 
“Letter of Sector Policy” means the letter from the Recipient to the 
Association referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement; 
 
(k) 
“LIG” means the Local Investment Grants provided under the Grant to 
the Districts through the Provinces (as hereinafter defined) in accordance with the 
provisions of Paragraphs F and G of  Schedule 4 to this Agreement for use by the 
Page  4
-
3
-
3
Districts in accordance with the provisions of  Paragraphs F and G of  Schedule 4 and of 
the PIM (as hereinafter defined), for implementing Subprojects (as hereinafter defined); 
 (l) 
“level” means either of the three levels in the Recipient’s Government, 
namely, the Recipient, Province or the District (all as defined in this Section) for the 
carrying out of the Project, and the term “levels” refers, collectively,  to all the three 
levels;  
 
(m) 
“Meticais” means the currency of the Recipient; 
 
(n) 
“MOU” means a memorandum of understanding between the MPF (as 
hereinafter defined) and the Government of a Province (as hereinafter defined) for the 
purpose of making LIG funds available to the Province in accordance with the criteria set 
forth in  Paragraph G of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and of the PIM (as hereinafter 
defined)  for the financing of the Subprojects (as hereinafter defined);  
 
(o) 
“MPF” means the Ministry of Planning and Finance of the Recipient; 
 
(p) 
“PCU/UCA” means the Recipient’s Project Coordination Unit in the 
National  Directorate for Planning and Budget of  the MPF (DNPO/MPF) and referred to 
in Paragraph A (iv) of  Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
(q) 
“PIM” means the Project Implementation Manual referred to in 
Paragraph A (i) (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and adopted by the Recipient 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 (e) of this Agreement, containing detailed 
arrangements regarding the implementation of the Project and operation of different  
activities under it; 
 
(r) 
“PPUs/UPPs”  means the Provincial Project Units in the Provincial 
Directorate of Planning and Finance (DPPF/MPF) in each Province (as hereinafter 
defined) of the Recipient, and in its singular form the term means any one such Unit; 
 
(s) 
“Project Accounts” means, collectively, all accounts for the Project 
comprising the Project Account, Second Generation Special Account and the Provincial 
Project Account referred to in Paragraph B.1 of  Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(t) 
“Project Executing Agencies” means DNPO/MPF, DPPF/MF and DAs 
(all as defined in this Section) responsible for the execution of the Project at the level of 
the Recipient, Provinces and Districts (all as defined in this Section);    
 
(u) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to the letters agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on February 6, 2001 and April 10, 2003, and on behalf of the 
Recipient on March 21, 2001 and April 10, 2003, respectively;
 
Page  5
-
4
-
4
(v) 
“Province” means the Administrative unit of the Recipient in the central 
area of the territory of the Recipient created under the Recipient’s Constitution of 1990 as 
amended in December 1996, participating in the implementation of the Project, and
 
“Provinces” means, collectively, all or more than one Province, as appropriate; 
 
(w) 
“PY” means the Project Year; 
 
(x) 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the framework dated 
 
March 26, 2003, outlining the modalities for land acquisition, resettlement and 
rehabilitation under Part B of the Project; 
 
(y) 
“Second Generation Special Account” means the account referred to in 
Section 2.02 (c) of this Grant Agreement; 
 
(z) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
 
(aa) 
“Subproject” means a priority small-scale local public infrastructure 
investment financed through LIG from the proceeds of the Grant under Part B of the 
Project, and which satisfies the criteria set forth in this Agreement, and “Subprojects” 
means, collectively, all such Subprojects.  
ARTICLE II 
The Grant 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to twenty nine million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights  
(SDR 29,900,000) (the Grant). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for:  
(i) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant; and (ii) amounts paid (or if the Association shall so agree, 
amounts to be paid) by the Recipient on account of withdrawals for Local Investment 
Grants for the benefit of the Districts, to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works and 
services required for Subprojects to be financed under Part B of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Page  6
-
5
-
5
(c) 
The Recipient shall withdraw from the Special Account and deposit into 
Second Generation Accounts for each Province supported by the Project an amount in 
Meticais, in total not exceeding, initially, $100,000 equivalent, and after the full 
Authorized Allocation is deposited, an amount in Meticais, in total not exceeding 
$200,000 equivalent in commercial banks on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  
 
(d) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2008 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to Paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.05 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on March 15 
and September 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.06. The currency of United States of America is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Page  7
-
6
-
6
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03.  Without limitations upon the provisions of Section 3.04 of this 
Agreement, by not later than January 31, 2006, the Recipient shall submit to the 
Association, a Letter of Sector Policy, satisfactory to the Association, detailing,  
inter alia
,
how the administrative, fiscal and governance aspects of  its decentralization 
program (as outlined in the Letter of Sector Commitment) will proceed until 2010.  
 
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a 
plan designed to ensure the sustainability of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system 
encompassing both the central and provincial levels of the Project, including records and 
accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association,
 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
Page  8
-
7
-
7
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
Paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the Special 
Account and each Second Generation Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in Paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
Paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
 (iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in Paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of 
such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
Page  9
-
8
-
8
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 0f this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association a Financial 
Monitoring Report (FMR), in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
 
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds provided 
under the Grant, and explains variances between the actual and planned uses of  
such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and explains variances between the 
actual
 
and planned Project implementation; and 
 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 60 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 60 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter.  
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Association 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, a situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program or significant part thereof will be carried out. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Grant Agreement within the meaning of 
 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions : 
 
(a) 
the external auditors referred to in
 
Paragraph
 
C.3 (a) of Schedule 4 to this
 
Agreement have been appointed on terms of reference acceptable to the Association; 
 
(b) 
the Recipient has appointed Procurement Specialists for the PCU/UCA 
referred to in Paragraph C.3 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
Page  10
-
9
-
9
(c) 
the Recipient has opened the Project Accounts referred to in Paragraph 
B.1 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and deposited in the Project Account the initial 
amount of its counterpart funds referred to in Paragraph B.1 (a) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;  
 
(d) 
the Recipient has designed the Financial Management System (FMS), 
satisfactory to the Association; installed it and the ability to prepare FMRs under the 
Project demonstrated at the Recipient’s level and that at the provincial level: (i) the FMS 
has been designed and installed; (ii) qualified and experienced Supervisory Accountants 
have been appointed to the PPUs/UPPs; and (iii) qualified and experienced Project 
Accountants have been appointed to the PPUs/UPPs;  
 
(e) 
the Recipient has adopted the PIM referred to in Paragraph A (i) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; and 
 
(f) 
the Recipient has published in its Official Gazette, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, the notice of adoption of the Guidelines for Community 
Participation and Consultation in District Planning. 
 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  11
-
10
-
10
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Governor of the 
Banco de Moçambique
 is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Governor 
 
Banco de Moçambique 
 
Departamento de Estrangeiro 
 
Maputo 
 
Republic of Mozambique 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
 Facsimile: 
 
MOBANCO 
 
6355/BMMO 
258 1 322015 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
11
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE 
 
By 
 
 
/s/ Armando Panguene  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
  /s/ 
Nils 
Tcheyan 
 
 
Acting Country Director  
Mozambique  
 
Page  13
-
12
-
12
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated 
 
      % of 
 
(Expressed in  
 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Works   
 
     140,000 
 
 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures and 
 
80%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(2) 
Goods   
        
  3,340,000 
 
 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures and 
 
80%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ 
  
 
 
6,190,000 
  86% 
services  
(excluding trainers) 
 
 
 
(4) 
Training and Audits 
   2,420,000 
 
 
100% 
 
(5) 
Local Investment  
 13,650,000 
 
 
100% 
of amounts                                                                                   
Grants 
      disbursed 
 
(6) 
Operating Costs  
   2,630,000 
 
 
80% 
 
(7) 
Refunding of 
 
   1,370,000 
 
 
Amount due pursuant 
 Project 
Preparation 
    to 
Section 
2.02 
(c) 
of 
 Advance      this 
Agreement 
 
(8) 
Unallocated                         160,000 
 
_________ 
 TOTAL   
29,900,000 
Page  14
-
13
-
13
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient;  
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred by 
the Recipient on account of the Project implementation, management and monitoring, 
including maintenance of information system, office supplies, insurance for, and 
maintenance and operation of vehicles, travel and salaries of support staff, and travel of 
civil servants involved in Project supported activities, excluding salaries of civil servants. 
 
(d) 
the term “Training” means all costs associated with the training of civil 
servants, government contracted staff and non-governmental persons involved in Project 
supported activities including travel and subsistence costs for training participants, costs 
associated with securing the services of trainers, rental of training facilities, preparation 
and reproduction of training materials, and other costs directly related to course 
preparation and implementation.  Training costs shall also include the reimbursement of 
the Institutes for Public Administration and Municipal Training (the 
Institutos de 
Formação em Administração Pública e Autárquica - 
IFAPAs
)
for expenses incurred by 
the IFAPAs in the planning, implementation and supervision of training courses in public 
administration as agreed between the Provincial Governments and the IFAPAs. 
3. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts 
costing less than $200,000 equivalent; (ii) works under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent; (iii) services from consultant firms under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent; (iv) services from individual consultants under contracts costing 
less than $50,000 equivalent; and (v) all training, audits, Operating Costs and Local 
Investment Grants under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient. 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
14
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient to improve the institutional 
performance of its District Administrations to plan and manage small infrastructure 
investments in response to community demands. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Participatory District Planning
1. 
Support through the provision of methodological tools, training, technical 
advisory services and mentoring to District Administrations to establish and 
operationalise District Planning Teams and to prepare strategic and annual plans, 
including: (a) development of District Planning Manuals; (b) training of Provincial 
Planning Team members; (c) training of District Technical (Planning) Teams; 
 
(d) seminars for Local Administration Personnel including District Administrators;  
(e) support for District Administrators in providing timely and complete information to 
DCCs in respect of the process and progress in existing district plan implementation; and 
(f) holding of annual workshops in each province for sharing of experience.   
 
2. 
Provision of technical advisory services to develop capacity of civil society and 
rural communities to effectively participate in the local development planning process 
and ensure local administration accountability for plan implementation through:  
(a) support for the Recipient’s dissemination of guidelines for the functioning of DCCs;  
(b) identification, contracting and training of district-based civil society facilitators; and 
(c) support  for the development of a participation network in Provinces to provide 
capacity building and exchange of experience. 
3. 
Development and implementation of a communications strategy to ensure that 
the district planning and DCCs operations are characterized by increasing levels of 
awareness, inclusion and accountability among both public sector and civil society 
through the provision of methodological tools, training, technical advisory services and 
mentoring. 
Part B
:
Local Investment Grants (LIGs)
1. 
Provision of funding for Local Investment Grants (LIGs) for the carrying out of 
small-scale district level public investments, comprising: (a) District Administrative 
Infrastructure; (b) Socio-Economic Infrastructure; and (c) Community Infrastructure 
Improvements. 
Page  16
-
15
-
15
2. 
Strengthening the capacity for decentralized management of small-scale district 
level public investments under the Project by establishing a small infrastructure grants 
mechanism, including promotion of methods and systems for district administrations to 
allocate budget for small infrastructure investments along with strengthening capacities 
for financial and works management by the Recipient’s line units and local 
administration staff through learning-by-doing using government systems. 
Part C
:
Capacity Building for Local Administration
Strengthening the capacity of the staff of about 49 District Administrations and 
of associated departments of the Provinces to plan and coordinate district development 
activities, to mobilize and manage resources and to deliver basic administrative services 
to the public through: 
1. 
The provision for the training of Provincial and District staff related to LIGs to 
strengthen the District Administrations and relevant provincial departments in financial 
administration and in small works procurement and supervision management.  
2. 
The provision for training: (a) in the core functions of District Administration; 
and (b) in other areas identified as priorities by the Provincial and District officials for 
capacity building of the local public administration to develop the human resource base  
for a comprehensive and institutionalized decentralization under the Project. 
Part D
:
Support for Decentralization Policy
Development of policies and methodologies conducive to greater decentralization 
of the fiscal, administrative and governance regimes in rural Mozambique through:  
(a) the provision of technical advisory services for: (i) decentralization policy analysis 
and definition; and (ii) decentralization methodology development and dissemination; 
and (b) funding for decentralization training for central agency policy makers and 
technicians.  
Part E
:
Support for Project Implementation
1. 
Strengthening the capacity of the PCU/UCA and PPUs/UPPs to carry out their 
responsibilities under Project.   
2. 
Development of monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system necessary for 
operational monitoring as well as evaluation of operational systems and institutional 
change under the Project.   
3. 
Preparation of a future national program of the Recipient for decentralized 
planning and financing. 
Page  17
-
16
-
16
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2007. 
Page  18
-
17
-
17
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I
.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of  
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999  (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods  shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and Paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 (a) 
Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods  and domestic 
contractors
The provisions of Paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured and domestic contractors in the territory of the 
Recipient. 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to 
the aggregate amount indicated in the Procurement Plan referred to in Part D.1 of this 
Schedule, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
Page  19
-
18
-
18
(b) 
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
the aggregate amount indicated in the Procurement Plan referred to in Part D.1 of this 
Schedule, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to the 
aggregate amount indicated in the Procurement Plan referred to in Part D.1 of this 
Schedule, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international or 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of Paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 
of the Guidelines. 
3. 
Procurement from UN agencies
Limited quantities of vehicles and office equipment as specified in the 
Procurement Plan may be procured from UNDP’s Inter-Agency Procurement Service 
Office in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
4. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. 
The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the 
Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said Paragraph 1. 
Page  20
-
19
-
19
2. Prior 
Review 
A. Goods
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in Paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. 
B. Works
With respect to: (i) each contract  estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more; and (ii) the first three contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or 
more,  the procedures set forth in Paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by Paragraphs 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in Paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), Paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Section. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of Paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding Paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services, estimated to cost less than $100,000
 
equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
Paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  21
-
20
-
20
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
 
Individual Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
Paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
 
Selection Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall 
have been approved by the Association. 
2.
 
Prior Review
A. Firms
With respect to: (i) each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more; and (ii) each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $100,000 during 
the PY1, the procedures set forth in Paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 B. 
Individuals
With respect to: (i) each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more; and (ii) the first three contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of less than 
$50,000, the report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, 
terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the 
Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after 
the said approval shall have been given.  The provisions of Paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
Page  22
-
21
-
21
3.
 
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by Paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in Paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  23
-
22
-
22
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
A. 
Project Implementation Supervision and Coordination
The Recipient shall: 
 
(i) 
carry out the Project in accordance with: (a)  the procedures and 
requirements set out in the PIM, which shall, 
inter alia
,
cover all components of the 
Project, including the Project objectives, norms and methodologies, lines of 
responsibility, and reporting, criteria for access to the Project provided resources, and 
systems for supervision, monitoring and evaluation of local level implementation, details 
of procurement and disbursement arrangements, performance indicators and other 
administrative, financial and organizational arrangements; and (b) the provisions of the 
Guidelines for Community Participation and Consultation in District Planning. 
 
(ii) 
maintain PIM and the Guidelines for Community Participation and 
Consultation in District Planning in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, 
subject to modifications based on implementation experience and the reviews referred to 
Paragraphs H and I of this Schedule, take all measures necessary to ensure that the 
Project is carried out and operated in conformity with the PIM and the Guidelines for 
Community Participation and Consultation in District Planning;  
 
(iii) 
not amend or waive any provision of the PIM or the Guidelines for 
Community Participation and Consultation in District Planning without prior approval of 
the Association if such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of the Association, 
materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure coordination and management of the Project implementation at 
the levels of: (a) the Recipient with the support of the PCU/UCA,
 
including resource 
management, procurement and reporting functions, and adequate liaison regarding both 
programmatic and administrative matters between the Recipient and the Association;
 
(b)
 
Provinces under the guidance and supervision of the Provincial Government and the 
Governor supported by the PPU/UPP, each PPU/UPP staffed by a Provincial 
Coordinator, a Project Accountant, an Accounting Supervisor, a Works and Procurement 
Adviser and a Monitoring Technician; and (c) Districts through the District 
Administrators,
 
all with their roles and responsibilities agreed between the Recipient and 
the Association; and 
 
(v) 
maintain at all levels the required additional staffing  with their term of 
reference satisfactory to the Association. 
Page  24
-
23
-
23
B. Project 
Accounts
1. 
Without limitation on its obligations under any other provision of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall for the Project open and maintain and cause the Provinces 
to open and maintain in banks
 
acceptable to the Association, under terms and condition 
satisfactory to the Association,  the following Meticais accounts: 
 
(a) 
(i) a Project Account by the Recipient for deposit therein the Recipient’s 
counterpart contributions to the costs of the Project;  (ii) deposit therein an initial amount 
equivalent to $100,000; and  (iii) thereafter during each following quarter deposit into the 
Project Account the amounts required to replenish the account for eligible expenditures 
made during the period in question;  
 
(b) 
(i) Provincial Project Account by each Province,
 
managed by the 
PPU/UPP, for deposit therein by the
 
Recipient of its counterpart contributions to the costs 
of the Project in the Province; (ii) deposit an initial amount equivalent to $10,000 into its 
Provincial Project Account; and  (iii) thereafter during each following quarter deposit into 
such account the amounts required to replenish the account for eligible expenditures 
made during the period in question; and 
2. 
The Recipient and the Association shall jointly monitor the operation and 
effectiveness of the payment mechanism of the accounts referred to in Paragraph B.1 of 
this Schedule and review them as necessary. Should the joint reviews conclude that the 
payment mechanism is not effective, the Recipient shall, not later than three months after 
being notified by the Association, introduce and implement such modifications of the 
payment mechanism or of the mechanism or of the applicable administrative and 
financial rules and procedures as may have been agreed upon with the Association.   
 
C. 
Provincial and District Level Project Staffing and Training
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that: (a) each PPPU/UPP shall appoint a Supervisory 
Accountant, acceptable to the Association; and (b) each DPPF shall appoint a qualified 
and experienced Project Accountant to manage the LIGs, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, before 
becoming eligible for Local Investment Grant financing each District shall verify the 
presence on its staff of a District Accountant acceptable to the Association to ensure the 
financial management of Local Investment Grants at the District level. 
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that each Province shall carry out an intensive 
financial management system training program for relevant District Administration 
personnel to be able to manage the LIG accounts. All training under the Project shall be 
conducted on the basis of programs which shall have been approved by the Association 
as part of the annual work plan referred to in Paragraph D.1 of this Schedule  which shall, 
inter alia
,
identify: (a) the training envisaged; (b) the personnel to be trained;  
(c) the selection methods of institutions conducting such training; (d) the institutions 
Page  25
-
24
-
24
which will conduct training, if already selected; (e) the duration of proposed training; and 
(f) an estimate of costs. 
3. 
The Recipient shall appoint: (a) external auditors to audit the use by the Project 
Executing Agencies of the proceeds of the Grant  and counterpart contributions for the 
Project; and (b) two full-time Procurement Specialists to assist  PCU/UCA during the 
first year after Grant Effectiveness, and thereafter, at least one full-time Procurement 
Specialist with additional support as may be deemed necessary by the Association, all 
such professionals with qualifications, experience and  terms and conditions acceptable to 
the Association. 
D. 
Annual Work Plan and Quarterly Progress Reports 
1. 
The Recipient shall not later than November 1 of every year, submit to the 
Association for review and comments an annual work plan for the Project for the 
following year, including training, and implement such plan taking into account the views 
of the Association. 
2. 
The Recipient shall submit to the Association quarterly progress reports for the 
Project, in scope and form agreed with the Association. 
E. 
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and Resettlement Framework 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that: (a) all measures necessary for the carrying out of 
the EMP are taken in a timely manner; and (b) progress reports referred to in  
Paragraph H  (b) of this schedule shall include adequate information on monitoring of the 
measures defined in EMP. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall cause the  eligible District Administrations: 
 
(a) 
prior to commencing any Subproject and when required under the EMP, 
carry out an environmental and social impact assessment in accordance with the 
Environmental and Social Screening Form described in the Environmental Assessment, 
and in a form satisfactory to the Association; 
 
(b) 
in the event that an environmental and social impact assessment of a 
Subproject determines that such a Subproject, if carried out, would have in the opinion of 
the Association a potential for negative environmental impact, not approve such a 
Subproject until an appropriate action under the EMP has been discussed and agreed 
upon by the Recipient and the Association to mitigate such potential negative impact; and 
 
(c) 
thereafter cause the relevant DA to carry out such agreed management 
plan referred to in sub-Paragraph (b) above. 
3. 
Prior to commencement of a Subproject involving involuntary resettlement or 
involuntary acquisition of land, the Recipient shall cause DA to prepare and implement 
Page  26
-
25
-
25
appropriate resettlement plans for compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation, in 
accordance with the Resettlement Policy Framework, and in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association.  
F. 
Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects and Terms and Conditions for Financing 
1. 
To be eligible for financing a Subproject under Part B of the Project by 
the District Administration it shall be: 
 
(a) 
initiated and  identified by the DA as an infrastructure investment 
activity, acceptable to the Association; 
 
(b) 
 appraised and carried out in accordance with the procedures and 
conditions set forth in the PIM; 
 
(c) 
economically and technically viable in accordance with the standards 
specified in the PIM;  
 
(d) 
in compliance with the standards set forth in the applicable laws and 
regulations of the Recipient relating to health, safety and environmental 
management; and 
 
(e) 
satisfy any other requirements of eligibility specified in the PIM. 
G. 
MOU for Participation in LIG
For carrying out Subprojects under Parts B of the Project by the Eligible 
Districts, the Recipient shall conclude a MOU with the each Province, whereby the 
Recipient shall agree to provide to the DPPF
 
of
each Province
 
a
grant from the proceeds 
of the Grant, on a non-reimbursable basis, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association,  including the eligibility criteria set forth in  Paragraph F of this Schedule 
and details of disbursement schedules and procurement procedures as set forth in 
Schedule 3 of this Agreement and Paragraph J of this Schedule, details of any further 
safeguards as may be needed for the management of the environment, and the following 
additional terms and conditions: 
 
(a) 
require the DPPF to ensure the execution of the Subprojects by the 
Districts with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial, managerial and environmental standards and practices, and maintain adequate 
records;  
 
(b) 
require that the goods, works and services to be financed from the 
proceeds of the relevant Local Investment Grant shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of this Agreement and used exclusively in carrying out the Subproject 
concerned. 
Page  27
-
26
-
26
(c) 
the right of the Recipient to inspect by itself, or jointly with the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, plants included in 
the Subproject, the operations thereof and any relevant records and documents; 
 
(d) 
obtain from the Government of the Province all such information as the 
Association shall reasonably request relating to the implementation of a Subproject, and 
the performance of the Government of the Province and of the Administration of the 
Districts executing the Subprojects; and  
 
(e) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Government of the Province to the 
use of the proceeds of the Grant under the Project upon failure by such Province to 
perform its obligations under the MOU.    
H. 
Monitoring and Reporting
The Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about March 30 of each year, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to Paragraph H (a) 
of this Schedule, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by April 30 of each year, or such later date 
as the Association shall request, the report referred to in Paragraph H (b) of this Section, 
and thereafter act promptly and diligently in order to take, any corrective action deemed 
necessary to remedy any shortcoming identified in the implementation of the Project, or 
to implement such measures as may have been agreed between the Recipient and the 
Association in furtherance of the objectives of the Project. 
I. 
 Midterm Review
1. 
The Recipient shall carry out, jointly with the Association, not later than first half 
of 2006, a comprehensive mid-term review aimed at: (i) documenting progress toward 
achieving the Project objectives; (ii) identifying and resolving obstacles to Project 
implementation; (iii) adjusting, in agreement with the Association, targets and 
corresponding programs to reflect progress achieved in the implementation of the Project 
as of the date of the review; and  (iv) an overall evaluation of the Project against the 
Page  28
-
27
-
27
Project Performance Indicators and the performance by Local Governments under Parts 
B
of the Project.   
2. 
The Recipient shall not later than four weeks prior to the mid-term review 
referred to in Paragraph I (1) above, furnish to the Association a mid-term report, in such 
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, including an evaluation of:  (a) the 
progress achieved in the Project implementation; and (b) the implementation of the 
Guidelines for Community Participation and Consultation in District Planning in all 
Provinces of the Recipient.   
3. 
Promptly after completing the mid-term review, the Recipient shall take all 
measures required to fulfill the recommendations arising out of said review for the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, with 
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into 
account the Association’s comments thereon. 
J. 
Review by the Recipient of Procurement Decisions and Selection of Consultants
Except as provided in Schedule 3 of this Agreement, the following provisions shall apply: 
1. Goods 
and 
Works
A. Goods
Each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of  more than $5,000 up 
to $50,000 shall be subject to prior review by the PCU/UC, following the 
Recipient’s procurement procedures satisfactory to the Association. 
B.   Works
(i) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of  $30,000 or more 
shall be subject to prior review by the PCU/UCA, following the Recipient’s 
procurement procedures satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) During the PY1, 
each contract  estimated to cost the equivalent of  $5,000 up to $30,000 shall be 
subject to prior review by the PCU/UCA, following the Recipient’s procurement 
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
 
C. Post Review
Each contract not governed by Paragraph B above, shall be subject to the post 
review by PCU/UCA in accordance with the Recipient’s procedures satisfactory 
to the Association. 
Page  29
-
28
-
28
2. 
Consultants’ Services
Individual Consultants
(i) with respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $10,000 
during PY1, the report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of 
candidates, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
reviewed and approved by PCU/UCA in accordance with the Recipient’s procedures 
for the selection and employment of consultants’, satisfactory to the Association. The 
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given 
PCU/UCA; and (ii) each contract not subparagraph (i) shall be subject to the post 
review by PCU/UCA in accordance with the Recipient’s procedures for the selection 
and employment of consultants satisfactory to the Association. 
               
 
Page  30
-
29
-
29
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account  
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1),(2), (3), (4), (5), and 
(6) set forth in the table in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$2,800,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to Paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $1,400,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Grant Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 4,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made either: (i) for Eligible 
Expenditures; or (ii) into a Second Generation Special Account for payments of Eligible 
Expenditures, in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
Paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
Page  31
-
30
-
30
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account or the 
Second Generation Special Accounts for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Grant Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Accounts or a Second 
Generation Special Account, the Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and Paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account or the Second Generation 
Special Accounts as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
Page  32
-
31
-
31
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the  Special Account or the Second Generation Special Accounts: (i) was made for 
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to Paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or 
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be 
made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as 
the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account or the Second Generation Special Accounts will not 
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding 
amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account or the 
Second Generation Special Accounts. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to Paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions. 
7. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall withdraw from the Special Account and deposit into 
Second Generation Accounts for each Province supported by the Project an amount in 
Meticais, in total not exceeding, initially, $100,000 equivalent, and after the full 
Authorized Allocation is deposited, an amount in Meticais, in total not exceeding 
$200,000 equivalent in commercial banks on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  
(b) 
Payments out of Second Generation Special Accounts shall only be made 
for Eligible Expenditures in respect of categories (1) to (6) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of  Schedule 1 to the Grant Agreement.  
 
(c) 
Any withdrawal from any Second Generation Special Account must be 
justified to the Recipient by the same documentation and other evidence regarding 
eligible expenditures required pursuant to paragraph 3 of this Schedule. 
(d) 
If the Association or the Recipient shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in any Second Generation Special Account will not be required 
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the relevant PPU/UPP shall, 
Page  33
-
32
-
32
promptly upon notice from the Association or Recipient, refund to the Special Account 
such outstanding amount. 
 
 
Page  34
-
33
-
33
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Indicators 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the performance indicators to be used 
for the Project implementation are as follows: 
1. 
80 % of Districts in the Provinces supported by the Project  with District 
Development Plans and Annual Investment Plans approved.  
2. 
 80 % of Districts in the Provinces supported by the Project with District 
Consultative Councils organized and approving district plans and implementation reports. 
3. 
60 % of Districts participating in the Local Investment Grants in which 
participants in planning processes express satisfaction with responsiveness and 
accountability of district administration. 
4. 
50 % of Districts participating in the Local Investment Grants rated good or 
excellent on annual District Performance Evaluation Assessments.   
5. 
60 % of Districts at national level adopting MPF and MAE approved 
methodologies for participatory district planning and governance. 
6. 
Key administrative and fiscal instruments adopted by GOM supporting 
transparent district planning and management, including: 
(a)  Guidelines for Community Participation and Consultation in District 
Planning published and disseminated. 
(b) 
Formalization of District as a budget unit. 
(c) 
Operational rules and procedures for district finance published. 
(d) 
Provincial budget allocation to districts established for district infrastructure 
maintenance. 
(e) 
3% per annum increase in share of state investment budget programmed at 
provincial level with district input to plans. 
Page  35
-
34
-
34
SCHEDULE 7 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 (a), 3.04 (b), 3.05, 6.05, Article VII, are deleted in their 
entirety. 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to 
read as follows: 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”. 
(b) 
 The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”. 
(c) 
The term “credit” is modified to read “grant”; except that where used in 
Sections 6.02 (a) (ii) and 6.02 (c) (i), as modified below, the term 
“credit” shall continue to read “credit”.  
(d) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”. 
(e) 
 The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
3. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
(a) 
Section 4.02 (a) and the heading of Section 4.02 are modified to read as 
follows: 
“
Section 4.02  Currencies in which Commitment Charges are Payable
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall pay the commitment charge on the Grant in 
the currency specified in the Development Grant Agreement or in such 
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be 
designated or selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section.” 
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02 (c) and (e) of the General Conditions the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “commitment 
charge”. 
(c)  
Section 4.03 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“
Section 4.03.  Amount of the Grant
 
Page  36
-
35
-
35
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be the 
equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective dates 
of withdrawal from the Grant Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn.” 
4. 
Section 6.02 is modified as follows: 
(a) 
The phrase “any other development credit agreement” in 
 
Section 6.02 (a) (ii) is modified to read:  “any other development grant 
agreement or any development credit agreement or development 
financing agreement.” 
(b) 
The phrase “any development credit agreement” in Section 6.02 (c) (i) is 
modified to read: “any development grant agreement, development credit 
agreement or development financing agreement.” 
5. 
The words “The principal of, and any other charges on” in paragraph (a) of 
Section 8.01 are modified to read “The commitment charge on”. 
6. 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
 “Section 
12.05. 
Termination of Development Grant Agreement. 
The obligations of the Recipient under the Development Grant 
Agreement shall terminate on the date 20 years after the date of the 
Development Grant Agreement.” 
 
