Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1586 
Operation Name 
Tanzania Poverty Reduction Support Credit 3 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Central government administration (40%);General agriculture, 
fishing and forestry sector (20%);General industry and trade sector 
(20%);Primary education (10%);Sub-national government 
administration (10%) 
Project ID 
P087256 
Borrower(s) 
THE REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
Implementing Agency 
INISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
May 2, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 31, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
July 21, 2005 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
Tanzania is one of the poorest countries of the world. Per capita income is estimated at about $290 per 
year. Covering an area of 945,000 square kilometers, it has a population of about 35 million growing at 
about 2.4 percent a year. The economy is heavily dependent on agriculture (primarily, coffee, cotton, 
tea, cashew nuts, sisal, maize, rice, wheat, cassava, and tobacco), which accounts for about 50 percent of 
GDP, provides 85 percent of exports, and is by far the largest employer.  Industry accounts for some 15 
percent of GDP and is mainly limited to processing agricultural products and light consumer goods. The 
mining sector has been growing rapidly in recent years and Tanzania is now one of the major exporters 
of gold in Africa. Tourism is one of Tanzania's dynamic sectors and has shown significant growth in 
recent years. The service sector and the informal sector are an increasingly important source of 
employment.  
 
Tanzania’s economic performance has remained solid with real GDP growth of 5.6 percent in 2003 and 
inflation of 4.0 percent in September 2004. The slight decrease in real GDP growth to 5.6 percent in 
2003 from 6.2 percent in 2002 was due to a drought which affected the agriculture sector which 
registered 4.0 percent growth in 2003 as compared to 5.5 percent registered a year earlier. Real GDP is 
projected to grow by 6.3 percent in 2004 owing to good performance of the agriculture, construction and 
mining sectors. The overall fiscal deficit after grants increased to 3.8 percent of GDP in 2003 from 1.6 
percent in 2002 due to increased finance of drought related expenditures. In 2004, the overall deficit 
after grants is projected to be 2.9 percent. 
 
Although Tanzania experienced economic difficulties and worsening poverty in the early 1990s the 
benefits of the more recent growth have reversed the trend. During the past decade, food poverty has 
declined from 21.6 percent to 18.7 percent while basic needs poverty is from 38.6 percent to 35.7 
percent.   
 
Tanzania has embarked on comprehensive structural reforms to improve economic governance, enhance 
public service delivery, and create an enabling environment for private sector activities.  Reforms in the 
area of public financial management include the implementation of an integrated financial management 
system, the adoption of an inclusive Public Expenditure Review/Medium Term Expenditure Framework 
process, and the revision of the public finance management and the public procurement acts.  The first 
phase of Civil Service Reform involving downsizing of the civil service and bringing the wage bill 
Page  2
under control has been completed.  Reforms are now entering their second phase and will increasingly 
focus on public sector performance. A Local Government Reform Program aims at strengthening 
capacities of the local authorities which bear the primary responsibility for basic service delivery in 
priority sectors such as basic education, primary health, water, and rural roads.  A national action plan 
for the control of corruption as well as sector specific anti-corruption plans are being implemented.   
 
Government has shown a strong commitment to withdraw from commercial activities and to define its 
role as an enabler of private sector activities.  Key achievements in this area include the privatization of 
a
large number of parastatals.  This includes the privatization of the fixed net telephone operator with a 
parallel liberalization of the wireless telephone market, which resulted in a rapid increase in the number 
of subscribers.  Similarly, government has disinvested its interests in and liberalized the banking sector, 
which has experienced a sharp increase in the number of private sector banks to 23 now operating in the 
country.   
 
A
key government strategy is to improve the investment climate in order to stimulate a more rapid 
expansion of local and foreign private investment.  A notable success in this area is the setup of a policy 
framework for mining activities in the mid 1990s, which has since experienced two-digit growth rates.  
Other important measures include the revision of legislation, including the company law, and the 
liberalization of capital markets.   
 
Tanzania developed through a broad-based participation process including the poor, civil society, 
NGOs, and various other stakeholders a poverty reduction strategy paper (PRSP) in 2000 and progress 
reports in 2001 and 2003.  The poverty reduction strategy (PRS) focuses on three main areas of 
outcomes and actions for realizing them. The first is 
reduction in the breadth and depth of income 
poverty.
 The outcome targets include reduction of basic needs poverty and food poverty with a 
particular focus on rural areas, where poverty is most prevalent. The second area is that of 
improving 
the quality of life and social-well being
.
More specifically this entails improving human capabilities, 
enhanced longevity of survival, social well being (social inclusion and personal security), improved 
nutrition and containing extreme vulnerability (mainly through safety nets). The third broad area is 
sustained conducive development environment.
 The environment encompasses macroeconomic 
stability and good governance. The PRSP has also become an important instrument for coordination 
within government to ensure coherence of the various sectoral and cross sectoral reform efforts in 
support of poverty reduction.  
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) will support the implementation of Tanzania’s PRS.  The 
financial support provided through the PRSC will close the gap between the cost of implementing key 
elements of the PRS and resources available from government’s own domestic revenue and other donor 
support.  A policy dialogue and performance assessment framework under the PRSC will focus on the 
following cross-cutting and institutional actions which will facilitate progress towards the PRS 
objectives. 
 
(i) Sustaining and accelerating economic growth and broadening its impact
:
Reducing income 
poverty is one of they key focus areas of the PRS.  Private sector and rural development are the two 
areas where reforms are expected to have the biggest impact on reducing income poverty in Tanzania.  
Reforms in the areas of agricultural and rural development are intended to raise agricultural productivity 
and thus enhance the incomes of the population in rural areas, were poverty is most widespread and 
most deeply entrenched.  Measures include enhancement of the profitability of agriculture broadly and 
export products of rural origin in particular, through better quality higher productivity, reduced 
Page  3
marketing cost and improved access to markets and to credit; removal of institutional constraints 
remaining on rural activities; and correcting the incentives provided by the overall tax regime.  With 
respect to private sector development, the focus will be on strengthening of the business environment, in 
particular for SMEs, and legal and administrative reforms to enhance the functioning of land, credit, and 
labor markets.   
 
(ii) Support results orientation of public service delivery: 
The second area of impact is through 
monitoring and leveraging progress in the implementation of sectoral programs to reduce poverty, 
covering the priority sectors identified in the PRS, i.e., primary education, basic health, water, rural 
roads, agricultural research and extension, the judiciary, and HIV/AIDS.  The PRSC policy dialogue 
focuses on the establishment of a robust monitoring and evaluation system that allows an assessment of 
the impact and results of sectoral programs.  The information derived from the monitoring and 
evaluation system will then feed into the assessment of progress towards the PRS objective, on which 
future PRSC support will be contingent.  Finally, the resources provided through the PRSC complement 
government and other donor resources in financing priority programs for poverty reduction.  The well 
developed participatory PER-MTEF process provides a mechanism for the monitoring of the use of 
resources. 
 
(iii) Enhance public sector performance:  
Measures in this area will have a direct impact on poverty 
reduction as they enhance public sector capacity to implement poverty reduction programs in the priority 
sectors and generate additional funds for poverty reduction by reducing leakages in the form of low 
allocative or operational efficiency of public expenditures.  Key areas of reform include strengthening of 
financial management through the implementation of the public financial management reform program, 
strengthening of the national audit office, implementation of pay reform coupled with improved 
performance management in the public sector, procurement reform, the implementation of anti-
corruption strategies, and enhanced efficiency in the use of development assistance.
 
(iv) Strengthen environmental management:
 Finally, the PRSC also supports government’s efforts to 
enhance environmental sustainability of Tanzania’s development program.  The PRS identifies this as an 
important element of efforts to improve the quality of life and social well-being.   
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The rationale for the Bank’s involvement rests on (a) the Bank’s ability to provide significant resources 
to narrow the gap between the financing needs for the implementation of the PRSP and available 
resources from Tanzania’s own sources and other donrs, (b) the Bank’s technical contributions to the 
policy dialogue, grounded in a combination of the Bank’s international experience with a long track 
record of work in Tanzania in the areas covered by the PRSC, and (c) the preference by the Tanzanian 
authorities to receive a significant part of IDA resources as general budget support with the objective of 
enhancing domestic ownership, capacity building through learning by doing, and accountability to 
domestic stakeholders by using the government’s budget process for the use of donor resources. 
 
4. Financing 
 
The borrower is the United Republic of Tanzania. A single-tranche credit of SDR xx million (US$175 
million equivalent)on standard IDA terms would be made available upon credit effectiveness, 
anticipated for August 2005.  The closing date of the operation would be June 30, 2006. It is envisaged 
that there will be another further single-tranche, annual PRSC to support the implementation of the PRS 
in FY07. 
 
Page  4
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Credit supports the implementation of Tanzania’s PRSP, which has been approved by Cabinet.  The 
Ministry of Finance coordinates the implementation of the reform agenda supported by the Credit, while 
implementation involves several ministries and agencies. 
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
The proposed PRSC-3 will help the United Republic of Tanzania to implement the PRS and reach the 
goals set out in the strategy.  The reforms supported by the operation will help to raise growth, make 
progress towards achieving the Millennium Development Goals and strengthen the institutional 
infrastructure needed to improve the public sector’s capacity to carry out its role more effectively, as 
envisioned in the PRS.  Improved delivery of public services is essential if the United Republic of 
Tanzania is to reach its goals for poverty reduction and improve the quality of life in Tanzania. 
 
There are several risks associated with PRSC-3: (i) many of the reforms supported by the credit and 
grant might encounter resistance from vested interests, but government has in the past shown 
determination to overcome such special interests; (ii) government tries to build broad consensus for 
reforms through consultative processes which sometimes tends to slow down the pace of reforms, 
however, the benefits of this approach clearly outweigh the risk; (iii) the utilization of PRSC-3 funds is 
determined by the budget process and there is a risk that resource allocation and use is not fully 
consistent with the PRS, however, government has adopted an open and participative budget process 
including an annual PER process which helps to align and monitor resource allocation and its 
consistency with the PRS; (iv) the CFAA and the CPAR identified significant fiduciary risk, which the 
proposed reform agenda is meant to address; and (v) capacity for program implementation and service 
delivery at both the central and district level is weak, however, in key areas programs are in place to 
strengthen capacity. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The assessment of the poverty and social impact of the measures proposed by the PRSP and supported 
by the PRSC is carried out in the context of Tanzania’s poverty monitoring system.  In addition, the 
Bank supports the preparation of PSIAs to inform the design of specific reform efforts, such as the 
reform of crop boards or of the local tax system. 
In the context of the PRS and the PRBS/PRBS, increasingly emphasis is being placed on outcome, 
output, and input indicators which provide direct information on the status of poverty in all its 
dimensions. Monitoring of these indicators is based on a broad range of surveys and administrative data 
systems identified in the poverty monitoring master plan (PMMP) and its related institutional framework 
which comprises 
inter alia 
four Thematic Working Groups (TWGs), viz. Research/Analysis; 
Census/Surveys; Routine Data Collection; and Advocacy and Dissemination. The PHDR which is to be 
produced annually, consolidates poverty measures from various sources, and provides an analysis of 
poverty trends and its underlying factors. In addition to an in-depth review of the poverty situation in 
Tanzania, the 2nd PHDR includes information related to a comprehensive list of annual and periodic 
indicators. 
PRSC-3 falls under OP 8.60 and is no longer subject to environmental safeguards.  As the PRSC focuses 
primarily on institutional reforms, there are no direct significant effects on Tanzania’s environment, 
forests, and other natural resources.  In addition, the PRSC supports reforms of Tanzania’s legal and 
institutional framework for environmental management, environmental impact assessments, and 
Page  5
strategic environmental assessments (SEAs).  An SEA has been prepared.  Reviews of the 
environmental impact of PRSC-1 and PRSC-2 included (i) a review of supported sectors within the 
SECAC, (ii) consideration of potential policy reforms under the SECAC; and (iii) an assessment of the 
ability of the government to address any impacts within these sectors using existing mechanisms, or 
using mechanisms developed internally within this particular SECAC. The assessments concluded that: 
(i) the policy reforms supported under the PRSC-1 and 2 would have no deleterious environmental 
impact, or their impacts could be addressed within the existing SEA processes that have been developed 
under PRSC-1 and PRSC-2 and will continue to be developed under PRSC3; (ii) sectoral activities to be 
supported generally under the roads and agriculture initiatives may involve 
some Category “B” 
activities, but guidelines developed under PRSC-1 and 2 for addressing these are being adequately 
implemented by Government, and will continue to be monitored and developed to improve their 
effectiveness in PRSC-3. Some elaboration on these points is provided below. 
In an effort to mainstream the environmental sustainability dimension into the PRSC process the Bank 
has undertaken various analyses with the objective to identify linkages between key macro and structural 
reforms policies and the environment. This analysis, undertaken under PRSC-1 and 2, identifies 
measures at both national and local government levels to reduce poverty and enhance environmental 
sustainability of policy reforms. The analysis concluded that environment and poverty are linked in three 
major ways: (a) poverty reduction programs should not damage the resource base and the environment 
of which poor depend for their livelihoods (b) improving environmental conditions can help to reduce 
poverty and promote sustainable pro-poor growth; and (c) mitigating measures may be necessary as part 
of policy dialogue. 
Working with the government and other development partners, the analysis identified a number strategic 
entry points for mainstreaming key issues of the poverty-environment nexus in Tanzania into PRSC 
process and ongoing policy reforms in general. This included 
inter alia
.
further support for EA 
activities, a comprehensive environmental review of all taxes and levies associated with the agricultural 
sector, and increased attention to removing land tenure uncertainties. Specifically, the Vice President’s 
Office and the National Environmental Management Council (NEMC) have been supporting the 
development  and implementation of various sector-specific guidelines for EA (initially in roads and 
agriculture), and have more recently pursued procedures for strategic and sectoral environmental 
assessment to permit mitigation of any adverse environmental impacts while taking advantage of 
potential synergies between poverty reduction and environmental protection efforts. In this regard the 
PRSC2 and PRSC3 reform agenda has specific actions to be implemented by the Government of 
Tanzania as part of the environmental component. 
8. Contact point 
Contact: Robert Johann Utz 
Title: Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-0612 
Fax:  
Email: Rutz1@worldbank.org 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Page  6
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
