Report No. PID5674
Project Name    China - Hunan Power Development Project (@)
Region East Asia and Pacific
Sector Energy and Mining Development
Project ID      CN-PE-35698
Borrower                                 People's Republic of China
Implementing Agency              Hunan Electric Power Company (HEPC)
Mr. Yu Xingqiang
64 Shaoshan Road, Changsha
Hunan 410007, People's Republic of China
Tel: 86-731-554-3115
Fax: 86-731-554-3182
Date PID Updated                 March 24, 1998
Indicative Schedule:
Project Preparation              October 1997
Pre-appraisal                    January 1998
Appraisal                                March 1998
Negotiation                              May 1998
Board Presentation               June 1998
Sector and Institutional Background
1.      Large-scale energy development and improvements in the efficiency of
energy supply and use are critical to meet the fast growing demand, alleviate
shortages and mitigate adverse impacts on the environment in China. China has
experienced an annual growth rate of about 8.3 percent in installed capacity
and energy generated in the period 1980-95. To meet the electricity demand in
the most cost-effective manner, the Government is implementing a comprehensive
strategy of sectorwide institutional reforms, energy price reforms, and
encouraging energy conservation. Consumer prices for the major forms of
energy now largely reflect economic costs. A well-developed institutional
network exists to promote energy conservation at the central, provincial and
local levels. These measures have helped China achieve a remarkably low 0.86
elasticity demand growth to GDP growth during 1980-95.
2.      Yet even with further improvements in conservation, generation capacity
must increase by about 15 GW a year for the next five years if current
shortages are not to become more acute. For continued efficiency improvements
-- not simply in energy use but in the overall functioning of the sector --
and for the increased capital mobilization necessary for large-scale power
industry development, China has launched an ambitious program of power sector
reforms. Thus far, progress has been made in sector decentralization, cost
recovery through major tariff reforms, and diversification of financing
sources, including development of a variety of independent power generation
schemes. In the gradual process of legal reform and sector restructuring,
three important steps have recently been taken, with passage of the country's
first Electricity Law, a decision to abolish the Ministry of Electric Power
and divide its functions among existing government agencies, and a further
decision to create a State Power Corporation to, inter alia, represent the
state as owner of government-owned power assets. Furthermore, several joint



venture companies have been established to build power plants in Shandong
Province and Shanghai, while build, operate, transfer (BOT) schemes have been
introduced in Guangdong and Fujian Provinces. The process of international
competitive tendering for projects has also begun with the Laibin B project in
Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, which will be constructed by an
international consortium, and bids are being evaluated for Changsha power
project in Hunan Province.
3.      Building on these accomplishments, the Government's future agenda for
action includes: (a) further reforms to the sector's regulatory and legal
framework; (b) further diversification in financing for power development,
including private sector participation; (c) institutional restructuring via
commercialization and corporatization of power companies, together with
achievement of greater enterprise autonomy and sector restructuring; and (d)
further measures to rationalize power tariffs. While actions have been
initiated on all of the above fronts, measures to commercialize the power
entities are now a focal point in the overall effort. These measures include
separating the producing entities from the Government, granting them autonomy
in business decision-making, and subjecting them to market forces in an arms-
length regulatory framework.
4.      The Chinese approach to reform encourages experimentation with different
reform options and institutional forms. This gradual approach permits the
Chinese to examine the relevance and applicability of specific reforms and
also to fine-tune reform implementation for broader dissemination or
replication in other parts of the country.
5.      Accompanying the move to commercialization are efforts to curb air
pollution related to the burning of coal and particularly to reduce the power
sector's contribution to the problem. In terms of emission control in large
and medium-scale plants, China has made substantial progress in particulate
control, through deployment of high efficiency electrostatic precipitators.
The Government announced in June 1994 that it would spend about $2 billion
over the next seven years on an environmental program aimed at keeping S02
emissions at a level of 15 million metric tons a year, as part of a
comprehensive program of acid rain abatement. The Government intends also to
accelerate the development of hydropower and construction of large and
efficient 300 and 600 MW coal-fired units to avoid the mushrooming of the
small, highly polluting plants that still constitute about 60 percent of the
additional installed capacity.
The Hunan Power Grid - Area of Project Impact
6.      Hunan province, where the proposed project is located, is the seventh-
most populous province in China with a population of 63.5 million at the end
of 1995. It is bordered by Sichuan and Guizhou in the west, Guangxi and
Guangdong in the south, Jiangxi in the east, and Hubei in the north. Although
it has abundant nonferrous mineral resources and is China's lead rice
producer, Hunan remains one of the country's poorest provinces. In 1995, its
per capita gross domestic product (GDP) was 3,456 Yuan, about 28 percent lower
than the national average. The province was nevertheless experiencing
impressive growth in the past five years. From 1990 to 1995, the average
annual growth rate of GDP of the province was 12 percent. For the same
period, the average annual growth rate of energy consumption was 8.98 percent.
The peak demand in 2005 is expected to be around 12,700 MW and demand for
-2 -



energy generation 69.8 TWh based on an annual average growth rate of 8.4 W and
7.7 ', respectively.
7.      The Hunan Power Grid (HPG) is an important part of the Central China Grid
(CCG), located in the south of the Central China Grid. CCG covers Henan,
Hubei, Jiangxi, and Hunan Provinces. HPG is connected with CCG through two
transmission lines, one 500 kV line to Gezhouba hydro power station and one
220 kV line to Fengfanshan substation in Wuhan, Hubei.
8.      By the end of 1995, HPG had a total installed generating capacity of
7,755.5 MW, of which 3,544.2 MW coal-based (45.7%) and 4,211.3 MW of
hydropower (54.3%). The peak load was 5,554 MW and the total electricity
supply (including energy exchanges) was 33,934 GWh. The net power import from
other provinces was 890 GWh. Electricity consumption per capita was 530 kWh,
about 65.6 percent of the national average. The provincial power sector is
plagued by acute power shortages: in 1995, load was shed (35kV and above
switches) about 3,968 times. The minimum daily load was about 70 percent of
the maximum daily load, much higher than the ratio of 50-60 percent in
developed countries. This indicates important load shedding and suppressed
demand in the system. Shortages were estimated at about 3,000 GWh in 1995.
Moreover, the elasticity of electricity consumption growth relative to GDP
growth in Hunan was only 0.84 from 1991 to 1995, an exceptionally low
elasticity which is not sustainable to support the economic development in the
province.
9.      To remedy the situation, Hunan needs to (i) accelerate the installed
capacity for both peak and base loads to ensure sufficient and reliable
electricity supply for the anticipated economic growth; (ii) construct large
size and high efficient coal-fired power plants to improve the system's
capacity during the dry season; (iii) construct mine mouth power plants to
take advantage of the rich and cheap anthracite resources in Hunan and reduce
the pressure on the overburdened railway system; (iv) retrofit the small
thermal units or replacing them by larger, more efficient, and less polluting
plants; and (v) optimize harnessing of the hydropower resources to ensure an
environmentally sustainable development of the power sector.
10.     The transmission system in 1995 has a total length of 13,373 km,
consisting of 669 km of 500 kV lines, 4,653 km of 220 kV lines, and 8,051 km
of 110 kV lines. HEPC owns and operates almost the whole transmission system.
The system also includes transformer substations, with a total capacity of
22,083 MVA.
11.     The existing transmission network is experiencing problems of reduced
reliability, overloading of major substations and lines, and higher fault
levels at 220 kV systems exceeding the permitted safe operating ranges. These
problems are mainly caused by an inadequate investment in the transmission
systems required to transmit the new production to load centers. Most
generation projects only have enough transmission capacity to connect the
plant to the nearest point on the system. Reinforcement of the core
transmission system is urgently required
Project Development Objectives and Description
12.     The Project's development objective is to remedy power shortages in Hunan
by providing efficient, reliable, and environmentally sound power supply.
This project also supports the Country Assistance Strategy for China to
alleviate infrastructure bottlenecks in an interior province to foster
integrated economic development in Hunan. The Project objective would be
achieved by:
(a)     development of two 300 MW anthracite-fired generating units at the
Leiyang Power Plant to alleviate power shortage, improve the generation mix in
a system dominated by seasonal hydro power, and facilitate the retirement of
-3 -



about 10 small, aging, inefficient, and polluting generating units in the
provincial power grid;
(b)     reinforcement of the existing 220 kV transmission systems - supply and
installation of about 794 km of 220 kV lines and 1,920 MVA of transformer
substations capacity. These lines will connect Leiyang Power Plant Phase II
and competitively bid BOT Changsha Power Plant (2x350 MW) to HPG and reinforce
the transmission system in order to supply the increasing demand in a
reliable, economic, and efficient manner;
(c)     provision of technical assistance for construction management of Leiyang
Power Plant phase II;
(d)     provision of technical assistance for preparation of commercial power
purchase agreements and other relevant documentation;
(e)     provision of technical assistance for implementation of HEPC's
restructuring plan, including incorporation of generation and
transmission/distribution companies, and incorporation of future Leiyang Power
Plant; and
(g)     provision of technical assistance for improvement of the financial
management system.
Financing Plan
Million US $
IBRD                                                              300.0
HEPC                                                       149.7
China Construction Bank                            148.8
State Development Bank                             148.7
Total                                                              747.2
Institutional and implementation arrangements
13.     The beneficiary, Hunan Electric Power Company (HEPC), will be the
executing agency for the project. The overall management of the project will
be carried out by HEPC. HEPC has been operating the Hunan Power Grid for more
than twenty years and has qualified personnel to undertake project
preparation, implementation and operation. In addition, it has had operating
experience with anthracite fired units (200 MW and below) for more than ten
years. To facilitate effective project implementation, HEPC has set up a
Project Implementation Unit with full-time staff, headed by the deputy chief
engineer. Moreover, the Hunan Provincial Electric Power Design Institute
(HPEPDI) with assistance by international engineering consultants will
undertake preparation of technical bidding documents, bids evaluation,
detailed construction design with the assistance of international consultants
and a Chinese expert group. Project preparation and future implementation is
being coordinated by a steering committee chaired by HEPC's vice president in
charge of overall project management and coordination, reform and financial
issues. The institutional reform elements of the proposed project will be
supervised by the Ministry of Electric Power (MOEP) and/or its successor
entities (i.e. State Economic and Trade Commission and State Power
- 4 -



Corporation). The State Power Corporation will be responsible for obtaining
State Council approvals on major reform issues. The provincial government
representatives will oversee the planning and implementation of resettlement.
Benefits and Target Population
14.     The Project would have a marked impact on the economic development of
Hunan province. The direct benefits attributable to the project are: (a)
reduction in the value of lost production due to power rationing and load
shedding; (b) improvements in quality of supply in terms of reduced
interruptions and recognized but more difficult to quantify service
parameters, such as, frequency, voltage, reactive energy; and (c) improvements
in local air quality with retirement of older polluting generating units.
15.     The other major benefit of the project is the implementation of the
sector reform plan and increased commercial orientation of HEPC. The
development of a competitive commercial framework for purchase of power from
all generating units on the system will be conducive to economic dispatch and
overall generation efficiency. The clear separation of the generation from
transmission and distribution will provide a framework to promote competition
at generation level and private investments in power generation. The proposed
project would therefore benefit all power consumers in Hunan province.
Environmental Aspects
16.     In accordance with OD 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), the project has
been assigned Category A. The Environmental Assessment (EA), was prepared as
two separate reports: Part A the Leiyang Power Plant, and Part B the
Transmission System. Both Parts were prepared by a team consisting of
international consultants specializing in environmental issues related to
thermal power plants and transmission lines and the Nanjing Electric Power
Research Institute (NEPRI). For the power plant, the international consultant
took the lead role in EA preparation and for the transmission line, NEPRI
assumed the lead role. The EA document has been approved by the National
Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA) and has been reviewed and approved by
the World Bank; it is considered that all environmental aspects of the project
are satisfactorily addressed and in compliance with all Chinese and World Bank
environmental policies and procedures. Because of the unusual characteristics
of the fuel to be used, some deviation to existing World Bank nitrogen oxides
(NOx) emission guidelines and Chinese ambient NOx standards were established,
thermal discharges from once through cooling water also exceed Chinese
standards. However, the EA analysis determined that the environmental
consequences of these variances were insignificant. A monitoring program will
be incorporated into the project to ascertain and verify these conclusions on
a sustained basis. Should additional mitigation be required, the Borrower has
agreed to take the appropriate measures.
17.     Key issues addressed in the EAs included: air pollution (dust, sulfur
dioxide, nitrogen oxides), water pollution (primarily thermal pollution
impacts to aquatic ecology in the Leishui River), ash management, worker
health and safety (including the mine supplying the coal), electric field,
noise, losses in land productivity, interferences with communications and bird
flight patterns, and influences of construction and operational labor forces
on the local infrastructure. Furthermore, the proposed project (2 units of
300 MW each) is the second phase of what might be a three phase program at the
Leiyang site. To avoid future adverse environmental consequences, the EA
examined both the immediate impacts of the subject project (600 MW) as well as
cumulative impacts including a possible third phase (2x600 MW).
18.     All mitigating measures for air, water, and solids management (coal, ash)
are designed to meet appropriate Chinese requirements and/or World Bank
- 5 -



guidelines whichever is stricter. In the absence of either, international
codes of practice will be used (as is the case for nitrogen oxides emissions).
Resettlement Aspects
19.     The resettlement for the proposed project will be carried out in two
phases. The first phase includes: (a) policies and regulations, institutional
arrangements, implementation procedures that would be applied to all
components of the proposed project; and (b) detailed resettlement plans for
(i) Leiyang Power Plant; (ii) four 220 kV substations (Furong, Dongfenghu,
Hengbei, and Wangcheng); and (iii) two sections of 220 kV transmission lines
(Huaneng Power Plant to Dongfenghu, and Macha to Hengbei). The second phase
includes resettlement activities related to five 220 kV substations and 18
sections of 220 kV transmission lines. A Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) has
been prepared for the first phase. The RAP for the second phase will be
prepared by March 1999 following the completion of the design of routing and
siting of these subcomponents.
20.     The Bank carried out full review of the RAP and the assessment found that
the resettlement needs and PAPs are well analyzed and mitigating measures of
adverse social impacts are thoroughly formulated and adequate. The second
phase RAP and any unforeseen resettlement associated with the project will be
carried out according to the policy and procedures established in the first
phase RAP.
21.     Minimization of the scope of resettlement was, and will continue to be a
high priority throughout the planning, design and implementation of the
proposed project. Where land acquisition and demolition are unavoidable, the
resettlement plans provide for replacement of housing, alternative employment
opportunities, infrastructure, services and other resources to improve, or at
least restore, the living conditions and income of the project affected
persons (PAPs). Special attention was given to the most vulnerable groups
(household headed by women, senior people, and poorest households).
22.     The project (including two phases) would (a) require acquisition of
1,097.5 mu (about 73 ha) of land; (b) affect 396 persons due to land loss; (c)
demolition of 100,145 square meters of floor spaces in rural and urban areas;
and (c) relocation of 266 households or 1418 persons. The first phase
components require acquisition of a total of 438.5 mu land area, affecting 108
people; demolishing 15,941 square meters of floor spaces, and relocating 175
households or 993 individuals. Based on a preliminary estimate, the remaining
project components will require acquisition of 659.0 mu land area, affecting
289 farmers; removing 84,204 square meters structures, and relocating 91
households or 425 individuals.
23.     In order to effectively implement the resettlement program, resettlement
offices were established at the provincial, city, county, and power supply
bureaus levels. To strengthen the resettlement offices' implementation
capabilities, a resettlement policy and implementation workshop will be
conducted for staff involved in the resettlement activities.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
- 6 -



Processed by the InfoShop week ending March 27, 1998.
-7 -



