Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4350 CHA
Project Agreement
(Hunan Power Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
HUNAN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY
Dated June 7, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4350 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 7, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and HUNAN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY (HEPC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to lend to the 
Borrower an amount equal to three hundred million Dollars, on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that HEPC agree to undertake 
such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and HEPC the proceeds of the Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made 
available to HEPC on terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 
and
WHEREAS HEPC, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the 
respective meanings therein set forth, wherever used herein.
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) HEPC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, technical and public utility 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and HEPC shall otherwise agree, HEPC shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) HEPC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, HEPC shall: 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and HEPC, a plan for the 
future operation of 
the Project; and 
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
HEPC on said 
plan.
Section 2.04. HEPC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, HEPC shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) HEPC shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
HEPC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by HEPC of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of HEPC 
Section 3.01. HEPC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, technical and public utility 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers. 
Page  3
Section 3.02. HEPC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial, technical and public utility practices. 
Section 3.03. HEPC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) HEPC shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition 
and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project.
(b)
HEPC shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of the 
financial statements 
referred to above for such year as so audited and (B) the 
report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank may from 
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, HEPC shall earn: (i) 
for each of its fiscal years ending on December 31, 1999 and December 31, 2000, an 
annual return of not less than 8% of the average current value of HEPC's equity; (ii) 
for each of its fiscal years ending on December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2002, an 
annual return of not less than 10% of the average current value of HEPC’s equity; and 
(iii) for each of its fiscal years thereafter an annual return of not less than 12% of 
the average current value of HEPC’s equity. 
(b)
Before June 1 in each of its fiscal years, HEPC shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by HEPC and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section in respect of such year 
and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such 
review upon its completion. 
(c)
If any such review shows that HEPC would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) of this Section for HEPC’s fiscal years covered by such review, 
HEPC shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, 
adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates tariffs) in order to meet such 
requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
The term “equity” means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-in 
capital, 
retained earnings and reserves of HEPC not 
allocated to cover specific 
liabilities excluding 
consumer contributions.
(ii)
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference between 
(A) revenues 
from all sources other than those related to 
Page  4
operations; and (B) expenses 
incurred other then those 
related to operations, including taxes and payments 
in lieu of 
taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in (A). 
(iii)
The term “total operating expenses” means all expenses related to 
operations, 
including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes 
and payments in lieu of 
taxes, and provision for depreciation on 
a straight-line basis at a rate of 
not less than 5% per annum 
of the average current gross value of HEPC’s fixed 
assets in 
operation, or other basis acceptable to the Bank, but excluding 
interest and other charges on debt.
(iv)
The average current gross value of HEPC’s fixed assets in 
operation shall be 
calculated as one half of the sum of the gross value 
of HEPC’s fixed assets in 
operation at the beginning and at the end of 
the fiscal year, as valued from 
time to time in accordance with sound 
and consistently maintained methods of 
valuation satisfactory to the 
Bank.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, HEPC shall not incur  
any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of HEPC shows 
that the estimated internal cash generation of HEPC for each fiscal year during the 
term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated debt service 
requirements of HEPC in such year on all debt of HEPC including the debt to be 
incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee 
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been entered into.
(ii)
The term “internal cash generation” means the difference between: 
(A) the sum 
of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net non-operating 
income, excluding receipts from 
customer connection charges; and (B)
the sum of 
all expenses 
related to operations including administration, adequate 
maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for 
depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and interest and other 
charges on 
debt.
(iii)
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference between: 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and (B)
expenses, including taxes and payments 
in lieu of taxes, incurred in the 
generation of 
revenues in (A) above.
(iv)
The term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast prepared by HEPC 
not earlier 
than twelve months prior to the incurrence of the 
debt in question, which both 
the Bank and HEPC accept as 
reasonable and as to which the Bank has notified 
HEPC of its 
acceptability, provided that no event has occurred since such 
notification which has, or may reasonably be expected in the future to have, a 
material adverse effect on the financial condition or future 
operating results 
of HEPC.
(v)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable 
in another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of 
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Page  5
Section 4.04. HEPC shall prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review and 
comment, by June 1 of each year, a rolling eight-year financial plan containing, inter 
alia, projected income statements, fund flow statements and balance sheets for each of 
the next eight years.
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of HEPC 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction 
    and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For HEPC:
Hunan Electric Power Company
64 Shaoshan Road
Changsha, Hunan
People’s Republic of China
Cable address: 
Facsimile:
7176
(0731) 553-2255
(0731) 554-3160
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of HEPC may be 
taken or executed by its President, or by such other person or persons as HEPC shall 
designate in writing, and HEPC shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
Page  6
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR AND 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jean-Michel Severino 
Authorized Representative
HUNAN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY
By /s/ Li Zhaoxing
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January 1996 and September 1997 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower excluding 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. 
(b)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
Limited International Bidding 
Except as provided in Paragraph C.2, C.3 and C.4 below, goods estimated to cost 
less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$4,000,000 equivalent, and goods, which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a 
limited number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the 
Page  7
Guidelines. 
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Direct Contracting
Goods which are of a proprietary nature may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods procured under direct contracting 
and estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more, the following procedures 
shall apply:
(i)
prior to the execution of any such contract, the Borrower shall 
provide to the 
Bank a copy of the specifications and the 
draft contract; and
(ii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
Page  8
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program
For the purposes of Section 2.01(b) of this Agreement, the Implementation 
Program shall consist of the following:
Power Sector Reform
1.
With respect to Part D(2) of the Project, HEPC shall:
(a)
implement its reorganization in accordance with a program and schedule 
Page  9
agreed with the Bank;
(b)
exchange views with the Bank: (i) from time to time, at the request of 
either party, on the progress of implementation of its reorganization; and (ii) in 
particular, prior to taking any of the following actions, if such action would have a 
material and adverse effect on HEPC’s ability to perform any of its obligations under 
this Agreement: (1) substantial restructuring or reorganization of its operations; or 
(2) substantial modification, surrender, abandonment, transfer or other disposition of 
any of its power generation, transmission or distribution operations.
(c)
carry out and complete by December 31, 2000, the technical assistance 
programs for asset restructuring, corporate reorganization and development of 
wholesale power purchase agreements, in accordance with terms of reference and a 
schedule acceptable to the Bank.
Financial Management
2.
With respect to Part D(3) of the Project, HEPC shall carry out and complete by 
December 31, 2001, the technical assistance programs for redefinition of internal 
organizational structures, upgrading of account and financial management systems and 
development of modern, computerized financial management information systems in 
accordance with terms of reference and a schedule, acceptable to the Bank.
Institutional Development
3.
With respect to Part E of the Project, HEPC shall carry out a program of 
management development and training for HEPC staff, acceptable to the Bank.
Environment
4. 
HEPC shall implement the Environmental Management Plan in accordance with a time 
bound action plan acceptable to the Bank.
Resettlement
5.
With respect to Part C of the Project, HEPC shall:
(a)
prior to commencing the implementation of Parts A, B(1) and B(2) of the 
Project, carry out the compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected 
Persons under said Parts of the Project in accordance with the Phase I RAP;
(b)
prepare, in accordance with policies, planning principles, institutional 
arrangements and design criteria acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the Phase I 
RAP, and furnish to the Bank not later than June 30, 1999, for the Bank’s review and 
approval, a resettlement action plan for Part B(3) of the Project (the Phase II RAP); 
and
(c)
prior to commencing the implementation of Part B(3) of the Project, carry 
out the compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons under said 
Part of the Project, in accordance with the Phase II RAP as shall have been approved 
by the Bank.
Project Monitoring and Reporting
6.
HEPC shall:
(a)
maintain or cause to be maintained policies and procedures adequate to 
enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Bank:  (i) the carrying out of the Project, including the Phase I 
RAP and the Phase II RAP; and (ii) the achievement of the objectives of the Project;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank unaudited project accounts (including project cost estimates and project 
expenditures) and semi- annual reports on or about March 31 and September 31 in each 
year, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) above on the progress achieved in the carrying out the 
Project, including the Phase I RAP and Phase II RAP, during the preceding calendar 
Page  10
semester; 
(c)
review with the Bank each report furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above hereof and take such measures to further the objectives of  the 
Project as shall have been agreed with the Bank;
(d)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank on or about June 30, 2001, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) above on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period since its 
inception, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and
(e)
review with the Bank, by September 30, 2001, or such later date as the 
Bank shall agree, the report referred to in paragraph (d) above, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
