Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4350 CHA
Loan Agreement
(Hunan Power Development Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 7, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4350 CHA 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 7, 1999, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Hunan Electric Power Company (HEPC) 
with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to HEPC the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
HEPC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of 
Page  2
this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings wherever used herein:
(a)
“Affected Person” means a person who on account of the execution of Parts 
A and B of the Project had or would have his or her: (i) standard of living adversely 
affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, 
agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or 
possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation, work or place of 
residence or habitat adversely affected; and “Affected Persons” means collectively all 
persons who qualify as an Affected Person. 
(b)
“Environmental Management Plan” means the Hunan Power Development 
Project:  Environmental Assessment of the Leiyang Power Plant Phase II Extension 
Project dated February 1998 prepared by HEPC, PowerGen and the Nanjing Environmental 
Protection Research Institute and approved by the Borrower’s National Environmental 
Protection Administration in February 1998.
(c)
“HEPC” means Hunan Electric Power Company, a corporation established and 
existing under the laws of the Borrower and in accordance with: (i) Business License 
No. 18377057-6 dated August 18, 1995 issued by the Hunan Industry and Commerce 
Administration Bureau; and (ii) the HEPC Charter; and such term includes any successor 
or successors thereto. 
(d)
“HEPC Charter” means the charter of HEPC, dated July 28, 1993, as amended 
to the date of this Agreement. 
(e)
“Phase I RAP” means the Resettlement Action Plan, acceptable to the Bank, 
dated February 1998, prepared by HEPC, for the compensation, resettlement and 
rehabilitation of Affected Persons under Parts A, B(1) and B(2) of the Project and 
setting forth the policies and principles for the compensation, resettlement and 
rehabilitation of Affected Persons under Part B(3) of the Project, as said Plan may be 
supplemented or amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
(f)
“Phase II RAP” means the Resettlement Action Plan, acceptable to the 
Bank, to be prepared by HEPC in accordance with the policies and principles set forth 
in the Phase I RAP, for the compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected 
Persons under Part B(3) of the Project, as said Plan may be supplemented or amended 
from time to time with prior agreement of the Bank.
(g)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and HEPC of even 
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement. 
(h)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
(i)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and HEPC pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to three 
hundred million Dollars ($300,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
Page  3
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring 
thereafter and, after the initial 
period, each period from and including an 
Interest Payment 
Date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars 
for value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case 
of the initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment 
Date occurring on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iii)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
15 and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Page  4
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall cause HEPC to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement 
all the obligations of HEPC therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable HEPC to perform such obligations, and shall not 
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to HEPC under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and HEPC (the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement) under terms and conditions which shall have been approved 
by the Bank.  Such terms and conditions shall include the following:  
(i)
the principal amount of the subsidiary loan shall be repaid by 
HEPC in Dollars 
to the Borrower over a period not exceeding 
twenty years, including a grace 
period not exceeding five years; 
(ii)
the principal amount of the subsidiary loan repayable by HEPC 
shall be the 
equivalent in Dollars (determined as of the 
date, or respective dates, of 
repayment) of the value of 
the currency or currencies withdrawn from the Loan 
Account; and
(iii)
the subsidiary loan shall be charged: (a) interest on the 
outstanding balance 
thereof at a rate equal to the rate 
payable by the Borrower from time to time 
pursuant to Section 
2.05 (a) of this Agreement; and (b) a commitment charge on 
the 
principal amount thereof not withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal 
to three fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.  
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
shall be carried out by HEPC pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures 
are retained until at least one 
year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made; and
(ii)
the Borrower shall:
(iii)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
Page  5
this Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank; and
(iv)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including 
a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied 
upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
HEPC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement. 
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that HEPC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
(c)
The HEPC Charter shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of HEPC to perform any 
of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event are specified: 
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and 
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on 
behalf of the Borrower and HEPC.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank: 
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by HEPC, 
and is legally binding upon HEPC in accordance with its terms; and 
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and HEPC and is legally binding upon the Borrower and HEPC in 
accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Page  6
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address: 
Telex:
22486 MFPRC CN
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Li Zhaoxing
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jean-Michel Severino
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars
to be Financed
Page  7
(1)
Consultants' services
  4,500,000
100%
(2)
Goods
256,200,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and
75% of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(3)
Training
  1,000,000
100%
(4)
Unallocated
 38,300,000
TOTAL
300,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; provided, however, that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower for goods or services supplied from that region shall be deemed to be 
“foreign expenditures”; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$10,000,000 may be made on account of expenditures before that date but after March 
31, 1998.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing 
less than $300,000 equivalent; (b) services provided by consulting firms under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (c) services provided by 
individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and 
(d) training in each case under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to relieve power 
shortages in Hunan Province through the provision of an efficient, reliable and 
environmentally sound power supply.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective:
Part A:
Leiyang Power Plant 
Supply and installation of two 300 megawatt (MW) anthracite-fired generating 
units at the Leiyang Power Plant near Leiyang city, Hunan Province.
Part B:
Power Transmission
Reinforcement of the existing 220 kilovolt (kV) transmission system in Hunan 
Province, including: 
Page  8
(1)
supply and installation of approximately 42 kilometers (km) of 220 kV 
transmission lines and three 220 kV substations (Dongfenghu, Hengbei and Wangcheng) 
providing 480 megavolt amperes (MVA) transformer capacity in the aggregate; 
(2)
supply and installation of approximately 5.6 km of 220 kV of underground 
transmission cables and a substation at Furong (3 x 180 MVA); and 
(3)
supply and installation of approximately 746 km of 220 kV transmission lines and 
five substations (Jiahe, Chenbei, Yongzhou, Hanshou and Qiyang), and extension of two 
substations (Lounan and Xinhua), providing 900 MVA transformer capacity in the 
aggregate.
Part C:
Resettlement 
Resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons.
Part D:
Construction Management and Reorganization 
(1)
Strengthening the construction managerial capacity of HEPC through the provision 
of consultants’ services in connection with setting up of a construction management 
system, coordination of construction interfaces, cost control and project financial 
accounting and setting up and implementing quality control and quality assurance 
systems. 
(2)
Implementation of HEPC’s reorganization into separate operating companies, 
through the provision of consultants’ services in connection with the preparation of 
charters, incorporation documents and financial statements, development of operational 
and financial modeling of the Hunan power system to establish baseline capacity and 
energy tariffs, and preparation of model power purchase, maintenance, dispatch and 
related agreements. 
(3)
Improving HEPC’s financial management through the provision of consultants’ 
services in connection with the redefinition of internal organizational structures; 
upgrading of accounting and financial management practices and systems; and 
development of modern, computerized financial management information systems.
Part E:
Institutional Development and Training 
Strengthening the managerial capacity of HEPC through training of selected HEPC 
staff in management, finance, law, power sector regulation, human resources and 
related subject areas. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
March 15, 2004 
 6,540,000
March 15, 2005 
 6,930,000
March 15, 2006 
 7,345,000
March 15, 2007 
 7,790,000
March 15, 2008 
 8,255,000
March 15, 2009 
 8,750,000
March 15, 2010 
 9,275,000
March 15, 2011 
 9,830,000
March 15, 2012 
10,420,000
March 15, 2013 
11,045,000
March 15, 2014 
11,710,000
March 15, 2015 
12,410,000
March 15, 2016 
13,155,000
March 15, 2017 
13,945,000
Page  9
March 15, 2018 
14,785,000
__________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Sections  4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$20,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $12,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $120,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out 
of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
Page  10
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
