Page  1
April 3, 2001
Ms Zou Jiayi
Acting Director-General 
International Department
Ministry of Finance
San Li He
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Dear Ms. Zou:
Re: 
Loan No. 4350-CHA 
(Hunan Power Development Project)
Cancellation and Amendment to the Loan Agreement
I refer to the Loan Agreement between the People's Republic of China (the 
Borrower) and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), dated 
June 7, 1999 (the Loan Agreement).  Pursuant to your communication dated February 21, 
2001, and in accordance with Section 6.01 of the General Conditions, the Bank hereby 
cancels, as of February 21, 2001, the amount of $100,000,000 from the Loan.  The 
commitment charges on such amount cease to accrue from February 21, 2001.
Enclosed herewith is a revised schedule which indicates the amounts now 
allocated to each of the categories set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 
1 to the Loan Agreement.  Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement, the amortization schedule, 
is being revised by the Bank as a result of the cancellation and the revised figures 
will be sent to you shortly. 
Moreover, to reflect the above cancellation,  paragraph 1(c) of  Schedule 4 to 
the Loan Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
"(c)
the term 'Authorized Allocation' means an amount equivalent to 
$14,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $8,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $80,000,000."
Except as specifically amended hereby, all other provisions of the Loan 
Agreement otherwise remain in full force and effect.
Please confirm the agreement of the Borrower to the amendment set forth in the 
paragraph above by countersigning and dating the corresponding form of confirmation 
set forth below, and returning one fully signed original of this letter of amendment 
to us.  One fully signed original should be retained by the Borrower.  Upon receipt by 
the Bank of the copy of this letter of amendment duly countersigned by the authorized 
representative of the Borrower, the above amendment shall become effective as of the 
date of countersignature of this letter of amendment. 
Sincerely,
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Country Director, China 
East Asia and Pacific Region
CONFIRMED
Page  2
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zou Jiayi
Authorized Representative
Acting Director-General, 
International Department, 
Ministry of Finance
Date: April 25, 2001
