Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20170 BIH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8.0 MILLION (US$10.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
FOR AN
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 19, 2000
Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 11, 2000)
Currency Unit = Convertible Mark (KM); equivalent 1 :1 to Deutsche Mark
DEMI= US$0.48938
US$I = DEM2.04339
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACA      Academic Cooperation Association
BiH     Bosnia and Herzegovina
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CEE     Central and Eastern Europe
CoE     Council of Europe
CoM      Council of Ministers
EC     European Commission
EERP II    Emergency Education Reconstruction Project II
EIP    Education Improvement Project
EMIS     Education Management Information System
EU     European Union
FBiH     Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
FMS      Financial Management System
HEI    Higher Education Institutions
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IDA     International Development Association
IDF     Institutional Development Fund
IDP     Institutional Development Plan
IPC     Institutional Planing Committee
ISEM     Initial Set of EMIS Modules
LACI    Loan Administration Change Initiative
LSMS      Living Standards Measurement Survey
MFTER      Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations
MIS     Management Information System
NGO      Non Governmental Organization
OHR      Office of High Representative
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PCU     Project Coordination Unit
POM      Project Operation Manual
PMR      Project Management Report
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QF     Quality Fund
QFEB      Quality Fund Evaluation board
RS     Republika Srpska
RSC     Recognition Subcommittee
SOE     Statement of Expenses
SoSAC      Social Sector Adjustment Credit
TA     Technical Assistance
TOR      Terms of Reference
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
UNESCO       United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
UNICEF      United Nations Children's Fund
Vice President:    Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Manager/Director:   Christiaan J. Poortman, ECCO4
Sector Manager/Director:    James Socknat, ECSHD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    James Stevens, ECSHD



EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
I. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  8
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 II
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      14
3. Benefits and target population                                                      15
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      16
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          20
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         22
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           22
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   23
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        23
E. Summary Project Analysis
I. Economic                                                                           24
2. Financial                                                                          24
3. Technical                                                                          25
4. Institutional                                                                      25
5. Environmental                                                                      25
6. Social                                                                             26
7. Safeguard Policy                                                                   28
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     28
2. Critical risks                                                                     28
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     31
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            32
2. Other                                                                               32



H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           33
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          33
Annexes
Annex i: Project Design Summary
Annex 2: Project Description
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 5: Financial Summary
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annlex 7: Project Processing Schedule
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10: Country at a Glance
Annex I 1: Project Financial Management
MAP IBRD 28578R



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Education Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSHD
Date: April 19,2000                                 Team Leader: James A. Stevens
Country Manager/Director: Christiaan J. Poortman    Sector Manager/Director: James A. Socknat
Project ID: P058512                                 Sector(s): EY - Other Education
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)    Theme(s): EDUCATION
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
I Loan        3 Credit        L  Grant        n  Guarantee      L] Other (Specify)
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 10.6 million equivalent
Proposed Terms:
Grace period (years): 10                                 Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee:                                           Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:        Source                                  Local         Foreign          Total
Government                                                        2.10            0.00          2.10
IBRD
IDA                                                               9.60            1.00          10.60
EUROPEAN COMMISSION                                               0.00           0.70           0.70
GiOVER-NMENT OF ITALY                                             0.30            0.90           1.20
Total:                                                           12.00            2.60          14.60
Borrower: STATE OF BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) Federation
Address: Obala Maka Dizdara 2, Sarajevo, BiH
Contact Person: Mr. Kerim Karabdic
Tel: (387.71) 665.261                Fax: (387.71) 471.767               Email: Karabdic@Bih.Net.Ba
Other Agency(ies):
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) Republika Srpska
Address: Vuka Karadzica 1, Banja Luka, RS, BiH
Contact Person: Mr. Zdravko Marjanovic
Tel: (387.58) 218.416             Fax: (387.58) 218.417                Email: educatio@inecco.net
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
FY       ~2001        2002          2003        2004
Annual      3.0           4.1          2.5         1.0  I
Cumulative     3.0           7.1          9.6         10.6
Project implementation period: August 2000 - July 2004
Expected effectiveness date: 09/29/2000  Expected closing date:   12/31/2004
OCS -AD F-~~ -t M-N, 2=0



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project has the following three broad objectives:
*  to mobilize the professional capacity of teachers to improve the teaching and learning
processes in schools, and as a result improve the quality of education being offered to
primary school children in BiH.
*  to promote the efficient and equitable use of scarce public resources for education in BiH by
providing public policy makers and decision-makers with management tools and information
necessary to measure inputs, outputs and outcomes in the education system.
*  to promote cooperation and coordination across the three main constituent groups in an effort
to reduce inefficient resource use and build a professional basis for stakeholder dialogue in
education throughout BiH.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex I)
Teacher and Learning Achievement
Outputs
*  children, parents and school teachers in approximately 600 schools (out of a total of about
1,700) will be engaged in school projects that promote participation in the learning processes
and more relevant learning activities
*  approximately 4,000 primary teachers (out of a total of about 21,000), approximately 600
primary schools (out of a total of about 1,700), and about 25 teacher training institutions
benefiting from project funding
•  comparable student assessment results available for literacy and math
Outcomes
* more active participation of students in the learning processes and, as a result, improved
scores in internal and external school assessments
* better motivated teachers spending more time and more energy in their teaching jobs
* in-service and pre-service training institutions that improve their capacity to offer relevant
courses and become more efficient and effective in delivering training
Efficient and Equitable Public Resource Management
Outputs
*  core modules of an education management information system are established and capacity
of users at all levels developed
*  a Standards and Assessment Agency is established and capacity to define performance
standards and assess student performance developed
*  a Council of Higher Education is established, and BiH-level dialogue and coordination of
higher education accreditation and strategic planning is ongoing
-2 -



Outcomes
* re-allocation of education resources to improve student performance in under-performing
areas
* education recurrent, capital and external investment resources allocated to address key
performance and equity problems
*  indicators of system performance, efficiency and equity established, monitored, compared,
debated and publicized
* efficiency gains in higher education re-allocated to improving the quality of programs
Cooperation and Coordination in Education across BiH
Outputs
*  an education management information system is established in a compatible format across
BiH
*  a Standards and Assessment Agency established at the State level
* a Council of Higher Education is established to support cooperation and coordination in
higher education
Outcomes
the three main constituent groups cooperating at a professional level in the area of standards
setting, student assessment and system evaluation
* shared data on education inputs, outputs and outcomes throughout BiH
*  mutual recognition of higher education programs throughout BiH
Living Standards Measurement Survey
Outputs
- household level data on: levels and determinants of poverty, access to and use of social
services and infrastructure, and the incidence of public spending
* staff in both entity statistical institutes trained in modern survey techniques
* creation of a data dissemination function within the State Agency for Statistics, as well as the
entity statistical institutes
* analysis of poverty and dissemination of analysis
Outcomes
* use of data in the policy making process, thereby improving the effectiveness, equity and
impact of public spending
* creation of country-wide capacity within the statistical system to design and implement high
quality household level surveys for policy purposes and coordination among actors in the
sector
* provide the utnderpinnings for the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper to be carried out by the
government.
-3 -



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see
Annex 1)
Document number: 16866-BiH             Date of latest CAS discussion: 08/06/98
The proposed project is fully consistent with the Bosnia and Herzegovina CAS which is
scheduled to be presented to the Board at the same time as this proposed project. This education
intervention represents a major element in the CAS priority given to building social
sustainability in BiH and its central focus on governance reform and institution building
responds to the CAS priority given to strengthening governance. The project is also consistent
with the Bank's sector support strategy for education.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main Sector Issues
The major issues to be addressed in education can be usefully separated into two categories: those
education issues which confront most other educational systems in Central and Eastern Europe -
related only tangentially to the war and post-war politics - and those education issues which are
unique to the post-conflict environment in BiH. Progress to date in addressing these issues is
summarized in section 3 (strategic choices) below. Education issues in the first category include
the following:
Teaching: nearly all the roughly 21,000 primary school teachers across the Federation and RS
are in need of professional development to help them learn and adopt modern child centered
teaching methodologies which were not part of the pre-service training curriculum in the former
Yugoslavia. Similarly, any transition to less occupationally-specific secondary education
programs will require the in-service training of the majority of the nearly 9,000 secondary
teachers now in the system across the Federation and RS. While the problem of under-skilled
teachers was considerably aggravated by the war -- in terms of a temporary reliance on teachers
who did not possess the formal two year post-secondary teaching credential -- the need to
modernize teaching and methodological approaches has been among the highest priorities in all
CEE transition countries. Although there have been a number of donor-financed initiatives in
various Cantons and schools, there is currently no strategy for focusing attention and resources on
upgrading existing teacher skills in any systematic way. The situation in pre-service training is
similar. Attention has been focused on re-building, staffing and equipping teacher training
facilities, with little attention or funding being devoted to modernizing teaching methodologies
and devoting more student time to practice teaching.
Curriculum: educational programs throughout BiH are characterized by a dense and ambitious
body of knowledge to be learned, leaving little flexibility to focus on critical thinking and
learning skills or to deal with children with varying capabilities. Despite dramatic changes in the
skill needs of the labor force, what is learned in the schools and how it is learned is changing
slowly, if at all. There is no standardized information on student performance at any level of the
system which could be used to monitor progress in qualitative improvements or compare
educational attainment within or outside BiH. RS authorities have made some progress in
developing a strategy for restructuring learning objectives and developing educational
performance standards, but the Federation still needs to begin this process. Although the need to
develop new curriculum programs and standards is not directly related to the war, the processes
of undertaking such reform has been greatly complicated by the post-conflict environment where
the politics and language of the curriculum has taken center stage, particularly within the
Federation, over the need to take a critical view of the strengths and weaknesses of exiting
programs.
-4 -



Secondary Technical/Vocational Education and Adult Training: approximately 70% of
secondary students are enrolled in specialized programs which are expensive to operate - due to
low student/teacher ratios and equipment needs - and externally inefficient - graduates are
trained in narrow, often occupationally specific specialization for which there is questionable
labor market demand. The secondary system in BiH is, thus, out of alignment with the emerging
market economy's need for broad-based skills, labor flexibility and continuous learning. Little
focus has been given in BiH, to date, to the need for transition in secondary education which will
require the development of new broad-based programs and an extensive re-training program for
the existing secondary teaching force. A reform of secondary technical/vocational education will
also necessitate commensurate reforms in the field of adult training where occupationally specific
training is more relevant. The goals are to develop a network of training suppliers (private-for-
profit, public, semi-public, NGOs, etc.), to bring social and private sector partners into the
governance of adult training, to complement Government funding with cost recovery, and to
facilitate the availability of labor market information.
Higher Education: as elsewhere in Eastern and Central Europe, tertiary education in BiH is
highly fragmented. Although five "universities" have been re-established following the war, the
system contains roughly 70 component institutions each with a significant degree of autonomy.
This fragmentation makes it exceeding difficult to pursue policy objectives aimed at allocating
powers and responsibilities efficiently between the components of the system. There are no
common standards for admission, tuition, staff recruiting or remuneration, and no mechanism to
ensure commonality of academic standards. This fragmentation is even further complicated in
the Federation by an uncertain governance and financing framework for higher education in
which each Canton is responsible for higher education in its territory, although more than half the
10 Cantons do not have functioning universities. The need for a strategy aimed at developing
academic and administrative standards and pursuing efficiency gains through consolidation is
being promoted by Council of Europe, but has not yet been addressed adequately by local
authorities, partially due to the messy post-conflict political and institutional environment.
Management Capacity and Information: as with higher education above, the governance and
administration of general education is highly fragmented - each of the ten cantons is nominally
responsible for education in its area - making policy and qualitative reforms difficult to
coordinate. Detailed information on the system and its financing is not readily available and
information that does exist is not used to support decision-making in the sector. Moreover, there
is no capacity for systematically evaluating student performance, and it is, therefore, difficult to
assess the quality of teaching and learning. Ensuring the availability of reliable administrative,
financial and performance information is a pre-requisite to beginning a productive dialogue on
the need for education reform.
In addition to these issues which BiH shares with the majority of its Central and Eastern
European neighbors, there are two important issues which are unique to the post-conflict
environment and pose particular constraints to education reform:
Inefficient Governance and Financing Structures: the delegation of responsibilities for
education to the cantons in the Bosnian Federation has proven to be a particular constraint to
efficient public sector management and educational reform. Canton level ministries of education
currently function as mini-centralized bureaucracies which suffer both the costs of over-
centralization and the dis-economies of scale normally associated with decentralization. The
cantons have made varying degrees of progress in developing and adopting education laws for
each level of the system, which mostly re-enforce an inefficient allocation of functional
responsibilities. As a general proposition, the key to establishing an efficient distribution of
-5-



responsibilities and functions among the various government levels -- Entity, Canton,
municipality, school -- should be to assign to higher levels the responsibility for ensuring quality
and consistency of educational programs, while ensuring that lower levels are given the
responsibility and authority (including budget and expenditure authority) to implement programs
within established norms. The roles of school boards and municipal governments in school
management also remain to be determined. While the RS Ministry of Education retains
responsibility for the prescribed quality control functions of a central ministry, the need to
consider decentralization reforms which push decision making authority closer to the service
providers applies equally in RS. As mentioned above, higher education fragmentation is not
unique to BiH's education governance structure, but the nominal responsibility of the Cantons for
tertiary education in their areas further complicates efforts to develop consensus on needed
reforms.
Nationalist Politics and Language Separation: Decision making in BiH's education sector is
dominated by the politics of post conflict resolution. A rational allocation of various functions,
such as performance evaluation and quality control, to the central level is not currently possible
due to the desire to maintain educational separation within constituent groups. To further
complicate matters, nationalistic efforts to differentiate the common language of BiH into three
separate languages has become an excuse for lack of cooperation in developing new curricula,
textbooks and educational materials. This politically forced separation in education is detrimental
in terms of long term nation-building efforts in BiH, the need for a rational distribution of
functions, and the efficient use of resources (class size, facilities utilization and procuring books
and other educational materials, etc.) The lack of cooperation is also a dis-incentive for funding
agencies which would like to fund educational reforms, but are reluctant to do so in the context of
efforts to re-enforce segregation in the schools.
Government Strategy
Following the end of hostilities, the education system has gradually been re-built and - while not
achieving levels of funding and organization that existed prior to the war - teaching and learning
at all levels is now being carried out at minimally acceptable standards in most areas of BiH.
However, the level of destruction of the education system has caused political and educational
leaders and the donor community to focus their attention on physical re-construction of the
system over the past three years, postponing and, to some extent, ignoring needed educational
reforms which have been ongoing for 4-6 years in many other countries throughout Eastern and
Central Europe. The multitude of donor funding opportunities for re-construction and the chaotic
post-conflict environment also contributed to re-enforcing old structures and attitudes - such as
inadequate methodological training of teachers, occupationally specific training at the secondary
level, and the fragmented higher education system - rather than influencing authorities to re-think
structures and approaches in the context of the education system's role in economic transition.
Education authorities in the Federation and RS are not currently in a position to prepare a
coherent and well-justified medium term education development strategy. In addition to the over-
emphasis on physical reconstruction mentioned above, strategy development has been hindered
by a lack of reliable information and basic analysis of public resource needs -- the type of
information and analysis this project is aimed at producing. In the Federation, strategy
development has been equally hindered by decentralization of education responsibility to ten
Cantons and by the failure of the Federation's two main constituent groups to cooperate on
educational matters. The RS Ministry of Education produced an Education Strategy in 1998
which sets out broad priorities for improving educational quality, but does not adequately place
education in its broader socio-economic context -- in terms of minority rights and the changing
demand for labor market skills -- and does not adequately address the financial, institutional and
- 6 -



capacity constraints to achieving its qualitative goals. In the absence of an agreed strategy, the
Bank and the Council of Europe joined together to undertake an Education Governance and
Finance Review (November 1999, Council of Europe/World Bank) which provides the
framework and recommendations for a preliminary medium term education strategy. Given that
education is a canton responsibility in the Federation, the ten Cantons and RS were the principal
counterparts for this initiative.
The main theme of the Education Governance and Finance Review is the need to support
common "intermediary institutions" and shared management mechanisms that will allow all three
constituent groups in BiH to cooperate and coordinate their efforts on a professional basis in
education. (Intermediary institutions are public or semi-public agencies, associations, councils,
etc. which are created to focus on professional topics or coordination and which are
complementary to the work of politically appointed line ministries.) The rationale behind this
focus on professional intermediary institutions and shared management mechanisms is to focus
attention on professionalism in education and the compatibility of educational achievement and
public sector management of education with standards and institutional innovations in Western
Europe -- a goal that all three constituent groups share. This strategy should be viewed in parallel
with the need to reduce focus, in the short term, on the intractable questions associated with the
political control of education resources and content, which are becoming more entrenched as a
result of efforts on the part of donors and some progressive internal actors to force cooperation.
In the absence of intermediary institutions and information collection mechanisms, it will be
impossible to constructively promote cooperation and coordination and prevent an increasing
entrenchment of parallel institutions.
A second and related theme of the Education Governance and Finance Review is the need to
develop a modern public sector knowledge base in education, which is, in fact, often the role of
professional intermediary institutions in OECD countries. The development of reliable and
standardized public information on educational inputs, outputs and outcomes (student
achievement and system performance) would provide the baseline for objectivity in the public
debate over education and gradually help change the public dialogue in education from one
focused almost exclusively on politics to one focused on the quality of teaching and learning and
how extremely scarce public resources can best be allocated to ensure the achievement of
educational standards compatible with those in Western Europe. Such formation would also
eventually permit compatible policy and strategy development across the three main constituent
groups in BiH.
Regarding the long-term strategy for education governance and financing in BiH, the report
recommends a decentralization of administrative and political control over educational inputs
(teachers, books, curriculum, financing, etc.) to schools or municipalities. Decentralization of
control over education (which does not now exist in the highly centralized cantons and RS) is
compatible with the desire on the part of the constituent groups to promote locally-based content -
- a desirable goal in education -- and is compatible with the heritage of decentralized control of
education administration in the former Yugoslavia. However, effective and equitable
decentralization in education should be complemented with the development of capacity at
central levels to measure system performance, undertake quality control, and establish policies
and guidelines for the system. Given the unique education governance constraints of BiH, which
are not conducive to centrally-driven reforms, the path to effective decentralization is twofold:
first, a reliance on piloted, learning-oriented reform initiatives in BiH's 11 independent
administrative areas (10 cantons and RS); and, second, a reliance on intermediary institutions to
undertake performance monitoring and quality assurance functions in the short term, while setting
the groundwork for strategy development, coordinated reform and consensus building in the long
term.
-7-



Finally, also in keeping with the study's recommendations to stimulate an environment for
decentralization, there is a crucial need in the short term to develop a mechanism to provide direct
support to schools and teachers, which are starved in the current under-funded environment for
the small amounts of non-salary recurrent funding that allow and motivate creativity and
innovation among teachers. In addition to the direct and immediate benefits associated with
making more learning resources available to teachers and schools, school-based funding and
learning initiatives will set the ground work for increased school and community level control of
education. Given the strong political resistance at central levels to integrating education across
constituent groups, empowering schools and local communities to take control of their own
educational delivery will play an important part in the reform of education governance in the
future.
The Education Governance and Finance Review was prepared in close consultation with the
principal education donor partners (Office of the High Representative, UNESCO, Council of
Europe, World Bank) among which there is general consensus and support for the conclusions
and strategic recommendations of the report.
Coverage in the SoSAC
The Social Sector Adjustment Credit (FY00) will focus on social protection and labor issues, for
which the Living Standards Measurement Survey, financed under the project, is expected to
produce key poverty and expenditure data. A second Social Sector Adjustment Credit is expected
to begin preparation in FY01 which should address finance and equity issues in education,
focusing principally on higher education. Information produced under this investment operation
will be key to preparation of the second adjustment operation.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will provide support to address the following set of sector issues in line with the
findings and recommendations of the Education Governance and Finance Review.
*  Inter-constituent group cooperation and coordination in the context of education
governance reform: the project will support the creation and development of two common
intermediary institutions -- a State-level Standards and Assessment Agency and a BiH-wide
Council of Higher Education -- and an Education Management Information System which
will be based on a common core standard of management information reporting throughout
BiH. It also supports creation of an inter-Entity Quality Fund Board which will govern the
allocations of focused, quality-oriented resources. In addition to providing common ground
for inter-constituent group cooperation, these initiatives represent the first steps in a broader
governance reform aimed at shifting quality control and system evaluation functions to
central levels and shifting the control over resources to decentralized levels (schools and/or
municipalities).
*  Reliable and standardized input, output and outcome information in the context of
education governance reform: the Standards and Assessment Agency, the Council of
Higher Education and the EMIS will all play a role in producing information which will serve
to re-orient the public debate in education, focus attention on the redundancies and
inefficiencies of "parallel" governance structures and set the stage for informed policy and
strategy development in the medium term. In addition, data from the LSMS will permit an
assessment of factors exogenous to the education sector (household and individual
characteristics) that affect educational attainment.
- 8 -



* Decentralized control of education inputs and the serious under-funding of qualitative
support: in addition to significantly increasing the level of quality-oriented resources in the
system (an important direct benefit), the Quality Fund will serve to empower school-level
authorities to evaluate their own needs and priorities, develop their own planning mechanisms
and control their own resources and inputs. The EMIS component will also include support
for school, community and municipality level management improvement.
* Higher education reform: the project will support a Higher Education Component,
including a Higher Education Fund (to be governed by the Council of Higher Education)
which will allocate resources aimed at (1) consolidation of university management and better
strategic planning; and (2) the development of common institutional standards for
accreditation and mutual recognition of degrees throughout BiH.
A number of strategic choices were made not to provide support for certain issues in view of the
broad range of sector issues, the risks of success and failure in dealing with various issues,
accomplishments to date in Bosnia's education system, and the interests and comparative
advantage of other donors. These are summarized as follows:
* Comprehensive education reform and medium-to-long term strategy development:
development of comprehensive reform and strategy development is impeded by (1) the strong
political resistance to allowing professionals in education to undertake inter-constituent group
pianning and the lack of shared institutions; (2) the current governance structure (12 separate
ministries of education) which is un-conducive to any-centrally-driven action; (3) the lack of
capacity within the education community at central levels (the 12 ministries) to undertake a
comprehensive review of issues and develop reform strategies; and (4) the lack of consistent
inputs, output and outcome information needed to undertake a review of system performance
and make a convincing case for directed change. The current strategy is to focus on
developing intermediary institutions and producing consistent information as both inputs to
and catalysts for future reform and strategy development.
* Inequity in Education Delivery: significant disparities in per student spending at all levels
have been identified across the 11 jurisdictions responsible for education in BiH, with the
highest spending areas spending more than twice per student at all levels than the lowest
spending areas. This disparity is predominantly, but not exclusively explained by differences
in revenue collection per capita. Because public revenue is collected and allocated to
education within the I I jurisdictions (as mandated under the Dayton Accords), little can be
done to promote equalization across areas without agreement from each of the jurisdictions to
transfer funding up to the Entity level or to assign Federal revenue for education. Neither of
these solutions is politically feasible in BiH in the short to medium term. Furthermore,
funding equalization should not be justified solely on an equitable spending mandate, but in
the context of equity goals in education outcomes. Until consistent system and student
performance information exists in BiH, there is little justification to argue for funding re-
allocations on the basis of bringing children in disadvantaged areas up to acceptable
performance standards. Addressing inequities in education outcomes and the funding
inequities that may or may not be a factor in those achievement inequities can only be
addressed in the medium term once consistent information on performance is available.
* Physical reconstruction: the crisis of schools with war and war-related damage will have
largely ended by the end of 1999. IDA has contributed nearly $20 million to the physical
reconstructioni effort and helped leverage an equal amount of funding from other donors.
Capital investments will continue to be needed, particularly in high poverty areas, but this
- 9-



legitimate need will have to be dealt with in the context of routine capital budgeting or other
fund raising for capital expenditure and in the context of better facilities planning, which will
be supported in the context of the EMIS and the Council of Higher Education. Although,
educational leaders in BiH continue to be pre-occupied with directing support to facilities and
equipment (not uncommon in most CEE education systems), we propose to focus our limited
IDA resources on qualitative change and improved sector management.
* Curriculum Development: the Bank is addressing curriculum development issues at the
school level in the context of Italian co-financing for the Second Emergency Education
Reconstruction Project. UNESCO and OHR are also providing advice and analysis on
curriculum, but little direct investment. The recent emphasis given by UNESCO and OHR to
shared curriculum programs has lead to an increasing entrenchment of political positions on
this issue. The key constraint to progress on supporting development of improved curricula
for the Federation is the lack of cooperation between the two partners of the Federation in
developing shared programs, at least for some core subjects. Given this lack of cooperation
at central (entity) and Canton levels, our current approach is to address shared curriculum
development in the context of identifying "mixed" experimental schools in which students,
teachers, parents and local political leaders agree to cooperate. Under the proposed project,
we will be taking the first steps in a transition from establishing detailed, mandated teaching
programs, to the establishment of learning standards which allow for a flexible approach to
teaching and learning in the classroom.
* Textbooks: the Bank has successfully piloted, under the first and second Emergency
Education Reconstruction Projects, a mechanism for textbook selection in the Federation
which has resulted in privatized textbook publishing and higher quality books in the
classroom. Further progress in this area has been slowed by lack of progress on curriculum
reform and the difficulty in persuading the partners of the Federation to accept common
books, given minor but politically substantial differences in curriculum programs and
language. The political sensitivity of textbook issues and the unwillingness of the constituent
groups to accept sharing of even non-political math and science books has led to a decision to
re-focus our energy and funding on other more promising areas for cooperation. It is
expected that bilaterals would be available to provide financing for textbooks in the unlikely
event that a breakthrough is forthcoming in the near future.
* Secondary Education Reform: EU-Phare is implementing a major investment project aimed
at curriculum development for vocational education. Unfortunately, the programs being
developed -- including programs for training tailors and cooks -- are far too occupationally-
specific to meet the flexible labor needs of an emerging market economy. Investments under
the Quality Fund will, therefore, be limited to professional upgrading for primary teachers.
Prior to a major investment by the Bank in secondary education, a number of policy and
strategic decisions -- related to focusing on broad-based skill programs for all children --
would have to be addressed by policy makers in BiH. Attempting at this point to address
these issues -- which are difficult even in the context of a traditional governance structure --
would only serve to delay other well-justified investments. In keeping with the need for
flexibility in project implementation, significant progress on secondary education reform in
the short term could justify a re-allocation of Bank or co-financing resources to professional
upgrading for secondary teachers under the Quality Fund during implementation of the
project.
* Adult Training: EU-Phare is also providing direct emergency support for adult training
programs, as is the Bank in the context of its Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration
Project. However, an institutionalization of adult training in BiH -- hitherto carried out on an
- 10-



emergency basis -- remains to be consolidated. A Bank-funded investment operation to
support institutional development for adult training, combined with labor reform and active
labor market promotion programs, is proposed for FY01. Adult training has not been
included under the proposed project given our objective of removing this responsibility from
the formal public education bureaucracy in favor of a tri-partite -- government, employers,
unions -- managing board.
Higher Education: As with secondary education above, overall higher education reform will
require a number of policy and strategic decisions in the areas of higher education
governance, management and financing which can only be effectively carried out in the
context of some common institutional structure. Therefore, the creation of a BiH-wide
Council of Higher Education will be a condition for including support under the project for a
Higher Education Fund to be aimed at systemic reform measures. Inefficient financing
arrangements and equity problems in higher education finance -- which have their roots in the
agreed allocation of responsibilities for education under the Dayton Accords -- can only begin
to be addressed as a second step once some institutional forum for cross-constituent group
dialogue has been established.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The following project components have been prepared and will be appraised:
A Quality Fund (US$ 3.7 million) - this component will provide financing for non-salary
incentives to primary schools and primary school teachers with the aim of stimulating
innovation and creativity at the school level. It also provides support for building capacity
and stimulating innovation in teacher training institutions. A Quality Fund, in the amount of
$3 million, will be established under a single governing Board, already appointed by the
Federation Minister and Deputy Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sports and the
RS Minister of Education. The Board itself will contribute to the need for shared
intermediary institutions across the three main constituent groups in BiH. The Quality Fund
will support three sub-components:
*  school grants (ranging between US$2,000 and US$10,000) awarded on a competitive
basis to finance educational improvement projects which will be designed by teachers in
participating primary schools and aimed at improving their teaching practices (school
grants are currently being piloted in the Herzegovina-Neretva Canton and RS under
Italian Trust Fund financing);
•  teacher training grants and merit-based training scholarships to reward primary school
teachers who are doing an exemplaryjob and to allow primary school teachers to engage
in self-selected in-service training activities (contracts are expected to range between
US$150 and US$200 -- no cash payments will be made to teachers);
*  grants of about US$ 20,000 to support the strengthening of institutions that offer pre-
service and in-service training for teachers. Awards to teacher training institutions will
be selected among proposals presented by university faculties, pedagogical academies,
NGOs and pedagogical institutes.
- 11 -



A Standards and Assessment Agency (US$ 3.7 million) - this institution will provide
information to the education community and the public at-large on student achievement and
overall system performance with the aim of learning about the system's strengths and
weaknesses, promoting accountability in public education and measuring compatibility
between educational standards in BiH and the rest of Europe. The Agency will be a shared
inter-Entity institution supplying high quality professional services in the field of student
assessments.
To achieve the above goals, the Agency's primary task will be to define performance
standards (i.e. what students should know and be able to do in given subjects at given stages
of their schooling) and to assess to what extent those standards are beginning reached across
BiH. In particular, the Agency will:
*  gather, process and publish quantitative and qualitative data about the levels of learning
(performance outputs) at primary and secondary levels in order to inform the decision-
making process,
*  assist individual cantons or entities with their own assessment projects, where these are
consistent with the overall aims of the Agency;
*  provide a research and development facility to education institutions and individuals in
respect of assessment issues;
*  encourage and assist in the development of expertise in the field of assessment through
training;
*  seek to harmonize assessment practices in BiH with best practice elsewhere in Europe.
In the longer term, depending on politically acceptability, the Agency could be asked to lead
the work of establishing an Examinations Board. This would provide examinations for school
leavers and award nationally and internationally recognized certificates of achievement. Any
future role for the Agency in certificated examinations for BiH would be conditional on the
unanimous approval of all representatives on the Agency's Board.
The project will finance the capital costs of establishing the Agency, as well as initial
recurrent expenditures on a declining basis over four years. The Entities will be expected to
budget funds for the recurrent costs of supporting the Agency beginning in fiscal year 2001.
An Education Management Information System (US$ 2.1 million) - this component will
finance development of a BiH-wide EMIS that will enable improved sector management and
compatibility of information among BiH's decentralized education systems. It will also test
the viability of a per student budgeting model designed to promote increased efficiency and
equity in education spending. Specifically, the project will support a process aimed at:
*  determining core canton education statistical information needs at primary and secondary
levels;
*  developing computer software for data collection, collation and report generation as the
initial module in an EMIS;
*  assisting, at the canton and schools levels, the piloting of software, the upgrading of
cantonal hardware, and training and monitoring;
*  assisting, at the canton and school levels, the improvement of management capabilities
through a pilot of capitation based bulk grant system; and
*  developing and financing implementation of an EMIS in all cantons in the Federation and
the RS, and expanding the capitation based funding mechanism, where feasible.
- 12 -



EMIS modules for education statistics and capitation funding will be piloted under the
Second Emergency Education Rehabilitation Project. The design of the roll out to other
cantons/RS will be based on the results of these pilots. Management training will be provided
to stakeholders in the system at various levels (canton, school and school boards) during the
roll out.
A Higher Education Reform (US$ 3.5 million) -- this component is designed to stimulate
professional coordination, innovation, strategic planning and efficient governance at both
sector and institutional levels in higher education in BiH. Following creation of a Council of
Higher Education, a secretariat will be established under the Council with terms of reference
to focus on two objectives: I) increased strategic planning and institutional consolidation and
2) improved qualification and accreditation systems. To provide incentives for strategic
planning, a Higher Education Fund will be established in the amount of $2.0 million. The
secretariat will be responsible for evaluating funding proposals and recommending approval
of proposals to the Council. Universities, entities and cantons would be eligible to apply
separately or jointly for Fund financing. Improved qualification and accreditation systems
will be supported through provision of technical assistance and training to the secretariat and
a representative working group of academics from BiH. The project will cover the costs of
the Council and the secretariat on a declining basis.
Precise criteria for evaluating Fund proposals and terms of reference for the accreditation
work will be agreed at negotiations. A set of priorities on which the criteria will be based are
presented in Annex 2.
Disbursement under the Fund will be contingent on a decision to formally create the Council
of Higher Education either via State level appointment or university level appointment of
Council members. If such a Council has not been created prior to project negotiations, a
condition of disbursements will be added for this component.
Living Standards Measurement Survey (US$ 0.6 million) -- The goal of this component is
to provide reliable data, for the entire country, on the levels and determinants of welfare, the
causes of observed social sector outcomes and the incidence of public expenditures. Such
data will be used to inform the policy-making process and are expected to improve the
effectiveness and impact of public sector programs in the country. In addition, the data will
form the basis of much of the analysis required for creating a Poverty Reduction Strategy for
the country. The specific objectives of the component are to carry out a Living Standard
Measurement Study Survey, create the capacity in the country to carry out such surveys and
promote the use of such data through wide dissemination of the results, the various analyses
of poverty, as well as the unit-record data sets.
The three organizations in the country which are responsible for statistics (the Entity-level
institutes of statistics in the Federation and the Republika Srpska and the State Agency for
Statistics) will work closely together to design and implement an LSMS survey and
disseminate both the results of the survey and the data sets. The entity level institutes will be
responsible for the actual implementation of the survey while the state agency will help
coordinate efforts and will be responsible for creating the final country-level data set.
Co-financing for this activity of US$500,000 will be provided by UNDP under a cost-sharing
agreement, to which the Government of BiH will contribute IDA funding under this project.
In addition, the LSMS survey is one element of a larger effort to support the creation of a
system of household surveys in the country and will be able to take advantage of the other
activities that are being undertaken.
- 13 -



Project Coordinating Units (US$1.0 million) - the current PlUs in the Federation and RS,
established to implement the first and second Emergency Education Reconstruction Projects,
will be transformed into PCUs for each Entity. The Federation PCU will undertake a
substantive modification in its composition in order to incorporate new staff with relevant
profiles. The PCUs will be charged with managing contracting and expenditure under the
project and coordinating project activities. They will be expected to share personnel support
for coordinating the EMIS, Higher Education and Quality Fund components.
The project will finance PCU staff salaries, as well as the basic operating expenditures of the
PCU on a declining basis, including recurrent office expenditures, vehicle operation and
maintenance costs, and travel and subsistence. A small equipment replenishment budget will be
available, but the majority of equipment and vehicles needed under the project already exists in
the current PlUs and will be made available for use by the new PCUs.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TtL. iU$I~   ffinao
Quality Fund                     EP - Primary         3.70       25.3      2.40       22.6
Education
Standards and Assessment Agency   Institutional       3.70       25.3      2.10       19.8
Development
Education Management Information   BI - Institutional  2.10      14.4      2.00       18.9
System (EMIS)                    Development
Higher Education                 BI - Institutional   3.50       24.0      3.00       28.3
Development
Living Standards Measurement                          0.60        4.1      0.60        5.7
Survey (LSMS)
Project Management                                    1.00        6.8      0.50        4.7
Total Project Costs                     14.60      100.0     10.60      100.0
Total Financing Required                      14.60      100.0     10.60      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project aims to increase cooperation and coordination in education through the creation of
key intermediary institutions and shared management mechanisms, as follows:
*  development of a new capacity for standardized student assessment throughout BiH through
creation of a shared Standards and Assessment Agency
*  development of a shared approach to promoting strategic planning, management
consolidation and accreditation issues through creation of a Council of Higher Education
*  development of a shared core Education Management Information System across the cantons
and RS
*  allocation of non-salary incentives for innovations to schools through ajoint (Federation-RS)
Quality Fund Board
*  development of a capacity to generate and use household level data on education and
welfare, along with other issues in the social sectors
- 14 -



In addition to the institutional/management mechanisms above, the project will support reform at
two levels:
* consolidation of university management in the office of the university (as opposed to
individual faculties) and development of new procedures of higher education program
accreditation through the Higher Education Fund
* creating a market mechanism in which schools or groups of schools contract for services,
including in-service teacher training, from their choice of service provider through the
Quality Fund
3. Benefits and target population:
Increased cooperation and coordination: The project is expected to have a direct positive
impact on the incidence of cooperation and coordination in education across constituent groups in
BiH. Through the development of intermediary institutions and management mechanisms, and
the production of objective input, output and outcome information, the public dialogue in
education is expected to shift -- albeit slowly -- from political confrontation to a public concern
with system performance, learning standards and European integration. Improved cooperation
and coordination will also serve to reduce the inefficiencies and redundancies associated with the
perpetration of three "parallel", uncoordinated education systems, which is currently the defacto
case in BiH. The project is also expected to have a significant positive effect on coordination
within the statistical sector, both between the two entity-level institutes and among them and the
State Agency for Statistics. Through close coordination in the planning, training, field work and
analysis phases of the survey, it is expected that the project will contribute to the creation of a
system of statistics that is capable of providing data representative of the country and the two
entities.
Improved Quality of Educational Delivery: The proposed project is expected to have a direct
positive impact on the quality of primary education in BiH by focusing resources on teaching
creativity and innovation at the school level. To date, little or no resources are available directly
to schools to allow teachers/schools to take responsibility for their own professional development.
Approximately 4,000 primary teachers (out of a total of about 21,000 in BiH) and approximately
100,000 primary students (out of about 41 1,000 in BiH) will benefit from this quality-focused
project funding, as well as the staff of about 25 teacher training institutions. In the medium term,
as a result of this focus on teaching innovation and creativity, the project is expected to contribute
to improving critical thinking and life-long learning skills in BiH which should have a positive
impact on long term economic development.
Increased efficiency and equity: The proposed project is expected to have a direct positive
impact on the efficiency and equity of public resource allocation for education in BiH by creating
a capacity to measure inputs, outputs and outcomes in public education. To date, information on
system performance does not exist and the lively public debate over education in BiH is,
therefore, uniformed, anecdotal and almost exclusively political. Although political
considerations influence the public debate over education in all countries, information produced
under the project is expected to balance political considerations by stimulating a public dialogue
over educational achievement and input resources in BiH, as is the standard in nearly all western
democracies. The project will also help education policy makers, administrators, staff and
community school boards improve their public sector management skills, as they become, over
time, more accountable in their decision making to an infonned public.
- 15 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project is expected to be implemented over a period of four years. As with the first and
second Emergency Education Reconstruction Projects, the Education Development Project will
be designed and implemented in two parts, one for the Federation and one for RS. The respective
Federation and RS Ministries of Education will be the implementing agencies for the project,
although, in the Federation, Canton level Ministries of Education and their respective Pedagogical
Institutes will participate in project implementation and be major beneficiaries of the project. The
Federation and RS Education Project Implementation Units will be transformed into project
coordination units to reflect the shift from reconstruction to education and institutional
development objectives. These PCUs will be responsible for overall coordination, project
management, financial management arrangements, disbursements and organizing procurement.
Because the project will support common intermediary institutions and implementation
mechanisms between the Federation and RS, communication, coordination and cooperation
between the two project PCUs will be vital. Joint technical assistance contracting and joint
training exercises were undertaken successfully under the ongoing project, and such inter-Entity
cooperation is not expect to pose a problem for project implementation. For the LSMS, the PCUs
will jointly manage a cost-sharing agreement with UNDP. The two entity-level statistical
institutes and the state agency for statistics will participate in the project.
Institutional and implementation arrangements by components are as follows:
Quality Fund: The Federation Minister and Deputy Minister of Education, Science, Culture and
Sports and the RS Minister of Education have nominated a Quality Fund Board for which terms
of reference are included in the Project Operational Manual (POM). The Board will meet
quarterly to approve project proposals to be financed under the Fund. The Board is supported by
a single Fund Coordinator, to be shared between the Federation and RS, for which terms of
reference are also included in the POM. The Fund Coordinator is responsible for organizing and
coordinating all Fund activities including authorizing grant payments, guiding technical
assistance and publicizing the Fund. The Fund approach -- beginning with the small school
grants component -- is currently being piloted under Italian Trust Fund financing in the Mostar
canton (East and West) and the Banja Luka Municipality of RS. Limited technical assistance will
be contracted to assist in training required in the cantons and RS to take the Fund to scale
throughout BiH and to conduct semi-annual quality and procurement evaluations of Fund
performance and outcomes (see the POM for terms of reference). Limited funding will also be
made available to conduct spot financial audits of grant implementation at the same time that the
overall financial audit of the project is performed. The principal criterion for allocating funding
across the 10 cantons and RS will be the official number of primary students enrolled in each
canton and RS in the 1998-99 school year. The Government of Italy has agreed to provide about
$1.2 million in Bank-managed co-financing to this component which will be used to cover
technical assistance and training, and to make a contribution to the Quality Fund.
Standards and Assessment Agency: A Governing Board of the Standards and Assessment
Agency, for which terms of reference are available in the POM, will be nominated by the Prime
Ministers, including some international representation, the cost of which will be covered under
the project. Once established, the Board will recruit the senior management of the Agency and
senior management will recruit technical staff from throughout BiH (position descriptions for
management and staff are available in the POM). The Board will also approve a technical
assistance and training contracts, with assistance from the PCU, to support the operations of the
Agency in its first four years (see the POM for terms of reference). The European Commission
has agreed to provide parallel financing in the amount of about $400,000 over the first two years
of the project to cover technical assistance and training expenditures. A memorandum of
- 16 -



understanding will be prepared with the EC during negotiations. The Agency's Board will serve
as the procurement evaluation committee for any IDA-financed TA contract outside EC funding
in project years 3 and 4. The procurement of furniture and equipment will be coordinated by the
PCU Director and Procurement Officer in cooperation with Agency management. Recurrent
funding for the Agency will be budgeted as part of each Entity's annual operational budget on the
basis of two thirds funding from the Federation and one third from RS.
Education Management Information Systems: The Federation Minister and Deputy Minister
of Education, Science, Culture and Sports and the RS Minister of Education have nominated a
BiH-wide EMIS Committee for which terms of reference are included in the Project Operational
Manual (POM). The Committee will oversee the results of the two modules to be piloted in the
cantons and play a coordination and consensus building role in the design and implementation of
the roll out of EMIS modules throughout BiH. The Committee will receive training under the
pilots and be supported by technical assistance to help design and implement the roll out (see
terms of reference in the POM). In addition, the two PCUs will share a single EMIS Coordinator
who would play a substantive secretariat and liaison role for the Committee. If bilateral funding
cannot be identified to provide technical assistance, the Committee will serve as the procurement
evaluation committee for an IDA-financed TA contract. The procurement of servers, computers
and other office equipment to support the EMIS in the cantons and RS will be coordinated by the
Project Financial Manager and Procurement Officer in cooperation with the Committee.
Hligher Education Component: The Project will support the establishment of an intermediary
coordination capacity in a newly created Council of Higher Education, and its Technical
Secretariat. The Council would be responsible for recruiting local academics, on a full time but
temporary basis, to staff the Technical Secretariat and, on a part time basis, to staff a
representative working group for accreditation. The secretariat will be responsible for evaluating
proposals against agreed criteria to be financed under the Higher Education Fund and
recommending approval of proposals to the Council. The European Commission has agreed to
provide parallel financing in the amount of about $400,000 over the first two years of the project
to cover technical assistance and training expenditures. A memorandum of understanding will be
prepared with the EC during negotiations. The Council will serve as the procurement evaluation
committee for any IDA-financed TA contract outside EC funding in project years 3 and 4. Terms
of reference for the technical assistance and criteria for allocation of Fund proposals will be
agreed at negotiations and included in the POM.
The Higher Education Fund will be managed by the Technical Secretariat of the Council for
Higher Education. This Technical Unit will be supported for administrative matters only by
the Higher Education Fund Coordinator to be shared by the Federation and RS PCUs. Terms
of Reference for the Higher Education Fund Coordinator position are included in the POM.
The main duties of the Secretariat will be: (i) based on agreed objectives, to prepare the
Manual and Guidelines for the Institutional Strengthening Subprojects to guide the
development of proposals to be presented by individual universities; (ii) to organize the
evaluation and award process; (iii) to provide technical support for the preparation of the
subprojects; (iv) to carry out supervision and monitoring of the subprojects; (v) to consolidate
the individual progress reports periodically prepared by individual participating universities
to be presented to the Government and the Bank. The Fund Coordinator will be responsible
for: (i) carrying out the public dissemination campaign; (ii) preparing contracts with the
winning universities; (iii) reviewing procurement procedures being carried out by individual
universities to assure compliance with World Bank-guidelines; (iv) issuing periodic payments
on the basis of the contracts; (v) preparing semi-annual financial reports on the status of
disbursements and commitments for both Entities; and (vi) providing relevant financial
information to the annual financial auditors of the Project. Each winning university will
- 17-



implement its approved subproject following World Bank guidelines for procurement and
disbursement of funds.
Living Standards Measurement Survey: An inter-institutional committee, comprised of
members of the two entity-level statistical institutes and the State Agency for Statistics, will be
constituted and chaired by UNDP. This committee will form the base for technical and logistical
coordination among the three statistical organizations. The main tasks of this committee will be
to: (i) liase with a Data Users' Committee which is being formed as part of a larger efforts to
support household surveys and the use of data in policy making; (ii) based on agreed objectives,
develop the inputs required for the design of the survey, develop terms of reference for technical
assistance, approve all survey documents (questionnaires, manuals, field work methods) and
ensure the creation of the final, country-level data set and its broad dissemination, as well as
dissemination of analytic results. To facilitate the close coordination required for the successful
completion of the activities under this component, a cost-sharing agreement will be entered into
between the Government and UNDP, under which UNDP will provide US$500,000 in co-
financing and the Government will contribute $600,000 in IDA funding.
Project Operational Manual (POA)
A Project Operational Manual is being prepared, with assistance from the Bank, to facilitate the
project's management and implementation. The POM includes: (i) detailed project objectives and
description; (ii) complete terms of reference for technical assistance and implementation support;
(iii) financial management arrangements, (iv) summary of procedures for monitoring project
implementation; (v) guidelines for processing withdrawal applications under the Credit; (vi)
methods of procurement to be followed as per the Procurement Schedule in the Credit
Agreement; (vii) guidelines for the use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) and overall project
funds; (viii) procedures for using the Special Account, including those for replenishment; and (ix)
sample bidding documents and contracts for technical assistance and goods. Assurances will be
required at Negotiations that the POM will be completed and maintained in a form satisfactory to
IDA.
Mid-term Review
At the time of the estimated mid-point of the project, the Borrower (through the PCUs) will be
required to undertake a mid-term review of the implementation of the project. This review will
be undertaken in consultation with, and in a manner satisfactory to IDA. By April 30, 2002, the
PCUs will prepare and furnish to IDA a report which integrating the results of the monitoring and
evaluation activities.
Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
Once the project is completed, the PCU's of both Entities will prepare, in collaboration with IDA,
an Implementation Completion Report. The ICR should be completed not later than six months
after final disbursement of the Credit proceeds. The ICR will include an assessment of the
execution of the project, costs and benefits derived or to be derived, the performance of the
Borrower, IDA and other agencies involved in project implementation, and lessons learned. The
ICR will also include plans for the future operation of the facilities which had been financed
under the project, including proposed indicators to monitor and evaluate future operations.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
- 18 -



Project monitoring and evaluation will be carried out in five main areas: (a) procurement and
physical delivery of goods; (b) physical implementation of project activities; (c) impact on the
quality of teaching and learning; (d) financial management and control of project funds; and (e)
capacity building. The final set of objectively verifiable (quantitative) indicators will be agreed
on at Negotiations (see Annex 1).
Financial Management and Disbursement
Each entity will be responsible for its own financial management of the project (see annex 11
for detailed financial management arrangements). In accordance with OP/BP 10.02 and the
LACI requirement, a Bank accredited financial management specialist reviewed the proposed
financial management systems between November 1999 and January 2000, and found that
there are inadequate financial management systems in the PCUs and they do not satisfy the
Bank's minimum financial management requirements. The establishment of a financial
management system satisfactory to the Bank, as assessed by a certified financial management
specialist, will be a condition of effectiveness. An agreed action plan (see annex I 1) to
produce a system that meets the Bank's minimum financial management and LACI
requirements has been accepted by the existing PIU in RS and by the Ministry of Education
in the Federation, including:
*  Recruitment by PCUs of key financial officers by April 15, 2000
*  Selection and purchase of a computerized project accounting system by April 30, 2000
*  A computerized project accounting system which will include, inter alia, an accounting
and control module with the capacity to record and retrieve, in a timely manner, all
financial transactions under the project will be implemented by June 30, 2000. The
accounting system will comply with internationally accepted standards and will (i)
reliably record and report all assets, liabilities, and financial transactions of the project;
(ii) provide reliable financial information for managing and monitoring project activities,
and (iii) provide quarterly PMRs on a timely basis
' The PCU will prepare a financial manual by June 30, 2000, which will be reviewed and
approved by the Bank to ensure adequate procedures are in place. The Manual covers the
following aspects: (i) flow of funds; (ii) financial and accounting policies; (iii) accounting
system and internal control mechanisms; (iv) Chart of Accounts; (v) financial reporting
(including formats of financial management reports); (vi) auditing arrangements; (vii)
budgeting; and (viii) organization and staffing for financial management functions
*  Confirmation of the adequacy of project financial management arrangements by July 15,
2000
There are a few financial management risks: (i) inadequate internal controls mechanism in
PCUs; (ii) delays in preparation of project management reports; (iii) poor accounting
environment and few qualified accountants in BiH, (iv) misuse of the school grant sub-
component of the Quality Fund, and (v) high rate of perceived corruption. These risks are
considered as manageable due to the various risk-mitigation measures taken (see annex 11
for details to which they are being addressed by the project).
The project's financing plan, which includes a credit from the bank (75% of total funding)
and revenue from the government and other donors (25% of total funding) has been
realistically estimated and the project is financially sustainable.
The project financial statements would be prepared in accordance with the format provided
by the Bank. This would also include a separate opinion by the auditor on the operation of
Special Account (disbursements made against certified statement of expenditures or PMRs).
The project financial statements would be audited by an independent auditor acceptable to
the World Bank, and the audit report would be sent to the Bank within six months of the end
- 19 -



of the fiscal year. The Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations (MFTER) of BiH
has signed a 3-year contract (1998-2000, renewal yearly) with PriceWaterhouseCoopers
Netherlands in June 1999 for the audit of all Bank's financed non-revenue earning projects in
BiH. Based on the satisfactorily performance, the MFTER renewed the contract with the
same auditors in January 2000 for the 1999 audits. This arrangement would be acceptable to
the Bank. In accordance with the agreed action plan, the PCUs would need to submit a
written notification to the Bank from the MFTER of BiH, by March 31, 2000, that the
Education Development Project will be included in the global auditing contract. It is
expected that the cost of audit will be partly financed from the credit.
Disbursements from the IDA Credit would initially be made on the traditional system
(reimbursements with full documentation and against Statements of Expenditure - SOEs, and
direct payments) and would be converted to the new procedures (i.e., based on Project
Management Reports - PMRs) after the FMS is operating satisfactory. The target date for
this conversion is 1 year after expected project start date. Proceeds of the World Bank credit
would be allocated in accordance with Table C, Annex 6. To facilitate timely project
implementation, the Government will establish, maintain and operate, under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank, two separate Special Accounts denominated in US Dollars
for the Federation-PCU and the RS-PCU. Currently no local banks in the country could be
considered totally reliable and financially sound. It is, therefore, recommended that banks
outside BiH should be used. Retroactive financing will be included, not to exceed 700,000
SDR, for consultant services, operating costs and the LSMS study for expenditures made
after March 30, 2000.
When the financial management system is implemented, each entity will prepare quarterly
Project Management Reports (PMRs), which would be submitted to the Bank within 45 days
of the end of each quarter. These reports would be used for project management purposes for
tracking project progress, procurement and disbursement. The following areas would be
covered by the PMRs: (a) Financial Report - project sources and uses of funds, uses of funds
by project activity, project balance sheet, project cash withdrawals, Special Account
statement, project cash forecast; (b) Project Progress Report - output monitoring reports for
contract management and unit of output by project activity; and (c) Procurement
Management Report - procurement process monitoring for goods, works and consultants'
services, contract expenditure reports for goods and works and consultants' services. The
PMRs will be in a format discussed during negotiations and will follow examples given in
the Bank's LACI Implementation Handbook.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
No project (a cessation of IDA support to BiH's education sector): No other donor has the
institutional leverage, the funding, and the technical and operational expertise to promote
common intermediary institutions and implementation mechanisms across BiH, which are
essential to better management of the education sector and which will make an important
contribution to holding BiH together as a single country. Nor does any other institution or donor
have the capacity to address the need for improved sector management in a comprehensive and
systematic way across and within the two Entities of BiH. If an IDA-financed intervention
designed to meet these objectives is not forthcoming, educational institutions in BiH will continue
to focus on their differences and operate in parallel, and education decision/policy makers will
continue, for the foreseeable future, to lack information with which to define BiH's education
objectives and manage the 20% of public recurrent budget resources allocated to education.
Failure to improve access to information and decision making in education would be expected to
- 20 -



have a negative long-term impact on teaching and learning, as well as a negative impact on the
efficiency of public resource use. Furthermore, no other institution has the resources or
operational capacity to provide school-based resources, on a systematic basis throughout BiH,
aimed at quality enhancements and innovations in the system. In the absence of the project, the
majority of children in BiH will continue to be taught by under-skilled teachers who have no
outlet for enhancing their professional capacity. Failure to improve teaching and learning
methodology in primary schools would be expected to have a continuing and long term negative
impact on economic growth as the majority of graduates in BiH would continue to lack the broad-
based learning skills necessary to participate in an emerging market economy.
Smaller Project/LIL: A smaller project and a Learning and Innovation Loan were considered in
the interest of simplicity and focus within BiH's education sector. This approach was rejected on
the basis that it is important for the Bank to ensure a proper balance between addressing
qualitative improvements in education and increased efficiency of public resource use. It does
not make sense to invest only in qualitative improvements such as the professional development
of teachers without focusing attention and investment funding on improved education governance
and public resource management; and it likewise would not be advisable for the Bank to devote
its funding only to improving governance and public resource management for education while
ignoring serious problems with the quality of education being delivered in the schools.
Adaptable Program Loan: The institutional and political complexities of the post-conflict
environment and the education governance uncertainties that are largely driven by post-conflict
issues continue to impede detailed strategy development and consensus building on such a
strategy across government levels and constituent groupings throughout BiH. This uncertain and
continually evolving environment is not appropriate for an APL approach.
Larger Project: Additional Bank-funded investments for education may not be advisable at this
time because the public education bureaucracy in BiH does not have the capacity to manage a
larger and possibly more ambitious Bank program, as well as programs funded by other donors.
The uncertain political and governance situation for education in BiH also mitigates against a
larger, riskier Bank-funded operation.
Alternative sub-sector approaches: A discussion of sub-sector alternatives is included in
section B. 3.
Addition of the LSMS Component at Negotiations Stage: The LSMS component was added to
the project at negotiations because the Country Unit and the Government needed a vehicle under
which to carry out this important work with IDA funding. The component is highly relevant to
and compatible with two of the education project's goals: (1) promoting the development of
institutions and mechanisms for producing consistent and timely public information; and (2)
promoting inter-constituent groups cooperation on technical and professional issues. The
education sector is also expected to be one of the principal beneficiaries of LSMS data and related
analysis. The reliance on UNDP as an executing agency allowed the component to be added to
the project without adding undue complexity or impeding already appraised implementation
arrangements.
- 21 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing and planned).
Seto  Issiue                       ProjcR  Ratings
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Physical reconstruction of primary  Emergency Education             HS            S
schools; delivery of emergency     Reconstruction Project
education materials including      (completed)
textbooks; secondary education,
teacher training and textbooks studies
Physical reconstruction of primary  Emergency Education             S             S
schools; delivery of education     Reconstruction Project
materials including textbooks;
governance and finance study; pilot
curriculum and experimental schools
support and a school grant fund
Other development agencies
Physical reconstruction            Multiple bilaterals and
international organizations
Curriculum development             UNESCO
Experimental schools, teacher training  UNICEF, Govt. of Italy, WB
curriculum
Higher education reform study      Council of Europe
Governance and finance study       Council of Europe/WB
Secondary education reform         EU/PHARE
IPODO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
See Implementation Completion Report for the Emergency Education Reconstruction Project.
Rapid reconstruction has medium term cost in terms of delayed policy and institutional
reform. The ongoing focus on reconstruction and the unresolved uncertainty about government
roles created under Dayton is hampering the restoration of an efficient and sustainable education
system. It is also delaying key decisions about needed reforms in the structure, orientation,
management, and financing of secondary and higher education.
Better communication and coordination among donors and different levels of government is
essential within the Federation and between Entities. Mechanisms to strengthen communications
among all parties - particularly in the areas of shared educational standards, curriculum and
educational materials -- deserve priority attention. However, compromises on the part of donors
will be necessary in view of significant preferences on the part of beneficiaries (students,
teachers, parents, etc. to differentiate language throughout BiH).
Reconstruction in many areas cannot proceed effectively without progress in addressing key
policy issues in the sector. Moving ahead on reconstruction in secondary and higher education
will require policy decisions soon on the goals and content of these programs.
- 22 -



Finally, it will take time before parties to the conflict accept the role education must play in
promoting reconciliation. Although there are some promising initiatives in communication
within the Federation and between the Federation and RS, these are ad hoc ventures at the
moment. Continuing sensitivities on the language issue suggest that progress will be slow and
uneven.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Federation and RS Ministries of Education have endorsed the professional upgrading of
teachers and the provision of timely information on inputs, outputs and outcomes as two of their
highest priorities for external investment in the BiH education system, along with their continuing
focus on continued facilities upgrading and equipping. The political viability of cooperation and
coordination between the three constituent groups in education has been confirmed by agreement
to participate in shared BiH-wide institutions (the Standards and Assessment Agency and the
Council of Higher Education). Once these institutions are formally established, cooperation and
coordination during implementation will continually have to be reinforced and re-confirmed.
The acceptance by all three constituent groups of certain implementation arrangements under the
project has already demonstrated a certain level of commitment to shared institutions. A BiH-
wide Board has been nominated to oversee the design and implementation of the Quality Fund
and an EMIS Committee has been established to coordinate preparation of a common core
management information mechanism across BiH. Lastly, the willingness of the Federation and
RS PlUs to cooperate in joint contracting and management of funding under the Second
Emergency Education Reconstruction Project bodes well for continued cooperation for
implementation arrangement across the two Entities.
Both the Federation and RS Ministries of Education view the Bank as their principal source of
external financing and support for mobilizing additional external financing, as well as one of their
principal sources of technical support and policy advice. Implementation experience to date
under two previous projects in the past three years has demonstrated that the Government of BiH
is eager to use its partnership with the Bank to achieve its own development objectives in
education.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Continued Bank financing for the education sector in Bosnia will promote the following
objectives:
(1) the establishment of intermediary institutions and management mechanisms in education will
allow cooperation and coordination, which will lead to sustained nation building and more
efficient and equitable management of education throughout BiH;
(2) the creation of standardized and reliable information on system inputs, outputs and outcomes
will help, over time, transform the public debate in education from one focused only on politics to
one that focuses on system performance, student achievement and the efficient use of public
resources:
(3) the amount of IDA funding and the coordination required to access these funds will continue
to provide a significant incentive for communication and cooperation within the Federation and
between the Federation and RS;
- 23 -



(4) the Bank's strong partnership with the Federation and RS Ministries of Education, developed
in the context of our responsive reconstruction support, will allow us to move expeditiously and
address comprehensive issues in an environment of trust; and
(5) the Bank's support will continue to help mobilize and coordinate support for education from
other donors, including the $1.9 million in parallel and co-financing allocated to this project by
the EC and the Government of Italy.
(6) Financing for an LSMS will allow the government of BiH to meet new IMF/IDA
requirements to prepare a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper by providing the first reliable data on
household welfare across the entire country.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
D  Cost benefit       NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
F Cost effectiveness
3 Other (specify)
Calculating social and individual rates of return to education for Bosnia is not deemed necessary
forjustification of this project for several reasons: (1) comparable rate of return analysis exists
for other countries at Bosnia's stage of development and transition which demonstrate uniformly
high social rates of return, particularly to investments in primary education; (b) such an analysis
in Bosnia, at this time, would likely be exceedingly difficult and unreliable given data
constraints, labor market distortions, the current quality problems in education and high
unemployment; and (c) because the project is focused on improving primary education and on
inter-constituent-group cooperation, it is well-justified on equity grounds. In addition to the
long term contribution of investments in education to labor productivity, labor market flexibility
and increased income, the social rate of return to investing in primary education in Bosnia is
likely to be significant given the focus in primary education on developing broad societal values
and other externalities, including improved mother-child health.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Three specific financial issues will be addressed under the project.
(1) Block Grant Budgeting on a Per Student Basis: The Tuzla Canton will pilot per student
block grants for primary and secondary education using Italian cofinancing under the Second
Emergency Education Reconstruction Project. Depending on results and demand, this budgeting
mechanism may be extended to other cantons/RS under the BiH-wide EMIS roll-out.
(2) Standards and Assessment Agency: Establishing a State-level Standards and Assessment
Agency will require establishment of a State-level budget allocation to fund recurrent costs. The
project will finance the Agency's recurrent budget on a declining basis over four years beginning
with 80% coverage in project year one. SoSAC conditionality is likely to be the leverage used to
ensure creation of a State budget for the Agency.
(3) Higher Education Finance: Strengthening financial management in higher education by
consolidating responsibility for financial management of higher education programs from
individual faculties and institutions to the university level will be a key criterion for access to the
- 24 -



Higher Education Fund, as well as a potential indicator of compliance with conditions for higher
education under the SoSAC.
Fiscal Impact:
3. Technical:
N/A
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
Project implementation will be coordinated by Project Coordination Units located in the two
Entities. Some key functions, such as coordination of the two Funds, coordination of EMIS
implementation and the management of the cost-sharing agreement with UNDP, will be shared
between the PCUs.
4.2 Project management:
The two PCUs will work closely with BiH-wide institutions which will have direct responsibility
for managing project funding:
•  the Standards and Assessment Agency under the governance of its Board will be responsible
for implementing recurrent and investment financing for this institutional development
initiative.
*  the Council of Higher Education and its two sub-committees will be responsible for
allocating funding, against criteria to be agreed with IDA, under the Higher Education Fund.
A Higher Education Fund Coordinator will be shared between the two PCUs.
*  the EMIS Coordinating Committee (already created) will be responsible for overseeing EMIS
roll out with support from staff in each PCU.
*  the Quality Fund Board (already created) will be responsible for allocating funding, against
criteria to be agreed with IDA, under the Quality Fund. A Quality Fund Coordinator will be
shared between the two PCUs.
4.3 Procurement issues:
N/A
4.4 Finanicial management issues:
N/A
5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: C
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation
(including consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging
from this analysis.
- 25 -



No adverse environment effects are anticipated in this project that focuses on institutional
development.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b)
draft EA report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan?
Describe mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on1
the environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
This project is aimed at using quality enhancement and improved education management as
vehicles for promoting cooperation, communication and coordination between the Bosniac and
Croat communities of the Federation, and between the Bosniac/Croat communities and the Serb
community in RS. The success of the project is heavily dependent on increasing cooperation
between constituent groups in dealing with these issues, and there is a risk that increased
cooperation will not be forthcoming. However, the donor community has little choice but to
continue to provide such vehicles and incentives for developing inter-dependence and mutual
understanding in the region.
6.2 Participatoiy Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Key stakeholders were involved in the following ways:
*  teachers and school administrators are participating in the design of the Quality Fund pilot in
the Mostar canton and the Banja Luka region of RS. Teachers, students, parents, and school
administrators will participate in the implementation of the school grants to be financed from
the Quality Fund. Preparation of funding proposals and school outreach will be undertaken
by each respective canton/RS on the basis of implementation manuals and technical
assistance to be provided under the project.
*  the State and Entity-level statistical institute staff: the project will increase the professional
capacity of staff at all levels, improve or create technical skills and expand these institutes
ability of generate relevant data and, thus, respond to the data needs of policy-makers
throughout government.
- 26 -



* education administrators: two modules of the EMIS are being piloted in cantons with the
participation of school all canton schools prior to finalizing the design of a BiH-wide roll out
The use of a participatory approach with regard to the Standards and Assessment Agency and the
Council of Higher Education is not appropriate due to the intense political resistance to shared
education institutions among the constituent groups. Creation of these two institutions is, in fact,
intended to provide common ground for participatory communication and cooperation among the
constituent groups and particularly for professional educators.
Benefciaries
*  students: the focus of this project on constituent group cooperation, improved quality and
more equitable and efficient management of scarce education resources will ultimately
benefit all students in BiH, as well as society at large.
*  parents/teachers/school administrators/ministry staff/employers: nearly all segments of
society in BiH are expected to benefit from gaining access to information on the performance
of BiH's education systems in comparison to other areas of BiH and in comparison with
performance in other European countries.
*  primary school teachers and school directors: the project will provide professional
development opportunities for primary teachers and school directors through the Quality
Fund.
*  education administrators/community school boards: the EMIS will support management and
information systems skills development at all levels of the system, including school boards.
*  inclusive forces in BiH society: the project's focus on common institutions will benefit forces
in BiH who are working to improve mutual understanding, cooperation and coordination
across the constituent groups.
*  professional educators throughout BiH: the creation of shared institutions and mechanisms
will benefit the professional education community in BiH which will, for the first time since
the creation of the State of BiH, have some common ground on which to open a professional
dialogue across constituent groups.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
N/A
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
N/A
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
N/A
- 27 -



7. Safeguard Policies
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies ap&1y to the 2roject?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01. BP 4.01. GP 4.01)            [LI Yes       3No
D  Natural habitats (OP 4.04. BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   [1 Yes    ENo
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP4.36)                                     :1 Yes      3No
L  Pest Management (OP4.09)                                        2  Yes      3No
L  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  [l Yes    MNo
EI Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   L  Yes       3No
El Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             El Yes    3No
EI Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              El Yes    ZNo
EI Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50. GP 7.50)  [Li Yes    ZNo
aI Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60. GP 7.60)         El Yes    ONo
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard
policies.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The following factors will influence the sustainability of the proposed project:
(a) political stability and constituent group cooperation: related to the likelihood of the
constituent groups participating fully in intermediary institutions  and shared management
mechanisms
(b) macroeconomic growth: related to capacity to adequately fund public education; a growth
environment will also facilitate constituent group  cooperation and coordination
(c) government willingness to use information produced by the project to focus resource
allocation on efficiency and equity issues
(d) success in building capacity at all levels to monitor and evaluate sector performance
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
RN, k5t°t R,ii .          B      i'iBnB5x;   B
From Outputs to Objective
Government commits to developing           S         The need to begin to measure performance in
standards and assessment capacity in a               the education system, one of the principal
single institution to cover BiH as a                 messages of the Governance and Finance
whole                                                Study, has been made a centerpiece of the
project; conditionality will also be included in
the SoSAC on this issue. The support of
OHR, EU and European education donors will
make clear that development of this function is
a pre-requisite for eventual European
integration.
- 28 -



Risk                    Risk Rating          Risk Minimization Measure
The availability of information on           M          The availability of objective and consistent
system performance will reduce purely                  information on system performance will
political decision making, stimulate                    gradually serve as a balance to nationalistic
accountability and encourage                            goals and decision making. The lively free
information-based decision making                       press in BiH is likely to use information that
aimed at more efficient use of scarce                   will lead to increased accountability for results
public resources                                        among politicians and education
administrators. Development of the SoSACs
and the Budgetary Framework Paper initiative
will be key to focusing stakeholders on
information and system results.
Political authorities in BiH accept the      H          The focus of the project on shared
need for professional coordination of                   "intermediary" institutions is, itself, an
education activities in BiH to balance the              indicator of the importance to BiH of this type
decentralization of political control                   of cooperation. Acceptance of the project will
mandated by the Dayton Accords                          demonstrate acceptance of these goals on the
State level. OUR and other donors are
committed to supporting these initiatives, and
intensive Bank supervision will be needed to
overcome obstacles that political groups will
inevitably pose during implementation. The
demonstrated willingness of professional
educators and academics to work together
across constituent groups will provide
essential leverage during implementation.
Quality Fund: Adequate counterpart           S          Availability of government counterpart
funding in the short term and recurrent                 funding and recurrent funding to build on
budget in the long term is allocated to                 qualitative initiatives and to continue use of
continue and build on qualitative                      the Quality Fund mechanism depends on
improvements under the project                          economic growth and future revenue. The real
benefits of helping the current cohort of
students and teachers over the next four years
make this risk acceptable.
Government devotes recurrent funding         S          The project will finance local recurrent costs
and personnel to establish a professional               and technical support in the short term on a
Standards and Assessment Agency at the                  declining basis. State level commitment to
State level                                             funding the recurrent costs of the Agency will
be a condition of the SoSAC.
Political leaders in Federation and RS       H          The Standards and Assessment Agency will be
cooperate in establishing agency charged                an independent, highly professional institution.
with setting common professional                        The Agency is expected to provide BiH with a
standards                                               professional constituency in education to
balance highly political decision making.
Bank funding will permit the achievement of
highly professional assessment results that will
demonstrate the need for professional
cooperation.
- 29 -



Government devotes recurrent funding        M         The project will cover local recurrent costs and
and personnel to MIS at canton and                    technical support in the short term which
entity level to allow proper system                   should demonstrate the usefulness of a
functioning                                           information technology for which there is
strong local commitment in canton/RS
administrations; integration of recurrent MIS
funding will be monitored in the cantons and
RS.
Political leaders allow participatory       S         Developing the first MIS module in a mixed
development of modules across                         canton on a pilot basis will demonstrate the
constituent groups and sharing of                     willingness of the two main constituent groups
consistent input, output and outcome                  in the Federation to work together on this
information                                           initiative. OHR is committed to using its
power to remove non-cooperating officials to
encourage participation in this technical
initiative.
Political leaders allow creation of         S          Creation of Council of Higher Education is a
Council and support participatory                      condition for inclusion of the Higher
development of professional standards                  Education Component in the project. This
and procedures                                         component will be dropped at negotiations if
action is not taken on this institution.
Universities participate in professional    S          Universities will not have access to the Higher
dialogue in the context of the Council                 Education Component and its Fund unless they
support the Council and meet agreed criteria
for Fund proposals.
Eventual agreement on funding Council       M          The benefits to individual institutions and to
services such as accreditation through                 systemic reform should demonstrate over four
university or canton/RS budgets                        years the necessity of a coordinating
intermediary institution for higher education.
PCU staff in Federation provides            S          Selection of PCU staff acceptable to the Bank
technical implementation support and are               will be a condition of negotiations.
viewed as facilitators by each Federation
constituent group
Political authorities in BiH accept the     S         The LSMS component will be implemented
need for professional coordination of                 within the framework of a medium-term,
statistical and survey activity to provide             coordinated effort by donors to create a system
comparable data throughout the country                 of surveys and generate data. The LSMS will
be the second survey that will be done where
the statistical organizations work together;
experience should provide guidance on pitfalls
to avoid and serve as a demonstration effect of
the value of such coordination.
Availability of staff resources in each     M          Coordination with other donors who are
institute sufficient to allow for                      supporting survey activities will be ensured so
- 30 -



i ' Si g,t                       Z                                           .,.IL2 ., 
concurrent sample and questionnaire                   that surveys are done sequentially and do not
design, and back-to-back data collection              overlap.
and analysis
Political authorities in BiH accept the     S         The component will take advantage of the
need for disseminating data and analytic              demonstration effect of the first Labor Force
results freely and openly                             Survey. Coordinating with other donors
involved in supporting household surveys, the
component will pass a consistent message on
the importance of data access for ensuring a
high return on the investment in producing the
data and for ensuring the credibility of the data
and the analysis put forward by the
government.
From Components to Outputs
Government commits adequate and             S         Commitment to recurrent budget allocations
timely counterpart funds                              should be made a centerpiece of the Bank's
program. High level support on this issue on a
cross sector basis will be needed from the
Country Unit and Resident Mission.
Government procures technical               M         Commitment will be re-confirmed at appraisal
assistance to implement components as                 to the need for significant external technical
designed                                              support. Local technical assistance will be
given priority where possible, although local
assistance is often hindered by perceived
political baggage which poses a particular
problem for a project focused on cooperation.
To the extent possible, the Bank team will
attempt to interest the EC and bilateral donors
in providing cofinancing for the technical
assistance packages.
Bank provides adequate supervision          N         The Country Unit is committed to funding
adequate supervision; the sector unit will rely
on resident mission and Budapest HD Hub
staff to increase the frequency and flexibility
of supervision.
Overall Risk Rating                         S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Standards and Assessment Agency: the creation of a shared institution with responsibility in
education could be construed as incompatible with the Dayton Accords. Although this may be
used as a politically-motivated argument, it is unfounded due to the fact that the Agency would
carry out a function (standardized assessments) which is currently not carried out at any level in
- 31 -



BiH, and the Agency would have no line authority over any of the 12 Ministries of Education in
BiH in which the Dayton Accords vest authority for control of education. OHR's Legal
Department, which has authority for interpreting Dayton, has produced a memorandum
confirming that the establishment of such an institution is permissible under Dayton.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
(a) A Project Agreement has been executed on behalf of IDA and an Entity on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA.
(b) For the Entity referred to in paragraph (a) above:
i. an Operational Manual has been completed satisfactory to the Association;
ii. a Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and
the said Entity on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA;
iii. a project financial management system satisfactory to IDA has been established.
(c) The project auditors have been employed.
(d) The Standards and Assessment Agency has been established in a manner acceptable to IDA.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Prior to Negotiations, the Federation and Republika Srpska undertook the following actions:
(a) appointment of Project Coordination Unit Directors satisfactory to IDA.
(b) Both Entities signed an agreement, acceptable to IDA, to establish an institution responsible
for standardized student assessment throughout BiH under terms of reference acceptable to IDA.
The Credit includes the following Conditions of Disbursement:
(a) For the Quality Fund and Higher Education Fund, unless grants have been made in accordance
with the criteria and procedure set forth in the Operational Manuals
(b) For recurrent costs for the Standards and Assessment Agency, until the financial management
capacity of the Agency has been certified by the Association
(c) For the Higher Education Fund, until a coordinating body in higher education has been
established in a manner satisfactory to the Association
(d) under the Schedule I Categories Part A or Part B unless: (i) a Project Agreement between the
Association and the Entity responsible for implementing Part A or Part B of the Project, as the
case may be, has been executed; (ii) a Subsidiary Financing Agreement between the Borrower
and such Entity has been executed with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; (iii)
the respective Operational Manual has been adopted satisfactory to the Association; (iv) the
financial management system, in a format acceptable to the Association, has been established; (v)
the auditors have been employed; and (vi) an opinion has been furnished to the Association
stating that such Project Agreement and Subsidiary Financing Agreement have been duly
- 32 -



authorized or ratified by the parties thereto and is legally binding upon them in accordance with
its terms.
The Credit includes one dated covenant as follows: The Federation and RS shall carry out, by
December 31, 2001, a Living Standards Measurement Survey on the basis of terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association to enable the preparation of a comprehensive poverty reduction
strategy study
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
1 ]. b) Not applicable.
S 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Assessment of Financial Management Capacity for the Federation and RS PCUs and the
Standards and Assessment Agency
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
D 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Z 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
The Region recommends that compliance with certain financial manag m  t policies be made
conditions of effectiveness and disbursement (see Loan Conditions)
Ja7 esA. Stevens              James A. Socknat                   Chri
Team  Leader                  Sector Manager/Director            Country Manager/Director
- 33 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Education Development Project
K   Performance            WMoitoing&
Hierarchy of Objectives         indicaos                Elt                 Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:      Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank
Mission)
Improve public sector    Functioning intermediary   Published information on   Office of the High
management in terms of    institutions (Standards and  sector inputs, outputs and   Representative, Bank and
increased cooperation and   Assessment Agency,    outcomes (system         other donors continue to
coordination among the   Council of Higher        performance information   provide incentives to
constituent groups, as well  Education, Quality fund    and assessments) available  increase cooperation and
as in terms of increased  Board, EMIS Coordinating                         coordination across
transparency, efficiency  Committee)              In higher education,     constituent groups In BiH;
and equity.                                       standards/procedures for   for the bank the Social
Development of a core    accreditation available  Sectors Adjustment Credit
Education Management                              will be another important
Information System for    Published LSMS data.    element in this regard
BiH
Common institutional
standards and institutional
procedures developed for
higher education
Evidence of a public
debate over education
based on education
indicators, financial
information and
performance assessments
currently not available
LSMS data produced,
analyzed and disseminated
Invest in sustainable, long  In general education, more  System performance and    Macroeconomic situation
term economic growth     teachers using child-    student assessment       permits adequate recurrent
centered methodology that information available for   spending to improve
emphasizes learning skills  general education     education quality at all
and flexible approaches to                        levels
problem solving          Accreditation standards
and procedures available
In higher education, re-    for higher education
allocation of resources on a
strategic basis to promote
institutional/system goals
- 34 -



Key Performance            Monitoring &
Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicators              Evaluation          Critical Assumptions
Leverage the support and   Project cofinancing    1999 Donor Paper         Donors continue their
coordination of other    (particularly for TA) is                          commitment to
donors                   made available and project                        development and
goals and approach are                           reconciliation in Bosnia
deemed complementary
and consistent with
investments of other
donors
Project Development      Outcome I Impact         Project reports:         (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:               Indicators:
Mobilize the professional   More active participation   School by school reports of Risk of this component is
capacity of teachers to  of students in the learning  students performance in   small, although the
improve the teaching and    processes and, as a result,  improvement projects and  capacity of government to
learning processes in   improved scores in internal in external assessments  measure achievement is in
schools, and, as a result,   and external school  published and showing    question. The assumption
improve the quality of   assessments (math literacy  improvements          that underlies this
education being offered to  scores beginning                               component is that children
primary school children in  2001/2002 school year)                         learn more when they are
BiH                                                                        active participants in the
learning process
About 4000 teachers in
Better motivated teachers  600 schools have received  The risk is that school
spending more time and    recognition for good    boards do not follow
more energy in their     performance and have     criteria for selecting
teaching jobs            been awarded            teachers who have had
opportunities for further    excellent performance.
training                 Political and need-based
criteria can interfere in
selection process. The risk
will be minimized with
adequate manuals and
supervision of the 400
schools that will be
25 institutions offering  involved.
In-service and pre-service  training coursed for
training institutions that   teachers improve the  Government commits to
improve their capacity to   capacity to deliver relevant developing standards and
offer relevant courses and   courses, to analyze their   assessment capacity at
become more efficient and  own internal efficiency and State level to cover BiH as
effective in delivering  to lower per/student costs   a whole
training                 by project year four
Promote the efficient and   Information produced  Published information on   The availability of
effective use of scarce  under the project used to   sector inputs, outputs and   information on system
public resources for     allocate education       outcomes available by    performance will reduce
education in BiH by      recurrent, capital and   project year two, as well as purely political decision
providing public policy  external investment      LSMS data                making, stimulate
makers and decision      resources towards                                 accountability and
makers with management   addressing key                                    encourage information-
-35 -



tools and information    performance and equity                             based decision making
necessary to measure     problems (beginning 2002                           aimed at more efficient use
inputs, outputs and      budget year)                                       of scarce public resources;
outcomes in the education                                                   the SoSAC and the
system                   Indicators of system                               Budgetary Framework
quality, efficiency and                            Paper initiative will be key
equity monitored, debated,                         elements in this regard
compared and publicized
LSMS survey data and
analysis available
Efficiency gains in higher
education re-allocated to
improving the quality of
programs in at least one
university (project year
three)
Promote cooperation and    The three main constituent Standards and Assessment  Political authorities in BiH
coordination across the  groups cooperating at a   Agency publishing BiH-    accept the need for
three main constituent   professional level in the    wide assessment results by  professional coordination
groups in an effort to   area of standards setting,   project year two      of education activities in
reduce inefficient resource  student assessment and                         BiH to balance the
use and build a professional system evaluation by end   Publishing of EMIS data in decentralization of political
basis for stakeholder    of project                project year three       control mandated by the
dialogue in education                                                       Dayton Accords
throughout BiH           Consistent and reliable   External evaluation team
data on education inputs,   annual reports on      Office of the High
outputs and outcomes     functioning of Quality    Representative continues
shared throughout BiH by  Fund Board              to focus attention on need
end of project                                     for cooperation and
Council of Higher        coordination in education
Mutual recognition of    Education publishes
higher education programs  procedures and standards
throughout BiH and       by end of project
common procedures for
accreditation by end of  LSMS results published
project
Statistical Institutes have
cooperated to undertake
surveys and analyze and
disseminate data
- 36 -



Key Performance            Monitoring &
Hierarchy of Objectives        lndiicators              Evaluation         -Critical Assumptions
Output from each         Output Indicators:       Project reports:         (from Outputs to
component:                                                                 Objective)
QUALITY FUND
More active participation    600 schools are awarded    PCU summary of the  School teachers will
of students in the learning   grants and implement  reports produced by 600    prepare and implement
processes and as a result   education improvement    schools.              projects that help to
improved scores in internal projects by end of project                     improve the learning
and extemal school                                Report of external       process. Detailed manuals
assessments                                       evaluation team on grant   will be provided to help
program                  teachers design good
projects. An evaluation
board will follow criteria
agreed with the Bank for
the selection of the best
2000 teachers in 600                              proposals
Better motivated teachers   schools are identified as
spending more time and   having had excellent     Report of external       School Boards will agree
more energy in their     performance and are given  evaluation team showing   on criteria for selection of
teaching jobs            opportunity for further  impact of the program on   teachers who deserve
training. Additionally 2000 teachers' motivation  recognition. A manual with
teachers who need to                              examples and criteria for
complete the courses for                          teacher evaluation will be
certification receive                             provided to the school
scholarships to attend                            boards
training by end of project
In-service and pre-service   25 training institutions  PCU report summarizing
training institutions that    prepare and implement    reports of the 25   Training Institutions
improve their capacity to   improvement plans by end  institutions.        prepare proposals to
offer relevant courses and   of project                                    improve the quality of
become more efficient and                         Report of external       course offerings and their
effective in delivering                           evaluation team on       efficiency and
training                                          institutional support    effectiveness. Technical
assistance will be required
to help institutions develop
adequate proposals.
STANDARDS AND
ASSESSMENT AGENCY
A Standards and          Performance standards for  Published performance  Government devotes
Assessment Agency is     math and literacy debated   standards and assessment  recurrent funding and
established and capacity to  and agreed, and results of  results for math and  personnel to establish a
define performance       student achievement in    literacy throughout BiH    professional, modern
standards and assess     these two areas throughout                        agency at the State level
student performance is   BiH monitored and
developed                publicized by project year
four.
- 37 -



Hurhk of Gb bect.vl;       InIa= r             tEvasto                 Crtt       u   twon
State-level budget is
approved
Political leaders in
Federation and RS
cooperate in establishing
agency charged with
setting common
professional standards
EDUCATION
MANAGEMENT
INFORMATION SYSTEM
Core modules of an      Per student spending for   Published information on   Government devotes
Education Management    educational inputs (teacher sector inputs, outputs and   recurrent funding and
Information System      skills, materials, textbooks, outcomes is available  personnel to MIS at canton
established throughout  equipment, etc.) monitored  throughout BiH        and entity level to allow
BiH and capacity of users  and publicized and --                          proper system functioning
developed               budgetary situation
permitting -- increased                          Counterpart funds are
during life of project                           made available
Geographic, poverty and                          Political leaders allow
performance distribution of                      participatory development
public resources for                             of modules across
education monitored and                          constituent groups and
publicized during life of                        sharing of consistent input,
project                                          output and outcome
information
HIGHER EDUCATION
COMPONENT
A Council of Higher     Accreditation procedures   Council of Higher      Political leaders allow
Education is established    agreed for BiH by end of   Education publishes  creation of Council and
including a Technical   project                  accreditation procedures   support participatory
Secretariat. BiH-level                           and recognition standards   development of
dialogue and coordination   Mutual recognition of                         professional standards and
of higher education     programs between higher   Strategic plans debated and procedures
accreditation and strategic  education institutions  published
planning is ongoing     throughout BiH by end of                          Universities participate in
project                                          professional dialogue in
the context of the Council
Management, including
financial management,                            Eventual agreement on
formally consolidated in                         funding the Council's
one or more universities                         services such as
and management capacity                          accreditation through
developed by end of                              university or canton/RS
project                                          budgets
- 38 -



f         ~DKey Perfornance                             ;Monitoring &
Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicators              Evaluation          Critical Assumptions
The Higher Education
Fund has supported one or
more universities to
prepare Strategic plans by
project year two
LSMS COMPONENT
A Living Standards       Household level data is    LSMS data and analysis    Political authorities in BiH
Measurement Survey is    collected on levels and  published (December      accept the need for
undertaken and results   determinants of poverty,   2001)                  professional coordination
analyzed and disseminated. access to and use of social                     of statistical and survey
services and infrastructure,                      activity to provide
and the incidence of public                       comparable data
spending; staff in both                          throughout the country
entity statistical institutes
trained in modern survey                          Availability of staff
techniques;                                       resources in each institute
creation of a data                                sufficient to allow for
dissemination function                            concurrent sample and
within the State Agency                           questionnaire design, and
for Statistics, as well as the                    back-to-back data
Entity statistical institutes.;                   collection and analysis
analysis of poverty and
dissemination of analysis                         Political authorities in BiH
accept the need for
disseminating data and
analytic results freely and
openly
PROJECT                  PCU fully staffed        Bi-annual Project Progress  Counterpart funds are
MANAGEMENT               (condition of negotiations)  Reports (including   made available
procurement progress and
Project implemented in a   Project goods, works, and  financial statement)  PCU staff in Federation
timely and effective     services procured without                         provides technical
manner with stakeholder    delays in accordance with   Mid-term evaluation (end  implementation support
satisfaction             World Bank guidelines    project year two)        and are viewed as
facilitators by each
Project expenditures paid  Implementation         Federation constituent
promptly with satisfactory  Completion Report (2004  group
accounting and timely
annual audits
Key performance
indicators monitored and
included in regular
progress reporting to BiH
and World Bank (bi-
annual)
- 39 -



Project Components I     Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:        (from Components to
Sub-components:          component)                                        Outputs)
QUALITY FUND             US$3.7 million            Project semi-annual      Government procures
progress and financial   technical assistance to
* Technical assistance    Component              reports                  implement components as
procured, manuals for  implementation support                          designed
school project       ($0.2 million)           Project Status Reports
preparation finalized                                                  Bank provides adequate
and distributed, and    Small Grants for Schools   Supervision Aide-memoire supervision
evaluation board     ($2.0 million)
constituted and                               Project Completion Report
meeting regularly
* Board approves                                 External evaluation
proposals based on                            reporting for Quality Fund
agreed criteria                               component
* School Boards select
teachers who have    About 2000 Training      Published LSMS survey
done an excellent job   Grants and 2000       data and analysis
and approve grants and Scholarships for Teachers
scholarships for     ($0.4 million)
training.
* Teachers take training
courses
* Training Institutions
prepare proposals and  Implementation of
submit them for      improvement projects by
approval             teacher training institutions
* About 25 training     ($0.6 million)
institutions get funding Technical assistance
and implement their   required for design of
proposals            grants and implementation
supervision ($0.5 million)
STANDARDS AND            US$3.7 million
ASSESSMENT AGENCY
* Appointment of Board  Over four years:
* Selection of          Salaries/fees (including
management and staff  Board) ($ 1.4 million)
* Establishing offices    Technical Asst. ($0.6
million)
* Funding the
assessment work of the  Other recurrent costs ($1.5
Agency               million)
Capital costs ($0.2 million)
-40 -



Key Performance           Monitoring &
Hierarchy of Objectives        Indicators               Evaluation         Critical Assumptions
EDUCATION                US$ 2.1 million
MANAGEMENT
INFORMATION
SYSTEM
Component
* Capacity developed to  implementation support
implement system      ($0.1 million)
modules
Software and module
* Equipment delivered    development ($0.6 million)
* Managers/school        Training ($1.0 million)
directors trained
Equipment ($0.4 million)
HIGHER EDUCATION         US$ 3.5 million
COMPONENT
* Appointment of Council Sub-component:
and sub-committee staff Institutional Building
($0.5 million)
* Higher Education Fund
Strategic Planning and
* Council approves       Financial Management
proposals based on    (US$2.5 million)
agreed criteria
Standards and
Accreditation ($0.5
million)
LSMS COMPONENT           US$0.6 million
*  Surveys undertaken    Over two years:
*  Capacity developed to   UNDP contract for US$0.6
carry out surveys and    million. This CSA will
process and analyze   include $0.54 million for
data                  Technical Assistance and
$0.06 million
*  Data disseminated     for Equipment.
PROJECT                  US$1.0 million
MANAGEMENT
Over four years:
* PCU staff selected
Salaries/fees ($0.7 million)
* Procurement undertaken
Other recurrent costs ($0.2
* Disbursements made    million)
-41 -



Hierarch  of4!. Gb                          t: Key. Pefrac  M.onitorin  1      A:YP   tsu ions
against contracts
Capital costs ($0.1 million)
* Financial accounts
prepared
* Progress reporting
undertaken
-42 -



Annex 2: Project Description
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Education Development Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$3.70 million
Quality Fund
Strategic Context
I .   The goal of this component is to mobilize the professional capacity of teachers to
improve the teaching and learning processes in schools, and as a result improve the quality of
education being offered to primary school children in BiH. The component has three specific
objectives: (a) to support improvements in teaching and learning methods used in schools, (b)
to enhance the motivation of teachers and encourage them to engage in in-service training
activities, and (c) to strengthen teacher training institutions, improve the quality of course
offerings and improve their efficiency.
2.   The Quality Fund will support three sub-components:
A.   School Grants (ranging between US$2,000 and US$ 1 0,000) awarded in a competitive
basis to finance educational improvement projects (EIPs) which will be designed by teachers
in participating primary schools and aimed at improving their teaching practices;
B.   Teacher training grants and merit-based training scholarships to reward primary school
teachers who are doing an exemplary job and to allow primary school teachers to engage in
self-selected in-service training activities. Six hundred school boards in the schools that are
implementing school projects will select the teachers who will receive training grants and
scholarships payable directly to service providers. Each school will select between 2 and 5
teachers, following criteria specified in the project manuals. The estimated cost of a grant is
between US$150 and US$250 (no cash payments will be made to teachers);
C.   Grants of about US$ 20,000 to support the strengthening of 25 teacher training
institutions that offer pre-service and in-service training for teachers. Awards to teacher
training institutions will be selected among proposals presented by university faculties,
pedagogical academies, NGOs and pedagogical institutes. They will favor institutions that are
sustainable and will remain training teachers after the project ends. They will also give
priority to institutions with proposals to "specialize" in one subject area. Currently most
teacher training institutions train teachers in a large number of subjects, but lack the capacity
required in all the fields they try to cover. The grants will be awarded to institutions that show
they can improve their efficiency, by increasing class size, by forming partnerships with
specialized institutions and by attracting better trainers.
3.   The school grants, the teacher training scholarships, and the grants for teacher training
institutions will be selected on the basis of pre-established criteria prepared for this project
and widely disseminated in BiH to ensure transparency and objectivity in the selection
process. The awards will be made on the basis of a cantonal/regional competition, and the
Quality Fund Evaluation Board, as described below will make the selection.
4.   The Quality Fund will finance: (a) approximately 600 school grants, (b) training grants
and scholarships for 2,000 teachers and scholarships for 2,000 in-service training courses; (c)
- 43 -



about 25 grants of about US$20,000 each, for teacher training institutions to finance course
planning activities, the national and international assistance required for new program
development, staff training and equipment, and (d) administration of the Quality Fund and
project evaluation.
5.   The outcome indicators for the Quality Fund are: (1) more active participation of
students in the learning processes and as a result improved scores in internal and external
school assessments, (2) better motivated teachers spending more time and more energy in
their teaching jobs, and (3) in-service and pre-service training institutions that improve their
capacity to offer relevant courses and become more efficient and effective in delivering
training.
Sub-Component 1.
6.   The First Component is the School Grants that support Educational Improvement
Projects (EIP). These are short-term projects (one to two years) funded by the Quality Fund on
a competitive basis. EIPs are designed by teams of teachers in a primary school following
pre-established procedures, which will be detailed in an EIP preparation manual (developed
with Italian Grant Fund financing). Teachers preparing EIPs will be asked to: (a) diagnose
the learning difficulties of children, (b) select a problem to be resolved with the proposed
grant on a priority basis, (c) identify the objectives and design activities to resolve the selected
problem to be implemented over one or two years, and (d) prepare a budget and propose
evaluation mechanisms.
7.   The EIPs and School Grant requests will be evaluated by the Quality Fund Evaluation
Board following guidelines agreed with the Bank during preparation. Small teams of local
experts will be hired in each canton/RS (2-4 per area depending on geographic size) to assist
the Fund Evaluation Board by reviewing, classifying and pre-selecting project proposals to be
presented for approval to the Board, as well as making recommendations directly to those
schools that need to improve or modify their proposals in order to meet acceptance standards.
The criteria and the guidelines for project evaluation have been designed in such a way that
they encourage teachers to enhance learning achievement, increase the motivation of children
and promote the use of more relevant and more engaging classroom activities. Additionally,
they will reward teamwork among teachers and facilitate the active participation of parents in
school activities.
8.   The criteria include factors that direct teacher's energies towards socially relevant goals.
For example, the School Grants can be used to promote the teaching of environmental
awareness; the integration of children with different national backgrounds and the cooperation
of teachers in schools that are located close-by. Examples of School Grants to support EIPs
that could be financed by the Quality Fund include: mathematics Olympiads at the village
level aiming at enhanced student motivation, team work among teachers and improved
learning of mathematics. Another example of an EIP is the preparation by teachers of
teaching aides for a particular subject and the use of these materials in a group of schools that
are close by so that teachers can jointly prepare the classes and validate the materials with
their students.
9.   Increased teacher motivation and the use of more reflective teaching practices are
additional gains in the implementation of these types of EIPs. In the area of language, EIPs
can support theater activities, radio programs, and puppets to improve communication and
writing abilities of the children. Successful projects can be expected to improve relations
-44 -



among teachers and supervisors, engage the pedagogical advisors in the work of the teachers,
use a team approach to diagnose problems and design solutions, enable teachers to manage the
improvements in the learning processes and not merely follow bureaucratic orders.
10.  As a result of the implementation of the ElPs, BiH teachers will be expected to use
innovative ways to design curriculum activities and instructional practices, better prepared
teaching aides, and better communication with the local experts engaged in helping schools in
their areas to win the grants. Additionally, parents can be expected to be more involved and
proud of the schools that obtained grants through competitions.
11.  Dissemination of the manuals and guidelines for project preparation and evaluation is
key to the success of the ElPs. The PCU Quality Fund Coordinator will widely advertise the
Quality Fund through ads in major newspapers, posters, radio announcements and colorful
leaflets. Accounting and auditing procedures have also been carefully devised. Each school
grant will be disbursed according to the approved budget. Accounts will be monitored by the
teams of experts. Additionally, during the course of implementation, a local evaluation team
will be hired by the PCUs to carry out a technical audit of the School Grants twice a year, and
to make recommendations for improved implementation practices.
Sub-Component 2.
12.  The Second Component includes 2000 Training Grants for Teachers who have actively
participated in the design of the school projects and 2000 Scholarships for teachers who need
to complete certification requirements by completing in-service programs. The School Boards
will identify the candidates for the Grants and the Scholarships. School Board members are
normally the school principal, two teachers and two parents. These Boards are currently
responsible for selection of teachers, for allocation of school budgets and for assisting the
principal in resolving school problems. Additionally, the Boards receive the teacher
evaluation forms prepared every two years by cantonal/regional school advisors responsible
for teacher's evaluations.
13.  The Boards will be asked to use guidelines and criteria provided by the project to select
between 2 and 5 teachers who deserve recognition for their work, and 2 to 5 teachers who
require additional training to meet certification requirements. A local team of
consultants/advisors hired by the respective PCUs will provide technical assistance and will
review the process of selection of grant recipients and the selection of scholarship recipients.
Terms of reference for this assignment are included in the POM.
14.  Teachers receiving grants and scholarships will select the place and the course that they
would like to take and present it to the school board for approval. Individual teachers will be
able to seek training at a variety of locations: higher education institutions, or one of its
faculties; private providers of language courses, computer training, or other reputable private
providers; pedagogical institutes and NGO run courses which meet eligibility criteria
described in the POM. Payment for the course will be authorized by the local school board
and reimbursed by the PCUs, in cooperation with the PCU Quality Fund Coordinator.
15.  Teachers who receive grants and scholarships will prepare a brief report of the course
taken to the school board and the school boards will summarize the experiences and
impressions received from the trainees and present a report to the Pedagogical Institutes and
other appropriate education authorities with recommendations on possible improvements to
the teacher training system, on the basis of the experiences of the trainees.
-45 -



16.  The cost of the courses to be financed is estimated to range between US$150 and
US$250. Teachers will pay for their own transportation to and from the course and lodging
arrangements.
17.  A by-product of this component is the positive effect of the demand-driven process
generated by allowing teachers to select the courses they want to attend. Teacher training
institutions will be encouraged and required to advertise their courses widely and will receive
funding through scholarship recipients if they can provide the courses that teacher's demand
and school boards consider appropriate. Teachers will be able to attend courses in any
institution in the country and they will be encouraged to attend courses that meet their needs
even if they are not offered close to their homes. In this regard, a second by-product of this
component is that teachers will be encouraged to travel, see other schools and meet with peers
in other regions of the country. Socially, this is considered a very desirable goal.
Sub-Component 3.
18.  The third component is the Grants to Support Strengthening Teacher Training
Institutions. Guidelines and formats to be used by training institutions to present proposals for
funding will be prepared by the PCU Fund Coordinator with intemational assistance,
approved by the Bank and discussed in a seminar with institutions that train teachers,
including university faculties and NGOs. Terms of reference for recruiting international
technical assistance to prepare the guidelines for these grants are included in the POM. In
particular, the technical assistance advisors will have to focus on developing criteria in such a
way as to encourage the institutions to specialize in one subject area so that not all training
institutions are offering courses in all subject areas. They will also be encouraged to form
partnerships with other institutions in BiH with expertise in the subject area selected. For
example, institutions offering computer courses should make partnerships with institutions
that have computer expertise. Institutions will be encouraged to be more efficient, offering
the same course to as many students as possible, recruited from candidates that come form
different areas of the country.
19.  In the initial selection of proposals, priority will be given to institutions that specialize
in training subjects and skills currently in short supply: active methods of teaching and
learning n primary schools, English and other languages, computer skills and pre-school
teachers. Priority will also be given to institutions that specialize in training teachers in
preparation and implementation of education improvement projects, in student evaluation and
in program evaluation. One or two institutions will be encouraged to train teaches in new
methods of teaching integrated science in the higher primary school grades.
20.  Proposals presented by the training institutions will be evaluated by the Quality Fund
Evaluation Board following criteria and guidelines prepared with international assistance (see
TOR in POM) and approved by the Bank.
21.  To enhance the efficiency of training institutions, each institution presenting a proposal
will be asked to analyze its internal efficiency with the following indicators: student/teacher
ratios, cost of training per student, cost of graduates, numbers of staff members qualified to
teach the subject they teach, post-graduate degrees of the staff and other relevant
qualifications. Each institution will then sign a contract with the respective PCU indicating
how the grant will be used and the results expected once the grant is implemented.
-46 -



22.  The Grants for Institutions are expected to be about US$25,000. Funding will not
include construction or large equipment costs. It will finance course development, staff
development and contracts with specialized institutions with which the partnerships will be
established.
OBJECTIVES:             ACT/ WVTIES:           PERFORMANCE     TARGET DATES:
.INDICATORS:
1.1 School Grants to    1.1.1 Prepare and      Manual for           January 2000:
help develop and        validate the manual to    preparation of ElPs    Manual Validated (with
implement new teaching   be used by schools for    validated and ready    funds from Italian grant).
and learning strategies   the preparation of   for dissemination.
in schools.             Education Improvement
Projects (ElPs) that will
compete for financing
from the QF.
1.1.2. Prepare and    Evaluation           January 2000:
validate the Guidelines   Guidelines prepared   Guidelines validation
to be used by the      and validated.      with funds from Italian
Evaluation Board for                       Grant completed.
selection of ElPs that
deserve financing and
Preparation of
guidelines for
dissemination of the
QF.
1.1.3. Disseminate the   Manuals for       April 30, 2000:
manuals and the        preparation of EIPs    Schools in 2 pilot areas
evaluation guidelines    and evaluation    receive the manual and
and assist teachers in  guidelines provided    guidelines for testing.
the preparation of the    to all schools.  (Herzeg-Neretva Canton
quality improvement                        and Banja Luka) funded
projects.                                  by Italian Grant.
May 2000:
Advertisement, call for
bids with Italian Grant
financing in Pilot Canton
and Banja Luka region of
RS.
June 2000:
Schools in 5 cantons and
5 regions get manuals and
guidelines
November 2000:
all schools in BiH receive
the manuals and
guidelines.
I. 1.4. Local Team of    Local Teams of    June-July 2000: Local
Consultants is hired to    Consultants have  Team of Consultants in
select the EIPs in their   reviewed the EIPs    the pilot areas initiates the
canton/region to be sent  following the    review of ElPs.
to the Evaluation      evaluation
- 47 -



jOBJETIES                 ACTIViTIES|B8000!:  " iiE§LWORMAN            TARGET DATES:    0t
Board, and return to   guidelines.
schools those that     By the end of the
require further        project 1,200
development.           schools in BiH have
prepared EIP and
have participated in
the contest for
school grants. the
country
1.1 .5 An evaluation   The Evaluation       August 2000: First grants
board will evaluate the    Board is appointed,    awarded.
Education Improvement  meets regularly to   October 2000: Second
Projects (ElPs) and will  evaluate the      round of grants awarded.
select the projects that    proposals and selects  February 2001: Third
meet the criteria and  the projects that will  round of grants awarded.
will get funding.      get funding from the
fund.
1 .1 .6. PCU provides  More or less 600     Continuous activities.
resources to schools   schools receive      Local Team of
that were selected,    grants and           consultants present
monitor their activities   implement their  reports every two months
and provide assistance    Education         to PCU and Cantonal
to schools not selected    Improvement      Ministries.
so they may improve    Projects. The size of
their proposal.        the grant depends on
the size of the school
and ranges between
US$2,000 and
US$10,000.
1.1.7. PCU hires       Evaluation reports   TORs ready in March
external agency to     given to PCU as      2000 and annual reports
evaluate the           well as to cantonal    of evaluation results
component.             and regional         presented annually in
authorities once a   August of each year to
year.                PCU and to all
institutions involved.
1.2 Incentives for       1.2.1 Prepare Manuals    Training Grants and   November 2000
teachers:                with Procedures and     Scholarship Manuals
a) Training Grants; and   Criteria to be used at  prepared and
b) Scholarships for      the school level by the    validated in 10
Further Training.        school board to identify  schools.
and select the recipients
of the training grants
and the recipients of the
scholarships.
1.2.2. Disseminate     Manuals are          Dissemination starts in
grant manuals and      received in all      January 2001 and ends
scholarship manuals,   schools.             in December 2001
through the Local      Radio and other
Teams of Consultants    campaigns advertise
- 48 -



OBJECTIVES:               ACTIVITIES:             PERFORMANCE    TARGET DATES:
INDICATORS:
hired by the respective    the incentives and
PCUs, to all primary    procedures through
schools implementing    BiH.
projects and to all
training institutions. .
1.2.3. Training         5,000 teachers in     By December 2002
institutions promote    BiH present requests   5,000 teachers have
their courses and       for scholarships.     presented requests for
individuals or groups of                      scholarships.
teachers present their
request for
scholarships.
1.2.4. School boards    School boards select
select teachers that will   between two and 5
get training grants and    teachers that deserve
select scholarship      recognition for their
candidates.             work, and 2 or 3
candidates for
scholarships. In total
2,200 teachers are
selected by school
boards for
recognition in the
form of training
grants and 2,200
teachers selected as
candidates for
scholarships.
1.2.4. The Evaluation   2 to 3 teachers per   Proposals are reviewed
Board receives and      school receive grants  by the Evaluation Board
reviews the selection   (2000 teachers in     between March 2001 and
process in each school    total) and 2 or 3   March 2002.
and awards the grants    teachers per school
and scholarships to     (2,000 teachers in
schools that followed   total) receive
the agreed criteria.    scholarships for
(Evaluation done each    training during the
month for a different   summer of 2002 and
canton)                 the academic year
2003.
1.2.5. In a public      Each canton / region   In August 2002:
ceremony all teachers    organizes an award    all cantons have had an
who receive training    ceremony.             award ceremony.
grants and scholarships
are publicly recognized.
1.2.6. Scholarship      2,000 teachers take    December 2003:
recipients take the     courses financed by    all scholarship recipients
courses and provide the   the quality fund.   have completed the
school boards with a                          training.
report on the course
-49 -



QRWCTIVES~~        ACTVIIS:PRFRANCE f TARGET DATES:
taken.
1.3 Strengthening        1.3.1. PCU, with        Guidelines for grants  February 2001
Training Institutions.   international assistance,  for the training
prepares guidelines and   institutions are
formats for the        prepared. The Bank
preparations of grant  approves the
proposals by the       guidelines and
institutions.          formats.
1.3.2. Guidelines are  Seminar is organized   April 2001
presented to teacher   by PCU
training institutions in a
seminar
1.3.3. Institutions    30 institutions      May - November 2001
prepare proposals for  prepare proposals.
funding following the
guidelines
1.3.4 The Quality Fund   The Evaluation     December 2001
Evaluation Board       Board selects 20
selects the proposals  proposals that meet
that meet the criteria  criteria and makes
awards.
1.3.5. A contract is   20 contracts signed    February 2002:
signed between the     and 20 proposals     20 contracts signed.
institutions getting the    implemented.    August 2003:
grant and the PCU and                       20 proposals
funds are provided                          implemented.
according to the
contract for
implementation of the
proposal.
1.3.6. Each institution    20 evaluation reports  December 2003:
presents an evaluation    are presented to  PCU presents summary
of the activities      PCU                  of institutionai
developed and the PCU                       evaluations.
summarizes the
experience in the form
of an evaluation report.
Project Component 2 - US$3.70 million
Standards and Assessments Agency
Strategic Context
I .   The state of Bosnia Herzegovina is characterized by many kinds of diversity - of
language, culture, religion and traditions. This diversity is reflected in the education systems
of the various constituent parts of the country. At the input level - for example, curricula and
textbooks - there are, of course, many elements in common, but also elements which are
- 50 -



particular to each region. This diversity of input is understandable and arguably desirable, as
reflecting the traditions and aspirations of each constituent group. If it is argued that the goal
of any pluralist society is unity not uniformity, then the diversity which characterizes BiH
may be regarded as an enrichment of the society, provided those elements which transcend
regional variations are taken into account. One such element involves the measurement of the
outcomes of the education process
2.   As to outcomes, that is, the level of knowledge and skills achieved by students at
different stages of their education, the fact that there are methods of measuring those
outcomes which are unique to each region raises a difficulty. The difficulty (apart from any
question about the quality of those methods of measurement) is that there can be no
countrywide comparability of performance. This is a handicap not only for the purposes of
assessing the relative strengths and weaknesses of the country's decentralized education
systems, but also for making comparisons (and perhaps harmonization) with standards and
performance in other European countries.
3.   It is against this background that the proposal has been made for the establishment of a
Standards and Assessment Agency in BiH, taking as its assessment starting point the
measurement of outcomes in the two major competencies of literacy (i.e. language) and
numeracy (math). These competencies have the additional merit that they are common, with
only minor variations, to all curricula, not only in the regions of BiH, but also in the wider
world.
Aims of the Agency
4.   The Agency is essentially a SERVICE institution, an expert service supplying high
quality professional, specialist services in assessment.
e  It is an advisory body to decision-makers on educational policy at primary and secondary
levels.
*  It represents the public interest to monitor the performance of the government in its
provision of quality education.
*  It is intended to provide a service to education practitioners in respect of various aspects
of assessment, including training, research and development.
5.   To achieve the above, its primary task is to define performance standards (i.e. what
students should know and be able to do in given subjects at given stages of their schooling)
and to assess to what extent those standards have been reached.
6.   In particular, the Agency will:
*  gather, process and publish quantitative and qualitative data about the levels of learning
(performance outputs) at primary and secondary levels in order to inform the decision-
making process;
*  assist individual cantons or entities with their own assessment projects, where these are
consistent with the overall aims of the Agency;
*  provide a research and development facility to education institutions and individuals in
respect of assessment issues;
*  encourage and assist in the development of expertise in the field of assessment through
training;
*  seek to harmonize assessment practices in BiH with best practice elsewhere in Europe.
- 51 -



7. In the longer term, depending on politically acceptability, the Agency could be asked to
lead the work of establishing an Examinations Board. This would provide examinations for
school leavers and award nationally and internationally recognized certificates of
achievement. Any future role for the Agency in certificated examinations for BiH would be
conditional on the unanimous approval of all representatives on the Agency's Board
Characteristics of the Agency
8. The Agency would have the following general and specific characteristics:
* The Agency must take account of the sensitivities and aspirations of the various
communities within the country. That is, it should not be an instrument for the
enforcement of an artificial uniformity, but rather a vehicle for assessing those elements in
education which are common to all the present systems.
* It must co-operate with, but be independent of, existing institutions, including Ministries,
and institutes of higher education. It is important to use the expertise that is available in
these entities, and to find ways to develop that expertise.
* It must be seen to be cost effective. If, for example, the Agency, by agreement, carries out
some of the assessment currently done by the cantons, this will result in a net saving to the
cantons.
* The broader the stakeholding base of the Agency, the more likely it is to be accepted.
This means involving commerce and industry, teachers, parents, the public at large, and,
ideally, student organizations.
Powers
As a service facility, it will have no line responsibility or powers. It will provide and respond
to requests for the provision of data on the performance of the education system in order to
inform the decision making process.
Autonomy
It will carry out its functions in accordance with policy and strategic decisions approved by
the Prime Ministers, working through a governing Board (see below), and will be otherwise
free from political direction.
Accountability
It will be formally accountable to the Entity Prime Ministers. In a broader sense it is
accountable to the public at large, for it is the people of BiH who are the primary stakeholders
in education.
Transparency
The procedures and findings of the Agency will be made public through its own publications,
including provision of information through the internet, and through the media. This will be
done in a form most likely to be of value to the country, and in order to promote the Agency's
role as representing the public interest in education.
Flexibility
The Agency has a program of activities for the first four years of its existence (see Section
10), but will be flexible and adaptable in responding to the evolving needs of the education
- 52 -



system in the country. In particular, its work will be subject to regular reviews, including
consultation with all interested parties.
Relations with other Parties
9.   It is important that the ownership of the Agency should be as broad-based as possible.
Any and all of the following will be involved as appropriate, both by being kept informed
about and by participating in Agency activities. The information and services provided can
provide benefits to many interested parties:
* The Entities, cantonal and municipal education authorities - These do, or may, gather
statistical information at their level, whereas the Agency's remit is to gather information
for the country as a whole, i.e. universal data on levels, standards and variations in
educational practice and performance in the country. Thus, there is an opportunity through
the Agency or directly for co-operation and data sharing to the mutual benefit of all
parties.
* Universities and similar institutions - These may share data and collaborate with the
Agency in research projects related to specific educational needs and issues.
* Pedagogical Institutes - These may use Agency data better to identify where teacher
training and other support initiatives should be focused.
* School Leaders - These may benefit from accurate information to help them to make
decisions about changes, such as the redistribution of effort and resources, and to assess
the effectiveness of those changes.
* Teachers and Teaching Organizations - Teaching Organizations may identify areas
where in-service training and other kinds of support are needed. Individual teachers may
use information from the Agency to adapt their teaching methods to maximize learning.
*  Commerce and Industry - These may make informed judgments about how well the
system is providing the skills, knowledge and levels of performance in the workforce
required by a rapidly developing market.
* Parent and youth organizations - These may better understand the rationale and
objectives of the system, and make informed judgments as to whether the education
system is meeting their needs.
10. The Agency will also liaise closely with others concerned with education reform, e.g.
those working on curriculum reform.
Constitution of the Agency
The BOARD
11. The governing body is a BOARD, appointed by and reporting to the Entity Prime
Ministers, and responsible for setting policy, allocating funds and appointment of senior
executive personnel (the DIRECTORATE). The Board will represent as far as possible the
- 53 -



various stakeholders in education. In particular, it will reflect the various sectoral interests -
federal, cantonal, professional and commercial - including:
Ministries of Education              3 members
Universities and pedagogical institutes    3 members
Teachers' professional organizations  3 members
Commerce and industry                3 members
International experts                2 members
12.  The Board will also be able to invite up to three additional persons whose expertise is
required for specific purposes (co-opted members) by a simple mechanism such as nomination
by the Board and approval by Prime Ministers. The Director of the Agency is an ex officio
non-voting member, acting as Secretary to the Board.
13.  Board members will serve a three-year term, renewable once (a staggering of
replacement will be necessary after three years in order to provide some continuity of
membership). The Board will have the power to form ad hoc committees as needed for such
matters as staff recruitment. For finance, there will be a standing committee to approve and
monitor budgets and expenditure of the Directorate. The Board will meet twice a year, but
initially it may need to be convened more frequently. Members of the Board are remunerated
for their services, including reasonable expenses incurred in carrying out their duties.
Detailed terms of reference for members of the Board and the Finance Committee are
available in the POM.
The DIRECTORATE
14.  The chart below shows the minimum staffing required by the Directorate to carry out a
four-year program (outlined below).
Head of Department (1)        Head of Department (1)      Head of Department (1)
Measurement/ Subject          Computer Officers(2)        Accountant (1)
Officers(4)                                               Admin Officers(2)
Clerks
Reprographics
Security
Ancillaries
Director
15.  The quality of the Director will, to a large extent, determine the success of the Agency.
Characteristics of a good candidate include:
*  known and respected by the professional community;
*  possessing professional knowledge and experience;
•  having a good track record in management and administrative skills;
*  having a dynamic personality;
*  being technically aware;
*  being skilled in public relations.
- 54 -



Head of Assessment/Subjects
16.  Initially, the two departments of Assessment and Subjects can be combined in one.
Characteristics of the Head of this combined department include:
* qualification and/or experience in educational assessment;
* experience of curriculum development;
* teaching experience at primary and/or secondary level;
* expertise in an appropriate subject area.
Head of Data Processing
17.  Characteristics of the holder of this position include:
* experience in hardware management;
* experience in software development;
* specialist knowledge of database design and management;
* knowledge of techniques of statistical analysis.
Head of Admin/Operations
1 8. Essentially the holder of this post will have had considerable experience in the
management and organization of physical and human resources. A background in education is
not a prerequisite.
19.  Additional contract staff will be recruited for specific purposes, such as item writing,
test administration and scoring. Wherever possible, practicing teachers will be used for these
tasks, and will be reimbursed both for the work itself and for attendance at briefings and
training workshops. Detailed job descriptions of the key members of the Directorate are
included in the POM.
Priorities for the Agency
20.  The priorities for the Agency will be:
e  To foster understanding and support among all interested parties, including political
entities, professionals, industry and commerce, and the parents and the public at large, in
the aims and work of the Agency.
*  To carry out as soon as feasible a sample-based assessment in key subjects (language and
math) at key stages (4th and 8th grade) to provide a measure of the effectiveness of the
educational system. Additionally, to prepare the means for a universal assessment of
student achievement in the long term.
*  To analyze data and to publish reports for Ministries, for schools and the public, and
detailed technical reports for professionals.
*  To harness existing expertise and to develop additional expertise among practitioners to
enable schools better to assess student performance in other subjects and at other stages
(e.g. through training and by developing achievement tests).
*  To promote the concept of school leaving examinations (especially in relation to
establishing qualifications which are recognized by other European countries), to conduct
pilots into the feasibility of this, and, if politically appropriate in the future (as mandated
- 55 -



by the Agency's Board and subject to the unanimous approval of all cantonal Ministries of
Education), to lead development of a national examination system.
* To promote the work of the Agency through the media, press conferences, seminars, etc.
For example, short orientation seminars for policy makers, and longer seminar/workshops
for practitioners.
Funding the Agency
21.   The total cost of the Agency over the four-year project period is estimated at US$ 3.7
million. A detailed breakdown of estimated capital, running and technical assistance costs is
available in the POM, and summarized below:
Capital costs: Capital costs for establishing the Agency are estimated to be about $200,000.
All capital costs (excluding taxes) will be financed by the project. A detailed breakdown of
capital costs in available in the POM.
Recurrent Costs: the annual recurrent costs of the Agency, including salaries and
accommodation, are estimated at about $680,000 per year, a figure which represents about 0.2
percent of total annual public education spending ($290 million) in BiH in 1998. The
Agency's first year recurrent costs, (excluding accommodation,) will be financed 90% under
the project and thereafter on a declining basis until the full recurrent costs of the Agency are
covered by the Government in project year four, as follows:
Year 1            90                        10
Year 2            60                        40
Year 3            30                        70
Year4             0                         100
Technical Assistance Costs: The costs of technical assistance required to support
establishment and operation of the Agency is estimated at $760,000 over four years. Detailed
costs and terms of reference are available in the POM.
Accommodation for the Agency
22.  The Agency will require dedicated premises, with office accommodation, bulk storage
areas, secure areas, meeting rooms, computer room, reproduction room, library/workroom,
etc. Detailed specifications for accommodation requirements are available in the POM.
Technical assistance for the Agency
23.  The Agency will be staffed by BiH nationals, wherever people of appropriate expertise
and experience are available. Additional training will be provided as appropriate. I or 2 long-
term expatriate appointments will be necessary in the areas of assessment and data processing.
For other technical areas, short assignments (e.g. 2 weeks - 1 month) will be the norm.
Technical assistance will be required for survey and sample design, item writing, database
design and management, item analysis, fieldwork procedures. Estimated requirement: 20 staff
- 56 -



months over 4 years. Detailed terms of reference for all technical assistance are available in
the POM.
Training
24.  As far as possible, training will take place within the country so that it is related directly
to the tasks to be carried out. A one-month attachment of the Agency Director designate to an
assessment organization overseas will be sought. The Head of Assessment/Subjects
Department may require additional training, preferably by short overseas attachments plus
technical assistance support on the job. The Head of the Data Processing Department may
benefit from a study tour to see IT systems in small assessment agencies elsewhere in Europe.
A good knowledge of English is a pre-requisite for all overseas training.
25.  In addition to the above, technical assistance will support the Agency in conducting in-
country workshops both for its own staff and for those appointed to carry out specific tasks.
Such courses will include:
*  curriculum analysis and test design;
*  item writing and test construction;
*  scoring and analysis of results.
26.  In due course, it is hoped that the Agency will provide a training service in educational
measurement to the education profession in general, and that such a service may help generate
income for the Agency.
Outline program for implementation
27.  Formal reviews will be held at key points during the program. Their purpose will be:
*  to determine the technical effectiveness of actions taken, and to decide on any adjustments
(e.g. rescheduling, additional training, modified targets);
*  to seek, through a wide process of consultation, the views and recommendations of all the
interested parties. Information gathered will be fed into the technical review and
adjustments made.
Preliminary actions
*  Entity Prime Ministers establish the Agency as a legal entity
*  Entity Prime Ministers determine location and accommodation for the Agency
*  Entity Prime Ministers identify potential key personnel for appointment to the Board
*  Entity Prime Ministers appoint Board
*  Board sets out policy, and short-term and long-term strategy of the Agency
Year 1
*  Strategic planning (Board)
*  Board selects and appoints Director
*  Board and Director select and appoint key directorate personnel
*  Operational planning (Directorate)
*  Orientation/training of personnel as required
*  Senior personnel conduct orientation seminars
*  Agency personnel prepare for sample-based assessment at Grade 4. They undertake the
following work program:
-analyze curricula to find common core test syllabus in language and math
-design assessment in language and math at Grade 4
- 57 -



-produce test instruments, including trial and refinement
-select sample of schools
-design database
* Review
Year 2
* Selection of additional personnel
* Training/orientation of additional personnel
* Administration of sample-based assessment at Grade 4
* Analysis and publication of results.
* Review
* Agency personnel prepare for sample-based assessment at Grade 8. They undertake the
following work program:
-analyze curricula to find common core test syllabus in language and math
-design assessment in language and math at Grade 8
-produce test instruments, including trial and refinement
-select sample of schools and establish field procedures
Year 3
* Selection of additional personnel
- Training/orientation of additional personnel
- Administration of sample-based assessment at Grade 8
• Analysis and publication of results
- Review
Year 4
* Prepare next assessment at Grade 4
* Investigate feasibility and design of assessment in other subjects
= Establish procedures for assessment at secondary level.
- Review
= Planning of Agency activities for Years 5 - 8.
Project Component 3 - US$ 2.10 million
Education Management Information System (EMIS)
Objectives and Rational of the EMIS Project
I . The EMIS component will support the overall objective of more efficient and effective
management of resources through improved information and planning systems and systems
for education financing. Specifically the project will:
* determine the essential education statistical information needs at primary and secondary
levels;
* develop computer software for data collection, collation and report generation as the
initial module in an EMIS;
* assist, at the canton and schools levels, the piloting of software, the upgrading of cantonal
hardware, and training and monitoring;
* assist, at the canton and school levels, the improvement of management capabilities
through a pilot of capitation based bulk grant system; and
- 58 -



* develop and finance implementation of an EMIS in all cantons in the Federation and the
RS, and expansion of a capitation based funding mechanism where feasible.
Program description
2.   The EMIS Component contains the following three sub-components:
*  the development and implementation of an initial set of education management
information system software   modules (ISEM);
*  the strengthening of the system platforms of all the cantonal Ministries of Education in the
Federation and the Ministry of Education of Republic of Srpska, (these will be referred to
as the Ministries); and
*  the development and delivery of professional management training in information
systems for school principals, school accountants and the staff from the Ministries.
3.   The project will support an initial phase in which the ISEM is piloted in three ministry
sites (the Ministry of Education of the Republic of Srpska and the Ministries of Education in
the Tuzia and Middle Bosnia Cantons), followed by the roll out of the ISEM to all canton
ministries of education. To support the initial software pilot, required hardware will be
provided for each of the three pilot ministries of education in the pilot phase. The remaining
ministries will be supplied with required hardware following the pilot phase. The training
component will begin following the pilot phase. Summary descriptions of the three sub-
components are provided below, and detailed descriptions, costing and implementation plans
are provided in the POM.
Sub-component 1: Software Development ($0.6 million)
4.     The development of the initial set of EMIS modules (ISEM) will support the basic
information needs of schools and ministries and begin the process of information management
for effective resource use and policy formation. The objectives of this sub-component are to:
*  determine essential transaction data needs at the school level and education statistical
information needs at the Ministry level;
*  develop the initial set of computer software modules covering the basic transaction
processing in schools and aggregation of the same data at the Ministry level;
*  pilot the software at the ministry and schools level;
*  increase the efficiency of the management of school funds through a pilot of capitation
based funding system; and
*  develop benchmark standards for the future implementation and development of EMIS in
all cantons in the Federation and in the RS.
Functions to be Computerized
5.   The functions to be computerized are:
basic student, personnel, and inventory databases for use in schools with at least one standard
personal computer;
student progress tracking and standard financial modules (payroll and accounting) for use in
schools with a small IBM compatible PCs/MS Windows based Local Area Networks (one
small server and few workstations);
performance monitoring in those schools that have implemented at least the students,
personnel, and inventory and rooms databases;
- 59 -



*  aggregation of student, personnel, inventory, and financial data from schools at the
Ministry level;
*  determination and application of the formula for capitation based funding system at the
Ministry level; and
•  education system performance monitoring at the Ministry level.
In addition to these functions, the computerized information services for basic data exchange
will be developed.
Software Modules to be Developed
6.   In order to computerize the functions presented above, a series of software modules will
be developed. There will be six software modules and one add-on arranged into three layers
by functional dependence. The first layer of three modules will be denoted as the Initial Set
of EMIS Modules (ISEM).
LAYER 1:
Module 1: Student database
Module 2: School personnel database
Module 3: Inventory and Rooms database
LAYER 2:
Module 4: Student progress database
Module 5: Financial module (payroll and accounting)
Add-on: Capitation Based Funding Formula Determination
LAYER 3:
Module 6: Performance monitoring (education and finance indicators)
7.   Each module will have a school and a ministry sub-component. The school component
will support the transaction processing level in schools, but will also include some elements of
aggregated data view (reporting and analysis) for school management support. The Ministry
component will be aggregated data view per school and the macro-aggregation of all schools
or selected groups of schools.
Development strategy
8.   The complete ISEM -- pilot and roll out -- will be developed through one contract. The
implementation of the modules at the Ministry level will be included within the same contract.
Implementation of the modules in schools will be phased and largely according to their
capacity to install and use the software. This will not jeopardize the basic monitoring process
in the ministries since the data input into the ministry components of modules is possible
through manual input.
9.   The following phases of implementation are expected:
a) The complete first layer (modules 1, 2, and 3) implemented. This is possible if the school
has at least one PC.
b) Individually or together, modules 4 and 5. The school will need more PCs, according to
the quantity of work. The PCs should be networked by a simple Windows based LAN.
- 60 -



c) Module 6 implemented. This can be implemented on the same platform as for modules 4
and 5.
10.  All ministries of Education in BiH will be technically able to exchange data.
11.  Such implementation will allow for all schools to contribute data to the ministry level
whether they have the computer capacity or not. The start point for schools and ministries is
the initial set of modules. The basic set becomes the platform for further development as and
when schools have developed the capacity and confidence. The component will also provide
comprehensive technical user training for both schools and ministries. The training for the
schools will include at least a one-day seminar at which the school components of modules
will be introduced to school principals and financial staff
Sub-component 2: Hardware ($0.4 million)
12.  The sub-component of platform system strengthening aims to provide a basic
computing environment to support an information management style of decision-making and
policy formulation. The hardware configuration will be specifically tested in pilot ministries
during the initial pilot phase. The Project specifically aims to:
• provide the system platform for pilot EMIS software modules;
* introduce and/or strengthen local computer networking capacity in the ministries of
education;
* provide basic file transfer service for schools that have modems for transferring the data
to the ministries of
- education;
- strengthen the overall information technology capacities of the ministries; and
*  specify and test the standard procedures of system platform development, which will be
used in all BiH ministries of education.
Functions of the Platform
13.  The system platform that will be developed will have the following functions:
* all necessary system requirements to support a multi-user, network software application
based on one of the standard middle-class RDBMSs;
* data protection capabilities;
* LAN data sharing and other standard LAN functions;
* dial-in and modem file transfer capabilities.
It is expected that the platform should be compatible with the existing equipment at the Pilot
Ministries.
Development Strategy
14.  The platform hardware will be procured through two contracts, one for the initial pilot
stage and one for the overall roll out to all BiH ministries of education. The responsibilities
of the Contractors will be:
*  to provide hardware and system software in time and according to agreed specifications;
* to install the platform in all ministries of education; this includes the installation of
hardware, operating systems, local network, required information services such as dial-in
and FTP, and all other system software which is required for full platform functionality;
- 61 -



* to connect the existing equipment to the platform without the loss of any existing data;
* to perform full tests of all required platform functions (especially the dial-in and FTP
services);
* to support the application software contractor during the installation of the initial set of
pilot EMIS software modules, including the installation of additional system software
such as DBMS;
*  to provide the technical training on platform administration and basic maintenance for the
technical staff in the ministries of education;
* to provide standard system platform maintenance for the period of a minimum of three
years; and
* to provide on-line help desk with prompt phone and 24 hours on-site response.
Sub-component 3: Management Training ($1.0 million)
15.  The third sub-component is the provision of professional training to the principal and
school accountant of each school in information management. This training will occur
concurrent with the introduction of the Initial Set of the EMIS Modules (ISEM). There will
be three phases of training: the first phase will be associated with the piloting of the first set of
modules, the second and third phases with the countrywide roll-out of the EMIS.
16.  The expected outcomes of the training program are:
- trained key stakeholders able to effectively use the tools of the initial set of EMIS
modules in both a technical and professional sense.
* trained key stakeholders able to provide training to all users of the initial set of EMIS
modules.
3 debate initiated amongst key stakeholders about the benefits and desirability of wider
structural reform of the education sector.
17.  The training program will cover the professional aspect of management training. The
technical aspects of software use are easily defined and are expected to be included within the
software development contract. The professional aspect follows a strategy of introducing
information management concepts and skills as part of a desirable wider management training
curriculum.
18.  To achieve these outcomes training programs are to be provided by contracted service
providers (terms of reference are available in the POM.). A generic training program will be
provided to: central authority officials, school principals and school accountants. It is expected
that the total number of participants will be 4000, based on two participants from each school,
nation-wide over the life of the project.
20.  The Training Program will be delivered over three days. The required services can be
described in five outputs. The outputs include:
Output one    The development of the Training Program.
Output two    The co-ordination and administration of the training program.
Output three   The delivery of the training program.
Output four   The production of evaluation reports.
Output five    The production of a complete training manual
21.  Quality assurance will occur through the recommendatory function of the EMIS
Coordinating Group for contract selection, contract monitoring by the EMIS coordinator
- 62 -



within the PCU and the contractual requirement that the provider will have in place an internal
quality assurance system that will: (a) provide adherence to the philosophy, training model
and objectives as stated in the request for proposal; and (b) provide ongoing evaluation of
both content and multi-lingual course delivery, and trainee progress during the delivery of the
training. The output objectives for each of the above output are described in the POM with
associated expected performance measures and targets.
Project Component 4 - US$3.50 million
Higher Education
Strategic Context
I.   Higher education is expected to meet a number of expectations regarding countries in
transition. The sector should serve the human resource needs of social and political
development, the various professions, the transformation of public administration and market-
oriented economies in transition. The challenges are particularly abundant in the new
countries and new entities during the post-war period in ex-Yugoslavia. In BiH, objectives for
the sector are being identified from several "central" political sources with diverse agendas.
2.   Countries of the former Yugoslavia inherited advanced academic traditions and they
carry high expectations about higher education provisions. Prior to the collapse of the unified
system, Yugoslavia had a large tertiary sector with high relative enrollment. Public funding
for training and research was high relative to its neighbors and almost comparable to Western
European levels. Today, social demand for enrollment in BiH compares to pre-conflict levels,
although given a precipitous drop in GDP, available funding for higher education is far less
than under Yugoslavia..
3.   Meanwhile the economies have started to transform and demand for skilled manpower
is different at best and undefined at most. Instead of these economic considerations, however,
political and symbolic rationales for decision making in higher education appear to be of
overriding importance for the leaders of fragmented governmental entities. As a result, the
entities/cantons are investing in developing higher education capacities beyond sustainable
means. Control is held at low administrative posts where governance may not be capable of
assuring adequate resources, student demand, economies of scale, quality or permeability.
The fragmentation is further exacerbated by uncoordinated international support and technical
assistance. As old authorities broke down and new ones emerged, there is currently no
legitimate (politically and professionally alike) institutional basis to define priorities and to
assure sustainable means for the entire sector.
4.   In consequence, reform should assist the development of intermediary professional
institutions, mechanisms, plans and guidelines to bring the fragmented organizations into a
more coherent sector and to develop higher education provisions to serve both individual and
collective demand more efficiently and effectively.
5.   Higher education faces the following challenges in the future:
*  Higher level learning and knowledge is becoming more important in achieving career and
economic success
*  For BiH to be competitive as a state, its higher education system must keep pace with
rising international standards
- 63 -



* School leavers of today and adults will likely need to study at the higher education level
several times during their lives
6.   To meet these challenges the higher education system will need to deliver:
* Better opportunities for accessing quality higher education - based on the individual's
needs, priorities and choices
* A system that is fair to both students and providers, recognizing the diversity of higher
education learning needs and courses offered
* Quality assured qualifications, teaching and research
* Public institutions that are effectively and efficiently managed and that provide high
quality education (i.e. establishing a quality assurance mechanism, some form of quality
validation process, restrictions on the use of protected terms, consolidated university
management, etc.
* Improved information about higher education ( i.e. integrated student data, an information
system based on a 'once-only' collection point, information about quality assured
qualifications/courses and sector trends to assist students and providers to make better
strategic decisions)
* Better managed higher education institutions (universities as consolidated institutions,
guided by management councils, with the flexibility to determine budget allocation, size,
composition, selection procedures, etc. and to develop strategic plans and statements of
intent.
Higher Education Issues in BiH
7.   Higher Education in BiH faces the following issues and constraints:
* Political fragmentation has contributed to the proliferation of institutions -- University of
Sarajevo (Federation and RS), University of Bihac, University of Mostar (East and West)
- which will inevitably dilute quality as resources for higher education are even less than
and will remain less than those available for higher education in the former Republic of
BiH (reflecting a significantly reduced level of economic output).
- The decentralization of governance to cantons in the Federation of BiH prior to
developing agreements on the establishment of some general principles set back any
effort to re-establish or develop effective governance capacities. Though the Dayton
Agreement allows, in principle, elevating governance to higher levels, the chances of such
a move are limited by the political fragmentation and by the weak legitimacy of higher
authorities.
* Cantonal parliaments are establishing laws for higher education. Given the lack of
capacity and conflicting interests, there is a risk that diverse governance and institutional
schemes may emerge from this legislation, restricting, among others, inter-Cantonal
transfers, mutual recognition and transparency.
* The separation of the Federation into Cantons divided the institutional system and its
revenue basis, concentrating capacities and revenue sources to some Cantons. Cantons
without institutions have limited access, but also carry limited financial responsibility for
services.
* Existing financial management arrangements are aimed at sustaining the institutional
status quo through an incremental budgeting system which prioritizes the salary of the
-64 -



existing staff and other recurrent costs, disregarding demand and enrollment figures and
treating performance, investment and innovation as residual items. Budgets by and large
are based on the number of staff instead of students, potentially freezing the education in
its inherited structure and quality.
*  In most Cantons, the faculties are treated as legally chartered institutions carrying
accounts and receiving budgets (Tuzla is an exception.). This arrangement, as it is
proliferated over the 75 semi-autonomous institutions loosely tied to seven universities,
creates enormous inefficiencies and redundancies, that can be ill-afforded by the system,
ties students to faculties, freezes training structure and prohibits university-based planning
and management aimed at increased efficiency and standardized quality across programs.
* There are no mechanisms of mutual recognition or even joint efforts to set up
qualification requirements and accreditation. Cantons do not provide a legal basis for
diploma recognition. (Tuzla is, again, an exception). At present, only de-facto recognition
exists, inherited from the Yugoslav higher education system. There is willingness by the
actors to accept studies and qualifications even beyond the Bosnian borders. However, in
view of the political fragmentation, there are no legal guarantees and hardly any examples
in practice. The majority of both the academic staff and the students have repeatedly
expressed their preference to cooperate across the three constituent groups. Meanwhile,
international assistance focuses on a diversity of issues related to this set of problems.
Assistance is uncoordinated, however, and outcomes do not necessarily contribute to an
academically compatible, unitary system of programs and quality.
* Within faculties and in the university structures, there are no efficiency incentives and any
potential savings may not be turned into investment or innovation. Faculty deans are
primarily interested in retaining staff, although the workload is often less then full.
Teaching staff frequently provide courses at other faculties for extra salary.
8.   External involvement to assist higher education development should target the
following objectives:
* The establishment of strategic capabilities with links to legitimate political authorities,
with effective government, with adequate information for policy making and with
consensus and participation of primary stakeholders (leaders, staff, beneficiaries and
sponsors)
* The establishment of standards for institutional and operational frameworks
* Improved budgeting, financial allocation mechanisms and spending regulation
* comprehensive qualification, recognition, accreditation and credit transfer mechanisms
with professional terms and regulations for quality control
* Increased development funds and consensual institutional arrangements for allocating
funds -- including external support -- to stimulate innovation and improve efficiency.
Project Objectives and Description
9.   Given the fragmentation, the political volatility and the natural entrenchment of vested
interests in the current fragmented governance structure, external involvement should set the
organizational framework for the optimal academic and financial procedures, rather than
mandate the use of such procedures by institutions, governments or individuals. Beyond
allowing the application of such procedures, funding should provide an incentive for
- 65 -



voluntary action, set benchmarks and disseminate best practices among the higher education
institutions.
10.  The most immediate challenge is: the establishment of intermediary coordination
capacity to assist with: (i) the setting of standards to regulate the system, and (ii)
strengthening the individual university's strategic planning capacity. In order to confront this
challenge, the project will support: (a) the creation of a Higher Education Council and its
Technical Secretariat; (b) the establishment of the basic principles to develop a standards and
accreditation mechanism; and (c) the establishment of a Higher Education Fund to support
individual universities' capacity for institutional diagnosis, policy and strategy design, and
financial management. To support these activities, the project will finance the operating costs
of the Council and its Secretariat on a declining basis over four years, a technical assistance
package estimated at $500,000, and funding in the amount of $2.5 million for the Higher
Education Fund.
Council of Higher Education (the Council)
11.  In terms of strategy development and sector coordination, the most important objective
is to help set up a legitimate, professional and consensual institutional structure aimed at
supporting:
-  overall strategy (sector-wide governance, legislative issues and ownership, budget and
priorities)
*  recognition activities (qualification requirements, program accreditation, credit transfers,
cross-listing, etc.)
-  financial allocation activities (grant allocations, research allocations, international support
coordination, etc.)
institutional capacity building (institutional strategies and accreditation)
an information clearinghouse for both financial and quality instruments, as well as for
capacity building activities
12.  In response to this institutional priority, major investments in higher education for BiH
should be conditioned on the creation of a new, jointly-owed Council of Higher Education.
Despite several years of negotiations aimed at creating such a Council -- supported by the
Council of Europe - political considerations have prevented a common commitment by the
three constituent groups to this initiative. The precise structure, terms of reference and
operation of the Council remain to be negotiated and agreed. Creation of such a body is,
therefore, a condition of disbursement for the Higher Education Fund, described below.
13.  As a principle, the Council should be built strictly on a professional basis and should
take into consideration the political reality of the country via its structure and representation.
The Council should be established as an intermediary support structure with an advisory role
between the various universities. Its activities would be decided by the principal body
(Plenum) in response to requests by the universities and their sub-units. Universities would
become members of the Council by paying membership fees and in return would receive
accreditation and other services. As a start-up, applying universities would receive funding to
cover their membership dues under the project, on a declining basis over four years.
Preferably, the Council of Higher Education members would represent proportionately the
main academic fields. Such a body would have strict rules of rotation, substitution and
election. The Council would be responsible for: approving or disapproving qualification
requirements, overseeing academic standards and accreditation, and promoting strategic
thinking and improved management in higher education.
- 66 -



14.  The Plenum as a principal body would be responsible for defining and evaluating the
Council's role, approving its agenda and adapting its structure to the agenda. A Secretariat
would be established under the Plenum to implement the Plenum's strategy, organize the
Council's activities, provide information and convene its meetings. Under the Plenum, special
subcommittees would be established either from among the Plenum's members or from other
professionals appointed by the Plenum on permanent or temporary basis, depending on
demand for professional activities and other tasks. The Secretariat would coordinate the
establishment and activities of the subcommittees.
15.  From the list of objectives above (para. I 1.), the project would focus on two specific
objectives, requiring the initial creation and financing of two Subcommittees: one to focus on
institutional development and another on mutual recognition of study programs. Depending
on performance, the institutional development sub-committee would be expected to take on a
permanent responsibility for institutional accreditation, the sub-committee for mutual
recognition of study programs should take on a permanent responsibility for program
accreditation. Over time, the Plenum may decide to take on new challenges and adjust the
Council's structure accordingly.
16.  For purposes of the project, the Secretariat would focus on two issues mentioned above.
Members of the Secretariat would be hired by agreement of the Plenum using short-term
technical assistance contracting during the life of the project. The role and effectiveness of
the secretariat will be evaluated upon termination of the project.
17.  The project would finance, on a declining basis, the establishment costs of the Council
and the Secretariat, including office space, salaries for a small secretariat, Council honoraria
and other minor operating costs. The annual costs of supporting the Council and its Technical
Secretariat is estimated at approximately $40,000 per project year (to be financed on a
declining basis from IDA). Participating institutions will be required to contribute
membership fees following the first year, which will increase during the life of the project and
cover the full cost of the Council by the final (fourth) year of the project. The project will also
finance local and external technical assistance in the form of sub-committees for the
Secretariat (strategy plans and accreditation), as well as minor document production costs.
The total cost of the sub-committee work is estimated at $40,000 per project year.
Recognition and Accreditation System
18.  The project would also finance the design of the building blocks for setting standards to
regulate the system in terms of quality, regulations for expansion, equivalencies and
certification. The Secretariat will be supported with technical assistance and training aimed at
designing a system of internationally acceptable standards for BiH Individual universities
would be able to participate on a voluntary basis, to pilot demonstration initiatives aimed at
applying and validating these standards.
19.  The terms of reference to support the Secretariat in the development of procedures for
Recognition of Study Programs are based on the following activity schedule:
*  Under guidance from the Plenum, the Secretariat will bring together and serve a
Recognition Subcommittee (RSC) in charge of defining the initial set of standards and
peer-review procedures.
*  The RSC will start by assessing the running recognition, peer-evaluation and curriculum
development programs sponsored via various international organizations, including the
- 67 -



ACA, QSC, Tempus, etc. Further, the RSC will be given technical assistance to develop
its capabilities and working procedures.
*  The RSC will propose to the Plenum a priority list for setting standards and procedures,
an agenda and schedule for its first two years of operation and a strategic statement
including the main objectives, norms and policy issues which it will implement via the
standards and procedures. This priority list includes degrees, qualification requirements,
courses, credits and credit-transfer mechanisms.
*  Upon approval, the RSC, or special teams under the RSC, will start the development of
the basic requirements for general higher education degrees, standards of study units
(credits) and courses. In these works, the outcomes of the present internationally
supported programs may need to be re-evaluated.
*  Standards and requirements will be approved by the Plenum.
*  On a pilot basis, peer-review procedures may be initiated and supported with the
voluntary participation of universities to test the adequacy of their study programs to the
approved standards and requirements. Based on the peer-reviews, academic development
plans may be added to the institutional strategies.
?  The Secretariat will establish an information clearinghouse and database for the standards
and for the programs reviewed. This information will be disseminated among the
potential students and international support programs.
Institutional Development Planning
20.  The Higher Education Fund will be used to finance the conception, elaboration and,
partly, the implementation of medium term Institutional Development Plans under the
auspices of the management and leadership of individual higher education institutions (HEIs).
The objective of the Fund, to which the Project would contribute $2.5 million, is to stimulate
strategic planning and efficient financial management practices at the institutional level in
higher education in BiH. It would be expected to assist the establishment of effective
governance and management, and the implementation of innovative institutional initiatives
targeting university-wide programs and services.
21.  Management of the Higher Education Fund would be the responsibility of the Technical
Secretariat of the Council of Higher Education. The Technical Secretariat would form an IDP
Sub-Committee composed of six local professionals, who would be supported by international
technical assistance. A description of the IDA Sub-Committee as well as the terms of
reference for technical assistance are included in the POM. The first task of the sub-
committee would be to undertake preparation of procedural manuals and guidelines for the
utilization of the Fund, to be agreed with IDA and the Council. Once procedures have been
established and formally agreed, the IDP Sub-Committee would be responsible for publicizing
the Fund within the HEIs, providing outreach to specific HEIs, evaluating funding proposals,
recommending approval of proposals to the Council of Higher Education and supervising
implementation of contracts with HEIs. Depending on performance, the evaluation procedure
is expected to evolve into a sustained practice of institutional accreditation for higher
education in BiH over the long term.
-68 -



22.  In order to benefit from Higher Education Fund financing, the HEls will individually
develop proposal packages in a standard format which will include: (a) an enacted or draft
legislative program of the relevant governmental legislative agency (cantonal, entity level
government/parliament) regulating higher education finance, access, institutional status,
recognition/accreditation activities and cross-cantonal, cross-entity transfers and mobility; (b)
a draft strategic plan including general overview, analysis and strategy (terms of reference for
a strategic plan are included in the POM); and (c) a draft implementation plan for the strategy,
including the procedure to elaborate the IDP, the schedule of a university-level institutional
planning committee (IPC), a plan for dissemination and peer review, and an investment
program. In addition, each funding proposal will require a detailed budget and a procurement
plan for all expenditures to be made under the grant.
23.  The Higher Education Fund will finance proposals to initiate or complete development
of strategic plans as long as they: (i) are consistent with the diagnosis of the university; (ii)
present a strong justification for reform; (iii) present measurable results and impact; (iv) are
consistent with the general policy and strategy of the system; (v) are well designed and
internally coherent; (vi) involve the educational community within the university with full
commitment to project objectives; and (vi) present a clear plan for monitoring and
supervision. Based on the evaluation against agreed criteria, the IDP Sub-Committee will
make recommendations to the Council Plenum to approve or reject funding of proposals. No
proposal funded under the Higher Education Fund will exceed $200,000 unless specially
authorized by the Bank, although institutions will be able to fund follow up proposals
following one year of implementation of the initial proposal. Assistance in preparing strategic
plans, as well as financing for small investments aimed at implementing strategic plans,
including required technical assistance, would also be considered for approval under the Fund.
Universities would be eligible to apply separately or jointly for Fund financing.
24.  The IDP Sub-Committee will undertake supervision of Fund disbursements together in
cooperation with the PCU Higher Education Coordinator. Payments will be made directly to
HEIs from the PCUs upon authorization of the Council Secretariat. Accounting and auditing
procedures, to be approved by IDA, will be defined as part of the Higher Education Fund
procedural manual. Each grant approved under the Fund will be disbursed according to an
approved budget and procurement plan. Accounts will be monitored by the Sub-Committee
together with the Fund Coordinator, who will approve final disbursements through the PCUs.
Additionally, during the course of implementation, a local evaluation team will be hired by the
PCUs to carry out a technical audit of the Fund twice a year, and to make recommendations
for improved implementation practices.
Project Component 5 - US$0.60 million
Living Standards Measurement Survey
Strategic Context:
1.   The ability to produce the statistics needed for the design, implementation and
evaluation of economic and social policy, including education policy, in BiH has been
damaged by the recent war and transition. Three institutions are formally responsible for
statistics in the country, two entity level institutes (Federation Institute of Statistics (FIS) and
the Republika Srpska Institute of Statistics RSIS) and a national level agency (Bosnia and
Herzegovina Agency for Statistics, BHAS). The FIS has been built from the prewar regional
office of the Former Yugoslavia Statistical Institute and retains knowledge, survey skills,
materiel such as maps, and infrastructure from before the war. The RSIS is less well situated
- 69 -



as it has been created from scratch since the war. At present, these two offices essentially
function independently of each other and the third statistical agency's role is primarily to
collate data from the two entity-level offices and coordinate with other statistical institutions
abroad to bring the BiH system up to international standards. At present, these three
organizations responsible for statistics in the country are quite new and have limited capacity
to produce the entire range of statistics necessary for policy-makers.
2.   The area that has been especially hard hit by the war is that of data collection at the
household level: no household survey of any sort is presently being carried out at the country
level. Prior to the war, only two types of household surveys were carried out in the country:
an Income and Expenditure survey and an agricultural production survey. Neither survey has
been restarted since the war. The three statistical organizations have been attempting to start a
system of surveys but with limited staff, funds and experience this has proven difficult. A
donor's conference in November of 1998 organized around the need for assisting the country
build a new statistical capacity emphasized the importance of household level data. Since that
time several statistical agencies (Sweden, Switzerland, Italy) have begun to develop projects
to support a functioning statistical system in the country.
3.   The lack of household level data is a serious one. Macro level data can only provide
limited insights into actual welfare levels of the country. While administrative records can
provide information on the magnitude of problems in the social sectors (dropout rates, low
educational attainment for example), household level data can identify the determinants of
these observed social sector outcomes and, thus, provide insights to policy makers on
effective solutions.
4.   There are many types of household surveys that can form the basis of a statistical
system. The three statistical organizations in the country have agreed that three surveys will
form the basis of the statistical system of BiH for the next four or so years, or at least until a
population census is carried out. These are a labor force survey (LFS-- aimed primarily at
looking at the composition of the labor force, economic activities and participation and
unemployment rates), an income and expenditure survey (IES-- to determine the products and
weights for the consumer price index as well as providing inputs for national accounts) and a
Living Standards Measurement Study Survey (LSMS).
5.   An LSMS survey is a multi-topic household survey that will be carried out throughout
BiH. Because of its multi-topic nature and the emphasis of the survey on welfare and the
factors which contribute to welfare, the LSMS survey in BiH will provide a unique data set
that will provide information on, inter alia; (i) the distribution of income (consumption) and
the share of the population living in poverty; (ii) the characteristics of those living in poverty
and the factors most affecting poverty levels; (iii) the determinants of observed outcomes in
education, labor and other sectors; (iv) the identity of those benefiting (and excluded) from
public spending in social sector programs and social protection programs; and (iv) how
households behave given different economic incentives.
6.   Topics covered in an LSMS are those related to welfare and typically include:
household composition, housing, education, health, anthropometrics, labor (formal, informal,
agriculture, own business, wage employment), consumption, assets, access and use of social
services, financial services and social infrastructure, among others. In addition to collecting
data at the household level the LSMS survey is designed to collect data on the communities in
which households live and prices that they face for basic commodities.
- 70 -



LSMS Objectives:
7.   The goal of this component is to provide reliable data, for the entire country, on the
levels and determinants of welfare, the causes of observed social sector outcomes and the
incidence of public expenditures. Such data will be used to inform the policy-making process
and are expected to improve the effectiveness and impact of public sector programs in the
country. In addition, the data will form the basis of much of the analysis required for creating
a Poverty Reduction Strategy for the country. The specific objectives of the component are to
carry out a Living Standard Measurement Study Survey, create the capacity in the country to
carry out such surveys and promote the use of such data through wide dissemination of the
results, the various analyses of poverty, as well as the unit-record data sets.
LSMS Activities
8.   The main activities under this component will be the design and implementation of the
LSMS Survey and the processing and distribution of data. For every activity, an overall
objective of the project is to support capacity building to ensure that future quality surveys can
be carried out once the project is over.
*  Master Sample: In conjunction with the larger effort being undertaken in the statistical
system to build overall capacity for designing and implementing household surveys, this
component will assist in the process of creating a sample frame. A necessary precondition
to carry out any household survey is the existence of a sampling frame. At present there
is no sampling frame extant in BiH that could be used to select samples for the LSMS or
any other survey. This is due to the fact that the last census, the usual source for creating
a sample, is old and pre-dates the war. With almost half of the country's population
having moved since that census, it has little use, beyond the input of the maps (although
some of these are missing and will need to be redone also).
*  Questionnaire Design: A Data Users Committee is being formed as part of the overall
statistical system development. The design of the LSMS survey instruments will be
closely coordinated with this committee. In addition, given the uniqueness of many issues
in Bosnia that affect welfare, qualitative field work will be carried out to ensure that the
questionnaire design takes into account all important facets of welfare.
*  Field Work: The actual implementation of the survey requires a series of activities:
(i) creation of customized data entry system, (ii) formation of field work teams (the survey
will be carried out by teams of interviewers, data entry operators and supervisors and the
training of all such personnel will be an integral part of the project.); (iii) pilot test of
questionnaires, teams and overall methodology, and (iv) survey field work.
*  Data processing: Creation of a final database that contains data on all households
interviewed throughout the country.
*  Data dissemination: Documentation of the survey and data set, distribution of data sets
(minus names and addresses to preserve confidentiality) and basic abstract of results
either free of charge or at minimal cost to all individuals or organizations that request it,
either private or public, or local or international.
*  Analysis: Carry out basic analysis of welfare in the country, focusing on levels and
determinants of poverty, incidence of public spending and access to and use of public
- 71 -



services and programs. The component will support training in analytic techniques. A
final small qualitative study is envisioned to discuss the findings of the LSMS.
Institutional Framework:
9.   The three statistical organizations of the country will carry out the implementation of
this component. As all phases of the work must be done with the same technical
specifications and at the same time, close coordination and collaboration will be required. A
small committee formed of representatives of each organization will be formed. This will be
responsible for ensuring coordination. The entity level statistical institutes (FIS and RSIS)
will be responsible for the actual work of finalizing the sample, designing the questionnaires
(household, community and price), training and supervising field work teams and ensuring the
field work is carried out accurately. Each entity will process data and provide all unit record
data to the State Agency. The State Agency will be responsible for creating a BiH- level data
set and supervising the production of basic results of the survey at the country level.
10. To assist in the process of coordination, a cost-sharing agreement will be signed with
UNDP. UNDP will provide co-financing for the component in the amount of US $500,000.
A single cost-sharing agreement will simplify procedures and ensure the timely flow of
resources and goods. All terms of reference for consultants and procurement of equipment
will follow procedures acceptable to IDA.
Timing:
11. Work on the LSMS is already underway as the sample issues are presently being
examined under a separate technical assistance grant from SIDA. The survey will be carried
out in 2001 and, with the exception of some final pieces of analysis, the component's major
activities will be completed by December 2001.
Project Component 6 - US$1.00 million
Project Management
1.   Project implementation will be coordinated by two Project Coordination Units, one located
in the Federation and the other located in RS. Given the joint nature of many project activities,
the two PCUs will cooperate closely and coordinate their activities, including, where necessary
and efficient, undertaking joint procurement and negotiating joint contracts. The feasibly of such
cooperation and coordination has been proven successful under the Second Emergency Education
Rehabilitation Project under which two joint (Federation-RS) technical assistance contracts have
been negotiated and signed.
2.   The existing large Project Implementation Unit in the Federation, which is responsible for
implementation of EERP II, will be transformed into a small professional Project Coordination
Unit for the Education Development Project. The current Federation PIU is staffed according to
the politically-motivated need for constituent group balance, and to implement out-dated
bureaucratic control procedures, making it expensive and inefficient. A smaller number of new
staff with project management and coordination skills will be appointed to the Federation PCU as
a condition of project negotiations. The existing PIU in RS, which is already smaller (reflecting
constituent group homogeneity in RS) will also be transformed into a PCU as a condition of
negotiations.
- 72 -



3.   Each of the two PCUs will employ a Project Coordinator, a Procurement Officer, an
Accountant/Disbursement Officer, and a bilingual Project Assistant/Translator. In addition, in the
interest of economy and efficient management, the two PCUs will share Fund Coordinators, one
each to assist coordination of the Quality Improvement Fund and the Higher Education Fund, as
well as a single Management Information System Coordinator. Each of these components is joint
Federation/RS activity. Given the two thirds/one third breakdown in project costs between the
Federation and RS, the Federation will finance two coordinators (to be determined) and RS will
finance the third. All staff of the two PCUs will be expected, as part of their job descriptions, to
cooperate closely with their counterparts in the other Entity. This will be particularly crucial for
the Procurement Officers who will be expected, as needed, to undertake joint procurement and
contract negotiations. The Fund Coordinators and the EMIS Coordinator will report to Fund
Boards and the EMIS Committee which is made up of representatives of the three main
constituent groups.
4.   The project will finance PCU staff salaries, except those of civil servants, as well as the
basic operating expenditures of the PCU, including recurrent office expenditures, vehicle
operation and maintenance costs, and travel and subsistence. All PCU costs are expected to be
covered 50% by government counterpart funding under the project. A small equipment
replenishment budget will be available, but the majority of equipment and vehicles needed under
the project already exists in the current PIUs and will be made available for use by the new PCUs.
- 73 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Education Development Project
Quality Improvement Fund                                       3.40          0.30          3.70
Standards and Assessments Agency                               3.10          0.60          3.70
Education Management Information System (EMIS)                  1.10          1.00         2.10
Higher Education COMPONENT                                     3.00          0.50          3.50
LSMS                                                           0.50          0.10          0.60
Project Management                                             0.90          0.10          1.00
Total Baseline Cost                                            12.00         2.60         14.60
Physical Contingencies                                        0.00          0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies                                           0.00          0.00          0.00
Total Project Costs                  12.00          2.60         14.60
Total Financing Required                    12.00         2.60         14.60
Goods and Equipment                                              0.20           0.40          0.60
Services and Training                                            1.60           2.10          3.70
Quality Fund                                                     3.00           0.00          3.00
Higher Education Fund                                            2.50           0.00          2.50
LSMS                                                             0.50           0.10          0.60
Recurrent Costs                                                  4.20           0.00          4.20
Total Project Costs         12.00          2.60         14.60
Total Financing Required          12.00           2.60         14.60
- 74 -



Annex 4
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Education Development Project
Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Calculating social and individual rates of return to education for Bosnia is not deemed
necessary for justification of this project for several reasons: (1) comparable rate of return
analysis exists for other countries at Bosnia's stage of development and transition which
demonstrate uniformly high social rates of return, particularly to investments in primary
education; (b) such an analysis in Bosnia, at this time, would likely be exceedingly difficult
and unreliable given data constraints, labor market distortions, the current quality problems in
education and high unemployment; and (c) because the project is focused on improving
primary education and on inter-constituent-group cooperation, it is well-justified on equity
grounds. In addition to the long term contribution of investments in education to labor
productivity, labor market flexibility and increased income, the social rate of return to
investing in primary education in Bosnia is likely to be significant given the focus in primary
education on developing broad societal values and other externalities, including improved
mother-child health.
Through its focus on inter-constituent group cooperation and the creation of a knowledge
base for education in BiH, the project is expected to make a significant contribution in the
medium-to-long term to improving the efficiency and effectiveness of public resource
allocation for education. However, the lack of reliable and consistent information on
financial inputs across BiH and the lack of any standardized information on system
effectiveness makes it impossible at this time to establish a baseline of information and
indictors with which to measure cost-effectiveness over time in the system. The project is, in
fact, aimed at building capacity and creating information that will permit such a baseline to
be established and such analysis to be undertaken in the medium term.
- 75 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Education Development Project
Years Ending
4
1'S  .E,.E.M,.IMPW W NNI ttJ PERi'
I Year 1I Year 2  1 Year 3  P Year 4 l Year 5    Year 6    Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs             2.4         3.6        2.9         1.3        0.0         0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs               1.0        1.3         1.1        1.0         0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Proiect Costs            3.4         4.9        4.0         2.3        0.0         0.0       0.0
Total Financing                3.4         4.9        4.0         2.3        0.0         0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                     3.0        4.1         2.5        1.0         0.0       0.0         0.0
Government                   0.1        0.3         0.7        1.0         0.0       0.0         0.0
Central                  0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
Provincial               0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Co-financiers                0.3        0.5         0.8        0.3         0.0       0.0         0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries      0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0
Others                       0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0
Total Project             3.4         4.9        4.0         2.3        0.0        0.0         0.0
Financing
- 76 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Education Development Project
Procurement
The total value of the Project is US$14.6 million, of which IDA Credit will finance
US$10.6 million and the Italian Government will finance US$1.2 million through an IDA
managed Trust Fund Agreement. The Project will be implemented by PCUs to be established in
the Federation and RS Entities of BiH. The RS PIU is successfully implementing the Second
Emergency Education Reconstruction Project, a project which preceded this one. The RS PIU
will be converted into the new PCU, and the present RS PIU director will become the PCU
director of the new project as well. The Federation PCU will hire new staff with skills relevant to
the implementation of the new project. The procurement activity in this project is limited since
50% of the IDA contribution will be disbursed through the Quality Fund and Higher Education
Fund mechanisms, with special procurement arrangements (see below). The total value of goods
to be procured under the project is about US$0.6 million. The total value of foreign and local
consulting services and training to be procured under an IDA and the Italian TF is about US$2.7
million. The Bank's standard bidding documents will be included in the Project Operational
Manual (POM) and would be utilized for the procurement of IDA-financed goods and consultants
services. Sample contracts for the Quality Fund and the Higher Education fund will also be
included in the POM.
All IDA financed procurement of goods will be carried out in accordance with the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
January 1995, and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999.
Consulting services and training shall be procured in accordance with the "Guidelines: Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published by the Bank in January
1997, and revised in September 1997 and January 1999.
A capacity assessment of the Implementing agencies has been carried out. Based on the
procurement risk assessment, an action plan has been finalized and included in the POM.
Procurement methods (Table A)
(a) Goods and Ecquipment (US$ 0.6 million) Goods to be financed under the Credit include:
office equipment, computers, off-the-shelf software, furniture, materials, vehicles, and equipment
for reproduction of examinations.
(i).   International Competitive Biding (ICB). Goods and equipment which are estimated to
cost more than US$100,000 per contract may be procured using ICB procedures;
(ii).  International Shopping (IS). Goods and equipment contracts costing less than
US$100,000 per contract may be procured by IS procedures. International Shopping
procedures will be based on comparing price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers
from two different countries in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
(iii).  National Shopping (NS). Goods and equipment contracts estimated to cost US$50,000
equivalent or less per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
national shopping procedures in accordance with the Guidelines.
(iv).  Direct Contracting (DC). Goods which are of a proprietary nature may, with the
Associations' prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the Guidelines.
- 77 -



(b) Consulting Services and Training (US$ 3.4 million)
Services to be financed under the Credit include: consulting services, training courses,
fellowships and study tours; a public information campaign, research studies, surveys, design and
production of assessment instruments, and publication of assessment results and a contractual
agreement with UNDP for a single contract to implement the LSMS sub-component of the
Project. The majority of Bank-financed contracts for technical assistance and training would be
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) procedures (US$1.9 million
of which Italian TF US$0.2 million). A single-source contract would be entered with UNDP,
based on the criteria outlined in Section 3.9 of the Guidelines (see section (e) below), for the
contracting of services and minor purchases of equipment for the two Entity Statistical Institutes
(US$0.6 million). The contract with UNDP will be based on the Bank's standard form of contract
between UN Agencies and Borrowers. The public information campaign (US$0.05million)
contract will be selected under a Fixed Budget (SFB).
Selection of Individuals: International and local consulting services contracts in Components I -
4 will be hired according to Section V of the Guidelines. The value of these individual contracts
will range between US$5,000-50,000 and the aggregate value of these contracts is US$150,000.
Requests for proposals for the public information campaign (SFB), and the recruitment of
international and local training in Component 2 will be invited by the Standards and Assessment
Agency. Arrangements for international and local training in Components 3 and 4 shall be
organized by the two PIUs and will follow standard Bank procurement procedures.
Non Bank Financed: Portion of the Technical Assistance (US$ 0.7 million) under Components 2
and 4 will not be Bank financed (NBF).
(c) Ouality Fund Grants (US$ 3.0)
The Quality Fund is designed to: (a) build capacity for diagnosing problems at the school level;
(b) enhance school community ownership of activities by their active participation starting at the
design stage of sub-projects; and (c) ensure prompt implementation by assuring
procurement/financing arrangements which will work at the school level. The PCUs will widely
advertise the activities to be supported through the Quality Fund by placing ads in major
newspapers, posters, radio announcements and colorful leaflets. Cantonal and Regional
authorities will distribute the Manuals for Preparation of Sub-projects, and the Guidelines for
Evaluation of Sub-projects to all schools in theirjurisdiction (included in the POM). The sub-
components to be supported by the Quality Fund include:
I . School grants (ranging between US$2,000 and US$10,000 per grant, per school) to be
awarded by a BiH-wide Quality Fund Board, to be supported by a small secretariat. These
grants would finance educational improvement projects which will be designed by teachers,
students and parents in participating primary schools and are aimed at improving teaching
practices. Procurement may include goods (paper, utensils, and materials), technical
assistance, and services (transportation, rental of conference rooms, meetings, etc.). Given
the nature of the School Grants, procurement of goods would be done through local shopping.
Sample grant agreements between the individual school and the PCUs are included in the
POM. A manual with criteria and guidelines for selection of grant awards has been prepared
and tested with assistance from technical assistance and approved by the Bank.
2. A system of Teacher Training Grants (of about US$150 per teacher) to reward primary
school teachers who are doing an exemplary job will be awarded by each school board,
following criteria and guidelines agreed with the Bank. Teachers will receive a voucher to be
- 78 -



used at the training institution of their choice. The PCUs will pay training institutions
directly. Guidelines, criteria for award, and sample training grants will be prepared by the
PCUs with technical assistance before January 2001 and will be approved by the Bank before
they are circulated to schools.
3. The Training Scholarships (ranging between US$100 and US$300) for teachers who need to
complete the courses for certification, will be awarded by each school board, following
criteria and guidelines agreed with the Bank. A manual with the criteria and guidelines will
be provided to teachers in schools that are implementing the school projects. Teachers will
be able to apply for the scholarships if they meet the required criteria. The scholarship will
cover the costs of attending in-service courses in the subject matter that the teacher is
teaching, specialized methods courses and courses that will help in the design and
implementation of education improvement projects. The application will include a
description of the course and the institution selected, the course fees, the transportation and
living allowances required. Teachers will receive a voucher to be used at the training
institution of their choice. The PCUs will pay training institutions directly. A manual with
criteria and guidelines for selection of award recipients will be prepared during
implementation with assistance from technical assistance and will be approved by the Bank.
4. Grants to Support Strengthening Teacher Training Institutions (ranging between US$10,000
and US$20,000). Guidelines and formats to be used by training institutions to present
proposals for funding will be prepared by the PCUs with international assistance, approved
by the Bank and discussed in a seminar with institutions that train teachers, including
university faculties and NGOs. Criteria will be developed in such a way as to encourage the
institutions to specialize in one subject area so that not all training institutions are offering
courses in all subject areas. Funding will not include construction or large equipment costs. It
will finance course development, staff development and contracts with specialized
institutions with which the partnerships will be established.
QU AL=    FUND PROCURE=UNT MJiCIHANISMS
Sub-component   Total Amount   Procurement             Eligible              Observations
Method              Expenditures
School Grants     US$ 2.0 million   The grants will range Goods (paper,     All receipts to be
between US$2,000    utensils, materials,    kept at the school
and US$10,000.      etc.), technical     level will be
Contract between the assistance, and     subject to post-
school and the PCU,  services            review by the
with detailed budget  (transportation, rental  Bank.
and procurement     of facilities, meetings,
plan.               etc.)
Training Grants    US$0.6 million   Grants ranging     Payment of US$100   Receipts will be
(US$150) and                       between US$100 and to US$300 will be      kept at the PCU
Training                           US$300 will be      made by the PCU to   and at the school
Scholarships                       awarded by the      the training institution  level for post-
(US$100-300).                      School Boards to    on behalf of the      review.
individual teachers   individual teachers
(voucher), and      who will have made
reimbursed by the    their selection with
PCU.                the "voucher".
- 79 -



Grants to Teacher  US$0.4 million   Grants ranging   Goods will have a    All receipts to be
Training                          between US$10,000  contract value       kept at the PCU,
Institutions                      and US$20,000.     threshold of US$3,000 will be subject to
Contracts will be  and will be procured   post-review by the
signed between the   by local shopping,    Bank.
training institutions   Technical assistance
receiving the grants  contracts will not
and the PCU.       exceed US$5,000.
Implementation    US$0.4          Salaries and services  Incremental Recurrent
Support                           paid by PCU        Costs
Implementation   US$0.3           Contracts with
Technical                         International Experts
Assistance                       in accordance with
World Bank
Guidelines.
Procurement under the Quality Fund would be exclusively for goods, technical assistance
and services based on criteria and procedures acceptable to the Bank. Each school/institution will
prepare a budget and procurement plan according to the instructions of the project preparation
manual as described in Annex 2 of the PAD, and further defined and discussed in the Project
Operational Manual (POM).
The small school grants (aggregate US$2.0 million) range between US$2,000 and
US$10,000 and will cover inter alia (a) goods such as teaching aids, library books, puppets,
costumes for theater representations and small pieces of equipment, (b) remuneration for
personnel services; and (c) the costs of advertising meetings through leaflets and posters and
facilitating attendance of parents and community members by providing adequate facilities and
snacks. Procurement of goods and services will be carried out by the school's board, following the
budget and procurement plan included in the project preparation manual and following local
procurement guidelines. Receipts will be kept in the schools for spot-check supervision and
audits. A secretariat to the Quality Fund Board, to be financed under the project, will supervise
the implementation and prepare consolidated reports. The Bank will supervise the procedures
followed by the Evaluation Board to approve the school grants. Purchases and contracts made by
the schools will not be subject to prior review procedures. However, ex-post review of the
School Grants award process, as well as ex-post review of contracts awarded by schools would be
conducted during project supervision, on a sample basis, covering not less than five percent of the
School Grants implemented.
The risk of misuse or fraud will be minimized by: (a) the sample contract to be signed
between the PCU and the winning school will contain a clause to assure the utilization of funds
according to agreed objectives, as well as a remedies section, which will include the possibility of
excluding a school which does not comply with agreed procedures and/or funds utilization, and
recovery of the amounts misused; (b) the multi-representative nature of the project design and
implementation, where the community, teachers and students are involved, should be a natural
self-control mechanism; (c) periodic quality supervision will be carried out by the PCU Fund
Coordinator; (d) third party quality supervision will also be undertaken, on a sample basis, with
technical assistance to be hired specifically for this purpose; (e) supervision of financial flows
will be carried out by the PCU Fund Coordinator on a sample basis, and by independent auditors
- 80 -



acceptable to the Bank on a yearly basis; (f) in-depth supervision will be undertaken on a periodic
basis by the Bank Resident PAS and Operations Staff with support from the Budapest HD Hub.
Payment for training courses will be made by the PCUs to the training institutions after the
training grants and training scholarships are approved by each School Board and summarized at
the PCU level. Teachers will be given a "voucher" with which to select the training institution
where they wish to take a course. Each training institution will request payment from the relevant
PCU on the basis of the number of vouchers it has received. Receipts for payment will be kept at
the PCUs with copies at the school level (in 600 schools) and will be subject to supervision and
audits
Procurement of Goods and Services for the training institutions that receive institutional
grants (ranging between US$10,000 and US$20,000) will follow procurement procedures
described in the Grant Preparation Manuals to be approved by the Bank. Goods to be procured
with the grants will have a contract value threshold of US$3,000 per item and will include inter-
alia teaching aides, small equipment, as well as construction materials needed for small facility
maintenance and repair contracts. These goods will be procured through National Shopping
procedures or Direct Contracting for proprietary goods. Services contracts will not exceed
US$5,000 and will cover payment to trainers and for services provided by partner institutions.
Contracts and payment receipts will be subject to random post-review.
Quality evaluation and procurement auditing of Quality Fund activities will be undertaken
twice a year by consultants to be hired under the project (see terms of reference in the POM).
Financial auditing of Quality Fund activities will be undertaken by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank at the same time as the rest of the project is audited once a year.
(d) Higher Education - Higher Education Fund (HEF) (US$2.5 million)
The Higher Education Fund would be designed to: (a) stimulate strategic planning and
efficient financial management practices at -the institutional level in the higher education sector in
BiH; (b) support implementation of innovative institutional initiatives targeting university-wide
programs and services; and (c) ensure prompt implementation by assuring procurement/financing
arrangements which will work at the University level. The PCUs will widely advertise the types
of activities to be supported through the Higher Education Fund by placing ads in all university
campuses and major newspapers, posters, and radio announcements. The Council of Higher
Education, through its Secretariat and Institutional Development Plan (IDP) Sub-Committee will
be responsible for distributing the guidelines for preparation of proposals and for their evaluation
to all universities in BiH.
Once the Council of Higher Education and its sub-units have been established, the
Secretariat, assisted by technical assistance financed under the project, will be responsible for:
(a) developing the guidelines for preparation of applications by the participant universities
including standard formats, size of grants, expected outcomes, budget preparation guidelines, etc.;
(b) developing advertisement and evaluation methodologies; and (c) developing outreach,
monitoring and supervision tools. The Council of Higher Education will receive international
technical assistance to perform these responsibilities, and the respective TORs are included in the
POM.
Although certain procedures are yet to be confirmed pending establishment of a Council of
Higher Education, the Borrower and the Bank envisages the following modus operandi.
Procurement of Grants under the HEF (aggregate US$2.5 million) would be exclusively for
- 81 -



goods, technical assistance, and services based on criteria and procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Procedures will be described in the Grant Preparation Manuals to be developed during
implementation with assistance from international consultants, and approved by the Bank.
Participating Universities would prepare a budget and procurement plan according to the
instructions of the Project Preparation Manual. No proposal funded under the HEF will exceed
$200,000 unless specially authorized by the Bank, although institutions will be able to fund
follow up proposals following one year of implementation of the initial proposal. Activities to be
financed under the HEF are expected to include (a) goods such as small pieces of equipment,
including computers and software; subscription to relevant journals and periodicals; as well as
construction materials needed for small facility maintenance and repair contracts; (b)
remuneration for personnel services, software development and provision of technical assistance;
(c) the cost of advertising and dissemination of activities/findings to all faculties within a
university; and (d) study tours. Procurement of goods and services will be carried out by each
participating University, with direct support and guidance from the PCU Procurement
Coordinator. The procurement procedures and ceilings which would be applicable to HEF
contracts, are the same as those determined for the overall Project for goods and services.
Together with the presentation of funding proposals, Universities will be required to present a
procurement plan to be assessed by the IDP Sub-Committee as a part of the overall project
proposal evaluation. The PCUs Procurement Coordinators will be responsible for ensuring
compliance of HEF contracts with Bank procedures.
The Bank will approve the grant preparation manual and will supervise the procedures to
be followed by the Council of Higher Education and its Secretariat to approve the Grants. The
risk of misuse or fraud will be minimized by: (a) the contract to be signed between the University
and the PCUs will contain a clause to assure the utilization of funds according to agreed
objectives; (b) the contract will also contain remedies such as exclusion from further Fund awards
- to be determined by the Higher Education Council - in the event of lack of compliance; (c)
periodic quality supervision will be carried out by the PCU HEF Coordinator; (d) third party
quality supervision will also be undertaken, on a sample basis, with technical assistance to be
hired specifically for this purpose (see terms of reference in the POM); (e) supervision of
financial flows will be carried out by the PCUs on a sample basis, and by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank on a yearly basis; and (f) in-depth supervision will be undertaken on a
periodic basis by the Bank Resident Staff with support from the Budapest HD Hub.
(e) Living Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS) Component (US$0.6 million)
During the past few months a series of donors are proposing to invest substantive
resources in a variety of household surveys in Bosnia and Herzegovina in an effort to build real
sustainable capacity in the country. UNDP has been one of the leading agencies participating in
these efforts and will also contribute financially in some of the proposed surveys, i.e. a labor
force survey, an income and expenditures survey, and the LSMS. In order to expedite
implementation, the Bank will finance a Cost Sharing Agreement (CSA with local execution) to
be entered between UNDP and the Federation and Republika Srpska PCUs. This CSA will be co-
financed in the amount of US$0.6 million by the World Bank, and in the amount of US$0.5
million by UNDP with funds provided by the Japanese Govemment. UNDP will exceptionally
waive its fee for handling this cost-sharing contribution. The World Bank will share the cost of
the program manager who will facilitate the implementation of the project. This modus operandi
will permit a rapid implementation of the component, with adequate financial supervision from
UNDP, which is already staffed in Sarajevo for this purpose. UNDP will hire a Project Manager
for the LSMS on the basis of terms of reference and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank.
UNDP will also be responsible for the procurement of a small amount of equipment for the two
Entity Statistical Institutes (about US$60,000) with specifications acceptable to the Bank. This
- 82 -



single source contract would be apportioned 66.6/33.7% between the two entity PCUs
(Federation/RS).
(fl Incremental Recurrent Costs (US$ 5.1 million)
IDA will finance the operating costs of the Assessments and Standards Agency and the
operating costs of the PCUs including staff salaries, project related travel and subsistence, vehicle
insurance, operation and maintenance cost for equipment, office maintenance and supplies over
the life of the project on a declining basis. These cost will be subject to IDA approval on an
annual basis. The Government of BiH will finance 50% of incremental recurrent costs on an
increasing basis and will be expected to finance these costs fully by the time of completion of the
Project.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method'
Expenditure Cateogry         ICB         NCB         Other2         N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                      0.00        0.00         0.00          0.00           0.00
(0.00)     (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                      0.40        0.00         0.20          0.00           0.60
(0.40)     (0.00)        (0.20)        (0.00)         (0.60)
3. Services                   0.00        0.00         2.70          0.70           3.40
(0.00)     (0.00)        (2.50)        (0.00)         (2.50)
4. GrantslFund                0.00        0.00         5.50           0.00          5.50
(0.00)     (0.00)        (4.50)        (0.00)        (4.50)
5. Recurrent Costs            0.00        0.00         3.00          2.10           5.10
(0.00)     (0.00)       (3.00)         (0.00)        (3.00)
Total                      0.40       0.00         11.40          2.80          14.60
(0.40)     (0.00)       ( 10.20)       (0.00)         10.60)
I/   Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
2/   Includes goods, services and funds to be procured through:
QCBS = Quality and Cost-Based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least Cost Selection
Other = Single Source Selection (US$0.6 million) and Selection of individual consultants (US$0.15
million) (per Section V of Consultant Guidelines)
NS =National Shopping
IS = International Shopping
Grants/Fund = Refer to procurement paragraph under the Quality Fund description (Annex 2); and to
procurement paragraph under the Higher Education Fund description (Annex 2). Each fund will include
use of shopping procedures and direct contracting of proprietary items.
- 83 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Oo;ltn Sev.e Total;
A. Firms               1.90     0.00      0.05      0.00      0.00      0.60     0.70      3.25
(1.70)   (0.00)   (0.05)    (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.60)   (0.00)   (2.35)
B. Individuals        0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.15      0.00      0.15
(0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.15)   (0.00)   (0.15
Total   1.90       0.00      0.05      0.00      0.00     0.75      0.70     3.40
(1.70)   (0.00)    (0.05)    (0.00)   (0.00)2.0)
I\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS  Quality-based Selection
SFB  Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Single Source Selection and Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of
Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 84 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Procurement of goods and services will be carried out according to the agreed procurement plan
described in Table D and will be subject to the reviews noted in Table B of this Annex. The
Bank's prior review of procurement will cover all ICB and DC packages, the first five IS and NS
packages, all Quality Fund Grants over US$20,000 equivalent, all Higher Education Fund Grants
over 100,000 equivalent, and in particular, the following: a) master list of equipment, packaging
of bids and update cost estimates; b) all ICB contracts for goods; c) terms of reference for all
consulting assignments; d) all direct contracting; and e) all consulting contracts with individual
consultants. With respect to prior review. the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix I of the Guidelines shall apply.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contracts Subject
Expenditure          Contract Value         Procurement                 to
Category              Threshold              MeWod              Prior Review
(US$ thousands)                              (US$ miions}
1. Works
2. Goods                      >100,000                ICB                 0.50(al1)
50,000 - 100,000            IS
<50,000                NS                  0.10(all)
3. Services                                          QCBS                  1.9(all)
SFB                0.05 (all)
Single Source (SS)        0.60(all)
Individual Consultants      0.15 (all)
(IC)
4. Operating Costs                *                   N/A
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
1 Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:            US$ 3.30 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 3 months (includes
special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Post Review will apply to one in five contracts.
* As per approved budgets.
- 85 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Because an acceptable disbursement mechanism based on PMRs is not in place, disbursement
will be made using the Bank's traditional disbursement method based on Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) during the project's first year. The PCUs' financial management capacity
will be reviewed after one year and if it is considered that they have gained sufficient experience
with the FMS and reporting using PMRs, they may switch to PMR-based disbursement.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expend 6>iMtu   Ctgor           ren                  inacing Perhenta geXV
(1) Goods and Equipment                 0.30            100% of foreign expenditures;
Part A of the Project                        100% of local expenditures (ex-factory); and
(the Federation)                             85% of local expenditures for other procured
locally
(2) Consultants' services and           1.00                      100%
Training
Part A of the Project
(the Federation)
(3) Quality Fund Grants under Part      1.80            100% (of amounts disbursed)
A.l of the Project
(4) Higher Education Fund               1.20            100% (of amounts disbursed)
Grants under Part A.4 of the
Project
(5) Living Standards Measurement        0.40                      100%
Survey
(6) Incremental operating costs of      1.20         90% of expenditures incurred through
the Standards and Assessment                           December 31, 2001;
Agency                                        60% of expenditures incurred through June
30, 2003;
30% of expenditures incurred thereafter
(7) Incremental Operating costs         0.50         90% of expenditures incurred through
under Part A of the Project                            December 31, 2001;
60% of expenditures incurred through June
30, 2003;
30% of expenditures incurred thereafter
(8) Unallocated under Part A of the     0.67
Project
(9) Goods and Equipment                 0.15            100% of foreign expenditures;
Part B of the Project                         100% of local expenditures (ex-factory); and
(Republika Srpska)                            85% of local expenditures for other procured
locally
(10) Consultants' services and          0.50                      100%
Training
Part B of the Project
(Republika Srpska)
- 86 -



Expenditure Category           Amount In            Financing Percentage
UIS$million
(I 1) Quality Fund Grants under Part    0.90             100% (of amounts disbursed)
B. I of the Project
(12) Higher Education Fund              0.60             100% (of amounts disbursed)
Grants under Part B.4 of the
Project
(13) Living Standards Measurement      0.20                       100%
Survey
(14) Incremental operating costs of     0.60         90% of expenditures incurred through
the Standards and Assessment                            December 31, 2001;
Agency                                        60% of expenditures incurred through June
30, 2003;
30% of expenditures incurred thereafter
(15) Incremental Operating costs       0.25         90% of expenditures incurred through
under Part B of the Project                             December 31, 2001;
60% of expenditures incurred through June
30, 2003;
30% of expenditures incurred thereafter
(16) Unallocated Under Part B of the    0.33
Project
Total Project Costs                     10.60
Total                                   10.60
Use of statements of expenditures
(SOEs):
Replenishment applications should be submitted on a monthly basis and must be fully
documented and supported by bank statements and reconciliation statements. Disbursements will
be made against SOEs for contracts for: goods less than US$ 100,000 equivalent; consultant
contracts less than US$ 50,000 for individuals and US$ 100,000 for firms; Quality Fund Grants
less than US$ 20,000 equivalent; Higher Education Fund Grants less than US$ 100,000
equivalent; and all incremental operating expenditures. This documentation will be made
available for the required audit as well as to Bank supervision missions, and will be retained by
the PCUs for at least one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which
disbursement was made.
Special account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, the borrower will establish, maintain and operate,
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, two separate Special Accounts for the
Federation and RS PCUs, respectively. The authorized allocation will be US$ 600,000 for the
Federation and US$ 300,000 for the RS. Upon effectiveness, the borrower may send a withdrawal
application for US$ 300,000 (Federation) and US$ 150,000 (RS) representing 50% of the
authorized allocation. When the amount withdrawn from Credit account and the outstanding
Special Commitment amount to SDR 2,000,000 (Federation) and SDR 1,000,000 (RS) the
borrower may withdraw the remaining balance of US$ 300,000 (Federation) and US$ 150,000
(RS).
- 87 -



Table D: Procurement Plan
t~I                         2     |     3                                g  l;    4  6Et.0SAu* =,dP;  ,7,0 ,0a t . e 
1. Consultants' Services and
Training
TA for Quality Improvement     CS          N/A          0.5      QCBS        May-00      Jul-00     Sep-00  | Aug-03
Fund
Training for schools and       CS          N/A          0.1        IC      Series of workshops, seminars through life of the
institutions                                                               project
TA for Standards and           CS          N/A          0.1      QCBS        May-00      Jun-00     Oct-00     Feb-04
Assessment Agency                                                                     I_I                __
Training for Agency Staff      CS          N/A         0.05        IC      Series of workshops, seminars through life of the
project
Public Information Campaign    CS          N/A         0.05       SFB        Sep-00      Oct-00     Jan-01     Dec-02
TA for EMIS                    CS          N/A          1.0      QCBS    GPN- April   Oct-00        Apr-01     Jan-04
SPN-May
00 TOR Sep
°° __ _  Sep00
Extemal Audit                  CS           I           0.1       LCS      Annual audit due by end of each
____________ ____________ ___  _______ _  _________ project  FY
TA for Higher Education Fund   CS           1           0.2      QCBS    GPN- April  Nov-00         Feb-01     Jun-04
SPN-June
00 TOR Sep
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  .__ _ _ _ _ _   0 0
CSA for LSMS component         CS           I           0.6        SS         N/A         N/A       Aug-00     Jan-04
- 88 -



1                 2           3_4 _.                  5         6 Estimated Dates
Description          Type 2    Nuumber of   E Estimated Procuremetit  Prepare  Invitation t   Award    Contract
.______________________I______  slices/items /sub*  Cost 4    Method Sj Tendvring  Bid  Contract  Completion
II. Goods and Equipment
Computer Equipment for EMIS    G            1          0.4       ICB       May-Sep 1 Oct-00  | May-01         Dec-01
2000                    1       _
Computer equipment, furniture  G          N/A         0.15       IS/NS    Equipment and vehicles to be purchased over 4
and vehicles for the Standard                                             months period after Agency establishment scheduled
and Assessment Agency                                                     for July 2000 on the basis of ager;cy operating
budget
Computer equipment, furniture  G          N/A         0.05        NS      Additional equipment and vehicles to be purchased
and vehicles for PCUs                                                     over 6 months period after project effectiveness
III. Quality Fund
School Grants                Grants       N/A          2.0       Other    Series of school grants (ranging between US$2,000
and US$10,000), starting Sep-00 trough Sep 03
Teacher Incentives           Grants       2,000        0.4       Other    Series of rewards for primary school teachers
Jan-0 1/Dec-03
Institution Grants           Grants        25          0.6       Other   Grants of about US$20,000 Jan-
02/Dec-03
IV. Higher Education Fund
Grants                       Grants       N/A          2.5       Other   Grants allocated on a basis of compliance with
I        I              I         I t         lagreed criteria
V. Recurrent Costs
Operating costs for the       Other      Various       2.0       Other    Series of small procurements through life of the
Standards and Assessment                                                  project
Agency
- 89 -



DEsEcrxipto  I               Type 2       Nube of    Esti e   Procu en              Prir    Init'ation to    Awronrc
Project management /              Other        Various          0.5        Other    Series of small contracts for Quality Fund, EMIS
coordination expenses                                                                 and Higher Education Fund through life of the
.___ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____   ____project
PCU's Operating Expenses          Other        Various          0.5        Other    Series of small procurements trough
life of the project
TOTAL                                              11.8*
*lncludes IDA Credit and Italian TF Financing to be executed by IDA.
I Name of Package or contract
2 G for goods; CS for consulting services
3 Number of slices, major items or sub-packages expected in the package.
4 Expenses in US$ million
5 QCBS, Individual Consultants (IC) for consultant services; ICB, IS, NS for goods; NCB for Grants; other for recurrent costs on the basis of the
administrative procedures based on acceptable schedule and budget
- 90 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Education Development Project
Project Schedule                                 Planned                    Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       12                          10
First Bank mission (identification)              05/17/99                    05/17/99
Appraisal mission departure                      11/29/99                     11/29/99
Negotiations                                     03/06/2000                  03/20/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    09/29/2000
Prepared by:
Government of BiH
Preparation assistance:
Government of Netherlands Trust Fund
Government of New Zealand Trust Fund
Prior PHRD Grant
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                            Specialty
Jim Stevens                             Team Leader/Governance
Ilona Szemzo                            Operations Officer/Fund Mechanisms
Peter Darvas                            Higher Education
Himelda Martinez                        Professional Development of Teachers
Zorica Lesic                            Project Implementation
Luis Pisani                             Consultant, Fund Mechanisms
Jake Allsop                             Consultant, Student Assessments
Eric Pedersen                           Consultant, EMIS/Education Finance
Chai Ting                               Financial Management
Lucas Janssens                          Procurement
Jasmina Hadzic                          Team Assistant, BiH
Imelda Mueller                          Program Assistant, HQ
Barbara Bruns                           Peer Reviewer, WB Education Network
Patrick Supane                          Peer Reviewer, WB Education Network
Robert Fuderich                         Peer Reviewer, UNICEF, Geneva
Kinnon Scott                            Economist (LSMS)
Dilek Barlas                            Lawyer
Joe Formoso                             Disbursement Officer
- 91 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Education Development Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
A Project Operational Manual, with detailed implementation plans by component, is available
upon request.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Proposal for a Standards and Assessment Agency, Jake Allsop, Assessment Consultant
2. Proposal for a Per Student Block Grant Education Financing Pilot, Eric Pedersen,
Education Management Consultant
C. Other
*Including electronic files
92 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Education Development Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions            disbursementsa
Project ID            Borrower             Purpose                     IBRD       IDA          Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Rev'd
FY
P044523       1999  Bosnia-Herzegov        BASIC HEALTH                 000        1000          000         9.37       047        000
P059763       1999  Bosnia-Herzegov        CULT. HERITAGE PILOT         0.00        4.00         0.00        3.88       2.27       0.00
P045313       1998  Bosnia-Herzegov        EDUCATION RECONSTR           0 00       11.00         0 00        1.11       1 52       0.00
P045483       1998  Bosnia-Herzegov        ELEC POWER II                0.00       25.00         0.00       23.04      22.59       000
P050892       1998  Bosnia-Herzegov        EMPILOTCREDIT(RS)            0.00        5.00         0.00        0.31       0.26       0.00
P045310       1997  Bosnia-Herzegov        EMGPUBWORKS&EMPL             0.00       10.00         0.00        0.61       0.79       0.00
P062936        1999  Bosnia-Herzegov       ENTEXPFACIL(BEEF)             0.00      12.00         0.00       10.11       3.54       000
P048461        1999  Bosnia-Herzegov       ENTER & BANKING PRIV         0.00       50.00         0.00       25.33      -0.44       0.00
P044522        1997  Bosnia-Herzegov       ESSEN. HOSPITAL SERV          000       15.00         0.00         1.34      2.19       0.00
P045134       1998  Bosnia-Herzegov        FORESTRY                      0.00       7.00         0.00        6.20       2 70       0.00
P056192       1999  Bosnia-Herzegov        LOCAL DEVELOPMENT            0.00       15.00         0.00       14 25      -0.07       0.00
P045311       1997  Bosnia-Herzegov        LOCAL INITIATIVES             0.00       7.00         0.00        0.13       0.40       000
P055432       1999  Bosnia-Herzegov        PFSAC II                     0.00       72.00         0.00       43.66      68.76       0.00
P048462       1998  Bosnia-Herzegov        RECON ASST-REPUBLIKA          0.00       17.00        0.00        2.34       1.58       0.00
P045484       1998  Bosnia-Herzegov        TRANSPORT RECON. II          0.00       39.00         0.00        3.62       4.11       0.00
Total:   0.00      299.00         0.00      145.30     110.67       000
- 93 -



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1 -Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval      Company                 Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
1997/99          Bosnia Micro             0.00    0.27     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.27     0.00    0.00
1985             Energoinvest             7.92    0.00     0.00    0.00     7.92    0.00     0.00     0.00
1997             Enterprise Fund          0.00    1.80     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.39     0.00     0.00
1998             SEF Akova                1.91    0.00     0.00    0.00     1.91    0.00     0.00    0.00
1999             SEF Bosnalijek          0.00     0.00     2.23    0.00     0.00    0.00     2.23     0.00
1999             SEFKopex                2.10     0.00     0.00    0.00     2.10    0.00     0.00     0.00
1998             SEF Lignosper           2.08     0.00     0.00    0.00     1.81     0.00    0.00    0.00
1999             SEF Lijanovici          2.26     0.00     0.00    0.00     2.26     0.00    0.00     0.00
1997             Sarajevska              3.24     0.00     0.00    0.00     3.24     0.00    0.00    0.00
1977             TKA Cazin               3.34     0.00     0.00    0.00     3.34    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998             Wood Agency-AL          4.48     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998             Wood Inga                1.58    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.32     0.00    0.00    0.00
0                Wood Konjuh              2.26    0.00     0.00     0.00    2.01     0.00     0.00    0.00
0                Wood Kozara              1.58    0.00     0.00    0.00     1.33    0.00     0.00    0.00
0                Wood Podgradci           1.13    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.93     0.00     0.00    0.00
1998             Wood Vrbas               1.58    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.32     0.00    0.00    0.00
Total        35.46    2.07     2.23     0.00    27.49    0.66     2.23    0.00
Portfolio:
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval             Company                          Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:         0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
- 94 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
Bosnia and Herzegovina at a glance4110
Bosnia   Europe&    Lowe-
POVEKtTY and SOCIAL                                   and      Contrat  middle.,        __             
Hersegovinta       Asia  Income        DeveoIpmenlt diamond*
Population,,mid-year (milfions)                       .4.          473       90                   Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas meft, ho   S$)                   92D       2.190     1,710
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                       3.9       1 039     1.657
Average annual growth, 1992418T
Population ()                                           10.1                  1.1     GNGrs
Labor force ()0.6                                                             1.5     GNGrs
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year avaIlable, 1992-98)                                 capita                       enrollment
Poverty (O of population below national poverty line)
Urban populatioo (%4of total population)                42          68        58
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        71          69        68
infant mortality (per 1;000 fi ve'births)               13          23        38
Child malnutrition (94 of children 4jnder 5).            ...                   .                Access to safe water
Access to safe water 1% Of population                                .        75
(Illteracy (% ofpopulationage f5+)                                   4        14
Gross primary enrollmen (% orschool-age population)                100       103            BsianHeegvn
Male                                                             101       105         -- Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                            99       100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG.TERMt TRENDS
1970    119818       19907     1998
Economic ratlos*
GDP (US$ billions)                              .3.5                         41
Gross domestec investmnent(GDP                  ,. .              4t.4      38.                      Trade
Exports of goods and servlces/GD)P             ..        .        28.       33.7
Gross domesti savingg/GDP                                .         4.2        1.1
Gross nationat savingslGOP                                        11.3      10.91
Current account balance/GOP                                                                st0.1  -27InvDomesti
Interest payments1GDP                                               ..       1.4                                  Invsten
Total debt/GOP                                                   11.:       7410      Savings
Total debt servichexports                      ..38.0.                       10.0
Present vslue of debt/GOP                      ..        ..                 6~00
Present valtueof debtla'xports                                             179.0
Indebtedness
1978-88  1988-981    199         1998   i9m1-02
(average annual growth)
GOP                                                   29.5         1 30      9,6          -''Bosnia and Herzegovina
GNP per capita                                 ..     2a.2         12.1      11,5           . -Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services         .         .,    53.3        33.7      17 0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1978     1988        1997      1998      Growth of Investment and GDP(%
(% of GDP)                                                                            8 
Agriculture                                     .        ..        17.0      15.8    60 -
Industry                                        .        ..       27.0       27.8    40I
Manufacturing                                                                       20.... .
Servic-es                                       .        ..        56.0      56.4      O
Private consumption                            ..        .            .        .      0±     93   94   95   96   97   99
General government consumption                  .GI                                                          ---D
Imports of goods and services                   .        ..       74.1      70.6                     G1~ ~ D
1978-88  1988-98        1997      1998     Growth of exports and Imports I%I
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    2.                                      0
Industry                                       ..        .            .15
Manufacturing                                                                        0
Services
Private consumption
General government consumption 
Gross domestic investment                       .        ..         3.7      -3.5            93   94   95           97   9o
Imports of goods and services                   .        ..        15.2       7.8                  Exports    O Imports
Gross national product                          .        ..        31.8      17.5
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond
will be incomplete.
-After debt rescheduling in 1998.



Bosnia and Herzegovina
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1978     1988        1997      1998       Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                            2 
(% change)                                                                                 20 T
Consumer prices (KM, Federation)                    ..       ..        14.0       5.0
Imp icit GDP deflator                               ..       ..          ..        ..       07                                        8
Government finance                                                                         -                                  9
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                       -20
Current revenue                                               ..       27.8      32.6    -30            -GDP deflator
Current budget balance                             ..        ..         1.3      -0.6                  O CPI (KM, Federation)
Overall surplus/deficit                            ..        ..        23.0      20.7
TRADE
(US$ millions)  1978  1988  1997  1998    Export and import levels (USS mill)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                          ..        575        817      3.000 T
Commodity 1                                                                              2,500                                    _
Commodity 2                                                            ..                2000 !
Manufactures
Total imports (cif)                                 ,                2,333      2,573      1.,00
Food                                                                                     1,000-
Fuel and energy                                             ..         ..                 500 -*                        i.
Capital goods                                               ..         ..         ..
92   93   94   95   99   97   99
Export price index (1995=100)
Import price index (1995=100)                                     .                                      Exports   *     Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
BALANCE milliofnPAY                              1978     1988        1997      1998       Current account balance to GDP(%)
(US$ milions)
Exports ot goods and services102                                                136 
Imports of goods and services                                 ..     2,606      2,864       -o  92   93
Resource balance                                              ..    -1,604    -1,498      T-10                   i
Net income                                                    ..      -228       -111     -1a
Net current transfers                               .                  772        510      -20                        I I       I
Current account balance                                       ..    -1,060    -1,098       .25
Financing items (net)                                        ..      1,151      1,014     -30
Changes in net reserves                            ..        ..        -91         85      -25
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)              ..       ..         80        175
Conversion rate (DEC, local KM/US$)                 ..       ..        1.73      1.76
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1978     1988        1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                             Composition of 1998 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                         ..       2,981     2,981
IBRD                                                        ..       566       596      |:|
IDA                                                        ..        292       437                                    A 596
Total debt service                                           ..        385        131
IBRD                                                        ..        36        35           F:400
IDA                                                        ..          2         2
Composition of net resource flows                                        2:437
Official grants                                            ..        996       917                                         8 437
Official creditors                                         ..        126       181
Private creditors & others                                  ..      -107        -75                                     Co77
Foreign direct investment                                   ..         0       100                                       C 77
Portfolio equity                                                      °0          0              E: 1.124             D 70
World Bank program (IBRD & IDA)
Commitments                                       0         0         77       100      |A-IBRD                         E-Blateral
Disbursements                                              6..         5       135       B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                                       ..          0          0      C - IMF                       G- Short-term
Net flows                                                   ..        65       135
Interest payments                                ..        ..         38        38
Net transfers                                    ..        ..         27        97
Including external financed public projects.
Development Economics                                                                                                           4/11/00
j jjSf.$j   j  jjjj'  jjjjjj0b, 0.,.      .:   "   s   j  jj"'  t  }+'jMi       Ei   jii'  i  ii   i tSiW   iiiij  ji:  oj~i^gtj.,.ai'j.j   ijjjj  iiijiji_ NW  i^  i  iii  



Annex 1 1
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Education Development Project
Project Financial Management
Review of Financial Management Arrangements
By Siew Chai Ting
General
A review of the Financial Management System was undertaken between November 1999 and
January 2000 to (a) assess the project's capacity and readiness for the implementation of LACI;
(b) review the presence of the necessary elements for sound project financial management system
such as internal controls, project accounting, project staffing and audit arrangements; and (c)
prepare a time-bound action plan for strengthening the financial management system to achieve
Project Management Report (PMR)-based disbursement that would assist the project to move
towards LACI. (A report on the Review of Financial Management System is included in the
project files).
Project Management and Coordination
The proposed Project is a single operation with two parts, one in each Entity (one in Republika
Srpska and the other in Federation of BiH). The Project Coordination Units (PCUs), created
within the Ministries of Education of each Entity, will be the implementing agency for the
Project. The PCUs will be charged with managing contracting and expenditure under the project
and coordinating project activities. They will be expected to share personnel support for
coordinating the Fund mechanisms. The current PIUs in the Federation and RS, established the
first and second Emergency Education Reconstruction Projects, will be transformed into PCUs
for each entity.
Staff ing
Each Entity would have, at the least, one full time position for an accountant with sound
credentials and experience in accounting (acceptable to the World Bank) to make good judgments
on the maintenance of the books of accounts and on the production of financial information. The
accountant in the PIU of RS is considered acceptable to the Bank. However, there is currently no
accountant in the PCU of Federation of BiH and the Ministry of Education should advertise for a
suitable candidate as soon as possible. The employment of suitable accountant in each entity will
be carried out by April 15, 2000.
Accounting
The project accounting will comply with the International Accounting Standards. The local
accounting standards, which are based closely on International Accounting Standards, have been
adopted by the FBiH for effectiveness from 1 January 1999 and from 1 January 2000 in RS.
Donor agencies are currently providing training to local accountants to familiarize them with the
new standards.
- 97 -



Project Accounting System
PCUs would be responsible for overall project financial management and accounting. PCUs
would maintain books of accounts for the project, prepare and disseminate financial statements
and financial management reports, and ensure timely audit of the financial statements. The
overall principles for project accounting are outlined below:
(i) Books of accounts for the project would be maintained by PCUs on double-entry
bookkeeping principles. Project accounts would be maintained using the computerized
accounting system.
(ii) Project accounting would cover all sources of project funds (including donors
contributions), and all utilization of project funds. All project-related transactions
(whether involving cash or not) would be accounted in the books of accounts. This
would include contributions made by donors. Disbursements made by the World Bank
and the Special Account maintained by BiH would also be included in the project
accounting system. Funds received from different sources would be identified separately
and reflected in the project accounts and financial statements
(iii) Project-related transactions and activities would be distinguished from other activities of
the project. This distinction would be effected at the data-capture stage. An identifiable
Trial Balance for the project capturing all project receipts, expenditures, and other
payments under the project would be prepared. A Chart of Accounts for the project will
be prepared. The Chart of Accounts conforms to the classification of expenditures and
sources of funds indicated in the project documents (Project Implementation Plan, Project
Appraisal Document, COSTAB model). The Chart of Accounts enables data to be
captured in a manner as to facilitate financial reporting of project expenditures by: (i)
project components; (ii) expenditure categories; (iii) disbursement categories; and (iv)
funding donors.
(iv) Project Financial Statements and financial reports would be fully based on the project
books of accounts, and substantially generated from the financial accounting system.
(v) Physical information on key performance indicators which can be readily linked to
financial costs would be maintained as part of the project financial management system.
Initially this would be maintained for some high cost items which account for a
significant portion of project cost, and for items for which data on physical activities can
be easily captured. These items have been identified and indicated in the Financial
Manual. This list would be gradually expanded during implementation.
Both PCUs currently do not have computerized accounting software which is capable of
producing PMRs in accordance with LACI requirements. The PCUs will design a Project
Financial Management Information System (MIS) during the course of Project preparation and
prior to effectiveness. The system will be designed keeping in mind, inter alia, an accounting
and internal control system with the capacity to record and retrieve in a timely manner, all
financial'transactions under the project. The accounting system will comply with internationally
accepted standards and will (i) reliably record and report all assets, liabilities, and financial
transactions of the project; (ii) provide reliable financial information for managing and
monitoring project activities, and (iii) provide quarterly PMRs on a timely basis. The accounting
system will be classified by component; it will reflect the sources of funds and will be broken
down into different types of expenditures for the project. Further, it will provide information on
the receipt and use of funds and will be able to produce financial reports comparing budget with
actual expenditures at any given time. The system will be capable of providing financial data to
measure performance when linked to the outputs of the project. This is an important element of
the financial management system.
- 98 -



Information Flow for Accounting Purposes
PCUs would generate and maintain vouchers and supporting documentation for expenditures on
all activities of the project. The PCUs will need to document the accounting transaction
information flow for accounting purposes, in particular the fund mechanism, EMIS and Standard
and Assessment Agency:
(i) Quality Fund - The PCUs management will make quality fund disbursements to the
recipients which are based on evaluation and review by the Quality Fund Evaluation
Board (QFEB). The technical secretariat of the QFEB will do the review and submit its
analysis to the QFEB approval.
(ii) Higher Education Fund - The PCUs management will make higher education fund
disbursements to the recipients which are based on evaluation and review by the Council
of Higher Education (the Council) The technical secretariat of the Council will do the
review and submit its analysis to the Council for approval.
(iii) Standards and Assessment Agency - The operating cost of the Agency will be shared by
the two PCUs. The two PCUs and the two entity governments will provide advances to
the Agency to cover the operating costs. These advances should be based on an approved
budget (monthly, quarterly and yearly), to be prepared by the Agency. The Agency will
make payments from these advances on the basis of regular claims (monthly or quarterly)
from the PCUs and the two entity governments. The payments would be supported by
appropriate documentation. The Agency must provide financial reports and reconciliation
with the advances to the PCUs and the governments, on a monthly basis. The Agency
must be capable of preparing budget, managing its financial and accounting controls,
preparing regular reports to the Bank and the two entity governments, and managing its
limited finances effectively. The implementation of a sound financial management
system in the Agency is critical and should be established before disbursements can be
made by the PCUs to the Agency.
(iv) EMIS - This component will have normal procurement arrangements for consultants and
goods. The accounting flow for these transactions will be based on approved contractual
agreements and approved suppliers' invoices The PCUs will approve disbursements to
consultants and suppliers based on contractual agreements and invoices. The
authorization must be prepared by the Accountant and signed by the Project Director.
(v) Living Standards Measurement Study Survey (LSMS) - This study survey is to enable
the Bosnian to have the data they need to draw up a reasonable Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (PRSP). This will be managed by the two PCUs, who will sign one
contractual (cost sharing) agreement with UNDP (66.6% for the Federation and 33.4%
for Republika Srpska). Payments will be based on the agreed contract and also based on
approved progress report from UNDP. The PCUs' auditors will need to audit the cost
sharing agreement, using copies of the original supporting documentation available in the
UNDP in BiH.
Financial Reporting
Both Entities will independently maintain accounts for their part of the Project and will ensure
appropriate accounting of the funds provided. Each Entity will be responsible for designing
appropriate PMRs and preparing PMR on a quarterly basis, and will furnish the PMRs for such
period to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, which:
(a) (i) sets forth actual sources and application of funds for the project, both cumulatively and
for the period covered by said report, and projected sources and applications of funds for
- 99 -



the project for the six-month period following the period covered by said report; and (ii)
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the
period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by said
report;
(b) (i) describes physical progress in project implementation, both cumulatively and for the
period covered by said report; and (ii) explains variances between the actual and
previously forecast implementation targets; and
(c) sets forth the status of procurement under the project and expenditures under contracts
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said
report.
A thorough presentation of the PMR requirements has been provided to the project staff. LACI
Implementation Handbook and Draft Project Financial Management Manual were provided to the
PCU in the RS and the Ministry of Education in the Federation.
Project Operational Manual (POM)
The POM, currently under preparation, will include a separate section on financial management
issues. This financial management section (or the financial manual), which is yet to be completed
by the PCUs, will cover: (a) the financial management system proposed under the project, with
special emphasis on accounting and auditing policies, standards and internal controls; (b) the role
of the financial management systems in project management and implementation; (c) the
accounting arrangements required for project management, the format for and content of project
financial reporting; (d) the auditing arrangements that will be used during project implementation,
and (e) budgeting and planning. The completion of the financial manual in each entity will be
carried out prior to effectiveness of the Project.
Risks
There are a few risks relating to financial management aspects: (i) inadequate internal controls
mechanism in PCUs; (ii) delays in preparation of project management reports; (iii) poor
accounting environment and few qualified accountants in BiH, (iv) misuse of the school grant
sub-component of the Quality Fund, and (v) high rate of perceived corruption. These risks are
considered as manageable due to the various risk-mitigation measures taken. Nonetheless, these
are highlighted here in view of their potential for adversely affecting project performance. These
aspects will be monitored closely as part of project supervision.
Internal control mechanisms by PCUs are not yet established and documented and could require
proper implementation. This risk is mitigated by insisting on the completion of the financial
manual prior to effectiveness. Financial manual will include the establishment of financial
policies and procedures, the proper delegation and segregation of financial authorities, the
implementation of proper internal control procedures, and installing proper budgeting and
planning process.
There is a risk that preparation of the project management reports would be delayed and that the
quality of the reports may be of variable or unsatisfactory quality, especially given that the PCUs
have not previously prepared project financial statements or PMRs. Timely preparation and use
of the project management reports, and satisfactory quality of these reports, are essential to
facilitate effective project management. The risk-mitigation factors are the substantial up-front
actions which are being taken on: (i) design of a comprehensive financial management system;
(ii) computerization of the financial management system; (iii) recruitment of key financial staff to
augment financial management capabilities. When there is a scarcity of appropriate software in
- 100 -



BiH, we can advise the borrower to look elsewhere for a proven software. Pending the
appointment of the qualified professional staff, disbursements from the IDA Credit will not be
made on the basis of Project Management Reports (PMRs), but will rather be made on the
traditional reimbursement basis. Disbursements will be converted to the PMR-based method,
after the key professional staffs have been recruited and the financial management system is
satisfactorily operated.
While there are few qualified accountants in BiH, this risk can be mitigated by stipulating the
profile of the desired accountant and ensuring that the Bank has a say in the recruited accountant.
When we conclude that the accounting environment is poor and we have chosen to work around it
and to build up the capacity within the project - by not leaving the financial management
arrangements entirely to the borrower but by specifying in detail what we want, via creating a
project coordination unit, i.e. ring-fence the project.
Concerning the School Grants sub-component of the Quality Fund, the risk of misuse or fraud
will be minimized in the following ways: (a) the contract to be signed between with PCU and the
winning schools will contain a clause to assure the utilization of funds according to agreed
objectives, as well as a remedies section, which will include the possibility of black-listing a
school which does not comply with agreed procedures and/or funds utilization; (b) the multi-
representative nature of the project design and implementation where the community, teachers
and students are involved should be a natural self-control mechanism; (c) periodic quality
supervision will be carried out by the PCU Fund Coordinator; (d) third party quality supervision
will be undertaken on a sample basis with technical assistance to be hired specifically for this
purpose; (e) supervision of financial flows will be carried out by the PCU on a sample basis and
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank on a yearly basis; and (f) overall supervision,
including procurement supervision, will be undertaken on a periodic basis by Bank Resident Staff
with support from the Hungary HD Hub.
During 1999 and subsequently, serious concerns had been raised concerning fraud, waste and
abuse of donor funds in Bosnia. The anti-fraud unit of the Office of the High Representative had
raised this issue. Media reports alleged losses of over $1 billion of donor funds. It has been
recognized that there has been an absence of a functioning legal framework and institutions of
law. Enforcement of law is recognized to be weak. In the 1999 Corruption Perception Index, BiH
was not included in the indices. However, we can extrapolate the likely ranking for BiH based on
its neighboring countries - Croatia was ranked #74 with the score of 2.7, Albania was ranked #84
with the score of 2.3, and Yugoslavia was ranked #90 with the score of 2.0. Therefore we can
reasonably estimate the ranking for BiH of around #80s and a score of low to mid 2.0s. This
index relates to perceptions of corruption as seen by business people, risk analysts and the general
public and ranges between 10 (highly clean) and 0 (highly corrupt). The perceived corruption is
principally in the area of procurement. Even though the project is to be implemented in a business
environment with a high rate of perceived corruption, the risk that Bank's fund will not used as
intended for financing the defined investment program is judged as acceptable by "ring-fence"
the project through the establishment of PCUs and the recruitment of suitably qualified
accounting and procurement staff. Furthermore the project has identified several steps, indicated
in the paragraph above, to minimize the risk of misuse or fraud of the Bank's fund.
Cost and Financial Performance
The project's financing plan, which includes credits and revenues from the bank and the
government, and the project's planned expenditures have been realistically estimated and that the
project is financially sustainable. The project is currently seeking third parties financing which
wil l reduce the funding required from the government. The cost tables are based on realistic
assumptions, including current information on the number of students in each canton for the
Quality Fund, TA-prepared requirement tables for the Quality Fund, external consultants'
- 101 -



estimates for the running costs of the Standards and Assessment Agency, and reasonable
estimates for the operating expenses for these components. In order to facilitate the
implementation of PMRs, the project's cost tables include an appropriate cost matrix which
adequately shows the relationship between the loan agreement categories and project
components.
Auditing Arrangements
Both PCUs will be responsible for ensuring that the financial statements, special account, and
Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) or Project Management Reports (PMRs) are audited by an
independent international auditor, a member of a professional body that is a member of the
International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) and acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with
standards on auditing that are acceptable to the Bank.
The annual audit will be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines for Financial Reporting
and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank (March 1982). The audit report shall be in
a format in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing promulgated by the
International Federation of Accountants (IFAC). The audit report will include a separate opinion
for SOEs or PMRs against which disbursements have been made or are due to be made from the
Credit and SOEs or PMRs which will be included in the audit report accompanying the financial
statements.
The audited financial statements of the special accounts, and SOEs or PMRs of the preceding
fiscal year, including a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements made against certified
statement of expenditures, will be sent to the Bank within six (6) months of the end of the
Government's fiscal year.
The audit of the financial statement will include: (a) an assessment of the adequacy of accounting
and internal control systems to monitor expenditures and other financial transactions and ensure
safe custody of project-financed assets; (b) a determination as to whether the project
implementing entities have maintained adequate documentation on all relevant transactions; and
(c) verification that expenditures submitted to the Bank are eligible for financing, and
identification of any ineligible expenditures.
Presently the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations (MFTER) signed a 3-year
contract (1998-2000, renewal yearly) with PriceWaterhouseCoopers Netherlands for the audit of
all Bank's financed projects (excluding revenue-earning entities) in BiH. The summary of 1998
project audits include:
* 12 audit certificates were received by 30 June 1999 and 6 projects which did not meet the
audit covenant deadline were all received by mid-July 1999.
* No qualification on any audit project financial statements
* No significant financial risks were identified during the audit of the Bank's financed projects
*  No major weaknesses but some internal control weaknesses were reported in the management
letters. The weaknesses reported include:
- Reconciliation of disbursement summaries with Project Financial Statements
- Internet Information about disbursements by the World Bank not accessible by PlUs
- Reconciliation of SOEs to the Project Financial Statements
- Transfer of money to local bank account
- Current financial position of local banks
- Only one ZPP account per PIU
- Amendments to contracts and reallocation of budgets by the World Bank
- 102-



- Loans in SDR and grants in currencies other than US Dollars
- Financial Reporting not complying with the World Bank's prescribed format
In January 2000, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations signed an annex to the
original contract with the same auditing firn for the 1999 audits, which will commence in
February 2000. It is expected that all audited project financial statements for the year ended 31
December 1999 would be received before 30 June 2000. This arrangement would be acceptable
to the World Bank.
By 30 April 2000, the PCUs will need to submit a written notification to the Bank from the
Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH that the Education Development
Project will be included in the global auditing contract. It is expected that the cost of audit will be
partly financed from the credit.
Disbursements
It is expected that the proceeds of the Credit will be disbursed over a period of four years, which
includes six months for completion of accoupts and submission of withdrawal applications. As
there is no standard disbursement profile for Bosnia and Herzegovina, the disbursement forecast
is based on the Bank's experience in financing similar projects in other ECA countries, and other
projects in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Project's Closing Date is estimated to be June 30, 2004.
Retroactive financing will be included, not to exceed 700,000 SDR, for consultant services,
operating costs and the LSMS study for expenditures made after March 30, 2000.
Disbursements from the IDA Credit will not be made on the basis of Project Management
Reports (PMRs) initially, but will rather be made on the traditional reimbursement basis.
Disbursements will be converted to the PMR-based method, after the key professional staffs have
been recruited and the financial management system is satisfactorily operated. The target date for
this conversion is I year after expected project start date.
Special Account
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government will establish, maintain and operate,
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, two separate overseas Special Accounts, A
and B, denominated in US Dollars for the Federation-PCU and the RS-PCU, respectively. The
authorized allocation for Special Account A (for Federation-PCU) will be US$ 600,000 and for
Special Account B (RS-PCU) will be US$ 300,000. The minimum amount of each application
should be 20% of the authorized allocation. Replenishment applications should be submitted at
least every three months, and must include reconciled bank statements as well as other
appropriate supporting documents.
The Government will be responsible for the appropriate accounting of the funds provided by IDA
under the Credit, for reporting on the use of these funds, and for ensuring that audits of the
financial statements or reports are submitted to the Bank. A computerized accounting system is
envisaged to be established by both PCUs. Independently, the accountants at the PCUs would
maintain accounts (for their part of the project) each preparing quarterly financial reports as part
of Project Management Reports.
Currently no local banks in the country could be considered totally reliable and financially sound.
It is therefore recommended that banks outside BiH should be used until local banking system is
improved.
- 103 -



Conclusion
It is concluded that the project does not currently satisfy the Bank's minimum financial
management requirements. An Action Plan was discussed with the existing PIU in RS and with
Ministry of Education in the Federation during appraisal. It will require the PCUs to design and
implement satisfactory financial management systems to address the above issues. Once this
time-bound Action Plan is carried out successfully, it is believed that the project will have
developed an accounting system that will be able to produce the required level of financial
management reports in a timely fashion.
Agreed Action Plan for tIle PCUs
In order to ensure that the project will have a sound financial management system in place, the
following time-bound Action Plan is presented:
*-4, AX0L    AW  *              _           SiEE   ,UjheX0D0 t;ffAX,;ffiNintiea4 ine
Recruit Project Accountant (for both Entities)             April 15, 2000
2     Submit a written notification to the Bank by the Ministry of Foreign  March 31, 2000
Trade and Economic Relations (MFTER) of BiH that the Education  (received March 22, 2000)
Development Project has been included among other projects to be
audited by the Auditor acceptable to the Bank.
3     Select and Purchase a computerized accounting software. This will   April 30, 2000
include defining the requirements of an accounting software, e.g.,
Multi-currency capability (transactions and reporting);
Language capability (e.g., Bosnian, English);
Accounting policies;
Reports required;
Contract monitoring and control; and
Compatibility with other project hardware and software
4     Design reporting requirements for review by Financial      May 31, 2000
Management Specialist. This will include
PMRs and other World Bank requirements;
Local accounting requirements;
Local tax requirements;
Other donor requirements;
Trust fund requirements;
_   Reporting currencies
5     Complete financial manual. This will include:              June 30, 2000
Accounting Policies and Procedures
Designing accounting flows and controls;
Flow of information/documents;
Flow of money;
Internal controls; and
Frequency of transaction and controls
Budgeting and Planning             .._.
6     Implementation of the computerized accounting software and  June 30, 2000
training of PCU's accounting staff on the accounting system
7     Visit by Financial Management Specialist to confirm adequacy of    July 15, 2000
Project financial management arrangements.
8     Implementation of a financial management system for the    By Disbursement
Standards and Assessment Agency, acceptable to the World Bank.   (November 30, 2000)
- 104 -



Action                                                     Deadline
This will be a condition of disbursement for the recurrent costs of
the Agency. A separate action plan (see below) for the
implementation of a sound financial management system will be
agreed after establishment of the Agency.
9     First quarterly PMRs submitted to the bank, for quarter ended 31  15 February, 2001
December 2000
10   Assessment of financial management system and PMRs for     August 31, 2001
readiness and capacity to migrate to PMR-based disbursements
Action Planfor the
Standard and Assessment
Agency (to be agreed after
establishment of the
Agency)
The implementation of a sound financial management system in the Standard and Assessment
Agency (the Agency) is critical and should be established before disbursements of recurrent costs
of the Agency can be made by the PCUs . In order to ensure that the Agency will have a sound
financial management system in place, the following time-bound Action Plan is presented and to
be agreed with the borrow during the negotiation:
Action                      -    --              -;           ll
I    Recruit Project Accountant for the Agency                   July 31, 2000
2     Submit a written notification to the Bank by the Ministry of  August 31, 2000
Foreign Trade and Economic Relations (MFTER) of BiH that
Standard and Assessment Agency has been included among other
projects to be audited by the Auditor acceptable to the Bank.
3     Select and Purchase a computerized accounting software. This will   August 31, 2000
include defining the requirements of an accounting software, e.g.,
Multi-currency capability (transactions and reporting);
Language capability (e.g., Bosnian, English);
Accounting policies;
Reports required;
Contract monitoring and control; and
_    Compatibility with other project hardware and software
4     Design reporting requirements for review by Financial      September 30, 2000
Management Specialist. This will include
PMRs and other World Bank requirements;
Local accounting requirements;
Local tax requirements;
Other donor requirements;
Trust fund requirements;
Reporting currencies
5     Complete financial manual. This will include:              October 31, 2000
Accounting Policies and Procedures
Designing accounting flows and controls;
Flow of information/documents;
Flow of money;
Internal controls; and
Frequency of transaction and controls
- 105 -



Budgeting_and Planning
6     Implementation of the computerized accounting software and  October 31, 2000
training of the Agency's accounting staff on the accounting system
7     Visit by Financial Management Specialist to confirm adequacy of    November 15, 2000
Agency's financial management arrangements.
- 106 -



IBRD 28578R
16°               <        tTJ Zagreb                            1 8°        To Osijek     
rolagreT                               CROATIA Ikoci
TeeF1~~ o V        Pogni
SJ~~~~~~~~~~~o                                                                                     To;JN;Bjs  ,-1,, ,XaQ ' a Mf **Belgrolde
o  ;    -<     X                  y                    >,4t  ~~~~~~/ FEDERAL
b s'> j ac   a'  .    REPUBLIC OF
, d    ' ' r               ' r  ~    YUGOSLAVIA
43°5cS g <ot  ,                      Pr= '>X9z  -odor                Dervent                                       (SERBIA!
a   H,    < --->-t                                   wilecao .         ~MONTENEGRO)
Adriatic  Sea                                                      't   
Trebine "   Bie'n  i 
&  K 7^3t-fe¢  °~¢°  "'\=;  2  0 , <  >T  25   50      75
DuIy?ovnik3\'             I          
\~~~~   )Z 
<,    1 -   To         KILOMETERS
\WE, ( PocIgorjt
6SkenderT Voul 
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA                                                              ______19'__
. 4   10° Sr'+'l    20<    \      30. 50° o
CZECH  *POLAND /       UKRAINE
Gr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
-    DAYTONAGREEMENT UNES                                   z                                 ,-/    GERMNY '2- ~~ oDv
RIVERS ,SWITZ  . \ AUSTRIA; HUNGARY , i 
-42°                      o   SELECTED CITES                                                                d .C0oATiA-      OAI    -
Thivoewprdvdby   '                         Sre
K NATIONKIALCAPITAL                      foe Map Desigr. Uri of Th0   Pe  >           v '=      IFED REF  ; zice
World Book. The booodorieo  iF              -         TO
_._- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                    coIo,     De, deoAoin ooo  ITALY\                   BULARI OSAIAgBol
~~~~i ~ ~   h poP fTh Wrd aE   0             - <; kie 
logo? satoft ofooxy torritery,   I  TyrFrhnir   i  /  XGEEES- ,URE
or oy eoorooooolor           REPUBLGRIC  AOFo,o
OCTOERER 997



