                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 32033

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                    (IDA-33510 TF-23826 TF-52113)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8.0 MILLION (US$ 10.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                    TO

                                    BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

                                                FOR AN

                               EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                               June 3, 2005




Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                              (Exchange Rate Effective April 25, 2005)

                                     Currency Unit = KM
                                              1 KM = US$ 1.506678
                                        1 SDR = US$ 1.51614


                                            FISCAL YEAR

                                      January 1    December 31

                              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BiH  Bosnia and Herzegovina
CAS  Country Assistance Strategy
ECA  Europe and Central Asia
EMIS Education Management Information System
HECB Higher Education Coordination Board
IBRD International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR  Implementation Completion Report
IDA  International Development Association
IDP  Institutional Development Plan
LSMS Living Standards Measurement Survey
NGO  Non Governmental Organization
PIU  Project Implementation Unit
PCU  Project Coordination Unit
PRSP Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RS   Republika Srpska
SAA  Standards and Assessment Agency




                                    Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu, ECA VP
                                 Country Director      Orsalia Kalantzopoulos, ECCU4
                                   Sector Manager      Maureen McLaughlin, ECSHD
                Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Zorica Lesic, ECSHD

                                 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
                               Education Development Project


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   9
8. Lessons Learned                                                               10
9. Partner Comments                                                              11
10. Additional Information                                                       11
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             12
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             14
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             16
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             17
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             19
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                20
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            21
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR                                      22

Project ID: P058512                                                  Project Name: Education Development Project
Team Leader: Zorica Lesic                                            TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 7, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Education Development Project                            L/C/TF Number: IDA-33510; TF-23826;
                                                                                                     TF-52113
   Country/Department: BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA                                             Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (43%); Primary education
                            (25%); Tertiary education (20%); Secondary education (6%);
                            Sub-national government administration (6%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Social analysis and monitoring (P);
                            Participation and civic engagement (P); Conflict prevention and
                            post-conflict reconstruction (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/13/1999                                     Effective: 10/16/2000                10/16/2000
     Appraisal: 01/05/2000                                         MTR: 04/30/2002                  05/13/2002
      Approval: 05/18/2000                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          STATE OF BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA/MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager:                 Maureen McLaughlin                             James A. Socknat
Team Leader at ICR:             Zorica Lesic                                   James A. Stevens
ICR Primary Author:             Dorota Holzer-Zelazewska


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Context: Following the end of hostilities, the education system had gradually been re-built and - while not
achieving levels of funding and organization that existed prior to the war - teaching and learning at all
levels were being carried out at minimally acceptable standards in most areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina
(BiH). The multitude of donor funding opportunities for re-construction and the chaotic post-conflict
environment contributed to re-enforcing old structures and attitudes, rather than influencing authorities to
re-think structures and approaches in the context of the education system's role in economic transition. The
Bank's initial support for education focused on rehabilitation of primary schools through two emergency
reconstruction operations, the FY96 Emergency Education Reconstruction Project and the FY98 Second
Education Reconstruction Project.

Education strategy development had been hindered by a lack of reliable information and basic analysis of
public resource needs. In the Federation of BiH, strategy development had been equally hindered by
decentralization of education responsibility to ten Cantons and by the failure of the Federation's two main
constituent groups to cooperate on educational matters. The Republika Srpska Ministry of Education
produced an Education Strategy in 1998 which sets out broad priorities for improving educational quality,
but did not adequately place education in its broader socioeconomic context -- in terms of minority rights
and the changing demand for labor market skills, for example, -- and did not adequately address the
financial, institutional and capacity constraints to achieving its qualitative goals.

The Second Education Reconstruction Project, included TA for the first major analysis of BiH's
post-conflict education system. This analysis was undertaken jointly with the Council of Europe and
resulted in the preperation of the Education Governance and Finance Review (November 1999, Council
of Europe/World Bank). This report was developed and discussed with governments, NGOs and donors in
order to bring consensus on the provided framework and recommendations for a preliminary medium term
education strategy.

The Education Governance and Finance Review stressed the need to support common "intermediary
institutions" and shared management mechanisms that would allow all three constituent groups in BiH to
cooperate and coordinate their efforts on a professional basis in education. The rationale behind this focus
on professional intermediary institutions and shared management mechanisms was to shift the attention to
professionalism in education from questions associated with the political control of education resources and
content.

A second and related theme of the Education Governance and Finance Review highlighted the need to
develop a modern public sector knowledge base in education. The report argued that the development of
reliable and standardized public information on educational inputs, outputs and outcomes would provide
the baseline for objectivity in the public debate over education and gradually help change the public
dialogue in education from one focused almost exclusively on politics to one focused on the quality of
teaching and learning and how extremely scarce public resources can best be allocated.

Regarding the long-term strategy for education governance and financing in BiH, the report recommended a
decentralization of administrative and political control over educational inputs to schools or municipalities.
Decentralization of control over education is compatible with the desire on the part of the constituent
groups to promote locally-based content - and is compatible with the heritage of decentralized control of
education administration in the former Yugoslavia. The report pointed out that effective and equitable
decentralization in education should be complemented with the development of capacity at central levels to



                                                      - 2 -

measure system performance, undertake quality control, and establish policies and guidelines for the
system. The report argued that given the unique education governance constraints of BiH, which were not
conducive to centrally-driven reforms, the path to effective decentralization could be twofold: first, a
reliance on piloted, learning-oriented reform initiatives in BiH's 11 independent administrative areas (10
cantons and Republika Srpska (RS)); and, second, a reliance on intermediary institutions to undertake
performance monitoring and quality assurance functions in the short term, while setting the groundwork for
strategy development, coordinated reform and consensus building in the long term.

Finally, also in keeping with the study's recommendations to stimulate an environment for decentralization,
there was a crucial need in the short term to develop a mechanism to provide direct support to schools and
teachers, which were starved in the under-funded environment for the small amounts of non-salary
recurrent funding that allows and motivates creativity and innovation among teachers. In addition to the
direct and immediate benefits associated with making more learning resources available to teachers and
schools, school-based funding and learning initiatives would set the ground work for increased school and
community level control of education. Given the strong political resistance at central levels to integrating
education across constituent groups, empowering schools and local communities to take control of their
own educational delivery would play an important part in the reform of education governance in the future.

Based on the main themes of the Education Governance and Finance Review the following objectives of
the project were formulated:

         1. Mobilize the professional capacity of teachers to improve the teaching and learning processes in
         schools and, as a result, improve the quality of education being offered to primary school children
         in BiH

         2. Promote the efficient and effective use of scarce public resources for education in BiH by
         providing public policy makers and decision makers with management tools and information
         necessary to measure inputs, outputs and outcomes in the education system

         3. Promote cooperation and coordination across the three main constituent groups in an effort to
         reduce inefficient resource use and build a professional basis for stakeholder dialogue in education
         throughout BiH


The objectives were selective and clear. The preparation of the project coincided with the preparation of
the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Bosnia and Herzegovina. The project developmental objectives
were fully consistent with two CAS strategic developmental objectives referring to building social
sustainability and strengthening governance arrangements by building accountable institutions. The project
objectives were developed to provide support in addressing a selected set of sector issues in line with the
findings and recommendations of the Education Governance and Finance Review.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised during the project implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
The project included six components:


Component 1. Quality Fund, (indicative cost: US$ 3.7 million) - this component was to provide



                                                      - 3 -

financing for non-salary incentives to primary schools and primary school teachers with the aim of
stimulating innovation and creativity at school level. It also was to provide support for building capacity
and stimulating innovation in teacher training institutions. A Quality Fund, was to be established under a
single governing Board, appointed by the Federation of BiH Minister and Deputy Minister of Education,
Science, Culture and Sports and the RS Minister of Education. The Board itself was to contribute to the
need for a shared intermediary institution across the three main constituent groups in BiH. The Quality
Fund was to support three sub-components:
    A. School grants awarded on a competitive basis to finance educational improvement projects which
    were designed by teachers in participating primary schools and aimed at improving their teaching
    practices;
    B. Teacher training grants and merit-based training scholarships to reward primary school teachers
    who are doing an exemplary job and to allow primary school teachers to engage in self-selected
    in-service training activities;
    C. Grants to support the strengthening of institutions that offer pre-service and in-service training for
    teachers. Awards to teacher training institutions were selected among proposals presented by
    university faculties, pedagogical academies, NGOs and pedagogical institutes.

Component 2. A Standards and Assessment Agency, (indicative cost: US$ 3.7 million) - this institution
was to provide information to the education community and the public at-large on student achievement and
overall system performance with the aim of learning about the system's strengths and weaknesses,
promoting accountability in public education and measuring compatibility between educational standards in
BiH and the rest of Europe. The Agency was to be a shared inter-Entity institution supplying high quality
professional services in the field of student assessments. To achieve the above goals, the Agency's primary
task was to define performance standards and to assess to what extent those standards are beginning
reached across BiH.
     In particular, the Agency was to:
    * gather, process and publish quantitative and qualitative data about the levels of learning
    (performance outputs) at primary and secondary levels in order to inform the decision-making process,
    * assist individual cantons or entities with their own assessment projects, where these are consistent
    with the overall aims of the Agency;
    * provide a research and development facility to education institutions and individuals in respect of
    assessment issues;
    * encourage and assist in the development of expertise in the field of assessment through training;
    * seek to harmonize assessment practices in BiH with best practice elsewhere in Europe.
It was expected that in the longer term, depending on political acceptability, the Agency could be asked to
lead the work of establishing an Examinations Board. This would provide examinations for school
leavers and award nationally and internationally recognized certificates of achievement.

Component 3. An Education Management Information System, (indicative cost: US$ 2.1 million) - this
component was to finance the development of a BiH-wide Education Management Information System
(EMIS) to enable improved sector management and compatibility of information among BiH's
decentralized education systems. It was also to test the viability of a per student budgeting model designed
to promote increased efficiency and equity in education spending. Specifically, the project was to support a
process aimed at:
    * determining core canton education statistical information needs at primary and secondary levels;
    * developing computer software for data collection, collation and report generation as the initial
    module in an EMIS;
    * assisting, at the canton and schools levels, the piloting of software, the upgrading of cantonal



                                                      - 4 -

    hardware, and training and monitoring;
    * assisting, at the canton and school levels, the improvement of management capabilities through a
    pilot of capitation based bulk grant system; and
    * developing and financing implementation of an EMIS in all cantons in the Federation of BiH and the
    RS, and expanding the capitation based funding mechanism, where feasible.
EMIS modules for education statistics and capitation funding was piloted under the Second Emergency
Education Reconstruction Project. The design of the roll out to other cantons/RS was to be based on the
results of these pilots. Management training was to be provided to stakeholders in the system at various
levels (canton, school and school boards) during the roll out.

Component 4. A Higher Education Reform, (indicative cost: US$ 3.5 million) - this component was
designed to stimulate professional coordination, innovation, strategic planning and efficient governance at
both sector and institutional levels in higher education in BiH. Following the creation of a Higher Education
Coordination Board (HECB), a secretariat was to be established under the Board with terms of reference to
focus on two objectives: i) increased strategic planning and institutional consolidation and ii) improved
qualification and accreditation systems. To provide incentives for strategic planning, a Higher Education
Fund was to be established. The secretariat was to be responsible for evaluating funding proposals and
recommending approval of proposals to the Board. Universities would be eligible to apply separately or
jointly for Fund financing. Improved qualification and accreditation systems were to be supported through
provision of technical assistance and training to the secretariat and a representative working group of
academics from BiH. The project was to cover the costs of the Board and the secretariat on a declining
basis.

Component 5. Living Standards Measurement Survey, (indicative cost: US$ 0.6 million) - The goal of
this component was to provide reliable data, for the entire country, on the levels and determinants of
welfare, the causes of observed social sector outcomes and the incidence of public expenditures. Such data
would be used to inform the policy-making process and were expected to improve the effectiveness and
impact of public sector programs in the country. In addition, the data would form the basis of much of the
analysis required for creating a Poverty Reduction Strategy for the country. The specific objectives of the
component were to carry out a Living Standard Measurement Study Survey (LSMS), create the capacity in
the country to carry out such surveys and promote the use of such data through wide dissemination of the
results, the various analyses of poverty, as well as the unit-record data sets. Three organizations in the
country which are responsible for statistics (the Entity-level institutes of statistics in the Federation of BiH
and the Republika Srpska and the State Agency for Statistics) were to work closely together to design and
implement an LSMS survey and disseminate both the results of the survey and the data sets. The entity
level institutes were to be responsible for the actual implementation of the survey while the state agency
was to help coordinate efforts and take responsibility for creating the final country-level data set. In
addition, the LSMS survey was to be an element of a larger effort to support the creation of a system of
household surveys in the country.

Component 6. Project Coordinating Units, (indicative cost: US$ 1.0 million) - the existing PIUs in the
Federation of BiH and RS, established to implement the first and second Emergency Education
Reconstruction Projects, were to be transformed into PCUs for each Entity. The Federation PCU was to
undertake a substantive modification in its composition in order to incorporate new staff with relevant
profiles. The PCUs were to be charged with managing the contracting and expenditure under the project
and coordinating project activities. They were to share personnel support for coordinating the EMIS,
Higher Education and Quality Fund components.

3.4 Revised Components:



                                                       - 5 -

The components were not revised during implementation

3.5 Quality at Entry:
There was no formal Quality at Entry review. This ICR rates the Quality at Entry as satisfactory. The
project was consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy, which was discussed by the Board in
June 2000. Two previous education projects that focused on reconstruction, included support for analytical
work and pilot components, that provided grounds for the formulation of the third education project. Based
on positive results from the pilot components and on collaborative analytical work with the Council of
Europe, priority areas in need of support were identified and project objectives formulated. The project
was developed on the assumption that by helping establish institutions and tools operating across Entities it
would foster improved management in the education sector and the production of consistent information on
educational inputs, outputs and outcomes. The Education Governance and Finance Review identified a
very broad range of sector issues and the third education project focused its activities on those operations
that would set the ground for reforms and help change the public dialogue in education from one focused
almost exclusively on politics to one focused on quality of teaching and learning and on efficient allocation
of scarce public funds. The design of the project was realistic and all its activities aimed at setting the first
steps for a future formulation of a compatible policy and strategy development across the three main
constituent groups in BiH. The subsequent problems which arose in the Higher Education component
could not have been foreseen at the time of project preparation, as the development of the State Framework
Law on Higher Education, as a legal basis for higher education institutions reorganization, had started.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of the three project objectives is rated satisfactory. The School Grants and the Teacher
Training Institution grants have helped to improve the teaching and learning processes in schools.
Evaluation reports show that the quality enhancement grants provided under this project have strengthened
the capacity at school level for improvements in the quality of teaching and learning. The Teacher Incentive
grants, preceded by information workshops, have mobilized the professional capacity of the teachers who
took part in the project. The establishment of the Standards and Assessment Agency (SAA) and the
development of the Education Management Information System (EMIS) contributed significantly to the
achievement of the second objective. The first nation wide assessment of students' performance was
prepared and implemented. The development of a unified information system together with the results of the
nation wide student assessment, resulted in the provision of public policy makers with information
necessary to measure inputs, outputs and outcomes in the education system. The development of the pilot
per-student formula financing model contributed to the promotion of efficient and effective use of scarce
public resources. The third objective of the project was achieved successfully. For the first time in BiH all
three ethnic groups work together through the SAA to set standards in education and evaluate student's
performance through a nationwide testing. In the area of higher education the Higher Education
Coordination Board was established and functions by promoting cooperation and coordination across the
three main constituent groups.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1 - Quality Fund - is rated satisfactory. The component contributed to the increased
awareness of the need of education quality improvement, its meaning and importance at school level. Out
of the three subcomponents, the School Grants and Teacher Training Institution Grants exceeded the
projected outputs, while the Teacher Incentives subcomponent was less successful. There have been 672
(12% more than anticipated) school grants awarded and projects implemented. Evidence from assessment
reports suggest that many useful innovations in teaching and learning are being introduced in many schools


                                                     - 6 -

throughout the country. Moreover both Entity governments plan to continue the school grant program after
the project closes. 33 grants have been awarded on competitive basis to Teacher Training Institutions, that
is 40% more than anticipated. These grants financed the development of new teaching methodology and the
training of teachers in the application of those methods. In the third subcomponent it was anticipated that
teachers from about 600 schools would receive the Teacher Incentive grants, however teachers only from
450 schools have received a small grant to be used for training. Evidence from several evaluations,
confirms that these grants contributed to the enhanced self-confidence and motivation of teachers who
participated and to their understanding and acceptance of needed changes in the quality and methods of
education provision.

Component 2 - Standards and Assessment Agency - is rated satisfactory.Under this component the
Standards and Assessment Agency was established as an inter-Entity institution. The Agency developed
sound procedures for the development of tests and their administration. The SAA demonstrated high
professionalism and gained support of most education stakeholders through the application and broad
discussions of the first nationwide eighth grade testing in math and literacy. During April 28-29 in 2004,
47,500 pupils' performance was assessed and preliminary results were discussed and endorsed by the SAA
Board. The final eight grade testing report was presented to the Entity governments in November 2004,
together with a proposal of the future mandate for the Agency and budget requirements for 2005. The
SAA completed all its planned activities despite constant delays in the government counterpart funding
from the Federation of BiH.

Component 3 ­ Education Management Information System is rated satisfactory. The component
developed and implemented an initial set of education management information system software modules,
provided hardware for the RS and cantonal Ministries of Education. Professional management training on
information systems was developed and delivered to school directors, school accountants and ministry staff.
The component has created an electronic­based information system that recognizes the structure of the
country's education sector and preserves the autonomy of each of the education ministries. The financial
module was expanded to provide the technical capability to undertake efficiency analyses based on per
pupil costs. Tuzla Canton ministry has undertaken such analyses, as it had 100% initial data input from all
schools. The good model of the Tuzla Canton confirms the functionality of the implemented system and
indicates that some country-wide aggregated information and reporting could be available for the
2005/2006 academic year.

Component 4 ­ Higher Education Reform is rated unsatisfactory. This component has contributed to the
establishment of a Higher Education Coordination Board, a first state level body in post war BiH providing
a forum for higher education reform in both Entities. It is composed of the rectors of the seven universities
and representatives of the two entity Ministries of Education. Under this component a Higher Education
Fund was established to provide incentives for strategic planning in higher education institutions. Although
all seven universities have formulated Institutional Development Plans (IDP) and in some cases the
formulation of the IDP and the IDP Implementation Grants have contributed to a movement towards
greater structural integration, the universities, except Tuzla, continue to be loose associations of
autonomous faculties. The prepared Higher Education Framework Law was not passed and therefore the
lack of legal framework for creating integrated universities has impeded the institutional consolidation and
hindered the higher education reform. In the area of qualifications and accreditation there were two
workshops organized to start the discussion on mutual recognition of higher education programs and
common procedures for accreditation.

Component 5 ­ Living Standards Measurement Survey is rated satisfactory. The Living Standards
Measurement Survey was undertaken, data collected and analyzed. The final survey results and analysis


                                                      - 7 -

were widely disseminated. The survey results were used for the preparation of the Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (PRSP) and were also used by local stakeholders and international agencies.

Component 6 - Project Coordinating Units is rated satisfactory. The two established PCUs, one for the
Federation and one for the Republika Srpska, coordinated the project activities, managed contracting and
expenditures under the project. The two PCU's shared coordinators for the Education Management
Information System, Higher Education Reform and Quality Fund components.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project is rated as substantial. All the structures put in place
under this project are very important for improved performance of the education system. The establishment
of the institutions and tools that operate across the entire country, such as the Standards and Assessment
Agency, the Education Management Information System and the Higher Education Coordination Board,
has initiated substantial cooperation between the Ministries of Education across Entity lines.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
No external shocks significantly affected project implementation. While political tensions between the two
governments may still be evident, at a technical level there was increasing collaboration between the
Federation Minstry of Education and the Republica Srpska Ministry of Education through the life of the
project, a rewarding by-product of the activity. The level of coordination between the entities improved
under the Project with implementation of joint contracts.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Project implementation took place in the context of a continuing political and nationalistic struggle between
the three constituent groups in BiH. This struggle is particularly visible in the education sector for reasons
of national language and culture as well as for reasons of political patronage. A desire to maintain
educational separation within constituent groups existed. Nationalistic efforts to differentiate the common
language of BiH into three separate languages was a major issue that had to be overcome if the creating of
strategically important institutions, that operate across the entire country, such as the Higher Education
Coordination Board and the Standards and Assessment Agency, was to take place. Also the building of a
unified Education Management Information System was yet another way of overcoming the differences
and initiating cooperation between the Ministries of Education. However, even though the inter-Entity
body for higher education was created, the issue of fragmented higher education system has not been
addressed adequately to date. The Higher Education Framework Law, which was to set the basis for
transferring of higher education institutions from individual faculties to the university as a single legal
entity, was not passed. This stopped many reforms from taking place, such as the shifting of responsibility
for funding higher education away from the cantons to the Entity or State level. The universities continue to
be loose associations of autonomous faculties with a very low level of cooperation and decentralized
financing.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Project management was satisfactory. The Bank devoted significant supervision resources in order to



                                                      - 8 -

maintain momentum and overcome delays created by the politically-motivated decision making and
communication process in the Federation. The RS PCU's performance was highly satisfactory , while the
Federation PCU had organizational, management and counterpart funding problems, which were overcome
with constant assistance from the Bank and supportive cooperation from the RS PCU.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The final total project cost is almost equal to that estimated at appraisal i.e. 14.43 US$ million equivalent
vs. 14.60 US$ million equivalent at appraisal. The constant flow of disbursements was very close to the
original estimates throughout the project, and despite significant delays in the provision of government
counterpart funding from the Federation of BiH, the project was implemented on time and largely met its
total disbursement targets. This is a major accomplishment given the difficult political and institutional
environment in BiH.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project's overall sustainability is likely. There is evidence that most of the core activities will be
supported in the nearest future from Entity or Cantonal budgets. For example, each ministry has appointed
an EMIS coordinator. The Standards and Assessment Agency will continue to function as it's funding has
been guaranteed by the governments. Republika Srpska has established it's own small grants program.
Also the project has shown that the fund mechanisms can generate commitment from local actors and
become part of the education system.

Government commitment for the reform measures to be supported under the new project has been
documented in the Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, as well as in the education strategy
document presented to the Peace Implementation Council in late 2002. All 12 Ministers of Education in
BiH have endorsed the reform agenda. However, there remains strong resistance within nationalist political
parties to changing the existing ethnic control of resources and institutions. This political resistance has
been identified as a major risk of the new project.

Experience gained under the Education Development Project has been used to make improvements in the
new Education Reconsturing Project. For example, the secondary education grant mechanism in the new
project will specifically promote linkages between the grant fund and existing institutions (RS, Cantons and
Pedagogical Institutes) in order to promote ownership and sustainability.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Entity governments passed laws which integrated the PCU's, used for project implementation, into the
ministries. All future projects and continuation of activities will be integrated in the existing structure of
the BiH education sector.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation assistance and appraisal of the project is rated as
satisfactory. The Bank's initial support for education focused on rehabilitation of primary schools through
two emergency reconstruction operations. The second project included pilot components to help raise
teaching quality and it supported TA for the first major analyses of BiH post-conflict education system.
The Bank and the Council of Europe joined together to undertake an Education Governance and Finance



                                                      - 9 -

Review, which was developed and discussed with governments, NGOs and donors.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision performance is rated satisfactory. Ten supervision missions were held under the
project and the task leadership changed twice. However, continuity in overall supervision was maintained
with the Bank project team being very pro-active in working with the government counterparts to resolve
the chronic delays in the provision of counterpart funding. The Bank project team activities were focused
on action plans to ensure smooth implementation and to create an environment for future sustainability of
education reforms. The Bank project team was also actively involved in the dialogue with Government and
other donors on a new education strategy to be supported by a follow-up project (negotiated in April 2005).
The Bank project team's close cooperation with the two PCUs and a lot of effort put into maintaining good
momentum throughout the life of the project, resulted in the success of closing the project on time with
disbursement targets largely met.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall the Bank's performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during project preparation is rated satisfactory. Both governments (BiH and
RS) were active participants in preparing the project and collaboration between government staff, project
coordination unit staff and the Bank team was good.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's overall implementation performance is rated as satisfactory. The Government
supported the Project; however, sometimes there was some lack of responsiveness in following-up on
issues that the Project Coordination Units or the Bank raised as requiring direct government attention
during implementation. One example is the failure of the Federation of BiH Government to fulfill its
financial obligation to provide adequate and timely counterpart financing for the Project. Overall, the
project's broad objectives, to establish a base in the form of institutions and tools that will help promote
future reform and educational improvements, have been achieved.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Overall project implementation is rated satisfactory. The RS PCU's performance was highly satisfactory ,
while the Federation PCU had organizational, management and counterpart funding problems, which were
overcome with constant assistance from the Bank and supportive cooperation from the RS PCU.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The expierience from the sucessful implementation of the Quality Fund mechanisms which made resources
available directly to the beneficiaries, was used for the preperation of one of the components in the new
Education Restructuring Project. These developed mechanisms made it possible to decentralize
procurement of goods and services for schools in the fragmented structure in BiH, which resulted in a
certain empowerment of schools and increased engagement in the reform process.

The Education Development Project implementation process also shows that there is a need for giving more



                                                      - 10 -

attention to the dialogue with the 10 cantonal ministries of education in the Federation of BiH. These
cantonal ministries need to be fully engaged in the dialogue and endorse the project objectives, to ensure
that they provide full support to project implementation.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
State Ministry of Finance and Treasury - no comments

Republika Srpska Ministry of Education - no comments

Federation of BiH Ministry of Education:
" The Ministry would like to express its satisfaction with the fact that the World Bank has assessed the
effect the project has had on the development of educational institutions as significant (page 1). We
appreciate, as a form of a positive incentive, the opinion that "all the structures formed within the project
are very important and they have improved the operations of the educational system' (Page 8). In general, a
positive assessment of project result in their entirety has been given, including the self-sustainability of
results and effects of the credit beneficiary. We appreciate the positive opinion of the World Bank that "it is
a significant achievement in a difficult political and institutional environment in BiH that the project was
implemented on time and that disbursements were made in compliance with defined objectives" (Page 9).

The Ministry has a high regard for constant contributions and cooperation of the World Bank throughout
the whole period of implementation in 2000-2005 period, which has certainly brought a significant
contribution to the successful realization of the project.

We would wish that the Final Report of the ICR reflected a positive position of the Ministry in regards to
the work of both the PCUs (Pages 9 and 10) that had implemented the project. We would especially like to
point out that, regardless of the fact that it had the same capacities as PCU for RS, the PCU FBiH had
implemented the project successfully on the area of accountability of 12 ministries of education, working
with double the number of participants, students and educational institutions.

The Ministry would also give a positive assessment to the project in the component entitled The Higher
Education Fund (Page 7). The Fund has provided incentives or professional coordination in the area of
higher education, strategic and institutional planning at universities and more efficient management of
resources. The universities have received grants for improving their work form the Fund, in large amounts.
The Fund has also supported successful activities of the Coordination Board for Higher Education (HECB)
that had several active sub-boards. The project had also initiated and significantly improved the dialogue
and coordination on issues concerning higher education (such as the system of credit transfer, accreditation,
Bologna Declaration etc) at the level of BiH. We would like to emphasize that the adoption of the Law on
Higher Education had not been a direct project objective of the Fund for Higher Education activities, even
though the work of the sub-board for legal framework of the HECB had significantly contributed to its
preparation. All the international consultants, including Sir Clive Boot, professor Josephine Hykin and
professor Harold Thomas have given an affirmative assessment to results achieved in this component and
so we would like to see such a position reflected in the ICR, too."

(b) Cofinanciers:
No comments

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
No comments



                                                       - 11 -

10. Additional Information




                              - 12 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                 1
                Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Indicators of system quality, efficiency and Assessment information published             Assessment information published
equity monitored, debated, compared and      EMIS information readily available           EMIS information readily available
publicized in general and higher educadtion  LSMS results available                       LSMS results available
LSMS survery data and analysis available



The three main constituent groups            Standards and Assessment Agency              Standards and Assessment Agency
cooperating at a professional level in the   functioning in line with agreed work program functioning in line with agreed work program
area of standards setting, student           Coordinating Board for Higher Education      Coordinating Board for Higher Education
assessment and system evaluation             functioning;                                 functioning;
Mutal recognition of higher education        Higher Education Fund approximately 90%      Higher Education Fund fully
programs and common procedures for           disbursed                                    disbursed
accreditation                                EMIS development proceeding across           EMIS development proceeding across
                                             Cantons and RS                               Cantons and RS




Output Indicators:
                                                                                 1
                Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Quality Fund:                                672 schools received grant;                  672 schools received grant;
Number of schools awarded grants             33 grants to training institutions have been 33 grants to training institutions have been
Number of teachers identified as having had  awarded                                      awarded
excellent performance and are given
opportunity for further training.
Number of training institutions benefiting
from Quality Fund


Performance standards for math and literacy Assessment results for math and literary      Assessment results for math and literary
debated and agreed, and results of           published for all cantons and RS             published for all cantons and RS
student achievement in these two areas
throughout BiH monitored and publicized.


EMIS data available across cantons and RS    Statistical and finance modules adopted for  Statistical and finance modules adopted for
Per student spending model piloted and       all cantons and RS                           all cantons and RS
adopted in some areas                        Per student financing model adopted in some Per student financing model adopted in Tuzla
                                             areas throughout BiH                         and piloted in some areas throughout BiH
Accreditation procedures agreed for BiH      Common procedures developed for              Common procedures developed for
Mutual recognition of programs between       accreditation throughout BiH                 accreditation throughout BiH
higher education institutions throughout     Mutual recognition of programs across all    Mutual recognition of programs across all
BiH                                          BiH higher education institutions agreed     BiH higher education institutions agreed
Management, including financial              Higher education fund fully disbursed        University in Tuzla formally consolidated and
management, formally consolidated in one or                                               the Higher education fund fully disbursed
more universities


Household level data is collected on levels  LSMS survey sucessfully completed            LSMS survey sucessfully completed in
and determinants of poverty, access                                                       cooperation with the entity statistical
to and use of social services and                                                         institutes.
infrastructure, and the incidence of public
spending; staff in both entity statistical
institutes trained in modern survey
techniques;


Project goods, works, and services procured Project is successfully completed on time     Project is successfully completed on time
without delays in accordance with            and progress reports are available           and progress reports are available
World Bank guidelines
Project expenditures paid promptly with
satisfactory accounting and auditing




                                                                 - 13 -

Key performance indicators monitored and
included in progress reports

1End of project




                                            - 14 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                               Appraisal      Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                                                Estimate         Estimate          Appraisal
                        Component                             US$ million       US$ million
Quality Fund                                                      3.70                 3.50              95
Standards and Assessment Agency                                   3.70                 3.40              92
Education Management Information System                           2.10                 2.00              95
Higher Education                                                  3.50                 3.03              91
Living Standards Measurement Survey                               0.60                 0.60             100
Project Management                                                1.00                 1.90             190

Total Baseline Cost                                              14.60               14.43
                          Total Project Costs                    14.60               14.43
                   Total Financing Required                      14.60               14.43


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                        1
                                                  Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB              NCB                  2           N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                                    Other
1. Works                            0.00              0.00           0.00               0.00          0.00
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)         (0.00)            (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                            0.40              0.00           0.20               0.00          0.60
                                    (0.40)            (0.00)         (0.20)            (0.00)        (0.60)
3. Services                         0.00              0.00           2.70               0.70          3.40
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)         (2.50)            (0.00)        (2.50)
4. Grants/Funds                     0.00              0.00           5.50               2.10          7.60
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)         (4.50)            (0.00)        (4.50)
5. Recurrent Costs                  0.00              0.00           3.00               0.00          3.00
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)         (3.00)            (0.00)        (3.00)
   Total                            0.40              0.00           11.40              2.80         14.60
                                    (0.40)            (0.00)        (10.20)            (0.00)        (10.60)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include
contingencies
2/ Includes goods, services and funds to be procured through:
        QCBS = Quality and Cost-Based Selection
        SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
        LCS = Least Cost Selection
        Other = Single Source Selection (US$0.6 million) and Selection of individual consultants (US$0.15
        million) (per Section V of Consultant Guidelines)
        NS =National Shopping
        IS = International Shopping
        Grants/Fund = Refer to procurement paragraph under the Quality Fund description (Annex 2); and
        to
        procurement paragraph under the Higher Education Fund description (Annex 2). Each fund will
        include


                                                   - 15 -

           use of shopping procedures and direct contracting of proprietary items.

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   2. Goods                                0.62               0.37              0.60             0.00              1.60
                                          (0.62)             (0.37)            (0.44)            (0.00)           (1.43)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.00              2.43             0.70              3.13
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.43)            (0.00)           (2.43)
   4. Grants/Funds                         0.00               0.00              5.00             2.10              7.10
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (5.00)            (0.00)           (5.00)
   5. Recurrent Costs                      0.00               0.00              2.60             0.00              2.60
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.74)            (0.00)           (1.74)
       Total                               0.62               0.37             10.63             2.80             14.43
                                          (0.62)             (0.37)            (9.61)            (0.00)           (10.60)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
Quality Fund                   2.40         1.30                     2.80         0.70                  116.7     53.8
Standards and Assessment       2.10         1.60                     1.70         1.70                  81.0     106.3
Agency
Education Management           2.00         0.10                     1.80         0.20                  90.0     200.0
Information System
Higher Education               3.00         0.50                     2.20         0.83                  73.3     166.0
Living Standards               0.60         0.00                     0.60         0.00                  100.0     0.0
Measurement Survey
Project Management             0.50         0.50                     0.90         1.00                  180.0    200.0




                                                          - 16 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable




                                      - 17 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year   Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              03/07/1999                 1    TTL (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              09/21/1999                 9    TTL (1); OPERATIONS
              (pre-appraisal)                 OFFICER (1); HIGHER
                                              EDUCATION SPECIALIST
                                              (1); OPERATIONS
                                              ANALYST (1);
                                              CONSULTANTS (5)
              11/22/1999                 9    TTL (1); OPERATIONS
              (appraisal)                     OFFICER (1); HIGHER
                                              EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
                                              OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                              CONSULTANTS (5)
              03/20/2000                 7    TTL (1); SR. LEGAL COUNSEL
              (negotiations)                  (1); FM SPECIALIST (1);
                                              PROCUREMENT ADVISOR
                                              (1); LSMS SPECIALIST (1);
                                              OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                              OPERATIONS ANALYST 91).

 Supervision
              03/12/2001                 1    EDUCATION SPECIALIST             S               S
                                              (1)
              05/20/2001                 3    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S              HS
                                              OPERATIONS ASST. (1);
                                              GRANTS SPECIALIST (1)
              09/24/2001                 2    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S              HS
                                              OPERATIONS ASST. (1);
              20/02/2002                 1    FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT             S              HS
                                              OFFICER (1)
              05/20/2002                 3    TEAM LEADER (1);                 HS             HS
                                              OPERATIONS ASST. (1);
                                              GRANTS SPECIALIST (1)
              10/01/2002                 4    TASK MANAGER (1);                S              HS
                                              OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                              TEAM LEADER (1); HIGHER
                                              EDUCATION EXPER (1)
              04/20/2003                 3    EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);        S               S
                                              OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                              PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                              (1)
              09/24/2003                 6    TTL (1); CONSULTANT              S               S
                                              GRANTS (1); COMPONENT
                                              COORDINATOR (2);
              12/09/2003                 3    EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);        S               S



                                               - 18 -

                                           CONSULTANT (1);
                                           OPERATIONS ANALYST (1).
               05/11/2004              2   TTL (1); SENIOR EDUCATION          S    S
                                           SPECIALIST (1);

 ICR
               10/30/2004             2     TTL (1); ICR AUTHOR (1)           S    S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            15.0                         36.87
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 74.6                        163.44
  Supervision                          169.8                        311.73
  ICR                                   23.3                         22.96
  Total                                282.7                        535.00




                                            - 19 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. International Development Association Country Assistance Strategy for Bosnia and Herzegovina, Report
No: 20592-BIH. June 14, 2000

2. International Development Association Country Assistance Strategy for Bosnia and Herzegovina, Report
No: 29196-BA, August 12, 2004

3. Project Appraisal Document for Education Development Project, Report No: 20170 BIH, April 19, 2000

4. World Bank Project Status Reports, Supervision Mission Aide Memoires: June 2000, December 2000,
June 2001, December 2001, June 2002, December 2002, June 2003, October 2003, June 2004, December
2004.

5. Education Development Project, BiH. Mid-Term Review _ Quality Fund Grant Scheme by Eluned
Roberts-Schweitzer, July 16, 2002

6. Component Evaluation Reports:
         - Quality Fund/Grant Fund Scheme for Primary Schools, by Quality Fund Coordinator Sandra
Vucic, December 2004
         - Quality Fund/Teacher Incentive Scheme, by Quality Fund Coordinator for Teacher Training
Renata Lazzari, December 2004
         - Education Management Information System - Project Evaluation Report, December 2004
         - External Evaluation of the Higher Education Fund in BiH by Professor sir Clive Booth - Report,
12 June, 2004
         - Report on Consulting Services to Assist Higher Education Board in Institutional Development
Planning by Dr. Harold G. Thomas, June 2004




                                                   - 22 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR

                              Annex 8A: Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina

           Project Evaluation Report submitted by PCU at the Ministry of Education of FBiH


1. Project Data

Project name:     Education Development Project ­ EDP III
Credit number: 3351 BOS
Credit amount total:       SDR 8.000.000
Date of signing: 18th July 2000
Effectiveness:    October 2000
Closing date:     31st December 2004

2. Project Components

The following project components have been implemented with success:

Quality Fund ­ this component has provided financing for non-salary incentives to primary schools and
primary school teachers with the aim of stimulating innovation and creativity at the school level. It also
provided support for building capacity and stimulating innovation in teacher training institutions. A
Quality Fund has established a single Coordination Board, appointed by the Federation Minister and
Deputy Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sports and the RS Minister of Education. The Board
itself contributed to the need for shared intermediary institutions across the three main constituent groups in
BiH. The Quality Fund supported three sub-components:

l school grants ranging up to 12.000 KM awarded on a competitive basis to finance educational
     improvement projects which were designed by teachers in participating primary schools and aimed at
     improving their teaching practices;
l teacher training grants and merit-based training scholarships in value of 500 $ to reward primary
     school teachers who were doing an exemplary job and to allow primary school teachers to engage in
     self-selected in-service training activities;
l grants of US$ 20,000 to support the strengthening of 21 institutions that offer pre-service and
     in-service training for teachers.

Number of grants donated for each category and entity is specified in the detailed reports submitted by the
responsible coordinators.

Standards and Assessment Agency ­ is providing information to the education community and the public
at-large on student achievement and overall system performance with the aim of learning about the system's
strengths and weaknesses, promoting accountability in public education and measuring compatibility
between educational standards in BiH and the rest of Europe. The Agency is a shared inter-Entity
institution supplying high quality professional services in the field of student assessments.

To achieve the above goals, the Agency's primary task was to define performance standards and to assess to
what extent those standards are beginning reached across BiH.



                                                     - 23 -

Education Management Information System ­ this component has financed development of a BiH-wide
EMIS that has enabled improved sector management and compatibility of information among BiH's
decentralized education systems. It also tested the viability of a per student budgeting model designed to
promote increased efficiency and equity in education spending. Specifically, the project supported a
process aimed at:

l determining core canton education statistical information needs at primary and secondary levels;
l developing computer software for data collection, collation and report generation as the initial module
    in an EMIS;
l assisting, at the canton and schools levels, the piloting of software, the upgrading of cantonal hardware,
    and training and monitoring;
l assisting, at the canton and school levels, the improvement of management capabilities through a pilot
    of capitation based bulk grant system; and
l developing and financing implementation of an EMIS in all cantons in the Federation and the RS, and
    expanding the capitation based funding mechanism, where feasible.

The access to EMIS date for sector stakeholders is provided by the web page. Management training has
been provided to stakeholders in the system at various levels during the roll out.

Higher Education Reform - this component has been designed to stimulate professional coordination,
innovation, strategic planning and efficient governance at both sector and institutional levels in higher
education in BiH. Following creation of a Higher Education Coordination Board, a Secretariat was
established under the Board with terms of reference to focus on two objectives: 1) increased strategic
planning and institutional consolidation and 2) improved qualification and accreditation systems. To
provide incentives for strategic planning, a Higher Education Fund was established. Universities were
eligible to apply for Fund financing. Improved qualification and accreditation systems will be supported
through provision of technical assistance and training to the secretariat and a representative working group
of academics from BiH.

Living Standards Measurement Survey - The goal of this component is to provide reliable data, for the
entire country, on the levels and determinants of welfare, the causes of observed social sector outcomes and
the incidence of public expenditures. Such data are used to inform the policy-making process and are
expected to improve the effectiveness and impact of public sector programs in the country. In addition, the
data has formed the basis of much of the analysis required for creating a Poverty Reduction Strategy for the
country. Co-financing for this activity has been provided by UNDP under a cost-sharing agreement, to
which the Government of BiH will contribute IDA funding under this project.

3. Achievement of Objectives

The broad project objectives as accepted by the World Bank and the beneficiaries were:

l to mobilize the professional capacity of teachers to improve the teaching and learning processes in
    schools, and as a result improve the quality of education being offered to primary school children in
    BiH.
l to promote the efficient and equitable use of scarce public resources for education in BiH by providing
    public policy makers and decision-makers with management tools and information necessary to
    measure inputs, outputs and outcomes in the education system.
l to promote cooperation and coordination across the three main constituent groups in an effort to reduce



                                                    - 24 -

     inefficient resource use and build a professional basis for stakeholder dialogue in education throughout
     BiH.

In our opinion as the Project Coordination Unit for the Federation BiH the project objectives has been
generally achieved satisfactorily and in some components very satisfactorily. Project achieved most of its
major relevant objectives and has achieved or is expected to achieve satisfactory development results.

Substantial development results have been achieved by introduction of the new education management
system, new education institutions like the SAA, or with the complex systems of school and university
grants. The achieved cooperation and coordination across the three main constituent groups and numerous
institutions and stakeholders was very satisfactorily.

The counterpart funding in Federation BiH has not followed the agreed schedule all the time what affected
the implementation dynamic. Additional efforts should be made in the future on complete and wider
utilization of positive project results, its promotion in the general public and sustainability.

4. Key performance indicators achieved

Teacher and Learning Achievement

Outputs
l children, parents and school teachers in approximately 600 schools were engaged in school projects that
     promote participation in the learning processes and more relevant learning activities
l approximately 4,000 primary teachers (out of a total of about 21,000), approximately 600 primary
     schools (out of a total of about 1,700), and 21 teacher training institutions benefiting from project
     funding
l comparable student assessment results available for literacy and math


Outcomes
l more active participation of students in the learning processes and, as a result, improved scores in
     internal and external school assessments
l better motivated teachers spending more time and more energy in their teaching jobs
l in-service and pre-service training institutions that improve their capacity to offer relevant courses and
     become more efficient and effective in delivering training

Efficient and Equitable Public Resource Management

Outputs
l core modules of an education management information system are established and capacity of users at
     all levels developed
l a Standards and Assessment Agency is established and capacity to define performance standards and
     assess student performance developed
l a Higher Education Coordination Board was established, and BiH-level dialogue and coordination of
     higher education accreditation and strategic planning is ongoing

Outcomes
l re-allocation of education resources to improve student performance in under-performing areas
l education recurrent, capital and external investment resources allocated to address key performance and
     equity problems


                                                       - 25 -

l indicators of system performance, efficiency and equity established, monitored, compared, debated and
     publicized
l efficiency gains in higher education re-allocated to improving the quality of programs


Cooperation and Coordination in Education across BiH

Outputs
l an Education Management Information System is established in a compatible format across BiH
l a Standards and Assessment Agency established at the inter-entity level
l a Higher Education Coordination Board was established to support cooperation and coordination in
     higher education

Outcomes
l the three main constituent groups cooperating at a professional level in the area of standards setting,
     student assessment and system evaluation
l shared data on education inputs, outputs and outcomes throughout BiH
l mutual recognition of higher education programs throughout BiH


Living Standards Measurement Survey

Outputs
l household level data on: levels and determinants of poverty, access to and use of social services and
     infrastructure, and the incidence of public spending
l staff in both entity statistical institutes trained in modern survey techniques
l creation of a data dissemination function within the State Agency for Statistics, as well as the entity
     statistical institutes
l analysis of poverty and dissemination of analysis


Outcomes
l use of data in the policy making process, thereby improving the effectiveness, equity and impact of
     public spending
l creation of country-wide capacity within the statistical system to design and implement high quality
     household level surveys for policy purposes and coordination among actors in the sector
l provide the underpinnings for the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper to be carried out by the
     government.

5. Sustainability of project results

Most of the project components will be supported in the year 2005 from the entity or cantonal budgets.

The real assessment of the project results sustainability could only be done after the reviews in a longer post
project period. However, acceptance and support of the stakeholders during the project implementation is a
good indicator of future sustainability.

It is important to stress that a large number of people from ministries, universities, schools and the
education sector in general were trained and actively included in project activities. It will surely have a
positive contribution to the sustainability of project results.

6. Bank and Borrower Performance


                                                       - 26 -

The cooperation between the World Bank and the PCU offices was on a high level and we are looking
forward to continue our cooperation in the same manner. The PCU staff has gained a significant
operational capacity and experience what shall be valuable in the next development projects.

Cooperation between the PCU and the education ministries in cantons and entities was very good. Certainly
it was the necessary condition for the project success. Continuous efforts should be made to further train
the project beneficiaries in schools, universities etc. in the WB project implementation rules, procurement
and financing procedures. The coordination of different projects financed by the different donors should be
improved in the future.

Cooperation between the two PCU-s in Sarajevo and Banja Luka was regular and very good. Four
coordinators responsible for the projects components were each covering the whole BiH.

7. Lessons Learned

1. There is a general positive orientation and support for changes in the BiH education sector. The EDP
III was a complex and ambitious project but very well prepared and supported by all the stakeholders in the
education sector.

2. PCU has proved to be a cost effective way of implementation of complex WB development projects.
PCU has concentration of qualified and experienced staff what could be well utilized for the
capacity improvement of the education ministries and future WB projects.

8. Follow-up activities

In our view the WB should keep the momentum and support the results achieved by the EDP III. The new
Education Restructuring Project has been prepared for negotiations and we hope that it will start in this
year.

The core PCU staff are currently doing follow-up activities in all project components together with the
officials from the ministries and pedagogical institutes in Federation BiH.




                                                       - 27 -

                                       Annex 8B: Republic of Srpska

                   Borrower's contribution to the Implementation Completition Report
                                for Part B of Education Development Project

I        PROJECT DATA

Agency responsible for implementation: Ministry of Education and Culture RS ­ Project Coordination Unit

 Source                     Amount              Signed on         Effectivity      Closing date    Completing of all
                                                                                                   activities date

IDA 3351 - credit          2.700.000 SDR       18.07.2000.        16.10.2000.      31.12.2004.     30.04.2005.

TF 023826 - grant          409.000 USD         28.08.2000.        28.08.2000.      31.08.2003.     31.12.2003.

TF 052113 - grant          55.539 USD          23.07.2003.        23.07.2003.      31.12.2004.     30.04.2005.


Implementation period: July 2000. - April 2005.

II       PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS

Project objectives

Education Development Project (EDP) had following objectives:

1)       To mobilize professional capacities of teachers for improving of teaching and learning processes in
the schools and as the result to improve quality of education that is being offered to children in primary
schools;
2)       To make more efficient and effective utilization of (scarce) public funds for education in RS, by
providing the management tools to creators of public policy and for decision makers, as we all the
information needed for measuring of inputs, outputs and results of education system;
3)       To promote cooperation and coordination among three main constitutive groups in efforts to reduce
utilization of inefficient resources and building of professional basis for dialog in education in whole BiH.

To realize these objectives, was done by:
l Preparation and evaluation of Manual for preparation of projects that will be used by the teachers;
l Preparation and evaluation of Manual and guidelines that will be used by Evaluation board;
l Establishing of Standards and Assessment Agency;
l Establishing of Higher Education Coordination Board;
l Software development and training of staff for establishing of database.


Project Components

(EDP) Education Development Project consisted of 6 components.

COMPONENT 1: QUALITY FUND



                                                     - 28 -

The objective of this component was to mobilize professional capacities of teachers on improvement of
teaching and learning processes in primary schools. The component had three specific objectives: a) to
support improvements in teaching and learning methods in the school; b) to strengthen teacher's motivation
by providing trainings, and c) to strengthen teachers training institutions, to improve the quality of courses
offered and to improve their efficiency.

Quality Fund had following sub-components:

Sub-component 1.1 School Grants

These were short-term projects financed from the Quality Fund on the competitive basis. The projects were
designed by teams of teachers in primary schools in accordance to previously determined procedures, which
were in details given in the Manual for preparation of projects.
The teams that prepared projects were obliged: a) to point on difficulties in children's learning; b) to
identify a problem that will be resolved with the proposed grant on priority basis; c) to identify objectives
and to design activities for resolving of selected problem that will be implemented during the project life,
and d) to prepare a budget and to propose mechanism for evaluation.
The project were evaluated by pre-evaluators (teachers with advanced experience) in accordance with the
Guidelines agreed with WB during the preparation of the Manual, and the final decision was made by
Evaluation Board consisted of representatives of all three constitutive groups, in total 6 (six) members.
The criterion and guidelines for evaluation of projects were determined in such way that they've supported
teachers to improve their teaching achievements, then to motivate pupils and to promote utilization of more
relevant and classroom more engaged activities. Also, additionally it was stimulated a team work between
teachers and facilitated active participation of parents in school activities. The criterion also included
factors that were channeling the teachers' energy towards socially relevant objectives as ecology,
integration of children of different nationalities and cooperation with neighbor schools. Approved budget
was paid through the special account in Republic of Srpska Treasury, solely intended for these
transactions, and utilization of fund in schools was monitored by component coordinator and PCU staff,
and especially appointed auditors made control based on random sample principle.

Sub-component 1.2: Teacher Incentives Scheme (TIS)

The aim of this sub-component was to increase motivation of teachers in the schools and school directors
through professional development and in-service training by using grant incentives in amount of KM 1.000.

The objectives were to support classroom teachers for encouraging influence on their everyday work with
children, support to processes teacher-student and encouraging of teachers and other school staff (directors
and pedagogues) for participation in the activities of professional development with aim of their
professional upgrading.
The sub-component consisted of two phases. The first phase was realized through the seminars for teachers
training institutions staff and school representatives. The second phase was realized by submission of
schools' project proposals. In total period of project life all schools in RS successfully realized all proposed
projects.

Sub-component 1.3 Grants for supporting and strengthening of Teachers training institutions

In the initial phase of the implementation there were prepared manuals and forms that TTIs were using for
preparation of project proposal. Also, there were seminars organized for representatives of TTIs (teachers'


                                                      - 29 -

faculties and pedagogical institutes). The international consultant engagement gave a significant assistance
in preparation of manuals and giving seminars.

After the evaluation of first projects, the priority was given to the institutions that were specialized in
training for subjects and skills that were in deficit in respective moment: active teaching and learning
methods in primary schools, English and other foreign languages, IT skills and teaching processes at the
lower level of education (pre-school and primary education). All proposals presented by TTIs were
evaluated by Evaluation Board, and in accordance to the criterion and guidelines initially prepared and
approved by WB.
The amount of grants for these institutions was KM 33.000 and the majority of funds went for development
of courses, staff and cooperation with specialized institutions forming partnership.

COMPONENT 2: STANDARDS AND ASSESSMENT AGENCY

Standards and Assessment Agency in Education for FBH and RS was established on 2000 by Decisions of
Governments of FBH and RS. With the Decisions on establishing, it was regulated status of SAA as
inter-entity institution in BiH. Because of such status, the Agency is not registered in the court register, but
with the Decision of FBH Statistic Institute, it is registered under no. 75.121. Based on classification in
statistics, SAA opened bank-account in its headquarter in Sarajevo, and obtained tax number.

The aims of Agency: It was predicted that SAA became an expert service that is providing high quality and
professional services in assessment.
To achieve this, its primary task was to define achievements standards (i.e., what student should know and
what should they be able to do in given subjects at given level of their education) and to assess up to what
level are these standards achieved.

Especially, the Agency has been:
l collecting, processing and publishing quantitative and qualitative data on results of achievements on
    primary and secondary level;
l providing facilitation and assistance for research and development to educational institutions and
    individuals in respect of assessment;
l encouraging and assisting in development of expertise in the field of assessment by trainings.


Long-term, depending on political acceptance, the Agency could be working on establishing of Testing
Board. With this it could be provided testing of school leavers for obtaining certificates that are accepted
and recognized within the country and in EU countries.
The managing body of Agency was Management Board, appointed by Prime ministers of Entity
Governments that presented national representation of all three constitutive nations in BiH.
Within the Agency were established three Departments: Department for evaluation, Department for data
processing and Administrative Department. The financing of Agency was provided by WB and
Governments of Entities in four-year period as 50% : 50% of amount, and transfer of funds was done
through Entity's PCUs education in ratio 66,66% FBiH and 33,33% RS.

COMPONENT 3: EDUCATION MANAGEMENTS INFORMATION SYSTEM­ EMIS

EMIS Component supported overall objectives of efficient and effective management of resources in
education by improving the system of information and planning, as well as education financing system.

Especially, EMIS component:


                                                       - 30 -

l determined essential needs for statistical information in education, at the levels of primary and
    secondary education;
l developed a computer software for collection, collation and report generation as initial modules in
    EMIS;
l supported, at the level of cantons and schools, testing of software, update of cantonal hardware, as well
    as training and monitoring;
l assisted in development and financial implementation of EMIS in all cantons in FBH and in RS, as well
    as in expansion of per capita funding mechanism where it was feasible.

EMIS component consisted of following three components:
l development and implementation of initial set of modules in information management system in
    education software (EMIS);
l empowering of system platform of all cantonal ministries of education in FBH and Ministry of
    Education and Culture in RS (further in text: ministries); and
l development and providing of professional management training in information system for school
    directors, accountants and staff from ministries.

The project supported an initial phase in which EMIS was tested in three ministries (Ministry of Education
and Culture RS, and Ministry of Education in Tuzla and Middle-Bosnia Canton), and after that EMIS
roll-on phase on all cantonal ministries of education. For the needs of initial software testing, each of three
pilot ministries was provided with necessary hardware. The rest of ministries were supplied with necessary
hardware after the pilot phase.
The training component started after pilot phase.

COMPONENT 4: HIGHER EDUCATION FUND (HEF)

Implementation of this component provided strong incentive in professional coordination, introduction of
innovations, strategic planning and more efficient management at the institutional level, i.e., universities in
Republic of Srpska, and successfully assisted in meeting social, economic and academic needs of RS and
provided insight and partial compatibility with higher education systems and institutions in EU.

It was established and supported in activities a Higher Education Coordination Board (HECB) with its
three sub-comities (for Grants, Bologna process and Legal Framework), and it was established and
supported HECB Secretariat.

It was achieved cooperation with other international organizations like: EC-TAER, European Commission,
OSCE and others.

COMPONENT 5: LIVING STANDARDS MEASURING SURVEY (LSMS)

Capacity of production of statistical data necessary for creation, implementation and assessment of
economical and social politics, including educational policy, in BH was disturbed by war and transition.
LSMS survey was multithematic survey of households that was performed in whole BH. It related to the
social status, and included: composition of household, living, education, health, employment, agriculture,
spending, property, access to and utilization of social services and financial needs.

The objective of this component was to provide reliable data, for whole country, on levels and determinants
of social welfare, causes of observed events in social sector and on frequency of spending. These data were
used for creation of Poverty Reduction Strategy in country.


                                                    - 31 -

COMPONENT 6: PROJECT MANAGEMENT (PCU)

Coordination and implementation of the project was done by Project Coordination Unit for Republic of
Srpska. Given joint nature of majority of project activities, PCU cooperated with FBH PCU. This
cooperation was especially in case of joint procurement and negotiations on joint contracts.

III PROJECT COMPONENTS OUTPUTS

COMPONENT 1: QUALITY FUND

Sub-component 1.1: School grants

The pilot project was implemented in 20 schools, and funded by the Italian Government. It started in
September 2000 and successfully finished in October 2001. The report on evaluation of the pilot project,
finished on April 2002, showed that the project was lead and implemented with success. The report gave
recommendations and conclusions that have been used in main project.

The main project, started on 2001 and finished on December 31 2004, supported all 205 primary schools in
Republic of Srpska. The financing of main project was continued from Italian Grant and World Bank
credit.

The grants supported activities that had intentions to improve the quality of primary education and
atmosphere in classroom. The projects were developed mainly by teachers, in accordance with review of
objectives and actual situation and within the frame of overall need for improvement of teaching in the
school. The amount of funds for which schools were able to compete was between 4.000 and 12.000 KM,
depending on number of pupils in the school. The total amount of awarded grants in this sub-component
was KM 1.558.118, 30.

Upon signing of the contract with PCU, the school received fund in two trenches. The first trench was 60%
of total amount and the other one 40%. PCU allocated second trench upon receipt of approved
documentation from QF coordinator and upon review by PCU staff. The documentation that related to the
second trench was also reviewed.

QF coordinator was responsible for managing with different teams of local consultants, like outreach
experts, pre-evaluators and quality auditors, and with two international consultants and with Evaluation
Board.
In the first project year was engaged 28 experts for assistance to school in period of three months per each,
to stimulate schools in applying for grant and to assist them in preparation of project proposals. It was
engaged 8 local experts.

There were many obstacles for these experts when obtaining project proposals, like: I) the schools were
indifferent towards project because of fact that they cannot pay staff that will prepare and realize proposal;
ii) not understanding of term quality improvement in teaching and learning processes (tendency towards
equipping); iii) problems in determining of priorities; iv) problems with involvement of local community
into the project etc.

There were six team members for pre-evaluation (of which 2 from RS) that received project proposals from
office of QF Coordinator in Mostar, and upon analysis, they sent back to Coordinator their opinions and


                                                     - 32 -

result for each of the projects individually, and after that were organized Board meetings. The pre-evaluator
evaluated the project proposal in accordance with agreed criterion given in Guidelines for evaluation and
monitoring of the project. The Board was in charge for strategic issues and gave the final evaluation of
project proposals.

The auditing team of Quality Fund was in charge for internal evaluation of implementation of individual
grants. While visiting schools, they discussed with teaching staff, students and representatives of local
community and they've had insight into the project archive for inspection if the expected results were
achieved, and if the funds were used appropriately.

Evaluation

There were 5 (five) rounds of visits to schools by the five members of the team for quality audit. In total
they visited 30 schools that implemented school grants, and the findings are following: all projects were
adequate towards the needs identified by the schools for improvement of quality of teaching and learning;
all school had plan for improvement of school in some form made by the Teachers council; the overall
finding was that the schools discussed their needs carefully before preparation of project proposals for
school grant. Several schools applied with projects that referred to extra-curricular activities. All of the
projects were efficiently implemented. The high level of involvement of teachers was a significant factor of
successful implementation of majority of projects and achievement of results.

The external evaluation report presented the results of implementation for 30 schools in RS. The reports
from pre-evaluator were delivered on December 30, 2004. The findings of external evaluation for 30 RS
schools were similar to the reports from quality auditors in QF.

Potential sustainability

The reports of quality auditors suggested that all the projects had good level of possible sustainability.
Many projects created conditions for continuation of project results. The key factor for sustainability is
involvement of parents and local community into implementation and project support, which is more
oriented on extra-curricular activities. The key factor for maintaining of results and improvements in
classrooms was also the level of involvement and enthusiasm of teachers.

Ministry of Education and Culture of RS provided KM 200.000 in 2005.budget for projects that will refer
to improvement of teaching process.

Conclusions

All schools in RS (205) successfully applied with project for improvement of learning in the school and all
of them successfully realized projects in accordance with predicted dynamics. The direct benefit from the
project had about 120.000 pupils and 8.000 teachers.

The main reason for eventual delay in delivering of reports was in the fact that frequently it was needed
more time to Treasury to transfer the money to the schools. More practical solution would be if the schools
can have bank account for these projects.

Sub-component 1.2: Teacher Incentives Scheme (TIS)

The first phase of the project started on March 2002 with initial seminar on capacity building. There were


                                                      - 33 -

present about 90 school representatives, and mainly these were school directors.

School teams had opportunity to create proposals based on identification of priorities and objectives for
professional development with influence on classroom work and improvement of school.

All 205 schools were granted with KM 1.000 and that shows that there was high level of interest for this
kind of projects. The total amount of awarded grants in this sub-component was KM 205.000.

The most popular category was the professional development of team and professional development of
whole staff. The least number of applications was for category that was in connection with involvement of
parents and local community into teaching and learning.

Also, it was observed that majority of participants in planning; preparation and implementation of the
projects were female teachers and students.

Control

The plan predicted four rounds of independent control of schools that received incentive grants. Out of 26
schools visited, over 60% of awarded schools presented excellent results, based on indicators: adequacy of
needs, implementation of activities, capacities for realization of objectives, achievements and potential
sustainability.

Conclusions

The international consultants estimated that participation of school's staff in grant program increased
self-confidence and motivation of teachers that were beneficiaries, and that this can contribute to
continuous improvement and acceptance of changes in teaching quality and learning in the school.

Also, it was initiated high level of school performance in achieving of results showing that these projects
gave significant contribution to quality improvement in schools and that had influence on teaching quality
and learning even when the majority of school project leaders faced with practices that related to the
submission of documents for project reporting. Most of them obtained first experience related to
submission of proofs on project implementation results.

In this sense it was made a contribution to new approach in managing of school activities and project
leadership. In the spirit of the fact that sustainability of results of each project can be fully measured, 35%
of projects evaluated as excellent, 55% as good, and others as satisfactory.

The Evaluation Board estimated that it is needed to improve following:
l continuation of training and support to schools in monitoring and evaluation of quality improvement
    processes, results and performance ;
l continuous financial support from Ministry upon completing of the project, and
l communication among the schools.


Sub-component 1.3: Teachers Training Institutions Grant Program

The first phase of the program started in March 2002 with the initial seminar where were invited two senior
members from each of TTIs and pedagogical institutes in RS. Second round of seminars for senior staff of
TTIs and school representatives was in May and June 2002. All seminars were lead by PCU Director and


                                                        - 34 -

international consultant for QF.

Submission of proposals was divided into two rounds, on competitive basis, and authorized Board,
consisted of 8 (eight) persons, has made selection. Majority of institutions received funds in June 2003 and
the rest of institutions in March 2004. TTIs that have signed contracts in 2004 had six months for
implementation.

Results

In Republic of Srpska 6 (six) TTIs received 10 grants, as well as Teachers Centre in Brcko that was
funded in ratio 1/3 RS and 2/3 FBiH.
During evaluation, 8 projects were evaluated as « good », two as « excellent », which means that all the
projects have chance to be sustainable if Ministry of Education and Culture shows sense and interest to
support this kind of improvement of TTIs. Faculty of Philosophy from Sarajevo East is authorized for
training of RS primary and secondary school directors.

The results of independent auditing realized in April 2004 showing that almost 60% of projects can be
evaluated as good, and the rest as excellent. The reports are pointing on results in improvement of:
curriculum, introduction of new methods and staff training, training of mentors and quality improvement of
working conditions for teachers and outside professors.

The reports are also showing that TTIs had benefits in: improved methods of testing and practice, improved
material conditions for teaching like libraries, information and technical centers, developing of activities for
publishing via Internet, etc.

Conclusions

As this was a first time for majority of institutions to participate in process of strategic planning of
institutions improvement, the implementation of grant program was very specific and difficult.

All the aims and criterion of the program were not clear and precise for all of issues. Therefore, the grant
proposal and success of implementation were not always showing the meaning of efforts of staff
participating in the project to the institution, understanding of improvement process (superficially planned
strategic plan and lack of priority identification), and fundamental needs of institution.

Most of delays in some projects occurred because of introduction of Treasury payment system and lack of
experience in using of such payment method. Despite above mentioned, most of institutions and persons
participating expressed very serious approach to the projects and investment of high level of enthusiasm in
the whole process, producing respectable results. The Ministry of Education and Culture RS decided to
permanently provide funds to institutions that in the future will educate teachers, so these grants will
become a part of longer process of reform and development.

COMPONENT 2: STANDARD AND ASSESSMENT AGENCY FOR FBH AND RS

The most important activities of the Agency in past period were setting up of standards for education
performance of students in key subjects (math and mother tongue), at the key levels of education (fourth
and eight grade of primary school), implementation of external evaluation of students achievements to
provide a measure of success of education system, as well as preparation of general assessment of students
achievements. During year 2002 there were realized pilot testing of 500 students of grade IV from 18


                                                       - 35 -

schools in RS.

During year 2002 and 2003, there were established definitive standards from mother tongue and math for
grade IV and a-priory standards from mentioned subjects for grade VIII in primary education. At the end of
academic 2002/03 was done testing of students of grades IV and VIII in primary schools on sample of
1.000 students at both levels of education in 35 RS schools.

In May 2004 was made general assessment of achievements of all students' primary schools from math and
mother tongue with 198 schools and 15.900 students from RS.

In the professional reports are given concrete indicators of students' achievements per testing area in
respective subjects and are available to education public and to the Ministry.

As the result of successful work of Agency in setting of standards and external evaluation of education
achievements, the Agency was officially invited to participate in preparations for realization of TIMSS
project for year 2007. Given the fact that BH is first time participating in realization of this kind of
international projects, IEA will provide necessary funds for financing of activities on this project.

Public relations

One of most important SAA activities in period from its establishing until end of EDP was promotion of
institution in education public. During year 2002 there has been prepared a promotional material and WEB
page of SAA that is regularly updated. There was also promotion of SAA participated by, beside SAA
associates and education authorities from BH, international experts from Netherlands, Slovenia and
Macedonia.

In May 2004, SAA promoted results of its activities at the International Conference on Education, hold in
Bucharest, Romania.

Cooperation with international organizations
The SAA associates were involved into EC-TAER activities on preparation of Joint Strategy for
Modernization of Primary and Secondary Education. With EU-VET program the cooperation was achieved
in the field of preparation of standards and improvements for secondary vocational education. Also, SAA
participated in working groups for preparation of curriculum and program and in reform of public
institutions in BH education.

Conclusion

In past project period, the SAA ensured necessary staff, performed needed trainings and established
working groups for teaching subjects, which enabled SAA to work in setting up of standards on education
achievements from key teaching subjects.

There were established definite standards for mother tongue and math at the end of grades IV and VIII in
primary schools.

The standards were published in brochures.

There was developed a network of associates out of SAA that enabled adequate preparations and testing
activities.


                                                    - 36 -

The results of SAA work were presented to public in media, at the WEB page of SAA. In its work SAA
realized significant cooperation with international organizations involved in education reform in BH.

Just before ending of EDP, SAA defined its future mandate in area of setting up of standards in external
evaluation. The standards will be defined for other relevant subjects in primary schools, as well as for key
teaching subjects in gymnasiums.

In long-run, it was planned to prepare graduation in gymnasiums and at the end of primary school. Beside,
the significant importance will be given to the teachers training, to publishing of testing results,
international projects, as well as to development and improvement of scientific and research work in the
field of standards and external evaluation.

During the four years period, SAA was regularly funded by PCU and Government of RS.

The future status of SAA is defined in Decision on establishing of SAA and with Framework Law on
Primary and Secondary Education.

According to the Decision on establishing, Ministry of Education and Culture RS provided budget item for
SAA financing in amount of 400.000KM annually.

COMPONENT 3: EDUCATION MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM (EMIS)

EMIS provided assistance in achieving of overall objective of efficient and effective management with
resources through improving of information and planning system, as well as system for financing of
education.
l In project evaluation it was concluded that EMIS component was successful to varying degrees in
    meeting levels in achieving of four key objectives:
l the provision of enough of computers for Ministry of Education and Culture RS to effectively operate
    an education information system;
l the identification, design, program testing and distribution of an education information system for
    primary and secondary schools and ministries;
l all key stakeholders able to effectively use the information system tools for education performance
    monitoring, resource allocation and accountability reporting; and
l the development of a per-pupil based cost analytical framework for the primary and secondary school
    education sector.

In initial and in mid phase on project progress was reported as satisfactory. The focus of project activities
during these periods was on software development for information system and respective training. The
software was finished with more than satisfactory technical level, beside occurred time slipping during the
project life. The development of user and management training was satisfactory.

The project was set in the way that the general tool for support to information system is useful for all
schools, pedagogical institutes and ministries. In that meaning it was produced TV spot that additionally
promoted EMIS in public.

Statistical institutes of each Entity have indicated a willingness to receive school census data through EMIS
following an integrity trial of parallel collection. The earliest this could be technically achieved is for the
2005/06 academic year.


                                                      - 37 -

EMIS training was provided to 285 primary and secondary schools in RS with total number of 1328
participants.

The four training outputs were satisfactory achieved. The expected partnership approach with ministries
did not eventuate due mainly to the expected role that the EMIS Responsible person (EMIS RP) would play
in building and maintaining the partnership was not achieved.

While the roll-out phase for training was late in starting, the impact of the slippage was minimized with the
training program being completed in July 2004.

Observations and discussions arising out of the EMIS Minister's Forum held in December 2004 did not
give confidence that there will be a country-wide implementation of the EMIS during this academic year.
The political will be critical to the successful implementation and sustainability of the system ranges from
the enthusiastic to almost disinterested. At best, if the commitments of the Forum are translated into action,
some country-wide aggregated information and reporting could be available for the 2005/06 academic year.
The use of EMIS as an analytical and policy development tool is still to be achieved. In step-by-step
approach, the achievement of information collection and collation would be a very good start to a
longer-term goal of informed policy analysis using EMIS as the prime tool.

The system achieved a creditable technical capability and its potential is realizable. The project provided a
comprehensive set of training manuals and technical specifications to support the ongoing maintenance of
the system.

As a more general set of observations, it is noteworthy that the project has been implemented in a
transparent manner with a series of unqualified audits achieved for its management. The processes of
project management have provided good learning opportunities and capacity building at the entity level and
the management of the project has been satisfactory. The critical role of the coordination group in a volatile
political situation was well managed. The group provided useful advice to the EMIS coordinator and took
its facilitation role seriously with good success.

Republic of Srpska has promoted EMIS in TV and printed campaign.



COMPONENT 4: HIGHER EDUCATION FUND (HEF)

Upon adopting of Guidelines for Higher Education Fund, both RS universities submitted in first half of
2001 the Statements on internal planning? The Statements were having, according to consultants'
evaluation, different character, but both demonstrating wish for development of institutional and strategic
planning. This was a preparation step for the first phase of the project, after which came application for
grants for strategic planning. For both of RS universities was approved so called "nominal allocation" on
amount of 219.000 KM for strategic planning projects that were implemented until end of 2002.

After the first phase it was done mid-term audit. Universities focused applied projects for institutional
development on following key areas: institutional management (including information system, finances and
human resources), system for quality ensuring and introduction of ECTS. All of these activities are fit into
priorities of Fund in meaning of modernization of universities and achieving of EU standards compatibility.
It could be observed a progress compare to the first project phase, because after making of institutional
development plans universities have adapted their priorities in accordance with Bologna process priorities.




                                                       - 38 -

Before the end of second phase of the project, Prof. Clive Booth made expert evaluation of Higher
Education Fund and HECB, that was combined with Institutional Evaluation of Universities done by EUA
experts for Council of Europe, European Commission and with engagement of Josephine Hykin and Harold
Tomas that have provided technical assistance for grant and project management as well as for institutional
development plans. These findings are available in individual consultants' reports, and total impression was
very positive, and there were recognized moves done between 2000 and 2004.

This grant scheme was very successful and very useful for both of RS universities, at the time of beginning
with strategic planning processes and further institutional development, as well as with integration as
necessary precondition for implementation of Bologna process. It can be said freely that without this
specific support RS would not fulfill conditions to Bologna process, which happened in September 2003,
nor would universities be able to make reform moves in meaning of establishing of instruments for
introduction of information system, quality assurance and introduction of ECTS.
The move that was achieved with 4-years implementation of EDP can be annulled if good system support
for these processes fails.

COMPONENT 5: LIVING STANDARDS MEASUREMENT SURVEY (LSMS)

In organization of UNDP it was performed LSMS survey in BH. This project was co-financed by Republic
of Srpska. This study produced reliable data for whole country, on levels and determinants of social
welfare, reasons for observed events in social sector and on frequency of spending. These data were used
for creation of Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper in BH.

COMPONENT 6: Project Management (PCU)

PCU coordinated implementation of Education Development Project. Also, it was realized a very good
cooperation with PCU FBH throughout planning and contracting. Also, because of efficiency, there were
appointed joint coordinators. RS coordinators were leaders of EMIS and SAA components, and FBH
coordinators were leaders of QF and HEF components.

Review of reports and audits for past years showing that financial auditors gave, so called, unqualified
auditors opinion, which means that the financial statements of PCU do not containing significant problems
related to accounting and internal control, and so called Independent Procurement Review (IPR) showed
that there also weren't any misuse in PCU procurements. Also, the regular control by World Bank in field
of finances and procurement verified regularity and accordance with World Bank procedures for spending
of funds granted to universities, and which was a result of direct engagement of PCU staff throughout
assistance, user training and implementation monitoring.

Ministry of Education and Culture RS gave systematical and continuous support to PCU during project
implementation. Organization of work in PCU ensured team work and pro-active approach that enabled
PCU staff to utilize its capacities in full range.

IV BORROWERS EFFICIENCY

PCU efficiency during project preparation can be evaluated as satisfactory. The strategy of educational
system reform issued by Ministry of Education in 1998 was very helpful for designing of project and its
components. The preparation of the project was supported by guidelines from the World Bank.

PCU efficiency in implementation of EDP can be evaluated as very satisfactory. PCU focused on project


                                                    - 39 -

implementation as well as on questions of internal management, like planning, procurement, financial
management, internal control, communication and reporting.

PCU submitted reports upon finishing of calendar year to the Ministry of Education and Culture RS and to
the Ministry of Finance RS. All reports were accepted and evaluated as advanced. The way of planning and
reporting of PCU was overtaken as a good model for the whole Ministry of Education and Culture RS.

V BANK EFFICENCY

The Bank efficiency during supervision of the project can be evaluated as very satisfactory.
The supervision of the project was done by Bank staff from Washington and Sarajevo, as well as by
consultants engaged for individual components.
During the supervision missions, Bank staff has made detailed review and careful analysis of all questions
that appeared in implementation of certain activities and gave advice for their resolving. The Bank staff
made coordination with other organization and donors, especially with Italian and Japanese Governments.
The influence of the Bank and involvement into Component 2 ­ Standards and Assessment Agency had key
importance in realization of results defined in PAD.

VI EXPERIENCE GAINED

Strategy of implementation: It is crucial to make, before start of project implementation, strategy of
implementation using international experience in practice and adopted to local conditions.

Gaining of political consensus: It is a necessary condition obtaining of political consensus and
determination for reform of education system both on central and on local level in most possible measure.

Strong leadership: Strong and creative leadership at the level of implementation agency is one of key
elements for success in project implementation.

Adequate and strong management on pilot locations: It is also important characteristic for success of
education system reform in RS.

Courses for management of changes: Courses for management of changes are of vital importance for
making of critical mass of those that are supporting reform of educational system and better understanding
of reform activities.

Communication: It is very important to promote processes of educational system reform via media
campaign (example EMIS video clip)

VII CONCLUSION

The objective of EDP was providing of support for development of sustainable educational system with
focus on improvement of teaching and learning, more efficient utilization of (scarce) public funds and
measuring of results of educational system.

The project provided support for initial steps in implementation of educational system reform in RS and
gave significant contribution to its development.

The objectives as defined in PAD are achieved, and in some cases even above expectations. However, to


                                                    - 40 -

ensure significant achievements in certain areas, future operations should be focused on more narrow set of
activities, ensuring staff and financial resources in harmonization with implementation strategy.




                                                      - 41 -

- 42 -

