Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 3351 BOS
Project Agreement
(Education Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Dated July 18, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3351 BOS
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 18, 2000 between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and the FEDERATION (the Federation).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith 
between Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Borrower) and the Association, the 
Association has agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to eight million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 8,000,0000) on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that the Federation agrees to undertake such obligations toward the 
Association as are set forth in this Agreement; 
(B)
by a subsidiary financing agreement to be entered into among the 
Borrower and the Federation (the Subsidiary Financing Agreement), the Borrower 
will make available to the Federation a portion of the proceeds of the Credit 
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Federation in consideration of the Association’s entering into 
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and 
in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein 
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part A of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The Federation declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, 
and, to this end, carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, education, 
financial and technical practices; and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section and except as the Association and the Federation shall otherwise agree, 
the Federation shall carry out Part A of the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods and consultants’ services required for Part A of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Federation shall exercise its rights under the 
Federation Subsidiary Financing Agreement in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Federation and the Association to accomplish the purposes of 
the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Federation Subsidiary Financing Agreement 
or any provision thereof.
Section 2.04. (a) The Federation shall, at the request of the Association, 
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of Part A of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
Subsidiary Financing Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of 
the Credit.
(b)
The Federation shall promptly inform the Association of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by 
the Federation of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary 
Financing Agreement. 
Section 2.05. (a) The Federation shall carry out the obligations set forth 
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records 
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of Part A of the 
Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Federation shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 
six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Association and 
the Federation a plan for the future operation of Part A of 
the Project;
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Federation on said plan; and 
(iii)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, 
taking into account the Association’s comments thereon.
ARTICLE III
Page  3
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Federation shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements, in a format acceptable to the Association adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures in connection with the carrying out of 
Part A of the Project.
(b)
The Federation shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and accounts for the Special 
Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six (6) months after the end of each 
such year: (A) certified copies of the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) above for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and financial statements as well 
as the audit thereof, as the Association shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 
of this Agreement, the Federation shall carry out a time-bound action plan 
acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of the financial management 
system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 3.01 in order to, not later 
than February 15, 2001, or such later date as the Association shall agree, 
prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Association, 
each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for 
the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and projected sources and applications of funds 
for Part A of the Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said report, and (B) shows separately 
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report; 
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
and (B) explains variances between the actual and previously 
forecast implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under Part A of the 
Project and expenditures under contracts financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the period covered 
by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section, the Federation shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later that 
forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management 
Report for such period.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date 
Page  4
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association 
and of the Federation thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following 
two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate; or
(ii)
a date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date 
specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly 
notify the Federation of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full 
force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or 
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by 
this Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to 
have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, 
telegram, cable, telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or 
permitted to be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or 
at such other addresses as such party shall have designated by notice to the 
party giving such notice or making such request.  Deliveries made by facsimile 
transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Federation:
Federation Ministry of Finance
Mehmeda Spahe 5
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Facsimile address:
Facsimile number:
Federation Ministry
387 71 203 152
of Finance
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any 
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf 
of the Federation or by the Federation on behalf of the Borrower under the 
Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by its Minister of 
Finance, or by such other person or persons as the Federation shall designate in 
writing, and the Federation shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence 
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each 
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the city of Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day 
Page  5
and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Joseph K. Ingram 
Authorized Representative
FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By /s/ E. Ganic
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Schedule
1.
The Federation shall adopt and thereafter maintain the Operational Manual 
in form and content satisfactory to the Association, which shall include 
implementation responsibilities, procedures, guidelines and criteria for the 
implementation of Part A of the Project and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Operational Manual without obtaining the prior approval of the 
Association.
2.
The Federation shall, establish and thereafter maintain at all times 
during the implementation  of Part A of the Project:
(a)
a PCU, within Federation MOE, with resources, staff, facilities and 
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association including the overall  
Project coordination, management, disbursement and procurement.
(b)
a Quality Fund Board, with qualified members and under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association including the approval of Sub-project 
proposals under Part A.1 of the Project.
(c)
a Standards and Assessment Agency, shared with RS and headed by a 
qualified and experienced manager, satisfactory to the Association, with such 
functions, responsibilities and resources satisfactory to the Association for 
the implementation of Part A.2 of the Project.
(d)
an EMIS Committee, with qualified members and under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association, including the implementation of Part 
A.3 of the Project.
(e)
a Coordinating Board for Higher Education and its technical 
secretariat, with qualified members and under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Association including the approval of Sub-project proposals under Part A.4 
of the Project.
3.
The Federation shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon 
between the Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of Part A of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association, on April 30, 2002, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of 
Part A of the Project during the twelve-month period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of Part A of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof 
Page  6
during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by June 30, 2002, or such later date 
as the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of 
this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of Part A of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
report and the Association’s views on the matter.
4.
(a)
The Federation shall implement Parts A.1 and A.4 of the Project in 
accordance with the Operational Manual and with the selection criteria, 
procedures and terms and conditions set forth in the Operational Manual.
(b)
Each Quality Fund Grant or a Higher Education Fund Grant shall be 
made by the Federation, through PCU, to a Beneficiary which meets the criteria 
set forth in the Operational Manual in respect of the organization, management, 
staffing and other resources required for the efficient carrying out of the 
Sub-project.
(c)
The Federation shall cause the Beneficiary to: (i) carry out the 
Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, technical and educational practices; and (ii) 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Sub-project.
(d)
The Federation shall furnish to the Association, each Quality Fund 
Grant in an amount of $20,000 equivalent or more and each Higher Education Fund 
Grant in an amount of $100,000 equivalent or more, for its prior approval.
(e)
Quality Fund Grants and Higher Education Fund Grants shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual and on terms whereby 
the Federation shall obtain, by written contract or other appropriate means, 
rights adequate to protect its interest and those of Federation and the 
Association, including the right to:
(i)
require the Beneficiary to carry out the Sub-project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate educational, technical, economic and financial 
practices, to maintain adequate records, and to provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities and other 
resources required for the purpose;
(ii)
require that: (i) the goods and consultants’ services to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured 
in accordance with the procedures set forth in the 
Operational Manual; and (ii) such goods and services be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-project;
(iii)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the 
Association or PCU, if the Association or PCU shall so 
request, the goods and the sites included in the 
Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records 
and documents;
(iv)
require that the Sub-borrower shall take out and maintain 
such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as 
shall be consistent with sound business practice, including 
such insurance to cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit to the place of use or installation, 
any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency 
freely usable by the Beneficiary to replace or repair such 
goods;
(v)
obtain all such information as the Association, the Borrower 
or the Federation shall reasonably request relating to the 
foregoing and to the administration, operations and 
financial condition of the Beneficiary and to the benefits 
to be derived from the Sub-project; and
(vi)
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use 
of the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such 
Page  7
Sub-borrower to perform its obligations under its contract 
with the Federation.
5.
The Federation shall carry out, by December 31, 2001, a Living Standards 
Measurement Survey on the basis of term of reference satisfactory to the 
Association to enable the preparation of a comprehensive poverty reduction 
strategy study.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of 
this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II 
of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part 
A.
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 
2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(b)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$100,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the 
procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods which are of a proprietary nature and costing $50,000 equivalent or 
less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to 
bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
Page  8
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all 
goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as 
shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) each contract procured pursuant to Part B of this 
Section I; (ii) the first five contracts procured pursuant to Part C.1, and C.2 
of this Section I; and (iii) Quality Fund Grants in an amount of $20,000 
equivalent or more and Higher Education Fund Grants in an amount of $100,000 
equivalent or more,  the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 
and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and 
the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ 
services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 
thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 
thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants for services under Part A.1 
and 2 of the Project, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for public information campaign may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Least-cost Selection
Services under Part A.4 of the Project may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services that meet the requirements set forth in Section V of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Single Source Selection
Services for living standards measurement survey may, with the Bank’s 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 
and 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  9
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the 
proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection 
of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 
(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have 
been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
