Docm=nt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
V3AW0C/L/
Repwt No. P-5089-IVC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED
LOAN OF US$80.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FOR A
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
JUNE 4, 1990
Thi doumnt ha a restricted dtibutdon and may be uad by redpient only In the perfonrmnce of
dthir odf    dutis. Its contnXt may not otheri be discoed without World Bank auhrizatol



CURRENCY EqUIVALENTS
Currency Unit a CFA Franc /
Annual Averages, CFAF per US Dollar
1980 - CFAF 211
1986 - CFAF 490
1988 - CFAF 847
1987 - CFAF 847
1988 - CFAF 275
1989 - CFAF 312
1990 - CFAF 286
FISCAL YEAR
January 01 - December 81
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC)
1 metor (m) a 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km) = 0.62 mile (i)
1 liter (l) = 0.26 US gallons
1 cubic meter (m3) - 85.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 liter per capita per day (lcd) = 0.26 US gallons per capita per day
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AEP             Abidjan Environmental Protection Project / Projet de protection de
I environnement d*Abidjan
ASAL            Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan / Pret d'ajustement du secteur de
I 'agriculture
BCEAO           Central Bank of West African States / Banque central. des Etats d'Afrique de
I Ouest
BNDA            Agricultural Development Bank / Banque nationale de d6veloppement agricole
BSIE            Investment Budget / Budget sp6cial d'inv.stiasement et d'6quipement
CAA             Debt Amortization Fund / Calsse autonome d'Amortissement
CAISTAB         Export Crops Marketing Board / Caiss. de Stabillsation *t de soutien des prix des
productions agricoles
CCCE            French Aid Agency / Cal.se central, de Coop6ration 6conomique
DCGTx           Office for Supervision and Control of Public Works; an agency within the
Presidency of the Republic J Direction et Contr8le des grands Travaux
DE              Water Directorate / Direction de l'Eau
EDF             European Development Fund / Fonds europ6en de d6voloppnemnt
ESAL            Energy Sector Adjustment Loan / Pr&t -4aj ustement du secteur de  e4nergie
FNA             National Sanitation Fund / Fonds national do l'Assainissement
FNE             National Water Fund / Fonds national de l'Eau
FNH             National Water Works Fund / Fonds national de l'Hydraulique
KfW             German Aid Agency / Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau
MTPT            Ministry of Public Works and Transportation / Minist4re des Travaux publics et
des Transports
MYRA            Multi-Year Rescheduling Agreement
0 a M           Operation and Maintenance
PE              Public Enterprise / Entreprise publique
PER             Public dxpenditure Review / Revue des d6penses publiques
PPGD            Public and Publicly Guaranteed Debt
RCI             Republic of C8te d'Ivoire / R4publIque do C8to d'Ivoire
RWS             Rural Water Supply / Hydraulique villageoise
SAUR            Soci6t d'am6nagement urbain et rural (Private French Water Company)
SETU            Urban Land Development Company / Societ4 d' quipment des terrains urbains
SODECI          Ivorian Water Distribution Company / SocIlt6 de distribution d'eau do CSte
d'Ivoi re
TOT             Torms of Trade / Termes de  e6chango
UMOA            West African Monetary Unlon / Union monetaire ouest-africaine
UWS             Urban Water Supply / Hydraulique urbaine
VAT             Value Added Tax / Taxe A Ia valeur ajout6o
WASAL           Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Adjustment Loan / PrAt d'ajustoment du secteur
do l'eau et de l'assainissement
y The CFA Franc exchange rate Is fixed at a rate of GO: 1 with the French Franc. The latter Is a
floating currency.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN SUMARY..                                                          .i
PART I.  THE ECONOMY .... . . . . . . ..                                     1
Introduction  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . .          1
Background  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  2
The Short Term: Public Finance and Structural Reforms . . . . . .    4
Reducing the Fiscal Deficit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
Sectoral Reforms  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ..  6
Other Structural Reforms  . . . . . . . . .    . . . . . . .    7
Social Dimensions of Adjustment . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    8
Towards a Res-umption of Growth: The Medium Term . . . . . . . . .    8
Overview of the Medium-Term Adjustment Program . . . . . . .    9
Economic Prospects and Financing Requirements   . . . . . . . . .   13
The Short Term .T.e.r.m. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ......  .  .  .  .  .   .    13
The Medium Term  . . . . . .  ...  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   14
Financing Requirements ...   ......  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .   .   15
Risks...                                                  . . 16
PART II.   THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR   . . . . . . . . . .   17
The Water Supply and Sanitation Sector in the Adjustment Frocess.    17
Sector Profile  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . . .18
Service Levels and Water Demand .         . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
Institutional Framework  ...   ..... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   19
Sector Performance  ....  .  .  .  .  .    .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    20
Urban Water Supply ....  .     .  .  .   ..... .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    20
Sanitation ....  .  .    .  .  .   . ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    22
Rural Water Supply ....  .     .  .  .   ..... .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    22
Financial Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   24
Main Sector Issues  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . . . .  .   .    25
Regulatory and Contractual Framework . . . . . . . . . . . .   25
Pricing Framework  ....  .   . . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    26
Financial Issues ....  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    27
. ..1.. .
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Pago No.
PART TIT.   THE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
Policy Framework and Sectoral Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
Sectoral Adjustm ent Proggam ... . * a.......................... 30
Increased Privatization . . . ..........  . .                  30
Control of Costs and Efficient Pricing  . . . . . . . . . . .   31
Environmental Protection  ..... . .    .............           33
Financial Restructurin  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   33
PARTIV.   THEPROPOSEDLOAN  ....** . ...** .......    35
Loan  History    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .*  . *  .  *  .  .  35
Loan Amouat and Tranching. ... ........ ......    36
Moitorable Actions . .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. ¢. *. .*v* ............... 37
Monitoring and Reporting  . ...... . . . . . ..... .    39
Procurement, Disbursement and Administration  . . . . . . . .   39
Benefits, Risks and Environmental Impact  . . . . . . . . . .   40
PART V.   BANK GROUP OPlSATIONS IN COTE D'IVOItZ  . ... .    ..... .  .   42
PART VI.  RECOMMNDATION ...........4.. * . . . ..... .   43
ANNEXES
1           Country lconomic Data  . ................  .    44
2           Status of Bank Group Operations. . . . ......... .   51
3           Statement of Sectoral Policy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    53
4           Program of Policy Actions  . ..............  .    90
5           Summary of Financial Data and Projections  . . . . . . . .   93
6           Impact of Policy Reforms on Public Sector Revenues . . . .  100
7           Supplementary Loan Data  . ................   103
8           Documents and Data Available in the Project File . . . . .  105
MAP:        IBRD No. 22120 - Location of Water Supply Systems



REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan Summary
Borrower:                      Republic of COte d'Ivoire.
Amount:                        US$80.0 million equivalent.
Terms:                         20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Loan Description:              The proposed loan would support the Government's
comprehensive program of reforms in the water
supply and sanitation sector. The main objectives
of this program aret (a) to restore the
availability of basic rural services; (b) to
Improve planning and sustainability of investments;
(c) to improve control of costs and efficiency of
pricing; (d) to strengthen the protection of water
resources and of the envirorment; and (e) to
restore the financial autonomy of the sector.
To this effect, the program comprises the
following: (a) a new institutional framework based
on Government retrenchment through increased
privatization and community management of rural
facilities; (b) introduction of efficient pricing
of urban water services and of full recovery of
maintenance costs in rural areas; (c) establishment
of regulations and controls on private extraction
of groundwater and on disposal of domestic and
industrial wastewater; and (d) implementation of
a new financing strategy and restructuring of
sector finances.
Benefits and Risks:           More than four million villagers, particularly
women and children, would benefit from the
restoration of rural water services. Industrial
competitiveness and low-income urban consumers
would benefit from efficient water pricing that
is introduced in conjunction with cost reduction
measures.   The reforms implemented under the
proposed loan would also increase returns on sector
investments, relieve public finances from the
pressure exerted by the sector since the mid-80s
and would ensure efficient and environmentally
sound use of water resources.
Main risks pertain to the effectiveness of the
transfer of rural water points to the villagers



- ii -
and to unpredictable development in the external
environment  which  may   reduce   the   actual
availability of ludgetary resources to complete
the financial restructuring of the sector. These
risks are limited in view ofs (a) the experience
already accumulated in training and community
development through a large scale pilot program;
(b) the resolution of the Government to implement
the sectoral reforms already demonstrated during
preparation, appraisal and negotiations; and
(c) Government's commitment to the main objectives
of the stabilization program.
Estimated Disbursements:       The proposed loan would be disbursed  in two
tranches: the first tranchtu of US$50 million at
loan effectiveness (July 1990) and the second
tranche of US$30 million around December 1990, upo.l
satiLactory progress in implementation of the
program.
Staff Appraisal Report:        This is a combined President's and Staff Appraisal
Report.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMEhDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Loan for the equivalent of US$80 million to the Republic of C8te d'Ivoire in
support of the implementation of a , er supply and sanitation sector
adjustment program.   This program is u..scribed in a Statement of Policy
received from the Government (Annex 3).  The Loan will have a term of 20
years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable rate.
PART I. THE ECONOMY
INTRODUCTION
2.        C8te d'Ivoire (RCI) is in the midst of a deep macroeconomic and
financial crisis triggered by the sharp decline in the te.ms of trade (TOT)
since mid-1986.   This has resulted in sharply fal_ing incomes,  rising
unemployment, and in consequence serious social unrest. The country's two
key economic problems are a very large structural fiscal deficit which in
1989 reached 16 percent of GDP and the lack of competitiveness of the
productive sectors.   The Government decided in mid 1989 to start taking
corrective action, and, in close consultation with the IMF and the Bank, is
implementing an economic recovery program.   After an initial period of
continued recession, during which domestic prices are expected to adjust
downward, factor mobility enhanced and incentives for the production of
tradeables increased, this program is designed to return the economy to a
stable growth path, of around 4 percent p.a., consistent with internal and
external equilibria.
3.        The principal objectives of the first phase ending December 1990
are to reduce the fiscal deficit and achieve substantial progress in repaying
domestic and external arrears while carrying out structural reforms in key
sectors. The 1989 revenue targets of the IMF Stand-by arrangement, which was
approved in November 1989 in support of this first phase, could not be
achieved because of a sharper decline in economic activity and in the price
of RCI major commodities, cocoa and coffee than forecast. In order to re-
establish equilibrium in public finances, the Government has therefore
prepared an enhanced program discussed by the IMF Board in June 1990.
4.        During a second phase to commence in late 1990/early 1991, the
Government aims in the medium-term at restoring competitiveness of the
economy by bringing about a real depreciation of the exchange rate and
enhancing the efficiency of the economy, while continuing to improve public
finances. The Government has agreed in principle that the basic elements of
this second, growth-oriented, phase are: reducing public expenditures through
further cuts in current expenditures, including salaries, while shifting



- 2 -
spending in support of productive activities and increasing investment which
is currently at a very low level; privatization and public enterprise
rehabilitation; deregulation; tax and tariff reforms and financial sector
reform.   Substantial progress has been achieved in preparing the major
elements of the medium-term program, and the authorities have agreed on a
joint work program with Bank staff to complete the specific recommendations.
Some measures, especially in the area of deregulation, are already to be
implemented during the first phase of the recovery program.
BACKGROUND
5.        With a GNP per capita of US$ 740 in 1988, RCI is a middle income
country, among the most developed in the West African Region. During the
first 15 years following independence in 1960, it achieved rapid economic
growth averaging 7.7 percent p.a. without major external and internal
imbalances as a result of favorable resource endowments, inflows of cheap
labor from neighboring Sahelian countries, political stability, appropriate
macroeconomic policies and an agriculture based and export led growth
strategy.   In the May 1977 Report No. 1147-IVC "Ivory Coast - A Basic
Economic Report', the Bank analyzed in depth the country's striking economic
performance during its first fifteen years of independence.
6.        Despite this favorable initial period of rapid growth, RCI is today
in the midst of a deep macroeconomic and financial crisis. The country's two
key economic problems are a very large structural fiscal deficit and the lack
of competitiveness of the productive sectors.   With regard to the first
issue, following two years of growing fiscal deficits, in 1989 the deficit
(on a commitment basis) reached the record level of 16 percent of GDP.
Unable to finance suoh large deficits through internal and external
borrowing, the public settor has been accumulating substantial external and
internal payment arrears. In mid-1987, the Government suspended payments to
the London and Paris Club creditors; the stock of internal payment arrears
expanded rapidly to some 19 percent of GDP at end 1989, precipitating a
serious liquidity crisis and a loss of confidence by the private sector.
7.        The competitiveness of the RCI economy has been seriously eroded
since 1979 by a sharp appreciation of the real exchange rate. For example,
from 1985 to 1988 the real effective exchange rate appreciated by some
30 percent; the level of real overvaluation may in fact be larger if one
takes into account that since 1985 there have been large decreases in the
terms of trade and increases in outstanding external debt.   Other key
struct"ral constraints which impede improving competitiveness are an
inappropriate regulatory framework and a large and inefficient public
enterprise sector.
8.        The roots of both these problems to a large extent can be traced
back to the mismanagement of successive external shocks beginning with the
commodity boom of the mid-1970's. Between 1975 and 1977, the terms of trade
improved by more that 60 percent and public expenditure was increased
dramatically from 26.5 percent of GDP in 1975 to 41.4 percent of GDP in 1978.
However, when the boom ended, the Government, rather than cutting back on
expenditure, financed its ambitious expenditure program through foreign
borrowing and money creation. The fiscal deficit which was at 2.2 percent
of GDP in 1975 rose to 12 percent in 1981 and has remained high ever since



- 3 -
except during 1985 and 1986 when the cocoa and coffee markets experienced
another temporary boom.  During the 1980s the Government sharply reduced
investment expenditures and temporarily froze wages and salaries.  Public
investment vas cut from 15.2 percent of GDP in 1982 to 3 percent of GDP in
1989; however, current spending 1/ has been on a rising trend (from 18
percent of GDP in 1975 to 23 percent of GDP in 1989), and revenues have
fluctuated widely around a virtually horizontal line in tandem with the
commodity boom/bust cycle.
9.        Large fiscal deficits financed through commodity surpluses, heavy
borrowing and money creation led to an acceleration of inflation compared to
partner trading countries and a loss of competitivenees for the non-booming
tradeable sectors. Thus, RCI has been able to diversify out of cocoa and
coffee only to - limited extent, and remains extremely vulnerable to changes
in their world prices. RCI now faces an extremely high external debt burden;
public debt outstanding amounted to some US$9.8 billion, or 105 percent of
GDP in 1989 and the debt service ratio for 1990 is estimated at 49 percent.
10.       Another key factor undermining the RC' economy is the status of
the domestic financial system which 4- in acute distress. The main causes
are primarily rooted in the macroeconomic imbalances and rising public sector
deficits. The large accumulation of public sector arrears with banks has
seriously eroded their liquidity. In addition, the loss in competitiveness
and the downward spiral in economic activlty in the productive sectors have
undermined the portfolio of the commercial banks. Moreover, the drop in
public sector deposits and capital flight have eroded the resource base of
the banks. Although the Government, the BCEAO (the regional Central Bank)
and several commercial banks have undertaken major steps over the last 5
years to correct some of the important deficiencies of the financial system,
the situation remains critical as negative growth and persisting public
finance difficulties and the fragility of the financial sector negatively
interact with one another.
11.       Faced with this grave situation, the authorities are start',ng to
implement  a  medium  term  strategy  to  address  the  present  financial
difficulties and return Cote d'Ivoire to the path of sustained economic
growth consistent with the country's large potential.  This strategy aims
progressively to achieve a restructuring of the economy and a major
improvement in competitiveness so as to reduce its dependence on cocoa
production by expanding non-traditional exports, and increase the scope for
efficient Import substitution. To succeed, this strategy will need to be
supported by substantial concessional external financing from official
creditors and a significant reduction in both the outstanding external debt
and debt service payments to commercial banks.
1/ Not of stabilization deficits and interest payments on external debt.



THE SHORT TERM: PUBLIC FINANCE AND STRUCTURAL REFORMS 2/
12.       The Government's objective in the short-term is to move rapidly
towards equilibrium in public finances and to reduce substantially domestic
payment arrears. Achieving this goal is a prerequisite for the resumption
of growth since internal arrears are jeopardizing the health of the financial
system and have led to a rapid decline in private sector activity. Hence;
the Government put in place, with the assistance of Fund and Bank staff, an
18 month program which aims at stabilizing the economy while starting the
more difficult process of structural reform. In support of this program, a
Stand-by Arrangement was approved by the IMF in November 1989, and two
sectoral adjustment loans were approved by the Bank in October and December
1989 for agriculture and energy, respectively. The Government also requested
a third sectoral adjustment loan regarding the water and sanitation sector
which is the subject of this report; its details are given in Part III below.
13.       The Government's public finance objectives as specified in the
November 1989 Stand-by were to achieve a 1989 fiscal deficit (on a commitment
basis) of 8 percent of GDP or 3.8 percent of GDP excluding interest payments
on foreign debt (primary fiscal deficit). In addition, domestic arrears were
to be reduced by about 3 percent of GDP in 1989. For 1990, the objective was
to achieve a primary fiscal surplus of 2.9 percent of GDP. However, owing
to a sharp further drop in international prices for cocoa and coffee towards
the end of 1989 and a more rapid decline in economic activity, the 1989
budgetary results were substantially worse than expected; the overall and
primary fiscal deficits are estimated at 16 percent and 7 percent of GDP,
respectively and, and given the lack of any additional financial resources,
domestic payment arrears continued to increase to CFAF 556 billion, or
19 percent of GDP. Slippages in revenues of 3 percent of GDP and increased
stabilization expenditures of 1 percent of GDP explain in most part the 1989
results.
14.       Owing to difficulties experienced in the second half of 1989 in
the implementation of the DMF r ogram and the need to accelerate the
preparation of the medium-term program, in late February 1990 the Government
made a major effort to strengthen the economic recovery and stabilization
program. The principal target was to reduce the public sector wage bill and
thereby balance the efforts sought from the rural population in 1989 in the
form of a reduction in the producer prices for cocoa and coffee. The wage
reduction was to be accompanied by a package of social measures to reduce the
cost of living of the poorest population groups. Despite the scope of the
accompanying measures envisaged, the announcement of the wage reductions met
with strong popular opposition and the reductions were withdrawn.   The
Government reacted to this situation in April by substantially revising its
strategy so as to adapt it better to circumstances and to the short- and
medium-term objectives.    It gave priority  attention to enhancing  the
coordination and management of the country's economic and financial policies.
To this end, on April 18, 1990 it established an interministerial committee
responsible for implementation and monitoring of the program, under the
chairmanship of the Governor of the Central Bank of West African States
2/ In order to maintain consistency with the IMF program, the public finance figures
in this section are based on the Fund definition of expenditure, that is, debt
service payments are those due before debt relief and arrears, and not those paid.



- 5 -
(BCEAO).   It also plans to hold in the near future a party congress to
reinforce the national consensus for the austerity and reform programs.
15.       In response to tne foregoing, the Government, with the assistance
of Fund and Bank staff, prepared an enhanced policy package to bring the
program back on track. This program was reviewed by the Executive Directors
of the  W4 in late June 1990.  With regard to public fiuances, the program
endeavors to achieve a small (less than 1 percent of GDP) primary fiscal
surplus in 1990 and repay some CFAF 95 billion of internal arrears (4 percent
of CDP). This objective will be achieved by reversing the negative revenue
trends of 1989 through a rapid, comprehensive and sustained improvement in
tax and customs administration in order to increase revenues tc slightly over
their 1989 level and by slashing expenditure, especially non-wage current
expenditures, by some 16 percent compared to 1989, while protecting the
social sectors. In addition, the Government decided to begin the process of
permanently reducing the public sector wage bill over a longer period by
reducing temporary employees and by rigorously monitoring the management of
staffing levels and the wage bill.  The stabilization phase also includes
measures which begin to address medium-term constraints such as financial
sector reform, improving public enterprise monitoring, price liberalization,
review  of  labor  policy  and  simplification  of  trade  regulations.
Simultaneously, structural reform programs in the agriculture, energy, and
water sectors are being implemented.
Reducing the Fiscal Deficit
16.       In the context of the new enhanced program, the Government will
attempt to reduce the fiscal deficit by 7 percent of GDP compared to 1989.
This important effort is decomposed as follows: 4 percent of GDP due to a
reduction in the stabilization deficit, 2 percent of GDP due to expenditure
reductions, and 1 percent of GDP due to revenue enhancement efforts.
17.       Stabilization Results.  In July and September 1989, the guaranteed
producer prices for both cocoa and coffee were reduced from CFAF 400/Kg to
CPAP 200/Kg. These reductions, together with a cut in scheduled marketing
costs of 9.4 percent, resulted in a decline in the domestic cost price for
both cocoa and coffee close to 35 percent. However, large coffee stocks of
low quality need to be written off during the next three years, hence
increasing stabilization costs.  In order to avoid in the future similar
situations, the Government has decided that CAISTAB support will be limited
to good quality coffee. With regard to cotton, measures were already taken
during the third quarter of 1989 that eliminated the stabilization deficit.
On the basis of these measures and current projections for world market
prices and exchange rates, CAISSTAB's 1990 stabilization deficit is expected
to be limited to CFAF 39 billion (2 percent of GDP), compared to CPAF 159
billion (5 percent of GDP) in 1989. For 1991, these measures and those being
prepared in the context of the ASAL, should result in a small surplus.
18.       Expenditure Reduction.  In light of the difficulties encountered
in 1989 and the first quarter of 1990 in attaining revenue targets, the new
enhanced program is predicated more on deep expenditure cuts than was the
initial prog:am. Total expenditure is to be reduced to CPAF 672 billion (25
percent of GTIP), down by 12 percent compared to 1989, despite the fact that
some expenditures such as social security payments are by their nature



- 6 -
non-discretionary.   Investment expenditures will once again be reduced by
18 percent to CFAF 76 billion (3 percent of GDP)s although this cut in
investment expenditures may be justified from a financial point of view, they
need to be substantially increased in the future since at their current level
they are not sufficient to maintain the capital stock.   With regard to
current expenditures, the Government proposes to limit them to CFAF 596
billion, compared to CFAF 667 billion in 1989 or a 11 percent reduction. In
light of the difficult social and political situation, wages are not to be
changed; the wage bill will be reduced by 4 percent compared to 1989 by
limiting the use of temporary employees and improved monitoring of the
payroll.   Hence,  the reduction in current expenditures will be mostly
achieved through cutting non-wage expenditures by 26 percent compared to
1989. Given that these measures will only be effective during the last seven
months of the year, the success of the program critically hinges on
improvements in institutional efficiency and management and on the will to
cut political sensitive programs.
19.       Revenue Enhancement.   The Government has prepared measures that
are expected to reverse the negative trends of 1989 resulting from the
sharper than forecast decline in economic activity and the weak
administrative and institutional capacity.   Compared to 1988,  in 1989,
overall revenues declined by 15 percent to CFAF 703 billion (24 percent of
GDP); Fund staff estimate that if these trends had continued in 1990, revenue
would have only amounted to some CFAF 622 billion.  The program includes
measures that would yield an ambitious additional CFAF 112 billion during the
last seven months of 1990; total revenues in 1990 are therefore forecast at
CFAF 734 billion, or 28 percent of GDP. As the tax burden in RCI is already
high to the point where raising tax rates tends to reduce receipts, increases
in taxes and parafiscal charges are programmed to yield only some CFAF 17
billion. Thus the Government proposes to achieve its revenue targets mainly
through expansions of the tax base towards the informal economy and combating
fraud (CFAF 38 billion), improved administratior and productivity of the
fiscal system (CFAF 12 billion), compensations between tax and budgetary
arrears (CFAF 17 billion), and increases in non-fiscal revenues (CFAF 28
billion), especially improved monitoring and control of transfers from public
enterprises.   The Government has prepared a detailed list of measures to
achieve these revenue objectives. However, given that the program will be
implemented in the context of a depressed economy and that the measures will
only be effective during the last seven months of the year. in order to raise
these additional resources a large, rapid and sustained improvement in the
efficiency and commitment of the tax and customs authorities is required.
Sectoral Reforms
20.       In addition to the financial stabilization measures described
above, the program provides for a wide-ranging set of sectoral reforms of
which implementation has already started -- or will start in the course of
the  next  6-12  months.    These  reforms  aim  principally  at  restoring
international   competitiveness   through  reductions   in  factor  costs,
strengthening of economic incentives, removal of distortions created by
Government intervention, and increased reliance on the private sector.
Adjustment in the agriculture, energy, and water and sanitation sectors is
being impleme.1.d with Bank support, while financial sector reforms have been
initiated by the BCEAO.



21.       The Agricultural Sector Adiustment Program.  This program aims to:
(a) shift incentives towards crops with higher comparative advantage with
producer prices that reflect world market conditions, provide adequate
incentive to high value crops and improved quality, especially coffee (for
which a special quality premium has been introduced), rubber, fruits and
vegetables, and cotton, and introduce a 20 percent premium on exports of non-
traditional crops; (b) improve rural financial intermediation and access to
savings/credit facilities, including a restruct ing of the Agricultural Bank
(BNDA); (c) extend exportlimport and domestic marketing liberalization to
food crops, livestock, cotton, palm oil, and diversification crops;
eliminating subsidies and reducing intermediation costs by parastatal
marketing enterprises; (d) reduce costs for the agro-industrial sector
through tax reform, especially by extension of the value-added tax to the
sector; (e) reorient public expenditures away from subsidies and towards
high-return investments and adequate funding of research and extension
services; and (f) reduce the Government's role in direct production, and
separate the commercial activities of parastatals from their responsibilities
undertaken on behalf of the Government.
22.       The Energy Sector Adjustment Program.  The main elements of this
program, are: (a) introduction of a new contractual framework for hydrocarbon
exploration and development; (b) review of the energy project portfolio to
define an optimum investment program; (c) internal reorganization and
financial restructuring of energy parastatals; and (d) introduction of more
efficient -- flexible -- pricing for energy products as well as selective
energy price reductions. Together, these measures will make a significant
contribution to a more efficient allocation of resources in the energy sector
as well as in the economy as a whole, mobilize private sector finance, and
enhance the competitive position of the country's productive sectors.
23.       The Water and Sanitation Sector Adiustment Program.  This program,
which is the subject of this report, will reduce and realign water costs so
as to improve industrial competitiveness, as well as restore water services
to four million villagers, arrest environmental degradation, and promote
privatization.    The program  includess  (a)  transferring  operating  and
maintenance responsibilities in the rural areas to water users; (b)
transferring investment-related responsibilities for urban water supply to
a private operator; (c) introducing regulations concerning private extraction
of water resources and wastewater disposal; (d) restructuring the finances
of the sector to restore its financial autonomy; and (e) reducing water
tariffs and costs by 20 percent.
Other Structural Reforms
24.       In addition to the sectoral reforms described above, the enhanced
short-term program includes significant actions on the following fronts:
(a) improvement of public enterprise monitoring and preparation of a wide
ranging privatization program; (b) reform of the financial system; and
(c) review and simplification of the regoilatory framework including an
immediate liberalization of almost all prices, simplification of trade
regulations, and a review of labor policy. In addition, the Government's
Letter of Intent to the IMF sets out timetables for the Government to prepare
detailed implementation matrices in many of the above areas. These measures



- 8 -
are described in more detail below (paras. 27 to 43) in the context of the
discussion of the medium-term program.
Social Dimensions of Adjustment
25.       The present economic crisis has led to a sharp reduction in per
capita income and in private consumption during the past few years.  The
halving of producer prices for cocoa and coffee were necessary m-croeconomic
measures which have dealt a blow to rural incomes. However, it is important
to note that the impact of this measure had already been felt far some time:
for about a year prior to the formal cut in producer price, announced in
September 1989, traders and intermediaries were not paying many farmers the
official price in the anticipation of a market shift and because of the
inability of the stabilization fund to fully compensate merchants.   The
official realignment of producer prices and redxtction of marketing margins
thus keeps wealthy individuals (the traders) from making a major profit at
the expense of the farmers while increasing pressure to reduce costs. The
reforms envisaged in the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL - Report
No. P-4799-RCI), on the other hand, encourage cocoa and coffee farxtrs to
reconstitute their incomes by switching to other crops.  The objective or
these and other reforms provided under the ASAL is to lay the foundaLions for
resumption of growth in this key sector of the RCI economy which should help
re-establish the positive trend in income distribution after this initial
setback. Other Bank-supported actions will also have a major impact on rural
welfare.   These includes more rational electrification (supported by the
ESAL); more effective water supply (supported by this operation); and the
proposed reorientation of intra-sectoral expenditures in the health and
education sectors to favor basic and primary services to be supported by a
Human Resources Valorization project which is under preparation.   In the
urban areas, the poor are concentrated in the informal sector where economic
activities are effectively deregulated. Food prices, which are an important
element effecting the consumption baskets of these households, are not likely
to decline. More important, however, will be the successful implementation
of the overall structural adjustment program that will lay the foundation for
the participation of the poor, both rural and urban, in the process of
economic growth.
26.       To address both the short-term issues of negative  impact of
stabilization policies, and the medium-term issues of effective participation
in resumed growth, the Government also intends to design and implement a
comprehensive strategy to achieve growth with poverty reduction.  To this
effect, two working groups have been established, with representation from
all sectors concerned, and participation drawn from Government, the private
sector and academic circles. They are in the process of defining the policy
measures, action plans and additional support measures required. This should
produce a series of operations to be supported by the Bank and other donors
over the next two to three years.
TOWARDS A RESUMPTION OF GROWTH: THE MEDIUM TERM
27.       The massive 35 percent deterioration in Cote d'Ivoire's TOT from
1986 to 1989 and the concomitant rise in the current account deficit from an
equilibrium situation in 1985-86 to 10 percent of GDP in 1989, imply the need



- 9 -
for both a reduction in absorption and a depreciation in the real exchange
rate. Restoring equilibrium in public finances is a prerequisite not only
because of the urgent need to reduce internal arrears and help restore
private sector confidence, but also because it is a necessary step both to
achieve a sustainable BOP position by reducing absorption and to help restore
competitiveness through a depreciation of the real exchange rate. However,
the success of the financial stabilization and sectoral reform programs is
a necessary, but not sufficient condition, for the resumption of growth.
This will require a further shift in relative prices and in the incentives
structure in favor of tradeables. Hence, the Government fully understands
and accepts the necessity to complement its current efforts with a medium-
term adjustment program aimed at restoring RCI's comp.._itiveness and
diversifying its economy.
28.       Although  the  Government's  attention  has  understandably  been
concentrated on the more short-term and financial aspects of the program,
especially taking into account the slippages that needed to be urgently
corrected, it has drawn up a detailed outline of the medium-term adjustment
program, preparation is expected to be completed during the next 6 months
with the assistance of Bank staff. In addition, the Government will take in
the context of the stabilization program some measures to begin to restore
competitiveness.   With regard to other measures,  implementation  is to
commence as soon as possible in 1990 or in some cases in 1991.
overview of the Medium-Term Adiustment Program
29.       The Government has decided that the required depreciation of the
real exchange rate would be achieved through internal deflationary policies
and reductions in domestic costs in order to avoid inflationary pressures
and other possible negative consequences on the Franc zone. In particular,
a nominal decline in wages will be necessary; wages in the industrial sector
have been estimated to be from 70 percent to five times above those
prevailing in competing countries.   The RCI economy is also extremely
inefficient.   A wide-ranging reform program is necessary to eliminate
distortions and increase productivity. In order to achieve these objectives
the Government intends to implement a program consisting of five main
elements: reducing public expenditures through cuts in current expenditures,
including salaries, while increasing investment; privatization and public
enterprise rehabilitation; deregulation; tax and tariff reform; and financial
sector reform.
30.       Reductions in Government Spending.  No medium-term program will
be viable if it is accompanied by large fiscal deficits. The Government's
objective in this regard is to achieve a primary fiscal surplus of some 8
percent of GDP by 1995.  Since revenues are not expected to increase as a
percentage of GDP, further cuts in expenditures are required, and given the
need to increase investment expenditures gradually over time, these cuts need
to come from the recurrent budget. This necessarily means a reduction in the
civil service wage bill which is the largest item of the recurrent budget -
- especially since the non-wage items in the current budget have taken the
brunt of adjustment since 1981, and will again be cut by 26 percent in 1990.
A reduction in the civil service wage bill will be needed to bring about the
real depreciation.   At CFAF 354 billion in 1989, the personnel budget



- 10 -
represents 12 percent of GDP, and the vean civil service salary is around
US$600 per month, roughly 10 times average per-capita GDP.
31.       The recently completed Public Expenditure Review (PER) analyzes
in detail the components of the wage bill, including basic selaries and
special indemnities and wage complements for both civil servants and
temporary employees of the public sector. The study also proposes measures
that would lead to a 20 percent nominal reduction of the wage bill mainly by
significantly reducing special indemnities and benefits in kind such as free
housing. The Government has agreed in principle to the need to significantly
reduce the wage bill; however, given the volatile economic and political
situation (para. 14) it has decided to achieve the 20 percent nominal
reduction over an extended period.
32.       Around 57 percent of the current budget is spent on health and
education.  While the Government and the Bank are in full agreement that
these expenditures should be protected to the fullest extent possible, there
is also agreement that a fundamental restructuring of these programs is
required, including redirecting resources towards primary health and
education, increasing cost recovery from beneficiaries, and in general
increasing efficiency in the delivery of these services.   The extent of
possible savings, if any, will be worked out with the assistance of Bank
staff, using the recommendations of the PER, and the 1991 budget will reflect
these and the redefined sectoral strategies.
33.       The Rehabilitation and Privatization of Public Enterprises.  The
State still occupies an important position in the modern secondary sector;
approximately 47 percent of the capital of this sector was owned by the State
in  1988.    Parastatal  enterprises  (PEs)  are prevalent  in  almost  all
subsectors; a preliminary inventory carried out by the PER mission found that
there are 9 public establishments (i.e., institutions with an internal
structure of a government agency and no capital) that raise the majority of
their resources from the sale of goods and services, 9 PEs that are fully
owned by the State, 22 enterprises where the State is a majority partner and
43 where it is in a minority position. The parastatal sector is not well
managed; not only are .any PEs overstaffed and returns on capital low and
even negative, but the higher the participation of the State, the worse tends
to be the performance of the firm.
34.       The Government is fully aware that the prevalent excessive cost
structure is due in part to the inefficiency of the PE sector. Especially
important are the high electricity and water tariffs, and the inefficient
operations of CAISTAB and the 'Caisse de PdrdquationO. In view of this the
Government has adopted a strategy of progressive but rapid withdrawal of the
State from all directly productive activities.  In addition, in order to
improve the performance of the PE sector, and reduce costs and the drain on
budgetary resources, supervision and financial control mechanisms would be
intensified while at the same time granting more a-priori autonomy to firm
managers.
35.       The following are the principal actions already carried out or
envisaged:
(a) increase the Government's capacity in policy formulation and
supervision by creating in January 1990 a department at the



- 11 -
Ministry of Finance responsible for the overall management of the
sector and the privatization process.    In this  regard,  the
Government has requested assistance from the Bank in this key area
in the context of an Economic Management Project currently being
formulated;
(b) establish through the work of this unit by end September 1990 a
financial supervision and control system of the principal PEs,
including those PEs being rehabilitated in the context of the
sectoral programs being supported by the Bank-financed SECALs;
(c) prepare a privatization strategy including establishing priorities
with regard to privatization and the procedures to be followed in
this process. The Government expects to complete this document and
the list of those PEs first targeted for privatization at latest
by end September 1990. In this regard, as agreed with IMF and Bank
staff, the Government has decided that those PEs in relatively good
financial standing, mainly those in which the State has a minority
share, but need to carry out investments or reinforce their capital
structure would be the first to be privatized. Privatization could
be realized in liaison with the commercial bank debt reduction
program; and
(d) in the context of the implementation of the three SECALs, implement
the rehabilitation plans for the water and electricity utilities,
and review the role and operations of the nCaisse de Perdquation"
and CAISTAB. includir.g a financial and management audit of the
latter, with the view of carrying out major reforms in their
operations in 1990.
36.       Regulatory Reform.  The Ivorian economy is excessively regulated.
Areas where glaring anomalies exist includet the ineffectual system of price
controls; the investment code and the long delays   (sometimes up to two
years)  for foreign investors  in obtaining official approval  ('agrdment
prioritaireg);  export and import regulations which lead to goods being
delayed for an average of 20 days; and labor regulations which impede the
efficient  working  of  the  labor market.    These  regulations  not  only
systematically increase the cost of private sector operations, but lead to
significant rigidities in output and factor prices, as well as impede desired
shifts in factor allocations, augmenting the real costs and decreasing the
efficiency of the adjustment measures required to depreciate the real
exchange rate irrespective of the approach adopted to achieve this real
depreciation.
37.       Aware of these costs, the Government has agreed to carry out a
deep reform of the regulatory framework based on the conclusions of the
recently completed Competitiveness Study and complementary technical papers
prepared by Bank staff on the labor market and price controls. A detailed
reform program is currently being prepared by the authorities, with the
assistance of Bank staff, the formulation of which is expected to be
completed by September 1990. This program will include, inter alia, actions
in the areas of investment code, the labor market, international transport
and export and import procedures and the company law. In addition, based on
these studies, the Government has decided to implement the following measures
by end Mays liberalize prices for all goods except for a limited number of



- 12 -
sensitive goods; restrict the inefficient and costly import declaration
system to a limited list of goods; simplify export procedures, notably the
'visas pr4alables' system with a view to reducing shipment delays; and review
labor regulations, especially the monopoly of OMOCI, a state agency
responsible for hiring and firing.
38.       Tax and Tariff Reform.  By all accounts, the RCI productive sector
is overtaxed: the effective profit tax is 50 percent, the normal VAT rate is
25 percent, and the domestin gasoline price (CFAF 350 per litre) is much
higher than world prices because of high taxes. These high tax rates not
only decrease the international competitiveness of the RCI modern sector, but
have also multiplied distortions as certain well placed firms and
entrepreneurs have been abla to secure privileged tax and/or customs status.
Despite these high rates, tax collection is low and decressing, as economic
activity declines and fraud and evasion rise. Faced with a shrinking tax
base, the Government has in the past resorted to increasing rates which has
led to further shrinking of the formal sector.   Hence a reduction of
statutory rates, together with tax simplification and institutional reforms
aimed at improving collections, are an important component of both the short-
and medium-term phases of the Government adjustment program.
39.       With regard to the reform of the tax and tariff systems, on the
basis of the Resource Mobilization Report completed by the Bank in 1988, the
Competitiveness Study and a complementary technical study by Bank staff on
the tariff regime, the Government will prepare detailed measures in this area
to be included in the regulatorylincentive reform program to be completed by
September. Recommendations concerning the simplification of the tax regime,
a single VAT rate, one income tax schedule and a more uniform tariff
structure, as well as those concerning the reduction of taxes on productive
activities such as the rationalization of the implicit taxes on petroleum
products are being considered. In addition, the Government has decided to
eliminate the National Investment Fund Tax to reduce the effective profit tax
from 50 to 40 percent.
40.       The Government will also implement in the context of the first
phase of its recovery program a detailed plan consisting of both short- and
medium-term measures aiming at reinforcing the tax and customs departments.
With regard to customs, the principal measures envisaged are reviewing legal
and financial prerequisites for customs agents, introducing more efficient
systems in monitoring both the value of imports and exports and effective
payment before goods are released from customs, and introducing a personnel
rotation plan. These measure will be supported by a detailed audit of the
Customs Department, the recommendations of which will be implemented in 1990.
With regard to taxes, the key measures to be implemented are the introduction
of systems and individual files to monitor taxpayers in arrears, organize
emergency tax collection operations, and create new inspectorates.   The
Government has requested technical assistance from France and the IMF to
carry out some of these measures.
41.       Financial Sector Reform.  The Government, the BCEAO and several
commercial banks have taken major steps over the last five years to correct
some of the most important deficiencies of the financial system. First, the
Government has restructuredlliquidated five specialized public banks. BCEAO
has ended the preferential discounting system, tightened the crop credit
system and began to strengthen control over banking activities. Finally,



- 13 -
several commercial banks have substantially reduced staff, improved
management  and  control,   closed  branches  and  undertaken  financial
restructuring.
42.       Nevertheless, the situation remains extremely worrisome as negative
growth and persisting public finance difficulties and the fragility of the
financial system negatively interact with onie another. To return to good
health, the banking system requires above all a dramatic improvement of the
macroeconomic situation, that is, a settlement of domestic arrears and the
restoration of competitiveness.   On the other hand, the banking system
requires support to survive the impact of the further adjustments needed to
stabilize the economy, since the success of the adjustment process itself
hinges on the existence of an operative and stable financial sector. The
challenge is to put in place measures that, in the short-run, will avoid a
banking sector collapse and in the longer-run gradually restore the health
of the financial system.
43.       Fully aware of the gravity of the situation, the Government has
agreed to prepare and implement aU in-depth financial sector reform as a
component of the medium-term program.  Discussions  between the Government
and Bank staff on this reform are underway; the objective is for the program
to be put in place before the end of 1990. It will most likely involve three
phases: (a) stabilization of the situation by performing comprehensive audits
of the commercial banks (completed), the orderly repayment of domestic
payment arrears, pursuing a tight but flexible monetary policy, and improving
the balance sheets of the most fragile banks through financial restructuring;
(b) restructuring and recapitalizing financial institutions in order to
assure their survival during the adjustment process: and (c) in the longer-
term, measures need to be devised and taken to revitalize and diversify the
financial sector so it could effectively finance economic growth and social
development.
ECONOMIC PROSPECTS AND FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
The Short Term
44.       As mentioned before, the Government has opted for an internal
adjustment process in which competitiveness is restored through a reduction
in domestic costs. The program formulated by the Government would have an
initial recessionary impact, i.e., GDP would continue to decline or stagnate
during the next 2-3 years.   This difficult adjustment period will be
characterized by a large decline in per capita consumption mainly due to cuts
in public consumption. Thus, the domestic savings rate (before terms of
trade adjustment) would rise sharply from a level of about 22 percent of GDP
in 1989 to 27 percent in 1992, which is still slightly below the level
prevailing in the seventies and early eighties. In addition to this needed
rise in savings, it is expected that a realignment of relative prices will
take place, thus leading to a gradual rise in the volume of private
investment and an improvement in its efficiency, laying the foundation for
the resumption of stable growth as of 1993.   Details of the short term
projections are presented in Table 1 below.



- 14 -
Table 1: SUM_ry Macroeconomie Indicators
The Sho t-Ter uutloo 
Actual                Projected
1987    1968   19890    1990    191    1992
Annual Growth Rates
(Constant price,)
CDP                                -1.0    -1.9    -1.2    -5.0    -1.0       2.5
Total Consumption /capita          -2.6    -8.8    -7.6   -11.2    -7.7    -0.5
Exports (GNFS)                     -9.5    -4.2    14.9      8.?      8.8     0.0
import. (GNFS)                     -2.0    -8.6    -0.6    -7.0    -0.8       4.4
Cross Domestle Investment          11.7    15.2    10.8      6.6      9.1    10.4
Publlc Invootment                 8.9     4.7      8.1     2.9      8.4      4.5
Private Investment                7.6    10.5      7.2     5.?      5.7      5.9
Dom etIc Sv Ing (ratio to GcY) \S   16.8    10.6    14.1    12.0    16.0    16.9
Trade Balance (CNFS)                4.6     0.8      2.8     2.9      4.6     4.6
Current Account Blanceo            -6.1    -0.2    -9.7   -11.6   -4.0    -8.7
Primary Current Acc.Balance        -1.9    -8.7    -1.8    -1.8       0.7     0.6
Public Sector Balance              -4.8    -8.4   -16.2    -8.9    -5.0    -8.6
Primary Fiscal Balance             -0.5    -5.9    -7.8      1.2      4.4     5.5
Debt Indicators \V
DOD/GDP                            69.8    78.1   105.6   184.9   122.6   1S8.9
DOD/XGS                           197.5   248.5   299.4   889.6   810.1   818.6
DObt Service/GOP                    6.0     4.7    17.4    21.1    15.6    15.6
Debt Servic./XGS                   17.1    14.9    49.2    61.0    40.0    87.2
Intorest/aDP                        4.2     2.5      7.9    10.2      9.8     9.2
*: estimated.
\'These projections are different from those of the IMP because of slight variations In
external debt, conmodity price projectlons and Imports.  The net result of these
differences is that In the Bank*s projections both the fiscal and current account balances
Improve loss rapidly. However, the overall trends are consistent.
\bThe fiat trend of the export growth rate in 1992 is explained by sharp increases In the
previous three years due to reloases of stockpiles of coffee and cocoa.
\cAdjusted for Terms of Trade.
q Public and Publicly Guaranteed only, including Residual FisTcl GAP Financing.
The Medium Term
45.        The realignment of relative prices together with the increase in
savings and investment is expected to lead to the resumption of positive per
capita growth as of 1995.   Growth will be led mainly by agriculture  (4
percent per annum). The increase in exports and the restructuring of public
finances will imply important improvement in the public finance and balance
of payments positions, with primary surpltuses (excluding interest) in both
accounts.    Thus  COte  d'Ivoire  would  enter  a  sustainable  growth  phase,
consistent with internal and external equilibria. Details of the medium-
term projections are presented in Table 2 below.



- 15 -
Table 2: Summry Macroeconomli Indicgtore
The Mdium-Term Outlook %2
Projected
1998    1094    1995    1996    199t
Annual Growth Rates
(constant prices)
GOP                              8.0     .5    8.7    4.0    4.5
Totl Consumption /capita        -1.7   -1.1   -0.6   -0.2        0.6
Exports (CWS)                    1.2    2.5    3.0    8.2        8.8
Imports (GNFS)                   6.2    6.1    4.8    4.7    4.6
X of GDP
Oros Domestic Investment        12.7   14.8   16.5    10.6    17.0
Public Investment              6.7    6.8    7.0    7.5        8.0
Private Investment             7.0    8.0    8.5    9.0        9.0
Domestic Saving (ratio to GODY) \b    17.7   19.1   20.1   21.5    22.5
Trade Balance (GNFS)             .8  8 .56    8.8    8.9    4.9
Current Aceount Balance         -9.6   -9.6   -9.4   -9.4    -7.0
Primry Current Acc.ealance       0.0   -0.1   -0.1    0.6        1.5
Public Sector Balance           -8.9   -4.2   -4.8   -8.6   -8.1
Primary Fiscal Balance           S.7    5.8    1.0    5.2        5.4
Debt Indicators \i
DOD/GDP                        187.8   186.0   188.6   129.1   120.7
DOD/XGS                        819.4   808.6   296.6   276.7   268.1
Debt Service/GOP                14.4   18.1   14.1    18.2    12.5
Debt Service/XOS                88.4   29.8   81.2   29.6   26.8
Interst/GODP                     9.5    9.8    9.8    9.0        9.5
aThes projections are different trom those of the IMF becuse of slight varpitions in
external debt, commodity price projections and Imports.  The not result of these
differences Is that In the Bank's projections both the fiscal and current account bIlances
Improve lose rapidly. Howver, the overall trends are consistent.
\k Adjusted for Terms of Trade.
\! Public and Publicly Guaranteed only, including Residual Flscal CAP Financing.
Financing Requirements
46.        Despite the strong adjustment measures adopted by the authorities,
COte d'Ivoire needs substantial financial assistance from multilateral,
bilateral and private creditors to implement in an orderly fashion its
stabilization and restructuring program and to normalize its external
financial relations. Apart from loans traditionally aimed at financing the
public investment budget, the program envisages for 1989-90 an overall
financing  requirement  of the order of US$3.5 billion,  as  reflected  in
Table 3.   About one fourth of the overall requirement is expected to be
covered by resources provided by the multilateral institutions, principally
the  IMF, the -World Bank, the African  Development Bank, and  the  EEC.
Moreover, it is assumed that rescheduling of medium- and long-term foreign
debt  to  private  creditors  on  conventional  terms  would  cover  about
US$2.9 billion.   In view of the magnitude of the debt and arrears  to
commercial banks, a comprehensive debt renegotiation, including debt-
reduction options, will be required. A first meeting between the Steering



- 16 -
Committee of the country's commercial creditors and the Government took place
in early November 1989, with further meetings scheduled for June 1990.
Table 8: Financing Requireents of Adlustment Program. 1989-0
---------------- Rised Estimates ------------------
1989      1990      Totel             Tote I \!!
(.ltTiiated  (progruram)
outcome)
--------- CFAF biIion ----              uSS m--
Requiregents \671                              494      1066                8469
1.  Identified Multilateral Financing    80    179       259                844
IMF                           12        42         U4                 176
IBRD program loans            28         70        98                 319
African Development Bank       0         32        32                 104
'TABEX                        40         20        6o                 195
EDF                            0         15        1S                  49
II.  Identified Bilateral Financing  so        92        122                897
III. Debt Relief Lendon Club V      456       223        079                2212
IV.  Private Creditors                s         0         5                  16
B Based on an average exchange rate of 807 CFAF/USS.
Equal to public expenditure minus revenue. Includes debt relief granted by Peris Club.
d Presently being negotiated with the London and Paris Club.
Sourco: IMF/IBRD.
47.      After the initial phase of domestic stabilization, COte d'Ivoire
will still be faced with a difficult '..ransition period before a positive rate
of economic growth is restored and a recovery in real per capita income is
achieved as outlined above.   Strong efforts will be needed to generate
additional domestic savings to finance the diversification and the
modernization of the production base of the economy.  Notwithstanding the
Government's commitment to adjustment, C8te d'Ivoire's external debt will
remain a serious constraint on the country's prospects for achieving
sustained economic growth. Conventional rescheduling and financing presently
available for highly indebted lower-middle-income countries will not
contribute to a lasting alleviation of C8te d'Ivoire's critical external debt
problem.   The country's medium-term economic and financial outlook thus
hinges importantly on the willingness and ability of the major creditors to
provide substantial concessional assistance and further debt relief.
Risks
48.      The Ivorian Government has embarked on an adjustment process that
will be long and painful, with GDP not expected to rebound until 1993. On
the economic side, even if all the complex set of deregulatory measures



- 17 -
envisioned in the medium-term program are implemented, there is risk that
the supply response expected from the private sector might be delayed, if
downward factor price flexibility is not achieved to the wide extent needed.
On the political side, a recent setback to the public salary wage cuts
approved in February given the strong opposition faced by the Government
attest to the difficulties of implementing a 'competitive deflation, program
of such magnitude. External factors on the other hand should not present a
major risk, in principle, since most conservative estimates point to a slow
recovery of terms of trade.
PART II. THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR
THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR IN THE ADJUSTMENT PROCESS
49.      The situation of the water supply and sanitation sector in West
Africa is often characterized by a limited capacity of absorption of
investments, poor management and operating performance, and low level of cost
recovery stemming from the reluctance of goverrnments to raise politically
sensitive water tariffs.   These shortcomings usually translate into low
service levels in urban areas with a bias in favor of capital cities; even
lower service levels in rural areas; poor quality of service and periodic
needs of rehabilitation in lieu of maintenance; continuous wastage of scarce
water resources; and heavy reliance on exhausted national budgets to finance
sectoral debt service, investments and a portion of operating costs. Thus,
the provision of safe water to a limited and well-off portion of the urban
population is eventually subsidized by the national economy's main engine,
i.e., the agricultural sector.
50.      Against this background, the Ivorian approach to the development of
the water supply and sanitation sector could have appeared as a model. When
embarking on an ambitious National Water Supply Program in 1973, the
Government decided tos (a) adcress equally the needs of rural and urban
areas; (b) retain an experienced and efficient Ivorian private company, the
Ivorian Water Distribution Company (SODECI), for operating all facilities;
(c) borrow on appropriate terms and conditions to finance investments; and
(d) implement a pricing policy aiming at fully covering sectoral operating
costs and debt service requirements. In addition, the Government launched
a ten-year investment program to develop the Abidjan sewerage and drainage
system.  In 1973, the water supply sector strategy constituted one of the
most far-reaching undertakings of the Government to correct the imbalances
in growth and income distribution in the development of C8te d'Ivoire,
particularly between urban and rural population and between Abidjan and the
rest of the country.   Reliable basic  infrastructure was  to be built
throughout the country, while she financial burden of sector development was
to be borne primarily by the wealthiest part of the population, namely
Abidjan customers, through an unprecedented effort of cross-subsidization
between water users.
51.      It appears, retruspectively, that C8te d'Ivoire has indeed succeeded
in overcoming many of the regional deficiencies mentioned above in thats
(a) infrastructure was planned and built to levels well beyond those of the
rest of West Africa; (b) SODECI, at least in urban water supply, achieved a
high quality of service; and (c) the Government consistently approved the



- 18 -
urban water tariff revisions designed to cover operating costs and debt
service  of  the  entire  sector.    Investment  expenditures  amounting  to
CFAF 131 billion at current prices (US$461 million) have been made since
1974, of which CFAF 70 billion for urban water supply (piped) systems,
CFAF 36 billion for rural water supply facilities, and CFAF 25 billion for
sewerage and drainage systems. These investments represented e percent of
the total public investment over the period 1975-1985. Although urban water
supply investments led to the establishment of sustainable systems, the
development impact of investment efforts in -ural water supply and urban
sanitation remained limited. As poor maintenance hampered the use of rural
water points, fetching water continued to be one of the most time-consuming
chores (20 percent on average of time spent on daily activities) of rural
women and children.  The progress of urban sanitation in Abidjan, on the
other hand, was offset by an ever-growing pollution of the Ebrie Lagoon,
around which the city is located.
52.      In addition, as the investments were often financed with medium-
term and commercial credits, based on over-optimistic demand forecasts and
costly standards, the financial burden of the sector rose excessively. Until
1984, the financial impact of sectoral shortcomings had been absorbed by the
sector through tariff increases that were entirely borne by urban water
customers. This was achieved, however, at a high cost. Average tariffs
surpassed long-term marginal costs and industrial water rates reached even
higher levels. Actually, water charges represented more than 4 percent of
the monthly expenditures of the average urban household in 1985, and
constituted the third most important item -- after food and lodging -- of the
urban family budget.
53.      After 1984, revenues from urban water consumption declined under
the concurrent shocks generated by the depressed macroeconomic situation and
excessive tariff increases.   Sectoral deficits translated into growing
support from the Budget and into a complete loss of financial autonomy. The
coucept of a specific sectoral adjustment soon emerged during the preparation
of SAL III, but a protracted dialogue on sectoral responsibilities and,
subsequently, the lack of a comprehensive macroeconomic program delayed the
processing of the operation. Meanwhile, the Government initiated the first
sectoral reforms at the end of 1987 and formulated a comprehensive program
in early 1989, which is the subject of this report.   In line with the
objectives of the country's stabilization program and with the medium-term
recovery program, the adjustment in the water supply and sanitation sector
wills (a) pursue Government retrenchment by privatizing investment
responsibilities in the urban water supply subsector and by transferring
operation and maintenance of rural water points to villagers; (b) reduce
factor costs by decreasing industrial rates; and (c) reduce the pressure on
public finance.
SECTOR PROFILE
Service Levels and Water Demand
54.      Today, urban water supply is a basic service accessible to the
majority of Ivorians, even in remote areas. Seventy-two percent of the urban
population (87 percent in Abidjan and 60 percent in other urban centers) has



- 19 _
now access to safe water -- compared with less than 30 percent in 1974 . The
Abidjan network comprise 110,000 service connections, while 158 cities and
towvs and about 90 villages are equipped with piped systems, serving 100,000
additional connections. The daily water consumption per capita is around 70
lcd in Abidjan and 30 lcd in other centers, well above the levels observed
in neighboring countries. The development of the urban water service was
accelerated by the successful implementation of a social connections program
that provided free house connections to low-income households. The rapidly
rising domestic demand, combined with strong economic growth induced a 8
percent annual average growth rate of the urban water consumption over the
1974-1983 period. After 1983, however, water consumption declined at a 0.7
percent annual  rate.   This was  largely due  to the reduction of the
consumption of the large (mainly industrial) private users, induced by the
economic depression and extremely high tariffs (para. 65) which could not be
offset by the increasing household consumption.
55.      Thirteen thousand five hundred modern water points  (wells and
boreholes) have been constructed in more than 8,000 villages and equipped
with handpumps. Thus, the coverage ratio would be above 80 percent in rural
areas (vs. less than 10 percent in 1974). This performance, however, remains
largely theoretical since a large proportion of these water points are not
in working condition.
56.      A third of the Abidjan population is served by the sewerage system
through a number of tertiary sewerage networks, often constructed by the
governmental Land Development Agency (SETU) in the context of public housing
projects. Forty five percent of the population is served by septic tanks and
leaching pits and the remaining 20 percent lacks any sanitation service. An
extensive drainage network covers the major part of the city. In other urban
centers, the low housing density and their size cannot justify the
construction of sewerage networks and only part of the population relies on
individual sanitation.
Institutional Framework
57.      At the inception of the 1973 National Water Supply Program, sector
responsibilities for management, operation and maintenance (O & M),
investment, and finance had been divided among several agencies including:
(a) the Ministry of Public Works and Transportation (MTPT) through its Water
Directorate (DE), for planning and investment; (b) SODECI, for 0 & M of the
entire sector; and (c) two sector funds, the National Water Works Fund (FNH)
and the National Sanitation Fund (FNA), that were separate legal entities
within the National Debt Agency (CAA), for managing sector finances.
58.      SODECI was established in 1960 as a subsidiary of SAUR, the third
largest private French water utility, to operate the Abidjan water supply
system, after competitive bidding. In the following years, the majority of
the company's equity was acquired by private Ivorian shareholders, while the
Government retained a 2 percent interest; SODECI shares are traded on the
Abidjan Stock Exchange  since 1978.   In the meantime,  a vigorous and
successful training program led to a significant reduction in the number of
expatriates holding management positions.



- 20 -
59.      The legal arrangements with the Government pertaining to 0 & M were
based on: (a) an affermage (lease) i.ontract for urban and rural water supply
facilities outside Abidjan, by which the lessee operates the public servi-e
at its own commercial risk, including the right to bill and collect user
charges, a portion of which has to be transferred to the two sector funds for
the purposes of assuatng debt service obligations and financing 0 & M costs
of the sanitation subsector; (b) a concession contract for the Abidjan water
supply system, by which SODECI was also responsible, in addition to the
above, of investments in boreholes; and (c) a conventional maintenance
contract for the Abidjan sewerage and drainage system.
SECTOR PERFORMANCE
Urban Water Supply
60.      Operating Performance.   The choice  of a private  company  for
operating urban water supply (UWS) facilities has been fully justified, as
demonstrated by the low level of water losses (12 percent) and a quite high
collection rate (98 percent) on private customers. As SODECI's operations
are scattered throughout the country, the company set up an efficient three-
tier (local, regional and national) decentralized management system allowing
to operate the smaller water systems without residential permanent staff.
The productivity of the company is twice as high as the one of any other
water utility in West Africa, either in physical terms (170 connections per
employee) or monetary terms (value added divided by personnel costs).
61.      Investment Planning.   There has been a striking contrast in the
capacity of the public and private sector institutions to recognize, and to
adapt to, changes in their economic environment.   SODECI,  the private
operator, adjusted to the depressed water consumption and preserved its
profitability.   DE instead, having established an impressive absorptive
capacity in preparing and executing physical investments, was more anxious
to maintain a strong project investment pipeline than to review its impact
on sector finances. The fragmentation of sector responsibilities and a lack
of overall financial control led to serious misallocation of resources and
over-investment.   SODECI was not involved either in the definition of
technical criteria of urban water supply projects, nor in the elaboration of
consumption forecasts. The latter were entirely carried out by DE on the
basis of extremely optimistic assumptions.
62.      As a result, water projects were overdesigned and excessive priority
was given to constructing production facilities rather than expanding
distribution networks, particularly outside Abidjan. The rate of utilization
of the existing production capacity amounts to 50 percent in Abidjan and to
only  28  percent  in  other  urban  centers.    Overdesign  inflated  the
intrinsically high investment costs in secondary centers.  The gross value
of urban water supply assets in secondary centers amounts to CFAF 126 billion
-- that is US$4,420 per connection -- compared to CFAF 40 billion for the
Abidjan system -- US$1,275 per connection.  In some regions, the average
investment per connection is six times higher than in Abidjan. Thus, the
economies of scale achieved in Abidjan were largely offset by the
overexpansion of costly water  supply systems  in the interior.   As a
consequence, the sectoral incremental capital output ratio (ICOR),



_ 21 -
traditionally high in this capital-intensive industry, has been continuously
increasing.
63.      Risk-sharing.  Under the lease contract, SODECI was obliged to take
over all new water supply systems constructed and designed on the basis of
DE's consumption forecasts. Accordingly, SODECI's remuneration for 0 & M was
periodically revised by reference to DE's forecasts, and was subject to
provisions entitling the company to be compensated for the difference between
actual and projected sales.  Again, this uncoordinated approach was not
conducive to accountability of the two institutions, and reduced the extent
of the commercial risk borne by the private operator. As a consequence,
SODECI's share of sector revenues grew when consumption declined and this at
the expense of the sector funds. (The additional compensation to be paid to
SODECI under these 'take or pay' arrangements amounted to about US$11 million
over the 1982-1987 period).
64.      Cost Recovery and Pricing.  The responsibility for fixing tariffa
always rested with the Government.   Until the tariff restructuring of
December 1987, water tariffs comprised three elements: the lease contractor
rate allocated to SODECI, a portion allocated to FNH and a third portion
allocated to FNA. The average tariff amounted to CFAF 2821mS (US$0.99/ma).
The portion compensating SODECI for 0 & M of the urban water supply systems,
represented in 1987 53 percent of the average tariff. The portion allocated
to FNH to finance debt obligations of the urban and rural water supply
subsectors represented 43 percent, the balance of 4 percent was allocated to
FNA to finance the sanitation subsector's debt service and 0 & M costs. In
addition to revenues from water tariffs, sector revenues also comprised:
(a) a fixed fee added to each water bill, collected and retained by SODECI
to finance the social connections program (house connections installed free
of charge); and (b) a sanitation tax levied in Abidjan as part of the
property tax and collected by the Treasury, to finance the Abidjan sewerage
and drainage systems.
65.      Volatility of Revenues. Under the increasing block rate structure,
the relative share of the tariff components varied largely from one block to
another.   DE had established five blocks:   social,  domestic, normal,
industrial and administrative. While SODECI's compensation was approximately
constant, the FNH/FNA portion varied from zero for the social block to
CFAF 300/ma for the industrial block.  Thus, the revenues of FNH/FNA were
highly sensitive to changes in consumption patterns of upper blocks.  From
1974 to 1985, the social block rate remained constant in real terms at CFAF
99/ma, but the establishment in 1982 of the quarterly fixed fee of CFAF 2,000
regardless of level of consumption increased the actual average cost of water
for a customer of the social block consuming about 60 mn per year to CFAF
232/m3.   The domestic, normal and administrative block rates increased
annually by 3 percent and the industrial block rate by 10 percent. Tariff
revisions in April and October 1984 doubled the latter from CFAF 215/ma to
CFAF 458/ma. At that point, a few hundred customers were expected to generate
70 percent of revenues required by FNHE/FA.  Those increases gave a cowp d grAe
to industrial water consumption, which declined from 27 million ms in 1981 to
20 million ms in 1985, depriving FNHP/PA of 20 percent of their average
revenue per in. The analysis of past sales showed a - 0.5 price elasticity
of industrial consumption. (see Annex 6).



- 22 -
66.      In the face of sizeable increases in water charges, industries
reduced their water consumption by installing recycling devices and changing
industrial processes -- which is consistent with economic efficiency -- or
by shifting away from public supply to private wells.   However, private
extraction of water is regulated since: (a) it competes with public water
supply for tapping scarce water resources that belong to the public domain;
and (b) groundwater extraction is only a part of the water cycle and entails
costs for disposal of waste water.  Nevertheless, legal loopholes allowed
some industries to benefit freely from their own facilities, otherwise
subject to payment of fees.
Sanitation
67.      The role of SODECI in this subsector has been restricted to the
provision of maintenance services for the Abidjan sewerage and drainage
networks, under the supervision of SETU.  The latter was also responsible
for the payment of energy bills. to be reimbursed by FNA. FNA, albeit in a
healthy financial situation, never provided sufficient funds for adequate 0
& M of the networks.   This led to piecemeal maintenance and precluded
adequate programming of operations. The primary drainage system was, on the
whole, properly maintained and thus relieved the city from recurrent floods,
but several sewage pumping stations and treatment plants were closed. This
context did not provide incentives to control costs.   As the financial
situation deteriorated, it became more and more difficult to measure the
performance of the operator and to get a clear picture of what should be the
real costs of maintaining the entire system.   Moreover,  although the
implementation of sewerage projects improved public health in Abidjan, the
discharge of the effluent into the lagoon aggravated the pollution problems.
68.      Investment planning in the sanitation subsector suffered from
conflicts arising between various governmental agencies (DE, DCGTx and SETU)
each claiming responsibilities for investment. These conflicts, compounded
with technical differences on the choice of the solution for final discharge
of liquid wastes, and a low priority given to sewerage works in general,
delayed the completion of the sewer interceptor and the execution of
facilities required to protect the fragile ecology of the Abidjan lagoon.
In the absence of an adequate solution, concerns over the environmental
impact of the sewerage system led to a standstill in the expansion of the
system after 1984. Prior to that date, house connections to the sewerage
network had often been built according to very different and poor standards,
without any supervision from either DE or SODECI.
Rural Water Supply
69.      SODECI has been unable to duplicate its outstanding performance in
managing urban water supply in rural water operations.   In 1986, various
donors of the subsector expressed their concern about the situation of rural
water  supply  (RYS)  to the Government.   An exhaustive  survey  of the
13,500 rural water points carried out in the summer of 1987 by the
Directorate of Major Works (DCGTx) showed that 50 percent of them did not
supply water. A Rural Water Supply Sector Memorandum prepared by the Bank
in 1987 in order to review maintenance policies came to the conclusion that
the poor status of rural water supply, especially with regard to handpumps,
was due to: (a) inadequacy of centralized maintenance that induced costly



- 23 -
and delayed repairs; (b) inefficient supervision of the operator's
performance by DE, which had to c;oncentrate on project execution; (c) erratic
cost recoveiy policies; and (d) delayed and uncoordinated community
development initiatives and lack of villagers' participation.
70.      Centralized maintenance of rural water points scattered around 8,000
villages entailed high repair costs, since the replacing of a single part of
the pump, a minor repair, costs as much, in terms of labor and travel costs,
as a major repair.  Quality control of the maintenance service naturally
encountered the same constraints.   Horeover, any problem arising between
periodic visits of the pumps by SODECI teams compelled villagers to spend
time and money to inform one of the 20 regional offices of SODECI. Until
1982, SODECI's expenditures with respect to rural water supply were fully
reimbursed by FNH from the proceeds of the urban water surcharge. After the
establishment of an annual lump sum fee paid by villages, SODECI could no
longer claim for FNl funding and began to incur losses in its rural water
supply operations. Accumulated losses of SODECI amounted to some CFAF 2.2
billion over 1982-1987, thus showing that the actual maintenance costs were
in the range of CFAF 120,000 (US$420) per year per water point in the context
of SODECI's centralized maintenance system.
71.      Cost recovery policies in the subsector have been erratic. A modest
financial contribution towards the investment bad been initially required
from the villagers. This contribution was dropped in the early years of
sector development. A period of total gratuity followed and abruptly ended
in 1982, when SODECI was empowered by the Government to collect an annual
maintenance fee of CPA? 60,000 (US$210) per water point. This radical change
was introduced without any effort to create understanding among the rural
population and local leaders, who always regarded rural water points as
Government's business. The general reaction was therefore negative and the
collection rate never exceeded 40 percent. Whereas SODECI was not authorized
to cut off villages in arrears, there was a great temptation, in the field,
to link repair service to payment of charges. Thus, the relations between
SODECI and villagers promptly deteriorated.
72.      The contractual framework and the lack of sense of ownership of the
w&ter points spread among the villages proved to be major obstacles to the
community development actions carried out by various governmental agencies,
without the participation of DE.   Costly programs for the training of
repairmen received a lukewarm response from the villagers and generated
conflicts with SODECI. Sanitary education campaigns were more successful and
evidenced a decrease of morbidity rates among the communities benefitting
from well-maintained handpumps, but were discontinued for lack of funding.
73.      Aware of these failures, DE launched in 1984 its own comprehensive
training and community development program, known as Eau Toujours ("Water
Always"), targeted on recently installed water points, not officially
transferred to SODECI.   This program, aiming at developing a network of
village repairmen and area mechanics and at allowing the communities to take
over the maintenance of the handpuwps, has been successfully extended to some
1,300 boreholes.



- 24 -
Financial Management
74.      Financing Strategy.  Eighty percent of the investments of the urban
and rural water supply subsectors over the period 1975-1987 were financed by
borrowings. Given the limited amount of cash that FNH could generate after
servicing this debt, most of the counterpart funds required by water supply
projects had also to be borrowed by FNH from the Central Bank (BCEA0).  Net
internal cash generation contributed to only 7 percent of investment
expenditures, and Government subsidies -- through the Investment Budget
(BSIE) -- provided the remaining balance (13 percent). Until 1984, subsidies
from BSIE financed projects that had not attracted external financing and
were essentially justified by considerations of regional politics. Then, as
fiscal surpluses vanished, local counterpart funds of SAL operations became
the main ingredient of BSIE's resources available for the sector and were
redirected towards the provisicn of counterpart funds for externally_
financed projects.
75.      Total  borrowings  during  1975-1987  by  FNH  have  amounted  to
US$330 million, of which US$139 million in C8te d'Ivoire.   FNA borrowed
USS 42 million, exclusively abroad. FNH's borrowing strategy duplicated the
one of the National Debt Agency (CAM), regardless of the nature and lifespan
of investments being made.   Thus FNH's indebtedness  reflects the past
creditworthiness of Cote d'Ivoire in the years 1975-1980, as shown in the
following table:
Table 4: FNH and FNA Borrowinas 1975-1987
(Current USS million)
------P1414----            -- -NH -   FA ---
UWS         RWS        Total
USO   X    USSM  I   X        U    USO   UX
Landers
Cowmerciol Banks (in¢l. BCEAO)   86.7 421   7?.8  S8X   158.9 48X   0.0  OX
Si let. and Multi let. Agencies    62.6 40%    B0.8 24X   112.9 B4X  36.7 8X
Soft-terms Lend. (EDF nd KfW)   36.1 161    22.1 16%    58.1 16X    0.0 14X
Total Borrowings            20425 10.X 125.7 100%   8BB0.O 100%        41.7 100%
Aversoe Conditions:
.Interest rate (X)          0.7x         6.4         6.61x        0.8x
.repayment period (years)   8.9          6.7         8.8         16.7
76.      Borrowing terms were highly unsuitable for the financing of rural
water supply projects.   They were consented by assuming that urban water
customers would eventually pay for the total debt service of the rural water
supply subsector. The discrepancy between loan terms and the lifespan of
assets thus added another constraint, in the absence of refinancing
mechanisms.  The inclusion of FNH into the multi-year rescheduling agreements
(MYRA) negotiated with the Paris and London Clubs had a limited impact on the
repayment schedule of the sector's debt, since the bulk of hard loans was
extended by the domestic banking system. As a result, sector indebtedness
became even more front-loaded than the national debt.
77.      As DE's water consumption forecasts failed to materialize,  FNH
became increasingly unable to fulfill its debt service obligations that were



- 25 -
largely met instead by CAA and the Treasury.   Therefore, FNH began to
accumulate arrears towards CAA and the Treasury of CFAP 11 billion
(US$39 million)  in 1985.   The stock of arrears grew to CFAF 15 billion
(US$53 million) in 1986 and to CFAF 21.6 billion (US$76 million) in 1987.
In the meantime, FNA built cash surpluses of CFAF 5 billion -- partly by
curtailing 0 & M expenditures -- that were legally unavailable to its sister
fund, FNH. Separate cash management of the two funds deprived the sector of
implementing flexible mechanisms for solving short-term problems. (Financial
statements of FNH and FNA are provided in Tables 5.1 and 5.2 of Annex 5).
78.      Financial Accountability.  Although FNH and FNA had responsibility
to manage sector finances, the two sector funds never truly controlled them.
Excluded from the investment decision-making process, left entirely to DE,
they have been unable to provide a clear picture of sector finances, which
were further obscured by unorthodox accounting practices. This has resulted
in claims being raised among SODECI, FNH, FNA, CAA, various suppliers and the
Government Treasury, and the financial confusion has fostered a morass of
cross-indebtedness over time. The inventory of cross-debts carried out in
1988 revealed that more than US$24 million of arrears due to SODECI for
compensation or works requested directly by MTPT could not be traced in FNH
accounts.    In  addition,  as  the  liquidity  crisis  began  to  generate
governmental arrears on the water bills of the public sector, FNH could not
legally claim the corresponding surcharges and record them in its accounts
as long as they were not collected by SODECI.
MAIN SECTOR ISSUES
79.      Most of the basic weaknesses of the sector were attributable to the
fragmentation of responsibilities and the subsequent lack of accountability
of the various partners.  Distortions in water pricing and inappropriate
risk-sharing  arrangements  built  in  the  contractual  framework  have
disseminated their negative effects throughout the sector and created the
conditions for a major financial crisis, aggravated by an euphoric financing
strategy.
Regulatory and Contractual Framework
80.      Investment Responsibilities.   A substantial reshuffle of sector
responsibilities was required to adapt to a prolonged period of slow growth.
The key element should be enhanced accountability and responsibility for
investments by the utility company. Investments for urban water supply in
the years to come should essentially maximize the use, and thus the benefits,
of existing facilities via a densification of distribution networks and an
increase of the number of house connections, to provide more direct access
to ever wider population strata.  These investments are typically better
decided upon, and managed, by utilities themselves, particularly when the
latter are run by the private sector.
81.      On the other hand, investment responsibilities for the rural water
supply and sanitation subsectors should rest with Government. It is unlikely
that the private sector would be interested in planning and financing
investments in these subsectors for two main reasons. First, capital costs
of rural water supply facilities cannot be fully recovered from the users and



- 26 -
will require subsidization for funding them. Second, sewerage investments
to be made will require sizeable amounts of capital which are normally out
of range for the private sector. Therefore, the planning process (including
investment criteria and financing policies) should be strengthened, in order
to keep investment expenditures commensurate with the financial capacities
of the entire sector.   Furthermore, villagers should participate in the
decision and investment process. Local initiatives for improving service
(e.g., by shifting to submersible electrical pumps and minimal water storage)
should be encouraged, provided that additional investments be financed by
communities.
82.      Operational Efficiency and Risk-sharing.   The main issue facing
urban water supply operations was to shift the full commercial risk that
partially befell on FN3 (para. 63) upon the private operator and to provide
incentives to further cost effectiveness in 0 & M.  The tull responsibility
given to SODECI for investments implies that the company must be accountable
for water sales forecasts and has to assume their financial impact on costs
and tariffs.  On the other hand, the perspectives of growth of the urban
water demand, as well as investment opportunities, do not appear limitless.
This creates a context whereby the operator has to concentrate on cost-
saving efforts that had to be reflected in contractual arrangements.
83.      The operational efficiency of the sanitation subsector required
substantial improvements.   The scope of maintenance activities has to be
expanded in order to cover the whole of the Abidjan sewerage and drainage
system. Given the uncertainties over the costs, recourse to bidding among
professional private operators provided the least-cost solution. The major
bottleneck to the development of the sewerage system should be removed with
the construction of environmentally adequate facilities for the final
disposal of liquid wastes, financed under the Abidjan Environmental
Protection (AEP) Project, approved in January 1990.
84.      The institutional arrangements governing the rural water supply
subsector proved to be totally inadequate.   The Bank's 1987 Rural Water
Supply Sector Memorandum accordingly recommended that maintenance
responsibilities be transferred from SODECI to the villagers, through the
generalization of the Eau Touiours program (para. 73). DCGTx's survey of
water points (para. 69) showed that the breakdown rate was on average 11
percent for handpumps maintained by trained villagers and area mechanics, in
the context of the Eau Toujours Program initiated by DE, vs. 50 percent for
other water points. One weak point of this program was, however, the storage
and distribution of spare parts -- provided by RWS projects -- through the
regional offices of DE.  This solution perpetuated the dependency of the
maintenance system on the performance of public bodies and could not be
generalized to permanently supply the 13,500 water points. The main issue
was to design and build, outside of governmental departments, a sustainable
spare parts supply network.
Pricing Framework
85.      Cost recovery objectives set in the 1973 National Water Supply
Program were ambitious. Urban water charges had to cover immediately debt
service obligations of the rural water supply subsector and financial needs
of the sanitation subsector, as well as the costs of the urban systems.



- 27 -
These objectives could have been met in a context of adequate investment
planning and financing, that DE and the sector funds, however, failed to
provide.  As formulated, the cost recovery objectives entailed important
distortions of the water rate structure discriminating against industrial
users. These distortions largely contributed to curb urban water consumption
and sector revenues. Consequently, a substantial revision of the sectoral
tariff policy was needed in order to establish efficient pricing while
permitting to restore the financial autonomy of the urban vater supply and
sanitation subsectors.
86.      Economic Efficiency.   As a result of the December 1987 tariff
revision, the average water rate of CFAP 267/m3 is still higher than long-term
marginal costs. The latter are estimated at CYA" 180/m3 for urban water on
a country-wide basis and at CFA! 48/nP for the Abidjan sewerage system, the
cost of which has to be recovered from water charges since the disposal of
waste water is an essential stage of the water cycle.   With respect to
economic efficiency, industrial water rates of CFAF 412lmP are excessive and
need to be rapidly decreased.   The highest rate applied to industrial
customers in the subregion (Cameroons CFAF 25O/ms) is 40 percent lower than
the Ivorian rate.
87.      The decrease of industrial water rates will translate into a further
reduction of sector revenues and. in turn, of the potential for
cross-subsidization. Some such cross-subsidization is justified within the
urban water and sanitation subsectors. It may eventually appear as a logical
consequence of the institutional set-up. The existence of a single operating
entity in a country is often associated with the establishment of a uniform
tariff schedule. Financing of the rural water supply investments, in turn,
could be more efficiently achieved by using the appropriate budgetary
channels. This oill improve the transparency of the subsidization process
and reinforce the need for justifying rural investments.
88.      At the same time, full cost recovery of operating expenses of rural
water points has to be actively pursued, in parallel with the introduction
of community-managed maintenance of rural water points. Eau Toujours has
provided sufficient evidence that adequately trained local mechanics could
repair handpumps at a fraction of SODECI costs.  Three series of actions
should be carried out to successfully implement cost recovery in rural areas:
(a) community development to promote among villagers a strong sense of
ownership of water points; (b) training of village repairmen and area
mechanics to offer the villagers the option to choose when and by vhom the
pumps should be maintained, at reasonable cost; and (c) rehabilitation of
existing pumps.  The lump sum fee is regarded by the villagers as a tax
rather than the compensation of services rendered. This cost recovery system
has to 'n abolished and replaced by direct payments for actual repairs.
Financial Issues
89.      Financial Outlook.  On the basis of slowly increasing water sales
and of water rates that are consistent with long-term marginal costs from
1990 onwards, and taking into account modest additional investments in urban
water supply and sanitation, the following table summarizes the financial
outlook for the water and sanitation sector given in Table 5.4 of Annex 5.



- 28 -
Data for 1987, 1988 and 1989 take into account the financial impact of
extraordinary items revealed in the inventory of cross-debts (para. 78).
Table 6: Water and Sanitation Sector Financlal Outlook
Before Financial Restructuring
(Current CFAF billion)
----Actual--   -Eat ------------            -
item         1986 19S7 198 1989 1980 1991 1992 1999 1994 1"9  199
ConsolIdated Revenues    24.2 22.5 19.8 28.3 25.8 26.9 27.7 29.5 31.4 88.6 85.7
Of which:
Extraordinary Items    0.0 -2.9 -5.0  2.5  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
Availabl, for Debt Service 11.4  8.1  8.6 18.5  8.7  9.4  9.1  9.8  8.6  7.7  6.9
Debt Service           15.2 l6.2 17.2 12.9  8.4  7.8  7.8  6.5  5.6  6.1  4.8
Surplus (Deficit)        S        _   _1.8  0.6  0.4  1.6  1.8 _L.8  2.9  2.6  2.6
Working Capital
Other than Cash       -6.8 -13.4 -28.0 -19.8 -19.0 -17.5 -16.6 -18.2 -10.4 -7.9 -5.3
Account payable to
Treasury               10.0 16.7 19.6 20.9 20.9 19.5 17.8 15.8 12.6 10.1  7.6
The above table points to crushing deficits over the period 1986-1988, that
required Government financial support peaking in 1989 to about CFAF 20.9
billion (US$73 million).  After 1989, the situation begins to improve with
the decrease of debt service requirements, but the sector would remain
financially non viable till the late 19908.
90.      The breakdown of the debt service given in Table 5.4 of Annex 5 also
shows that sector deficits -- before extraordinary items -- have been roughly
equal to the debt service requirements of the rural water supply subsector.
This indeed is evidence of the limits of further financial effort to be
expected from urban water customers, the more so as tariff increases have
proven to be self-defeating.   The burden of cross-subsidization weighed
essentially on industrial customers paying rates well above marginal costs.
Therefore, a resolution of the debt overhang of the sector, which would not
undermine the Government strategy to reduce the costs of factors of
production, has to involve:
(a) a revision of the financing strategy of the sector that would recognize
that urban water customers cannot afford to bear the financial
consequences of past inadequate investment decisions and financing, and
at the same time be required to pay for new investments in the rural
water supply subsector; and
(b) refinancing arrangements so as to relieve the pressure exerted on both
user charges and public finances.
91.      Refinancing.  The time profile of the maturities of the domestic
debt, which represent 42 percent of FNH borrowings has been the major source
of the peak in debt service. BCEAO loans totalling CFAF 30 billion (US$105
million) had to be repaid over four years (1986-1989). Only CFAF 10 billion
were actually repaid by FNH, and the Treasury account at BCEAO was debited
of the remaining balance. Nevertheless, a consolidation of maturities of
BCEAO loans would not have relieved the situation of public finances.
According to UMOA regulations, all BCEAO commitments towards the sector,
whatever their terms, have to be included in the cowputation of the advances



- 29 -
of the Central Bank to the Government that are subject to a statutory
ceiling.    Similarly,  refinancing  arrangements  involving  the  Ivorian
commercial banks would have required them to obtain, in turn, refinancing
from the Central Bank, that would fall under the same statutory ceiling.
Therefore, refinancing will eventually be achieved through the long-term
consolidation of current sectoral arrears by the Treasury itself.
92.      Cross-debts.  The escalating amount of unpaid water bills of the
public sector emerged as an additional issue. Before mid-1988 the Government
was almost current on its payments to SODECI, albeit municipalities and
parastatals had generated arrears of US$11 million.   In less than twelve
months, the mounting crisis of public finances has inflated public arrears
towards SODECI to more than US$39 million at the end of 1989, including
US$14 million of water surcharges. Public arrears jeopardizes the survival
of SODECI unless the latter discontinues to transfer the proceeds of the
surcharge on private bills to the sector fund.  This, in turn, generates
additional arrears of the sector fund towards the Treasury and C M.  The
restoration of the financial viability of the sector would thus require
substantial amounts of fresh money from the budget to settle cross debts.
PART III.  THE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
POLICY FRAMEWORK AND SECTORAL OBJECTIVES
93.      Aware of the standstill in the development of the sector and facing
the critical consequences of its financial crisis that became apparent in
1985, the Government carried out in 1986-1987, through DCGTx, a thorough
review of the water supply and sanitation sector. This review pointed to the
need for in-depth reforms of the regulatory and pricing framework and for the
reformulation of its financing strategy.   Since the end of 1987, the
Government has demonstrated a strong commitment to the formulation and
implementation of a sectoral adjustment program which aims at:
(a) ensuring that financial realities and economic efficiency will become
the main consideration in sector management. In this respect gradual
Government divestiture of the sector will take place and management
will be improved, in particular regarding investment policies;
(b) reestablishing equitable risk-sharing between the public and the
private sector in order to create incentives for cost-savings;
(c) restoring the availability of basic services in rural areas by
fostering community management of rural water points in more than
8,000 villages;
(d) ensuring environmental protection, while preserving the sustainability
of past investments in sewerage and drainage systems;
(e) establishing tariff policies that will not cause undue hardship to
consumers and thus become a self-imposed constraint for future sector
development; and



- 30 -
(f) providing the sector with financial autonomy, so as to relieve the
pressure on public finances.
94.      As part of the preparation of the proposed Water Supply and
Sanitation Sector Adjustment Loan (WASAL), the Government moved toward the
integration and deepening of its reforms within a comprehensive sector
framework. As explained in the Statement of Policy (Annex 3), the thrust of
the sectoral adjustment program is to bring about permanent changes in the
sector's institutional set-up and policies based on Government retrenchment
and increased privatization. A reduction in water tariffs, made possible by
Improvements in efficiency, will contribute to enhancing the competitiveness
of Ivorian enterprises and to supporting the shift in relative prices in
favor of tradable goods.
95.      Based on the above objectives, the Government has formulated a
program of monitorable actions. A detailed list of measures, developed by
the Government and extensively discussed with the Bank, is presented in the
policy matrix of Annex 4.
THE SECTORAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Increased Privatization
96.      C8te d'Ivoire is committed to a liberal economy, and, in the past,
privatized a number of public enterprises.    In the Water Supply and
Sanitation Sector, Government retrenchment translates into: (a) increased
privatization of urban water supply operations; and (b) privatization of
rural water supply operations through community management of rural water
supply facilities.
97.      Urban Water SUpPlY. The Government took an essential step towards
a streamlined and improved institutional setup for sector investments in
October 1987. At that time, DCGTx, on behalf of the Government, and SODECI
negotiated a concession contract extending the involvement of the private
company in urban water supply. Under this contract, SODECI has to plan,
finance and execute all investments, in addition to its previous
responsibilities for 0 & M. DE relinquished all investment responsibilities
in the subsector and concentrates on the supervision and control of SODECI's
operations. DCGTx supervises investment-related activities. The concession
contract became effective in July 1988. SODECI prepared a first five-year
rolling investment program aiming ats (a) maximizing the use of urban water
systems; (b) renewal, as needed, of existing facilities; and (c) continua-
tion of the social connections program to expand direct access of low-income
households to the water service. These investments are financed by SODECI
from the proceeds of the development levy included in the water tariff (para.
103).     Investment  expenditures  will  amount  to  CFA? 12.3 billion
(US$43 million) over the first five-year period (1988-1992).
98.      Sanitation.  In January 1988, DCGTx tendered the 0 & M contract of
the Abidjan sewerage and drainage system, which was awarded to SODEC'. Since
the scope of the contract was extended to the entire system, unit prices were
substantially lower than in the previous maintenance contract. The medium-



- 31 -
tenm objective is to transform this arrangement into a lease contract, thus
transferring responsibilities and risks to the private operator.
99.      DCGTx is responsible for planning and carrying out investments in
this subsector. A medium-term investment program has been defined and agreed
upon, as well as the definition of acceptable financing terms and conditions.
Priority projects comprise rehabilitation and renewal of Abidjan facilities,
and works to be completed under the Abidjan Environmental Protection Project
(AEP) which was negotiated in parallel with the WASAL and approved by the
Board in January 1990 (Ln. 3155-IVC). The updating of the Abidjan Master
Plan for sanitation and environmental protection will be part of the ASP
Project and will provide the long-term framewo:k of investments.
100.     Rural Water Supply.   The Government recognized that community
participation was the key element for improving the availability of rural
water points. DE's Eau Touiours Program could not be expanded since this was
in contradiction with the then existing legal arrangements. Aware of the
shortcomings of the institutional setup, the Government cancelled the lease
contract for rural water supply with SODECI in December 1987. The Government
decided instead to transfer maintenance responsibilities to villagers.
101.     DCGTx prepared with the assistance of DE, which is the agency
responsible for this transfer, the implementation plan, along the guidelines
set out and tested in Eau Toulours.   This plan defined the pace of the
transfer which is carried out in conformity with available human and
financial resources and with the absorptive capacity of villagers.
Rehabilitation of handpumps is also a component of the transfer process.  The
cost of the rehabilitation of handpumps, training and of the zommunity
development program was estimated at US$10 million and is funded by the
Second Water Supply Project (Ln. 2130-IVC). In order to provide an adequate
framework for the development of the subsector after completing the
rehabilitation of existing water points, DCGTs will prepare, with the
assistance of DE, a three-year investment program.
102.     On the other hand, the standardization and large number of handpumps
have made commercially attractive the establishment of a private network for
the distribution of spare parts to 600 area mechanics. Given the quality of
the road system, including rural roads, the latter would not encounter
difficulties of supply. The redeployment of DE's activities does not entail
significant changes in its staff. The execution of the transfer is carefully
monitored by DCGTx and the Government will complete the transfer of
maintenance responsibilities for at least 2,500 water points prior to the
release of the second tranche.   Thirty percent of the water points --
including those already enlisted in the Eau Touiours Program -- will then
have been transferred to the villagers. Experience has shown that such a
percentage is the threshold beyond which a community development program may
be expected to expand without major difficulties.
Control of Costs and Efficient Pricing
103.     Urban Water Supply and Sanitation.  A major step towards better
control of costs and tariffs resulted from the negotiations between DCGTx and
SODECI. SODECI's compensation had to be entirely reassessed, in view of the
new investment responsibilities of the company. Negotiations resulted in



- 32 -
setting the portion of the tariffs to be allocated for the compensation of
the company's operating costs at CFAF 134/ms. The latter figure translates
into a 20 percent reduction from the previous remuneration of CFAF 163/m9
(including the connection fee paid by all customers).   The reduction of
SODECI's compensation and the abolition of the connection fee allowed
allocations of CFAF 28/ms to be made to the financing of the urban water
supply investment program by SODECI and to pass part of the savings to
consumers.    SODECI's  compensation  is now  calculated on  the basis  of
consumption forecasts carried out by the company itself and the new contract
does not include any 'take or pay' provision (para. 63). SODECI thus bears
100 percent of the commercial risk. The contract also includes provisions
concerning a new price escalation formula and procedures for periodic
revision of SODECI's compensation that create incentives for cost-savings.
104.     In line with the Bank's recommendations, the Government decided in
December 1987 in favor of a proposal including a 10 percent reduction of the
irnustrial block rate and a 20 percent decrease of the domestic and normal
block rates.  The social block rate was increased from CFAF 99/ms to CFAF
159Ims but the abolition of the connection fee led to an overall 25 percent
reduction of the average bill paid by low-income customers. Other features
of the new tariffs also reduce the volatility of revenues. All consumers,
even those belonging to the social block, pay a price not lower than the
average operating expenditures and investmernt costs per ms. In addition, a
decree concerning private extraction of water has been prepared to provide
SODECI with legal powers to enforce the collection of the corresponding fees.
105.     In  order  to eliminate  the  remaining distortions  of  the  rate
structure, the Government expressed its commitment to bring over time the
industrial rate in line with marginal costs. A condition for the release of
the second tranche of the proposed loan is to further decrease the industrial
rate to CFAF 350/ma. Large users will then pay a rate only 14 percent higher
than the normal block rate of CFAF 307/ms. which translates into a 25 percent
reduction from the 1987 tariff. Accordingly, the private extraction fee of
CFAF 250/ms will be reduced to CFAF 179/m3. The impact of the reform of the
pricing policies, including the expected impact of the new contract
provisions on revisions of SODECI's compensation, is summarized in the
following table:
Table 6: Water Rates 1987-1992
(CFAF/m3)
Item                   1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
Averase Water Rate:
.t current prices              282      267     264      261     259      259
.et constant 1989 prices       806      278     264      239     23C      224
Industrial 'Bater Rate:
.at current prices             458      412     412      8S0     8S0      a34
.at constant 1989 prices       496      426     412      883     818      288
106.     Rural Water Supply.  The transfer of maintenance responsibilities
to villagers implies full recovery of maintenance costs.  The Eau Toujours
Program had already set procedures allowing villagers to master maintenance
expenditures  while  ensuring  the  safety  of  community  funds.           The
implementation plan of the transfer includes an action plan warranting



- 33 -
adequate cost recovery at community level. A tariff schedule for repairs and
spare parts has been defined and tested in the field. The elimination of the
annual lump sum fee (para. 71) and the possibility of choice opened to rural
communities alleviate the financial burden of the villagers and facilitate
the recovery of maintenance costs. Annual maintenance costs are in the range
of CFAP 20,000 to CFAF 30,000 per handpump in the context of the community-
managed system vs. CFAF 60.000 in the previous centralized system. In order
to reinforce the sense of ownership of water points among the rural
population, the Government will also define, as part of the preparation of
the three-year investment program (para. 101), criteria and procedures for
the financial participation of villagers towards initial investment and
renewai costs of rural facilities. In addition, a study will be launched to
explore the perspectives of rural water supply, within and beyond the
handpump option.
Environmental Protection
107.     Pollution Control.   In order to address the major environmental
issue represented by the increasing pollution created by discharge of liquid
wastes into the fragile lagoon environment, the Government adopted a two-
prong approach based on the formulation of an adequate legal framework and
the provision of adequate discharge facilities. To that effect, the outline
of a legislation introducing a discharge permit system for industries was
formulated in July 1989. This permit system aims at controlling pollution
parameters of industrial effluent before discharge into the sewer system and
at imposing, as needed, mandatory pre-treatment of toxic wastes. It will be
implemented in parallel with the execution of environmental protection works
under the AEP Project.
108.     Strengthening Groundwater Protection.  The 1988 Budget Law provided
the legal framework required to control the unorganized tapping of
groundwater resources, by generalizing throughout C6te d'Ivoire the
extraction fee levied on private wells in Abidjan. A decree establishing a
system of declaration and notification of well drilling has been drafted and
will be enacted prior to the release of the second tranche.  Under this
decree SODECI will be given enforcement rights and will carry out an
exhaustive inventory of private wells subject to the extraction fee, which
will be billed accordingly.
Financial RestructurinR
109.     Enhanced Accountability.   The rationalization of the financial
management of the sector implied to merge the two sector funds --PNH and FNA.
A new entity would thus be the sole recipient of proceeds of the surcharge
collected and transferred by SODECI and of the Abidjan Sanitation Tax
collected by the Treasury. This should create the conditions for obtaining
a timely, clear and accurate picture of sector finances in order to avoid the
repetition of the current crisis. To that effect, the Government issued in
December 1987 two decrees abolishing FNH and FNA and establishing a Water
Account (PNE) under GAA.  The abolition of FNH and FNA was ratified by the
National Assembly in July 1988.   Sound accounting procedures for the FNE
were implemented under the supervision of the Managing Comittee of the PNE,
appointed In December 1988. To complete the transparency of sector finances,



- 34 -
SODECI carried out the inventory of Abidjan sanitation assets and the
inventory of urban water supply facilities in 1989 as stipulated in the
concession contract.   This will allow to set up assets registers for
sanitation and urban water supply by July 1990.
110.     Financial Autonomy.  The institutional and pricing policy reforms
will ensure that the sector will be financially viable in a context of
improved allocation and mobilization of resources. To restore the financial
autonomy of the sector, the following actions have been already takens
(a) formulation of a financing strategy that recognizes the autonomy of the
urban water supply and sanitation sectors vis-&-vis future investments
in the rural water supply subsector; and
(b) establishment of comprehensive statements of cross-indebtedness between
sector institutions, outside suppliers, CAL -id the Treasury.
In addition, excess cash of FNA amounting to COAF 4.5 billion was transferred
to the CAM in May 1988.
111.     In June 1989 the Government prepared: (a) a liquidation plan of the
net balance owed by FNH/FNA on the basis of the above statements and of the
public arrears towards SODECI deriving from the internal liquidity crisis;
and (b) a consolidation plan for the sectoral net liabilities owed to the
Treasury (to be repaid over a ten-year period). The financial projections
of Table 5.5 of Annex 5 reflect the results of the financial restructuring
of the sector that will be carried out in two phases.   The first phase,
comprising the Treasury consolidation and the payment of CFAF 5.5 billion
(US$19.3 million) of arrears on public water bills will be completed prior
to the release of the second tranche. The second phase, corresponding to
the final settlement of sectoral cross-debts and of the balance of public
arrears (US$19.7 million) will be completed before the end of 1990.
112.     The following table summarizes the expected outcome of the above
restructuring plan which will allow to replenish the working capital of FNE
and to close the open-ended claims of the sector on the Treasury.
Table 7: Financial Outlook of FNE
After Financial Restructuring
(Current CfAF billIon)
Item               1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1998  1994  1995  1998
Sector Revenues
Available for Debt Service    8.5  13.5  9.7  9.4  9.1  9.8  8.5  7.7  8.9
Debt service                 17.2  12.9  8.4  7.8  7.8  6.5  5.8  5.1  4.8
Minus: impact of consolidation    0.0  0.0 -20.4  1.0  1.5  2.6  2.5  2.5  2.5
Surplus (eicit)      18                              0.8 O 0.8  0.4   0. 1  0.1
emo0rsadum Items
Workin Capital other
than Cash                   -28.0 -19.8  0.8  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.5  0.8  0.7
Accounts Payable to Treasury  19.5  20.9  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0



- 35 -
PART IV, TEE PROPOSED LOAN
LOAN HISTORY
113.     Past Bank Involvement.  Since 1974 the Bank has helped finance two
sewerage projects, one environmental protection project and two water supply
projects through five loans totalling US$116.4 million.  Sewers were also
built as a small component of the Urban Development Project of 1976. The
First Sewerage Project (Loan 1076-IVC for US$9.0 million in 1975) was
completed in 1981, the second (Loan 1577-IVC for US$33.0 million in 1978) in
1985 -- part of this loan (US$6.5 million) was cancelled after completion of
the works -- and the First Water Supply Project (Loan 1484-IVC for
US$16.0 million in 1977) in 1984.   The closing date of the Second Water
Supply Project (Loan 2130-IVC for US$43.0 million in 1982) is scheduled for
March 30, 1991. The Abidjan Environmental Protection Project (Loan 3155-IVC
for US$21.9 million) was approved in January 1990. The implementation of the
physical components of the projects has been satisfactory and timely. The
supervision of the Second Water Supply Project revealed, however, that the
diffused institutional structure, as well as the financial position of FNH,
showed acute signs of strain, thus calling for a major review by the
Government and the Bank.
114.     In 1984, the Government requested Bank assistance to improve the
institutional framework of the water supply and sanitation sector and to
adapt its development pattern to the changing macroeconomic environment. On
the basis of an institutional study financed by the proceeds of
Loan 2130-IVC, a Bank mission proceeded to appraise in May 1985, a project
supporting the consolidation of the disparate public institutions in the
sector into a single public entity. Instead, the Government decided at that
stage to increase the extent and scope of privatization of the sector. The
operation was then put in abeyance pending the articulation by the Government
of an action program and the confirmation by SODECI, the private water
utility company, of its interest in participating in the financial
restructuring of the sector through a leveraged buy-out scheme involving its
acquisition of sector assets and associated sectoral debts.   The scheme
failed to materialize, due to considerable risks perceived by SODECI as a
result of the imbalance between the equity of the company and the financial
size of the transaction.
115.     In January 1987, the President appointed DCGTx as the responsible
body for further preparing the adjustment operation, and DCGTx resumed
discussions with the Bank on sector issues and necessary reforms at that
time.   Building on prior work, DCGTx prepared a package of preliminary
actions for consideration by the Government, while entering into direct
negotiations with SODECI. The latter were completed in October 1987 and the
outcome was embodied in the package submitted to the Council of Mizisters in
December 1987 and subsequently approved. Further discussions with the Bank
led to the formulation of the Sector Adjustment Program.
116.    A full agreement on the new institutional, regulatory and pricing
framework of the sector had been reached with the Government during the post-
appraisal mission of July 1988. At that time, protracted discussions on
macro-policy issues delayed negotiations of this loan -- as well as the
negotiations of all other loans to C6te d'Ivoire -- until July 1989. Since



- 36 -
then, two sector adjustment loans -- for the agriculture and energy
sectors -- as well as three investment projects have been approved by the
Board. Following difficulties the Government has encountered with meeting
a number of performance criteria under the IMF stand-by arrangement, the Bank
decided to withhold submission of the WASAL to the Board until agreement on
a new program with the IMF had been reached, which occurred in June 1990.
LOAN AMOUNT AND TRANCHING
117.     Loan Amount.   The proposed sector adjustment operation will be
supported with a Bank loan of US$80 million, expected to be disbursed over
a period of six months. This amount will cover the losses in public sector
revenues resulting from the adjustment measures taken since October 1987
(US$61 million) and will provide US$19 million additional balance of payments
support. In the absence of sectoral adjustment, the conventional answer to
the increasing sector deficits would have been to maximize the portion of
sector revenues allocated to the sector funds for debt servicing by: (a) at
least maintaining--in real terms--the high level of tariffs reached in 1986;
and (b) freezing all sector investments.  The necessary reforms of tariff
and investment policies, envisioned in the sectoral adjustment process, will,
on the contrary, contribute to reduce revenues earmarked for debt servicing,
by reducing water rates (paras. 104 and 105) and allocating sector revenues
to SODECI for financing a minimal investment program  (para. 97).   The
financial consequences of these reforms are discussed in Annex 6.   The
potential losses in revenues of the public sector are estimated at CFAP 17.4
billion (US$61 million) over the adjustment period from October 1987, when
the reforms of the pricing policies started to be implemented, to the end of
1990. This estimate takes into account the impact of the price elasticity
on the urban water consumption. The time profile of these losses is given
in the following table.
Table 8: Reduction of Public Sector Revenues. 1987-90
(Current CFAF bil  lion)
1987   1988   198    1990
Water Sector Revenues Availabl, for Debt Servicing \!
--- Without adjustment            11.8   12.8   18.9   14.7
With  adJustment               10.2    8.6    8.4    8.1
Annual reduction                1.1    4.3    6.5    6.$
Accumulation                    1.1    5.4   10.8   17.4
E  Bore extraordinary Ite.
118.     Therefore, the proceeds of the loan will be disbursed against
general imports not specifically tied to the sector (negative list). On the
whole, the proposed loan amount would cover about four percent of the overall
financing requirement (para. 46) for 1990. Together with the agricultural
and energy sector adjustment loans (ASAL and ESAL), respectively approved in
October and December 1989, the proposed WASAL is thus an integral part of the
financing plan in support of the Government's medium-term adjustment program.
119.     The time profile, given in Table 5.5 of Annex 5, of the financial
needs of the sector will require that the support from the Budget under the



- 37 -
consolidation arrangements will be CRAP 20.9 billion and that CFAF 11 billion
of arrears will be paid to SODECI in 1990. In view of this time profile and
also of the advanced stage already reached in the sectoral adjustment
process, the first tranche of US$50 million will be disbursed immediately
after effectiveness and release of the second tranche of US$30 million will
be subject to implementation of specific actions described below.
120.     Other Financing Instruments.   Various donors of the rural water
supply subsector (CCCi, Conseil de l'Entente) have expressed interest in
financing actions whicli are complementary to the implementation of the action
plan for the transfer of maintenance of rural water points to villagers, such
as rehabilitation of boreholes and evolution of village water supply towards
piped systems. In addition, arrears owed to the Treasury as of December 31,
1989 will be consolidated in parallel with the provision of additional funds
from the Budget to restore the sector's financial equilibrium.
MONITORABLE ACTIONS
121.     Prior to negotiations, the Government took the following measures:
(a) urban water supply subsector: signature of the concession contract
awarding all investment-related responsibilities to SODECI; formulation
of a new financing strategy, aiming at self-financing of investments
by SODECI; reduction of 0 & M costs by 20 percent; abolition of the
"take or pay* provisions benefitting SODECI; establishment of
guidelines for periodic reviews of SODECI's compensation in order to
create incentives for productivity gains; first reduction of water
rates; formulation of new budgeting and payment procedures for water
bills of the Government and parastatals;
(b) rural water supply subsector: cancellation of SODECI's lease contract;
decision to transfer 0 & M responsibilities of water points to
villagers and to rehabilitate facilities; reformulation of the
financing strategy, based on budget financing of the construction of
new water points; comprehensive diagnostic review of 13,500 water
points; selection and training of 114 community development agents and
trainers; preliminary community development activities carried out in
six regions; training of 600 area mechanics;
(c) sanitation subsector: contract for maintenance of Abidjan system
awarded to SODECI after LCB; reduction of maintenance costs by 35
percent; formulation of technical guidelines for sanitation systems in
urban and rural areas; development of urban sanitation systems tied to
the municipalization strategy;
(d) envi:onmental protectiont new legislation on groundwater protection,
extending the private water extraction fee levied in Abidjan to the
whole country; preparation of a decree establishing a permit system for
private extraction of water and giving legal enforcement rights given
to SODECI for billing and collection of fees; decision to proceed with
the execution of environmental protection works for Abidjan Lagoon; and



- 38 -
(e) sector financess abolition of FNH and PNA; creation of FN6; inventory
of cross debts between sector institutions, suppliers, CAA and
Treasury.
122.     During negotiations, the Ivorian delegation transmitted to the Bank
the following documents which were found satisfactorys
(a) the five-year (1988-1992) investment program for urban water supply;
(b) the investment program for sewerage, drainage and environmental
protection, including the formulation of acceptable terms and
conditions for financing;
(c) the final version of the action plan and time schedule for the transfer
of rural water points to villagers;
(d) the plan for restructuring sector finances, including the consolidation
of sectoral arrears and the settlement of cross-debts; and
(e) the outline of the legislation concerning the discharge of domestic
and industrial liquid wastes, to be enacted and enforced at the
completion of the environmental protection works executed under the
ASP Project.
123.     Accordingly, there is no special Condition of Effectiveness (First
Tranche Release) apart from the submission to the Bank of the standard legal
opinion. Satisfactory execution of the macroeconomic program is a condition
for continued Bank support for the water supply and sanitation sector
adjustment operation.
124.     The second tranche of US$30 million will be released based on
satisfactory progress in the implementation of the Government's comprehensive
program as detailed in its Sectoral Policy Statement (Annex 3) and the
compliance with the following specific conditions:
(a) satisfactory execution of the concession contract for urban water
supply, particularly of provisions concerning: (i) costs control
through periodic revis.tons of SODECI's compensation; (ii) execution
of the investment program; and (iii) setup of sectoral assets
registers; the overall evaluation would then cover the first two years
of the concession contract;
(b) satisfactory implementation of the action plan to transfer rural water
points to rural comunnities, including the effective transfer of at
least 2,500 working water points to the villagers taking over
maintenance costs and res?onsibilities;
(c) preparation of an investment program for rural water supply and
formulation of criteria and procedures for the financial participation
of rural communities to investments and renewal ;
(d) initiation of a study on the prospective of water supply systems for
rural communities (beyond the handpump option);



- 39 -
(e) reduction of the industrial block water rate to CPAF 350/rn and
parallel reduction of the groundwater extraction fee;
(f) issue of the decree on groundwater extraction, including a system of
drilling notification and the preparation of the inventory of private
wells subject to the private water extraction fee; and
(g) satisfactory progress of the consolidation and of the liquidation of
FNH and FNA, in accordance with verifiable monitoring indicators of the
settlement of cross-debts and of the liquidity position of FNE
(completion of the first phase of the financial restructuring of the
sector as defined in para. 111).
'4ONITORING AND REPORTING
125.     The Government will ensure supervision of the sectoral adjustment
program outlined in Part III by appointing a Supervisory Board, composed of
members representing the Ministry of Economy and Finance, the Ministry of
Public Works and Transportation and DCGTx, the latter providing the technical
secretariat to the Board. Ministries and other governmental bodies in charge
of execution of specific aspects will submit quarterly reports to the
Supervisory Board, which is responsible for the preparation of status reports
to the Government with copy to the Bank. The Board will submit to the Bank
a final report on the program's implementation upon full disbursement of the
proposed loan.
126.     Adjustment measures that will take place beyond the loan period,
i.e. the implementation of the new legislation on wastewater disposal will
be monitored under the Abidjan Environmental Protection Project.
PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION
127.     Procurement.  Loan proceeds will finance eligible imports by both
the private and public sector.  All imports are subject to preshipment
inspection carried out by a specialized inspection agency. Eligible imports
will be subject to simplified ICB procedures for amounts exceeding
US$5 million equivalent. For lesser amounts, (a) imports by private entities
will follow established normal commercial practices, provided that, to the
extent practicable, quotations will be obtained from eligible suppliers from
at least two different countries ; and (b) imports by the public sector will
be in accordance with normal Government procedures, which were reviewed and
are considered acceptable since these mostly involve competitive bidding.
The Borrower will furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission of the related
withdrawal applications from the Loan Account, such documentation and
information as the Bank may reasonably request to support the withdrawal of
funds from the Loan account in respect of such contracts, including, in the
case of contracts awarded after simplified ICB, copies of contracts together
with the analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for award and
a description of the advertising and tendering procedures.   Identical
procurement documentation regarding contracts for which payments were made
out of the Special Account will be furnished to the Bank prior to the
submission of requests for replenishment of the Special Account. Under a
ceiling of US$l million for using statements of expenditure (SOE) procedure,



- 40 -
documents are to be retained by the Borrower for examination by Bank missions
and auditors.
128.     Disbursement.  The proposed loan will reimburse the foreign exchange
cost of imports, except specific excluded items such as luxury goods,
military and paramilitary equipment. Bank financing of imports of foodstuffs
and petroleum products will be limited to an aggregate amount of
US$32 million.  Prefinancing will be allowed for expenditures incurred no
more than 120 days before loan signature, up to an aggregate amount of 20
percent of the loan. Disbursement will be facilitated by the establishment
of a US$16 million equivalent Special Account in CAA. The proposed loan will
be disbursed against statements of expenditure (SOEs) for all eligible
contracts. The nature and origin of the goods as well as the payment date
will be indicated on the SOEs.   Expenditures for goods procured under
invoices for US$15,000 equivalent or less will not be eligible for financing
out of the loan proceeds. The minimal withdrawal application size will be
US$0.7 million equivalent.
129.     Accounts and Audits.  The CAA will be responsible for collecting
the supporting documentation (copies of the invoices and evidence of shipment
and of payment), for preparing withdrawal applications and will maintain
records of all transactions under the proposed loan in accordance with sound
accounting principles.   An audit report,  conforming to internationally
accepted standards and prepared by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, will be submitted within six months after the end of each fiscal year
of the government. The audit report will include a separate opinion on the
disbursements made under the SOE procedure.
BENEFITS, RISKS AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
Benefits
130.     Impact on Rural Communities.    The  thrust appliedi by reforms
introduced under the WASAL towards the restoration and the sustainability of
rural water services, will benefit about four million villagers. The scope
and comprehensiveness of the transfer of water points to rural communities
largely exceed those contemplated in any previous project in the subregion.
The social desirability of the approach is confirmed by the findings of the
C8te d'Ivoire Poverty Profile.   This Poverty Profile gives evidence of
profound spatial imbalances in the availability of services such as education
and health, and shows that the incidence of poverty in rural areas is 44
percent, compared to 5 percent in Abidjan and 13 percent in other urban
areas. There is no doubt that the deterioration of existing facilities, by
compelling women and children to turn back to surface water and traditional
wells, has had a negative social, health and economic impact, particularly
in the Savannah region, the poorest of COte d'Ivoire. The restoration of the
water service will induce substantial time-savings. Conservative estimates
show that the time spent by women and girls in fetching water would be
eventually decreased to 10 percent of the activities.
131.     The development of community-managed 0 & M will generate local
employment opportunities, preferably for young adults, with the training of
about 600 area mechanics, the establishment of a network of spare parts for



- 41 -
handpumps and the training of about 7,000 village pump repairmen.  It will
also pave the way for the development of other basic services and for the
gestation of local initiatives. Moreover, donors should resume dialogue for
new projects in the rural water supply subsector, which should easily attract
concessionary lending.
132.     Impact of the Pricing Policy Reforms.  The long-awaited reform of
the rate structure will, for the first time in 15 years, alleviate the burden
imposed on the industrial sector, and particularly on agro-industrial units
which are water intensive. Low-income consumers already benefitted from the
abolition of the fixed monthly fee which often represented the major part of
their water bills. The corresponding reduction of 25 percent of the monthly
bill has already boosted the demand for social connections which has
increased by 50 percent since January 1988, and for the first time since
1983, the annual water consumption grew by more than 4 percent.   Tariff
reductions also translate into a 1 percent decrease of the consumer prices
index. Finally, the sectoral adjustment will result in a retrenchment of the
public sector and a decisive relief of the insidious pressure exerted by the
water and sanitation sector on public finances since the mid-1980s.
Risks
133.     Major risks are related to the perpetuation of the liquidity crisis
that would bar the Government from implementing the financial restructuring
of the sector, and particularly to complete in a six-month period the
settlement of cross-debts and the effective payment of arrears due to SODECI.
One may observe that the reduction of the domestic arrears constitute one of
the priority objectives of the stabilization program agreed with the IMF.
other risks pertain to the effectiveness of the transfer of rural water
points to villagers.   These risks are limited in view of the strong
commitment towards sector adjustment manifested by the Government, the level
of progress already attained in carrying out the restructuring actions, the
experience already accumulated through the Eau Toujours program and the
proposed close monitoring of implementation.
Environmental Impact
134.     The outline of a new legislation concerning industrial and domestic
liquid wastes has been prepared under the WASAL.   In parallel with the
physical implementation of Abidjan environmental protection works, policy
reforms introduced under the WASAL allow to streamline investment and
maintenance responsibilities and to restore the equilibrium of sector
finances. These measures are prerequisites for the sound operation and the
adequate development of the Abidjan sewerage system. Moreover, the Statement
of Policy outlines in very strong terms the Government's commitment to
environmental protection.   The sectoral adjustment program specifically
addresses environmental issues linked to water resources, by introducing
effective enforcement of regulations concerning private water extraction.
Apart from financial considerations, the improved knowledge on groundwater
utilization obtained from the inventory of private wells and boreholes will
facilitate the management of water resources.



- 42 -
PART V. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COTE D'IVOIRE
135.     Since 1968, when Bank Group operations in C8te d'Ivoire commenced,
lending has expanded rapidly and now includes 65 operations totalling about
US$2,331 million, including US$14.0 million from the Third Window and an IDA
credit of US$7.5 million. Of these, 23 have been for agriculture, supporting
cotton, cocoa, rubber, forestry, oil palm and coconut development, rural
development in the North-East Savannah and Center-West regions, and one
sector adjustment loan. There were six road projects and two highway sector
projects. The remaining loans were for education, telecommunications, the
Abidjan sewerage and drainage system, Abidjan environmental protection, water
supply, urban development, petroleum exploration and development, power
distribution, energy sector adjustment, tourism development, small and
medium-scale enterprises, a regional cement project, a regional railway
project, structural adjustment and related technical assistance, an
industrial finance and development and a health and demographic project. IFC
has supported textile, fertilizers, flour milling, development banking and
agricultural plantation operations.   In general, implementation of Bank
projects has been satisfactory. A statement of Bank Group operations in CMte
d'Ivoire is presented in Annex 2.
136.     Until the early 19808, Bank lending was project-oriented with the
emphasis on agricultural diversification, development of infrastructure and
education.   The deterioration of the country's economic situation in the
1980's led to a substantial shift in the direction of Bank lending toward
the s' pport of the Government's adjustment program which has been supported
by t ree Structural Adjustment Loans (SALs) from the Bank and by direct
sup,irt to productive sectors (agriculture, industry and energy). Provided
the Government embarks upon and further strengthens the recently initiated
financial and economic adjustment program, the Bank intends to continue to
provide a mix of policy-based and high-priority investment lending.
137.     Bank lending in agriculture will continue to give high priority to
subsectors with clear comparative advantage and with export diversification
prospects.    In  addition,  emphasis  will  be  placed  on  strengthening
agricultural services (research, extension, credit and input supply) to
promote widespread productivity gains. Government efforts to halt the rapid
degradation of natural forests and to introduce a more rational and
sustainable management of the country's natural resource base are supported
through a recently approved Forestry Sector Project. Bank lending will also
give high priority to the improvement of rural living conditions through the
financing of programs to upgrade basic infrastructure (rural roads, water
supply) and social services (health, education) in rural areas. Following
satisfactory completion of the WASAL program and execution of the Abidjan
Environmental Protection Project, lending for rural water supply and for
urban and rural sanitation is expected to continue at the project level,
initially through a Rural Infrastructure Project to foster rural sanitation
and to explore ways of supporting local initiatives for the improvement of
rural water supply services.



- 43 -
PART VI. RECOMMAENDTION
138.     I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the Loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Washington, D. C.
June 4, 1990
Attachments



M     I - Suint Table .0 VeW Zeicate.
corn o1iv6il
M¢ft iAREC           OVAOTIR6
Actua                                                     Prejoctioe
iwo    lift    iee       low     91064    ie       Me    1967   Iee.    19o    t10o   1001    1002    leos    i              1905    1096    1007
__  _._ _ ^ _-- -__ -- - -- - -- - - ---- -- _- _ _-                                   -- -- -  _ -- -  _ - -  _-- -- --    _- --   - -   - -- -- ---   - -- -- --- -- -  - 
9IP _Gle    fete                           8.S      0.2    -2.5    -2.0      4.0     8.4    -1.6    -1.9    -1.2    -8.0    -1.0       2.5     3.0      8.8     S.?      4.0     4.6
o  gtow&  meu                               1.0   -4.6   -4.7    -0.4        5.2     5.4    -1.1      2.s    -7.0    4.2       0.8     3.1      2.9  S.S        4.1      4.2     4.7
0/cpita oritb ra-t                        -2.1    .2.0    4.0    4.6         8.0     1.6    -4.8    -4.1   -10.1    -9.4    -2.9   -4.4         .6      0.1     0.6      0.6     1.1
COggeption /fewi;t grew" gat               4.1    -2.7      4.4   -4.6       1.5  t.8    -2..    -0.a    -7.6  -41.2    -7.7   -4.8             .7    -1.1    4.6    40.2        0.8
Totl       (is Us Wilt)        432.4  4470.0  301.0  401.1  S .5  521.1  em.6  7246.0  6S6.1  96296.  12160.8  104S.6  1204.7  18120.0  18634.2  14us9.6  15019.S  18804.2
us.e118.9   188.8   170.8  195.    167.7   187.0   1.4   107.8   246.6   200.4   S50.5   310.1   310.6   310.4   38C.6   296.6   276.7   2a.1
OM/MP                             41.2    92.5    67.0    73.8    7.7    64.6    72.8    60.6    76.1   106.6    84.0   122.6    8.0   187.3   1I8.0   183.6   128.1   12.7
Dut Seriw. (i UW ";ill)          474.4   9n.2   9S6.5   707.6    -.S    901.0   630.7   627.6   46.1  1616.8  1906.   1800.   1407.5  t7.0  14.7  127.   146.3   52.6
Debt Se4rioe/S                    24.0    51.6    30.0    f1..    2.0    21.6    2.1    17.1    14.0    40.2    61.0    40.0    87.2    83.4    20.6    81.2    26.8    26.8
Debt Service/OP                    0.8    10.0    12.7    12.0      0.7      0.9     0.2      6.0     4.7    17.4    21.1      8.6   IS.16    14.4    18.1    14.1    13.2    12.8
b1bw-W=                            9.7    18.4    16.5    16.8    14.6    16.2    16.8    12.0        8.0    22.4    20.4    23.6    21.8    22.2    21.7    20.7    19.4    17.6
Inteet/w                           8.4     4.0     6.2      6.2     6.6      7.4     6.8     4.2      2.8     7.0    10.2      0.8     0.2     0.s      0.6     0.8     0.0      6.s
areas Ieaetemmt/P                 28.2    26.0    26.2    20.6    10.0    12.6    11.1    11.7    18.2    10.8        6.5      0.1    10.4    12.7    14.8    15.5    16.5    17.0
_omatic Oevl.e/9P 1               22.2    18.8    20.0   10.6    22.4    26.8    28.1    I6.S    10.4    21.6    24.4    27.0    26.7    27.8    20.8    26.0    20.4    20.8
atieal Sevieo/P 1)              10.7      7.0     Q.4     5.1     0.6    28.7    18.5       5.6    12.6    10.0    12.0    16.0      s 2    17.1    16.2    10.8    20.1    20.8
.are;al national eaie rate                  1.0    -o.0     0.6      1.4     7.0     0.0     0.6    -2.7      0.7     0.2   -13.0      0.4     0.6      0.8     0.8      0.5     0.4
Publc tevatnmt9P  W               1U.1    14.0    18.2    11.3      7.6      7.2     6.8     a.0      4.7     8.1     2.0      8.4     4.5      8.7     6.3     7.0      7.8     8.0                 I
Pul Ic  ev ieoa/66P 2/             8.0     8.0    -o.0    -0.4      5.0      0.2     8.0    -0.      4-.8   -12.1   -4.1    -1.5       0.0      1.9     2.1     2.7      3.7    4*.
Private Z    _etaeet/6            10.1    11.0      6.0     0.2     8.8      5.4     4.7      7.6    10.8     7.2     8.7      5.7     8.0     7.0      6.0     6.8     0.0      0.0
Private vS ieA                    4.6     4.0      0.8     8.8     8.8      4.8     0.6     6.4    ,16.     22.1    10.1    17.8    18.8    15.2    16.1    16.6    16.4        5.7
Ia,                                       11.8    20.8   -86.4    -7.2       2.6     8.2    -4.4    4.2   -12.8    -2.0    -6.2        8.7     8.5      8.7     8.6     8.9      8.7
eanveeet _aeeomueeP 2/            26.8    27.0    27.7    20.2    84.0    85.6    01.7    26.7    27.0    26.7    27.6    20.7    81.1    80.0    30.0    80.0    81.1    31.8
Goveromewt Enpeediture/6P 2/      40.7    80.7    48.6    40.0    86.7    84.6    34.0    81.8    85.5    86.0    86.5    34.7    84.7    84.6    85.1    85.2    34.0   a8.4
.Ce0li or surplueP 2/            -12.2   -12.0   -16.1   -11.7    -1.7       2.0    -2.4    -4.0    48.4   -15.2   -4.0       -.0    -8.6    -8.6    -4.2    -4.8    -3.8    -.1
Laporwt eeo  rate S/                      1s.1      1.4   -4.0    10.8    4.0        4.7    -9.s    -4.2    14.0      8.7      8.8     0.0     1.2      2.5     8.0     3.2      8.6
emportejP                         84.0    85.2    06.4    86.8    45.8    45.1    89.6   3S.4    31.7    8s.8    84.6    80.5    42.0    48.0    44.1    46.0    46.    4*7.7
Iwore guth rate a/                       -18.0   -11.0    -0.8     -4.6    -7.1    -S.1    -2.0    -34       -.5S    -7.0    4.6       4.4     S.2      .1      4.0     4.7      4.6
Iowto/"                           40.1    42.3    80.8    80.2    84.8    85.8    20.8    80.s    80.0    82.4    81.0    84.9    87.6    80.2    40.6    41.6    42.4    42.6
Correst Ac_     i U8 WIl       -1860.0  -12.8  -.1s. -1062.   .68.   _45.4    10.6  483.0  44$0.   .40.4 -1006.8  -768.7  -770.6   905.4  -977.6  -1022.1  -91.1  -41.2 t0
Cerrmt Ac_e/P                    -17.4   -17.0   -18.8   -18.7    -1.8    -0.2       0.1    -6.1    -6.2   -0.7   -11.8    4.6        4.7    -0.5    -0.6    -0.4    4.4    -7.0 <0
Trm. of Trade led,               122.6    80.8    67.2    60.6   101.8   114.8   116.0   100.0    60.4    78.8    64.6    66.8    67.6    60.0    70.0    70.7    72.9    75.8 3
ljVithout T,e_ ot Trade Adjweteat.
2Frm Cotol idatod Pbl ic S*ctor Accounta.
S8oode and "on Factor Services.
./.etimated



COTE O'NBDR      - tTWL aCMrs                                                                    att_     S
t9S P t  Cmplt  eW Is Mtf 740.0 t2
Historical (&%fe of CDP Is COrr"t PrImpo)
t9S      e.s    t ses19  1984    l9S5    lsss    t9Ss             1%QQ tS    990    19zt     1912    19e 1a           1e96    ls41 1    e
arsO_teo*  Pro        *.P.  tWO.        t0.  IW0 teD.     tOD. 0    t  W00 lO.    lOD.0 9   tO.     to.    116.    11i.S   Iiir   ltS.    I tU.9-  1t2.6   -t.      110.0
Mte hele "t                    *        /       S.       .       s.      e.      7.  T.7o    8.1,                   9. s.             .      95      e8      10.4    10.S
eacalt.~~~~~~~~~~~l S04         l0    ft': 4    27.e6'  21 'S.  S7.2    St.l    11 6    81. 'S.   J2.4    I .4    4'4-7    34.      45.Sa    4a.J    42.4    U1.7
Atch ~  ~     ~    t        t7tewe  T    21 T    t 2 101  .  7    S. 0   $.    0.0 o  0    0   0.  o 0   0.0     0.0      0.0     D. O      . o.             .
Xvic._                        44.5  .. St . 47.9    4e.s    4S.0    4e.4    4U.S    41.4    4S.0  44.2    4S.S    4t.5    40.5  59.0                Sqs.*  S3.1  S7.S
lResore flsac        S     S       7  S.         -17        5 S1.    -16.  t  4. 66   -4.4   -22           -160 2   -20.8S -18.t   -1U.  41.    -1tS    -tS.    -1 t
Imports Of 4S                 So.s I  sa2    SS.2    S4.S    SS.S    St.6    JO.S    81.4    sl.a    S2.4    a2.s    82.e    Wa.8   JIe    39.8    as.0    SS.S
Tout _tpwitu c                  9S.S    e7.s   tce.s   100.8    S41.S1   eo.4    es.4    e.2    07.2    e7.1    e6.7    ss.1    e4.7    97. t    e7.4    Us.           ee .2
ToWt C*tAWtIC                 n.4    74.3    St.l    77.4    74.2    79.2    SS.7    SS.6    es-e    87.2   s16.0    e4.1    S2.8    Go..    7c.9    7e.s    77.5
Pr   t     _tEr.r           eo e    SB. s.   e4.2    e2.S     eo 00.3    <43    e6.24   4t4e    0 5.  e7 49.     02      0.       1 S.   ST S    tS 0       1. s2 s 
Gro  0_otic lavesto           21.9    2S.2    SS.2    2 .2    12.6    11.4    I1.7    tS.7    11.4         9.9    10.7    12.0    14.4    #6.S    17.4    18.4    18.7
arose mottons$ Iacon_o                -                        e s.           97.2    90.      49n.1    "o.4    91.4  st.4    91.4    92.1    92.s    OR.&
41rap  1r1"  prod"%                                                               9s.8   wo0.e   10.7   1W.4.    Mto.    SWS         10S.0   UW4$   104.J   1S.S   1e2.5 
llrow 01_*eti S*virw            "A      211.7    22-2    20-4    19.6     04       14.8    #1.S    t4.1    12.4    lS.0    1s.s   17.7    19.1    20.1    Sl.J    22.S
lt  rb        L=              -e.1    -s.e    .4.S    -7. 1   -20.2    -4.8    -S.7    -2.4    -9.2   -1o.s  e .4    -e.0    -e.6    -.4    -7.9    -7.7    -7.S                                  to
U"* cufo,     IrT *t re          -             t.7    ; 4.    S4. t      4. 9 e    .     -4 s8   -sl 4     st .    -3.4    -3.5    -3.3    -3 I    -2.       -26      -
S. lestiO     _QW% GOtb    RO (S) at CoMAtt Prie":
ts1416 7  tsw1e)   ise     19s2    lee      1se4    wees    1ee4    19ar    1ee4             se4       s-s  1e247
*Po   oesi P . Mt U..      87      7.oT   11.6      0.2    w-5.     *O       *.e9     S4    T-.7   _-X.e               7-1    --.I    -.77
Atirklt   t    Wte  e         tU4.s   "8b.    12-e    -4.t   -10-    t2 4    t4a.S    0t6°   O4 io         t                44 a'.   -s.s7   s t
WIVeft                       11.2     6.3    26.7      4.5    -1.5      O.S     4.1      1.7    -1.7    - .1              -s.9    -4.4      LS3
Toa ttxpwtres                    8.9     W.1     6.0   -5.2    -2.9   -10.2    11.4         4.0    o0.e    -1.6              -8.7    -5.0      4.6
teXl Co_otio                   9.9     8.7      9.7    -2 8    -2.1    -1.S    -S.6       7.2    -0.7    -.5.              -4.2    -4.6      ts9
Prvf l"X   X _tio            7.40    7.9    11.e    -2.2    -1.7       2.9     0.6      *.4    -0.0   -10.9              -4.6    -s.e      3.8                           
*eeft  .cer"          u      4.8  ll.S        2.6    ..4    -3.4   -25.4   421.15   12.S        0.9  u7.7                -8.0    -7.4      1.0 t 
areas ozei  b"__toa            ? .a    14.4     e.4   -1s.r    -e.9   -Sa.     47.7       7.S    -0.4    27.1             412.7    -0.0    t4.0                                      Z2
Fl*dIt *_nsm               -tS.9    20.4      2.S   -ts.a   -t4.2   -M(.7    -2.2       7.S    -0.4    S@.l             -S2.7    -e.e    14.0
Ca_p  In Stdu                 W.       .        .      .         .      .        .       .        .       .                 .       .        .r  



C0t6 6'1V-  WitW. A8EtS (cowklm*0)                                                                      Attachment so
(PapeS of 2)
C. PrtO. c diga (105410),t         A_ea1                                               Ptel I*.                       Gowth  atee (UP..)
19       191      106      tqout    £06      low       1"?                      1010-78  tW,,-.  110-    low
C    A  Priem  (S64              10oo 0.0   1.6    US.7   1i.O   1S8.4   t#.S   1a4.7                                 4.2     18.2      4.6      1.4
"ait.. Pri. ..618                   ..       ..       ..        ..       ..       ..       ..                          ..
to =.0 P Sof laIMA1.                   106.    118.40   186.    1815.9    USA.   181.0                            8.        4        69      -8.6
twticlt tW St~ater          Nl.       e.      X50.. t5§                   t5*    A.                                      14.       5.S      .
S loSt bead.  MlAor              10.0      WA9.4   in.4    106.4    18.0    189.2  1t6.8                              .?    1u.a        0.0      1.6
48 C,lm" ..te                      ..      ..        ..       ..       ..       ..       ..                          .....
0.  _Uie. ladltc_, h            19-73  1W7-60  100-6  10W-W ?196                                            1978     too      16       low
066 Bet.. (U ....)        ~~4.8     4.6      8.       6.0          U.... fter   Total
breea  bvoube..
Bros. SbtioeaI 5e*g4 . .                   ..      0.4      0. 6n
Ore.. Cesseti. Sle_ s.           2.9      8.1    -0.4       -t.0 .Ilt6
P lwtw  0_  4^ t.c.      $~~.1    8.0    -0.2    48.0               zw t$
S gIP *)                0.0      t~~~~~~          ~~~~.7  -r.     TV",
lb,81.1   I"l R :no
,m # - t S"I7   ....:4 O.6
I=  (p1d werit   ges)              .t4      4.2    14.6       10.2
L.  m otol Ac_       Ca (l dal It ions of LtU& *S 16  WrIm),
Aot%u                      ProjeceJe
1E067    1968l   19.    199.0    1t991       1999      1906[    1994     1965    1t0       1997
are". osmotic Pradeot *.v.                          $811      5069     Uin      g16     2i89      3909     204       09       OM1      188      849
Oat lAi .t l*o.                                     as       2 14     218      201      216      229      S9"       261      27   14 2         5W 
AtritccltT wO 62                                            1020     1070      aUw    1m        L1n      1167      11       10       274      1
IWtrj                                              62M       S49       8       as       464      492      8A1      561       6e4      612      648
tn ofubld~Sh.dba cturiao)                            0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0         °
r,Se..h                                          129       129      1101     1009     1 10     1068     10600    1066      11104    11405    1100
R..rc. Bauace                                       -142      -10      -4       -454     40       -478      -445     -48      -41      -41      -437
fpor  ff5of GO0 to10                                        16       I14      19       10       1 I107            1866     1897     1442     1495
e.r.of GO'S                                    961      926     6a"       606       799      a84      88        M       066     s011      i06n
Totl Ep"diture                                      29        2429     2678    29 ts        1     248      26       2         27gm     2912   a8m
Toul C uptioe                                     2611      2466     2151     2169     20       21       2164     2Z0    2964        260    2462
Private  m ate                                  220        89      1807     177      1666     17156    1ol1      nu4      1912     lo0t     207W
Oaeerl O r_t'                                    4S2 sn             54       4ft74 86                   am                 378     M10       S07
_re_t Dassetlo Is                                    6       464      812      246      280       M       8         444      44       6S2       94
P) sad  Me.oaat464                                                  812      an6      260      no0       so      444       496      on       504
OmagaeiStosck                                      a1        0        a0       0        0        0        0        0         0        0        *
Ccl to Zvt                                 1106       60       942      S"9        s 9         984  064    1S       1041    11:0       U178
TrdeAd3o   t                                       0     -106     -272    -66        -401     -871     -81      -804     -85      -4f      -81
aroma ostic  mom                                    8ite      2150     2749     g6       24 7      m       21       248       gm6      BOB      U1V?
Grmow wihoSosl eee.                                 206       2070     2496     108      gm0       618     9469     5114      28211    2774     no4
Grms Mati  Product                                  29m       g9m      26       g        2610    26       2g8       2g        2907to  81        a m
Ores b.aek Safta                                      W07      <es       M0      S        s0 65              Rt 466   M        878      6S       714
bt pat-or                                        °-1         -46     -28      -273     -M9      -1m      -        -f29 -4    1       402    -207
current Tsw r                                  -10      -121     -104     -48       -64 s     e       -67       -4      24        - 
Ors.btional Soviet                                 £74      279       81      -W7       W        97       M*      210       94       684      401
0
Ph4



CaE DiWsIN      -  WtOL 1ROE                                                       AttecAmot SS
A. lWuw, Vtl. Nd Price.                           A.t0                                                      Projoctle,
;so    196s   1904    1905   1s90    1ow7   1te    1099         19W9    1       1992    199    1904    195s   1906    1997
N,claedie Ewporte              --   -     --   -    --   -    ---    --   -   -    --
Cocoa boa.                  00.4   00.9    94.9    09.2   10.8   100.0    0.4   146.9   129.7   110.5   189.0    09.   M*9           ,41.0   144.1   146.2
Coffee beep                 134.9   1*4.0   113.4   148.6   1*8.0   100.0   100.0   600. .8 140.0     116.8   111.9   10.1   £8.1   "16.1   109.8   112.0
TIWW                aft~~80.?   2.1   2M.9   107.0   *35.0   100.0    98.8    9.1   03.2    98.    09.2    90.0    94.4    94.9   98.5    90.1
coltm                       49.0   02.9    57.5   79.2   1.8  100.0   13.4   181.4   177.2   19e.0   195.4   209.0   225.7   259.8  206.1   274.0
P.t..oIo. prodcts           100.1   180.2   190.9   157.2   118.1   10.0  101.8   101.8   101.5   J00.4   106.5   110.7   113.9   118.1   117.4   119.8
Other Esparta                  .       .       .       .            100.0   94.0   07.5   106.8   112.0   117.1   130.8   W3.0   188.0   140.8   140.7
Tofte  lhrod . apocte, FM6  Ss.$    91.8   105.3   107.    110.0  100.0   94.8   111.0   110.8   132.0   120.2   139.0  135.7   139.2   188.0   117.8
bootchu4se, boats____________                                              Pric  (Willie UWI
Comebee-e                  7_8.2   425.9   907.0    MA6.0  1108.1    07-.0   6.    0.7   869.4         9   724.0   77.    066.5   9609  IM9.7  1242.8
Ca"e be                     04.1   40       419.6   018.1 2e2.0   50.7   88.0   218.7   19s.0   241.e   901.8   2  00.    2.9e   2M.0   270.0   307.
T3s.r                       US.4  291.1   27.8   2.8   23.0  m2.s7  201.4  2104.7   1.0   296.0  8$8.0   130.9   849.8   U109.9              67.7   405.5
cotton                      69.1    00.7    77.    106.4    789  0.0        300 U.0   140.3   1K84.    102.0   179.2   199.4   301.9   247.0   270.6   396.5
peteol  product.           211.9   289    111.7   288.1   104.2    0.8   296.8   3.1   060.0          6.8   890.    42     460.7   60.6   0o.,0  0S3.
Oth..r ewer"               700.0   605.    MA.   02.7  401.1  1010.0   908.4 91.8  1062.0  1144.9  120.5  1879.9  3181.6  186.6  £23.7  2MS7
7.9.1 Nerch. Emport. FM0   603.0  9000.1  269.5  230.4  8170.0  0091.   2604.0  27M0.7  SI79.   7W.1  806.2  8814.0  8061.5  8944.1  419.0  491.5
;roed11:1   107.8    95.0                             0 7        097 0                  Se .  so.?    7.0 1    90.7           5.e7    7.4   fte 106   t5.9
Petdrolew. mad produete      s M       2      .S    .e       SA    M0.0    eo.        7.    ".a    t.2   eZ.7   97.7    ee.e   UM.2  to7.e   111.e
other                      DBDree  .O                              to 100.    7 .4   09.01.2.4    78.9    81.5   OS. _         . _      I _  _ _     _
OP e_ Co per anode        110.1   06.0   ss09.0   90.1   106.0   1.0   01:.   04.6    00.4    76.7    0.7    04.0 8*e        8     09.2    91.0   94.9
zateauew  Good            100.9   107.4   97.8   301.8  20106   100.0   80.7  92.0   09.4    09.5    6.            07.2    99.7   97.7   1.    100.8
Capital aods              900.9   181.1   117.1   109.4   114.0   100.0    91.0    76.1    64.7    09.0   00.0    94.2   100.6 120.5   £36.1   141.3
total  T                    114.    107.8   115.6   107.9   199.8   100.0   90.0   07.8   01.8    0.2   e9.7    91.2    70.9  U1*.3    0.6   112.0
Herohsidle Imprt       _________
-             -                              V*l-- t4d4r"0 Pe1s CeMax tm        )--       -
Food                         0.0 U    4.0   2.5   40.0   86.S         8.2   601.8   5.7   40.1   010.1   69.e   0.    072.    732.6   74             6.
Petroimw sed product.      460.5   1Q3.8   268.0   06.4   21.7   00.6   209.   840.0   887.7   861.    878.4   418.5   460.8  606. 1   874.0   654.7
Other Import.              1746.9  1017.1   23.1   940.9  109. 1  28989.7  139.0  1314.6  1181.8  1311.0  18860.0  1845.   178.1I  1960.0  2104.8  2069.0
ter Coewur _  ode         S20.5   5S.6   50.6   609.9   447.1   847.4   472.0   460.8   461.0   407.9   8.0   86          8.6   094.6   667.4   7.8
Ijitrsedisto Goode        497.4   M0.0   249.4   26.2  29.0   291.0   276.0   251.6   278.0   270.6   294.7   S. 1   85.2   397.8   429.7   488.6
Capital bode              00   104.8  tO0.C   810.7   54.4   891.4   09.8   44.7   8.5   47.8   860.0             66.o   60.2 a9r8   10r.4  1.9
Total OlarcI,.Aporlip(M.OnP  25184  10665  1467.6  1514.9  184.6  30146.6  906.2  266. 1  19011.1  200.7  230.8  350121.0  266.7  8199,4  6068.9  8069.4
COON"      _We                                                            ZIWigt
C o e .   1 4 ..__                                                                               _ _ _ _____   __ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ ____ _ _ _
FA   ISe Import             40.0    0.    86.6    96.5   10.8   100.0   91,4   79.0   70.8   74.7    01.1    87.1    0.0             0.7   10.0   115.5
PlorchimWise Iorte         42.8   57.4    74.0    09.0    07.9   100.0   10.2   10.0   109.1   114.4   1.0   15            13.    189.6   146,5  153.7
l05.cI. Urerm    Trade     141.8   101.5   115.0   114.3   118.6   10.0   60.4   75.6    64.6    09.8   07.0    09.0   70.0    70.7   72.9    75.8
6. Share of T09.1 X olo (8) at wrest priams           C. Growth Rot"e ()       S boetes prlcess
1965    1978    123    1907    1999    1997           1965-78 1978-69 1960-95O 10-9  1992-9
Iorbrwed Ewe Ipr"
Ccos" bees.                 12.1    18.4   20.7   81.9    25.0        5800                                     .       .
Coffee beA                  62.2    25.0    26.8   12.6      6.6    6.12                             8.1     6. 4     1.0
Timber                        .       ..    14.1     9.0    10.9      .                             -11. I   1.1    0.
Cott"                                 .      4.1     2.9     5.9     6.0                             7.0    18.2    7,0
Other. Import.                              40.9   43.0    88.7   54.2                               19.5    4.5     4.8
To"#l March. aporte FOB     1MO.  140.0   M0.0  1100.01  109.0   16.0                                0.7     8.4     2.5
NWerdedeMe Iporte
Food                          :             14.5    23.7   24.7   26.8                              43.7    -9.0     8.0
Patrolmen SOW prodouct                      18.6    18.0    10.4    18.0                            -4.6    -1.5     8.9
Other Importe                 ":.           6.0   09.4    60.9    60.6                                ..     4.81    7.8
Other CARs~me Good           .             21.1    24.4   32 7    18.8                              8.9   48.6      8.0
Itheerdloto GMO*d            .      .      19.     1.0i    1.s1.                                  -11.2   49.4     5.0
capital boude*.                      .    20.7    94.09   25.'4  30.4                             .18.    -5.6    12.0                                                    'I'
ToteS lSrcb.IepOrte(08UP       .       .    10. 300.0   100.0       100 to.0                        46.9    48.3     8.7                                                    8D



CmT! DIVOIE    - sALA4CE OP PA'0n                      Att*ac   t Sc
(WO lltlme at Cooren P lne_)
Ac__l                                                Prjoctio    _____________
1900   s196      1904    1906    1988    19ft7   1i96    1989.    19         1991    1992    199       1994    1995    1996    1997
_ - _ _ _ _ _ - - _ - _ - _ - - _ - - -        i_aw
A.  E"r  of god S Ws    s67N.8  249l.4  2996.0  *10.4  s8s7.8  866.9  s266.2 s22. S  3121.   897.8    74,2  44.    4 D4.4   4894.8  5424.1   SO 60.
1. Naretandla. (P08)        S012.7  2*66.1  2624.6  2761.4  *162.0  s39.9  2664.0  2706.7  2579.s  s7.8l 30s62  6*24.0  3616.5  8944.8  4.3  4916.8
2.  _ Ft  S  tce              64t.2   425.1   370.8   390.9   473.6   578.0   64.2   673.7   642.4   60.7   7210   790.6   666.9  9e0.5  1084S.   118T.8
a.  10eo4 o          f 88"  a Ws    4184.S  2682.4  2811.2  21?S.8  2734.1  8197.8  8166.8  8017.7  2862.8  8069.0  8881.6  3737.6  412.6  4340.7  49381.6  645.0
1. Naiadlse (FOB)           2618.8  1685.8  1467.2  1410.1  1420.6   1          16951.9  1677.6  1618.4  166.9  187.1  2096.6  2644.1  2599.9  2879.0  8181.1
2. m-*acr Serice.            182.2   90.8   628.9   763.2  1118.8  16.4  1489.4  184.I  14.9  1400.1   510.3  1640.9  1732.6  1940.8  2089.6  225.9
C.  R_esrce ftlac.            -868.0  -12.    6.6   987.1   908.4   472.6    62.9   264.6   289.6   406.6   402.7   S67.1   856.6   864.1   46.5   s1.6
D.  MFt Poctw Income          -62.8   80.6  -474.9  -666,   479.9  -699.2  -2991.8  -0.0  -1084.  -911.6  -911.8  -994.5 -1066.6  -1098.2 -1162.7 -18.7
1. Factor RSecpt.             81.2    16.8    12.6    15.6    20.1        0.0      0.0      0,0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
2. Factor Paymente           594.0   524.9   407.5   66.*9  700.0   899.2   2"9.8   848.0  1084.8   911.3   911.5   994.6  1056.5  1098.2  1162.7  1281.7
(Interest pVaj te)        854.0   412.8   4"4.4   471.9   SU.9   3".O   219.9   69S.2   808.6   675.7   f8.1   747.8   8t4.0   860.6   69.9   918.7
B.  Net Current Tranfere      -71S.6  -419.6  -291.1   -7.9  -426.2   -6.4  -428.8  -62.0  -261.0  -21.0  -271.2  -278.0  -8.0  -m.0  -27.o  -278.0
1. Currat Recelpt                    ..      ..       ..           ..     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
2. Camrnat P_apta            718.6   819.6   291.1   2769i   426.2   406.4   428.S6    21.0   261.0   21.0          n2271  273.0   276.0        2.0   278.0   278.0
F.  Curret Accou_ t alance  -180.4   -.2   -62.2    41.9  -2C2.7  -63.0  40.6  -904.4  -108t.8  -768.7  -779.6  -906.4  -977.  -122.1  -96t.1  -891.2
0.  LowTera Capital Iflew  1060.6   80.0   806.0   222.4   8SS.2   644.S   86.4  1440.8  1219.4  1012.6   920.6  S60.7  607.7   874.2  86J.7   806.7
I. OlrDct MOwetmAnt           94.7    87.5      8.0    29.2   107.4       0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
2. Official Cap,tal Orante     9.9    28.5    28.1    26.0    66.0        0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
8. M".t U   n  (M  date)    1162.6   510.9   970.5   712.6   47S.8   400.7   212.1   -96.7   47.1   662.0   540.0   6S2.6   652.    469.8   476.3   487.8
a. Dleronata              I1.0  1127.S  1435.0   122.2  1247.S   587.4   438.7   786.9  1413.5  1254.6  121.0  1114.8  1017.8  1003.7   971.8  1001.4
b. Ropiente               669.4   616.4   464.5    69.6   778.5   186.7   226.6   881.6   9S6.4   572.6   S81.0   462.8   866.0   514.4   49.5   513.6
4.  Uo Sar LT lolem (net)    -16t.7   -14.9  496.6   -645.4   -116.0   143.0   154.4   108.8   S3.9    67.0    67.0   185.6   lt9.S   80S.1   306.1   305.1
M.  Total Other Item Cot)    644.9   275.2  -209.5  -297.1  -119.2          0.0      0.0  -96.9   -94.9   -74.6    -8.4         0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
I.  Che    i "et Reorv.        111.0   120.0   -14.8    S2.8   -11.3   S8.7   274.1    51.6   -0.1  -174.4  -187.4    99.7    90.1   147.9   127W4    08.4
1. .tt C."d.   fro  Wh         0.0   166.2    14.0   -87.8   -66.9  -346.1   -64.6  -123.8    28.8   42.0   -85 8   -43.4   -77.6   47. 1    -67. 1    -7.1
2. Obe R PA**"  dialle,       111.0   -46.2   -28.8    70.6   5M.6   234.8  8S8.9   175.4  -116.9  -112.8   -51.7    US.I   167.8   215.0   194.5   162.5
(- iadicat l ncrom)
Shares of DP (Currnat UsW):
1. Reace Ol nc                  -5.9    -1.7    10.7    10,7    12.1        4.6      0.8     2.8      2.9      4.6     4.5      5.8      5.6     8.S      8.9      4.9                                  c
2. Itoaet PaSant PPO             8.4      6.2      7.9     7.0      7.6     8.0      2.1      7.4     9.0      7.6      7.4     7.8      e.0      7.9     7.6      7.2                                  1
S. Current Aot Blnc            -17.5   -14.1    -1.3       0.6    -2.2    41.1   -4.2    -9.7   -11.5         -8.6    -0.7    -9.6    -9.6    -9.4    -6.4    -7.0
*a/ncltude appeares ( 97.19   .
Wearanm Item:
MP (M,ilIion of Current UW      10614.0 6O774.9  6s56.9  6984.4   9t86.S  10M78.4 10t8.6  9S06.5  9013.2  8047.4  9002.1  9343.8  10171.6  10169.1  11722.6  12699.1
Forelan Elalwnee Reeerves:
1.  ntt.  R... (IFS 1Id)
2. Cold (and ye Luno price)
3. Ore" R     _ Irvea jcel. Old_
4. Groe Re. in b -nth- ----rts
Ehenbg Rate (LOJ/U6):
1. o. Off. XE-Rte (IVS r)
2. Ral afft. X-Nat  (1960-0,-0)
s. x-Rt. fore W  Converson
S Z



CMt D'IVOMt -     W _VA CAPIrTAL APOD wr I/                                                  cpo  I of 2)
A. Ot    0"ral                S§EO      22e      es4     8s        lat    le07    2le         et   o  4"         el      40n     4eB       4454     "Ie   4e2         4e70
of  which Ctor              sltl    tl85    2#e        lX       lieD     wen      li6     7se      one     12U      2s7       2S      2ee       275      ea       e90
pioto *reid St ers  2      17   7 02          ITs      14s     12        is       2ss   27s ms               20       2>S   2t5   2eo7                    27       2
pi rt   8 C lrkodl           91       2109     l3       iS? t       15     s       24       27       1        20       24       24       24       97       27       27
othBer piv"g                0s zs             0i 0s 01 0t 04 0r £0                                           20       04       2                                    4
2. Privte   "Guratee          o          o        o        o            0   o         o        o            0   o         o        o        o        o        o            0
sTOWt (1#2)                     1ue       a"       sto      se4      ul       Rt.7     4se       me     141S    12511    t22       IIIII   1017      IW4       en2    toot
SW F " _hoo                        o      I"        42       SI       Sso       o      121       so      148       Be        o        O        o        o        o        o
S. Toftl tncl. DF 4iM Or          14"t      sam     ttB       us      4mJ       58r     Ss       e24    tset    t2e        t2       31IM    10t7    1004        et      100
it. it""t*.
. Public 6 Publicly fOws  LT       no2      sf       191      l72     2tto      ui7     27       ets2      "S      sn       set      4tt2     3ss       94      495      614
Offnciol crdtor               st                 Stt e4           1C2      lo1f    1sl      428      ans      wile     S24      40e      365      S14      492      soe
milesloter                   is a8     s       ss       so       as       oft    is7       tle     1r       179      I90      lSS      I"s      20e      22        m 
of oth l% MA                0        0       st       40      60        °        0t      t0        0        0        °      "°       t o                 0n 07  l
sitzaewc                     so       2ii      10        7       1e      2e       24      2fs2      S"      us1      s2e      2Vr      16       asO      270      2tN
Privat Crouttore              4tt4     ste       m        ee      1S7      tl2      4b      se9      s1        as        a       ss        o        o        4        a
Supplier                    We 10      7       47      22       se        o        o        o        o        a        o        o        o        O        o        o
Finncil t*ko               Mse      2b^2       el       77      119      tS2      4e      4Ss9     4S1       ss       a7       u         o        o        4        s
2. Private rw  tbneen_              O         0       O        0        0        O        O        O        0        O        O        O        O        0        O        O
S. Taut (1*t                       tno      sot     1es       I?2      2eo     tft      2n       es       es       S71      Sol      452      s6 s      14      4ee      S14
4  DIPR_ tourhs           o                           2                a   eete146      lts      lotl ll101 ftoo             a        4S       79   e 7   a            a 7
tS. not Short-or Cop tft 
tS. Total loi.e IF &ot* ST 
C. Iat ret
2. Public A IWiiilely     LT.     SS4       43       444     42       an2      39s      220      eFs      eaB      e7tt     so       748      a14      Sol      er4      91e
Official Ct;t, to              72       eo     tor       12      20B      218      1e1      41S      Sll      570      418      6C2      70s      7S2      7t3S     sol
tblCt ti  tir IS2                    Si       77      e9i      107      1S2     170      17       191      21S      2S0      240      25       28S      249      315
of b;dbMe                 22       40       tB      St      100       in      in6      14e      IS?      16e      178      to6      1e4      201      207      214
B;I torl  A                  40      s°e      so       all    °0         et°      22¢    241t       20      an       38       415°     442      470      4b4°     491°
Privote C editCow            aa2       32S     SW7       W20     S24      iss       24      2tl0     298      10e       S1       as      lot      10       lit      ltS
b"ppl io.t                   u        24       so      24       21        o        o        o        O        o        O        o        0        0        0        O
Fiania Obirket              24B      249     SD7      2t       soa      in        2°      2lS0     2§       10o       51       as      loll     we       Illo     11o
2: Privt* AmCucrtto               O                            O                                   a   O             O           O        
sToutl PMs LT                    tS"      43s      .4       47n      Si2      S"       2200     es        o       e6      e6        7400    814      ssl      e94      e1s
4. Z¢ so"t Chi cl                             0 o        o        O             45       42       42       S7       41       of       28       2S       1S       t6       its
g.Toa Inail. IW &Hot@e ST         S604      4t°S     4t44    47    S2 an        4°t    21t2      7S°6     84°6    n7°       70°4     77°S     an°      e7°s    909       9S40
2/ Enclode Reiiduo*l XP f;nuclns.
tawndu Item:
Avetl ble lSfor_tto on *orer o nd rochihiitoF shud  the reportd so _nwrd_  itt.                                  (ca"Woud an otent pes)
The Debt tcoo  II    ne W Q I u  *th "p_"t tivl-  *"   the gan   fe4i" concerned.
Ism  cwk*o*ne an stadoW Zo1 corIetint In the  orso



CItM D'IVOIN  -  EXT .              ^ CAPITAL. AN 082 I/                             Attochaeat 3d
(As pi II                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~(Pos a Of 2)
(1 .3333... .3 C.tv,e  Ae3me)
1.  l_l Oubx @10111 MX§g-1      se s 19  "7    199  196    19"7
1.                      LT    4530    4918    496      a1    6778    747   6sn                  9967    6"      g6    14           u    I       12114   1206
1I1     1"a     196    2802    am       4524    am        3      781     794"    60m      930     996    10414    Ml$1  12060
lbltlIeO.v.I      068~~~~ 994    103      136     1894    3016    218     3043             2787    296     5214    846      809     8912    4143
sMl    nie      76      NS    ius    £67        1714    168     194    366       2189    368     23      2097    2668    g6m
of mh                   8       6        7       7       7       6       7                7       7       7       7       7        0       6       6
Di letoral$               3      "a6    954    188       1661   3g6s    so6"      me    477    5gm        am1     SW6    687       673     690     S46
Pri     C.ditme           8119 834    539    am                    gm4      s1   2488    go6o    436         804   1UN8    120    U7S    1296    1e
84ppltev                 406     81      804      287     36        0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0       0       0        0
PImiwleil lb,39         363 g    963    gm       am7    8396    gm3       me1   2466      2        428     804   I1       124      1278    1296    181
63etw ppiv94                                                        0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0       0       0        0
p. on cuweeta.el Toem          10.8     9.8     9.8    11.1    12.4     0.1     0.1      0.1     0.1     0 .11                            0.1     0.1     0.0
2. wVit Verl.bl. lt. R_3.     S.1   46.d    498.    47.6    40.8    87.6    6.0    29.4    28.7         5.1     6.6    11.7    11.2    10.9   10.7    10.6
IL Smok and MA 8431..
of ebst ow
1.-I180D  @em  °le 3.6         7.1    S4.      18.8    18.8    18.5   2S.0    21.       19.1    19.4    24.6   28.1    21.9    n1.8    21.4    21.8    21.0
3. KI    wlnroi 7.1            0.2      0.      0.       .       .       .        .      0.1     0.1     0.1     0.1     0.1      0.1     0.1     0.1     0.0
8. 1o80.5  as I of Totl        7.2    14.0    18.8 1o.4    18.6   23.1    31.4    19.3    19.8    24.7    28.2    22.0    21.6    21.4    21.4    21.7
likor of LI A hubsew c
1. MM a. 3 of to.l             8.4     7.      15.S    19.0    19.8 lB   .4    68.8    17.9    16.1    24.6    26.8   2o.7    80.0    2.0    2.7 o  o      .1
S. IDA me S of 7o941           0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0,0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
3. 1014 as I of Taft)          8.4      7.s    18.8    19.8    19.9    88.4    ea.s    17.2    10.1    24.6    36.e    28.7    WS.6    27.0    27.8    30.1
F. 00-t-btport 3.43. t.)
1. 1o.3I LT FM Deb    re      S31.0   168.2   188.4   188.8   197.5   246.5   2e8.7   819.8  239.0   248.0   282.9   247.2   2SS.0   23.2   204.e
2. 1e 3         _              e.8    28.7    28.6    80.4    04.8    48.5    52.4    48.9    82.0    59.0    57.8    55.6    88.4    81.0    47.    44.S
c. C-o-P ft'4o
2.L:   Tw D~. eb.b3/C         41:2    72.0    78:7    64.0    72.3    69.0    76.1    90.2   110.6    94.0   104.8   109.2   108.9   10.8 18. 
t. InD   bVPPm                  2.9 e  20. U5    ?    28 7     18.4    16.1    16.6    17.2    21.8    28.8    24. 1    28.9    28.8    20.0    3. 0   2e1.1
M. 04bt Sevct/xo    (a)
1. FO Lr 0.b3 'ev,.           24.2    81.8   231.1   30.8    21.6    1.9    18.7    4.0          7.8    8.? 7    88.0    2.58  39.8   021.1    28.6 ?0.7
4. 180                         0.6      3.4     8.8     4.0     4.8     5.8     6,7     0.8      9.8     0.0     0.8     8.6     0.1      7.8     7.1     6.7
2. _atert 84,4ef 2.3e..
1. 1.94l 1a4rve3 PP0IW1P       8.4  * .1        6.8     6.8     8.7     4.2     2.8     7.0      9.4     0.1     7.0     8.1     8.2     0.1  ? .S        7.4
It. 38   e.e3P0.2                       0.8     1.0     1.1     1.1     1.1     1.8      1.6     1.7     1.0     2.0     1.9      1.9     1.6     1.6     1.7
8.a7o941 Ia94r..t PPOjIap.r94  9.0    16.8    14.8    14.9    14.6    12.0      6.0    36.4    27.1    20.5    16.6   1S0.   t107    1.9    16.7    18.4
*. IWa                         0,6      1.6     2.8     2.6     2.7     8.8     4.6      4.5     6.0     4.0     4.7     4.5    4.8       4.1     8.6     8.5
10
O  ,



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
Status of Bank Group Operations in REPUBLSC OF COT! O'NVORE
PFDBR26 - Sumoary Statmnt of Loans and IDA Credits
(LOA data of of 5/S0/SO)
Amount In U# million
(les cancel latione)
Loan or     Ftccal                                                                  Undl-  Closing
Credit No.    Year Bolrroer                   Purpoe                    BSank  tDA bursd   Date
Credite
1 Cradit clsed                                                              7.50
Loans
47 Loans closed                                                     1 466.09
of which SAL.
L20560      1982 REPUBLIC OF COTE 0'tVOlRE SAL I                     160.00          0 00 12/01/02
L23320      1964 REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE SAL It                    260.70          0.00  12/31/84
L27110      1986 REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE SAL III                   250.00          0.00  12/31/07
Subtotal                                                          650.70          0.00
L21300-IVC   1982 REPULSC OF COTE D'IVOIRE WATER SUPPLY It            43.00          4.77 09/30/91( )
L21670-IVC   1962 REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOlRE  CENTRE-WEST R.D. I1      18.00          8.45  12/81/90(3
L232SO-SVC   1398  REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOlRE  RUBBlER IV              82.20          2.62  09/30/900()
L2490-ItVC   1165 REPUBLIC OF COTE DtVOtRE FORESTRY II                31.30          3.99 06/30/90
L26170-IVC   1986  REPUILIC OF COTE D'IVOtRE  IO. FIN. AND DEV.       30.00          0.28 06/30/92
L26190-IVC   1066 REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOtR  HEALTH I                  22.20          6.02 06/30/92
L22tO-tVC  165 REPUBLC OF COTE O'NVOIRE  PALM OIL V                  13.40          2.13  06/80/94
L28960-INC   1NS  REPUBLIC OF COTE D'tVOIRE  TELECOMI It             24.60         14.28 00/30/91
L278N-IVC  1916  RUBLIC OF COTE D'VOIRE  AG. EMNSION                  34.00          3.19  06/30/92
L2790-tVC  1917 REBLIC OF COTE D'tVOlRE  THIRD MUN PROJECT           M2600          73.00 12/31/92
L25U11-tVC  1166 REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOtRE HIHWY SECTOR II            45.50          0.91  12/81/90(R)
L2S740-IVC  1906  REUBLC OF COTE D'IVOIRE RW1BER V                    11.90          7.36  12/31/92
L31270-IVC(S)1990 REPUALIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE  AG. SECT. ADJ.          150.00          9.096  06/30/91
L81280-tVC   1900 REUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE  MNCIPAL DEVPT             66.00         56.50  12/311/4
LU1600-IVC(S)1980 REPUBLC OF COTE D'IVOlRE  ENERIY SECTOR LOAN       100.00         6.097  06/30/91
- L8150-IVC   1m   REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVORE  ABIDJAN ENV. PROTECTION    21.90          21.90  12/31/39
a LU1880-IVC   1160 REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE FORESTRY SECTOR            60.00         80.00 08/30/95
TOTAL number Loans a   17                                                 44.90        462.09
TOtA.                                                  2 S30.98 7.60
of which repald                                        454.50 0.49
TOTAL held by Bank A IDA                               1  O67.46  7.01
Amunt sold               5.10
of whieb repaid         5.10
TOTAL undisbursed                                                     462.00
Notes:
Not yet effective
* Not yot signwd
ea Total approved, Repaymnte, and Outstanding balance represent both active and Inactive Loans and Credits.
(R) indicates formally revised Closing Date.
(S) Indicates SAL/SECAL Loans and Credits.
The Net Approved and Bank Repymento are historical value, all others are market value.
The Signing. Effective, and Closing dates are based upon the Loan Department official date and are net taken frm
the Task Budt ftile.



- 52 -
ANNrK 2
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLtC OF COTE D0IVOIRE
SUMMAR  OF IFC INVESlENS
(Aof .SptemerNt  189)
OrigG.rosa Co.maitnt     Tot.l
Fiscal                              rype"o       -  USS  illion -          Held
Year            Comany             8usiness     Loan    Ecuity  Tot l  bv !FC_*  Undtisbursed
19865/1978    Banque Ivoirionne    Development    -        0.42    0.42    0.00           -
de U6vuloppemet      F)nance
Industri-l, S.A.
(BIDI)
1097          Ets. R.ontreville,  Textiles S      -       0.88     0.88    0.8n
SA.                  Fibres
1980          eoualis du            Food A Food   2.90    0.41      8.81    0.00
Sud-Ouest            Prooessing
1979          St6. Zvoirlenne       Fertilizers   5.12    1.27    8.89    S 11            -
d'Engseis (SIYENG)
98w           Ets. R.Contrevill,  Textiles S    8.78       -       8.78    5.42        2.62
S.A.                 Procssing
1987          Omi1um Chimique       Food A Food   2.18      -       2.18    1.81          -
St Cosmhtique        Processing
S.A. (COSMIVOIRE
1987          Soc. Industries       Food A  eood   8.18    0.62    8.6      8.60        0.87
Alimentaires et      Processing
Laitl4res (SIALIM)
1988          Industri1l            Capital        -       0.88     0.88    0.8O          -
Promotion Services   Market
VS)
TOTAL       422 08    _.88    26.89   17.62         =.7
g/ Amounts  stated *t nm of repaymets, ancel nltione, write off aand exchange adjustments.
IFC/AFRICA I
8884F
October 16, 189



- 53 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 37
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
Ministry of Public Works and Transportation
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Statement of Policy
March 1989
DCGTX



- 54 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 37
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Statement of Policy
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  INTRODUCTIONs MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT ................... ....  4
II.  SECTOR ADJUSTMENT POLICY ..................... . ............  5
1. The 1973 National Program ......    .......................  5
2. Sector Difficulties ..     .................................  6
3. General Adjustment Objectives ........................    7
3.1 Increasing the Return and Self-financing of
Investments ........................................
3.2 Reduction and Control of Costs and Tariffs .. ......  9
3.3 Strengthening Maintenance and Renewal  ........... .    10
3.4 Protection of the Lagoon Environment    .    .       11
III.  THE URBAN WATER SUPPLY SUBSECTOR ................. ..........    11
1. Diagnostic Study of the Subsector ..................
2. Adjustment Measures .............. .  ....................    13
2.1 Redefinition of the Contractual Framework    .........    13
2.2 Reorientation of the Development Strategy   .........    14
2.3 Contractualization of Development ............. ....    15
2.4 Rigor and Flexibility in Tariff Management ........    16
2.5 Public Consumption and Collection of Public
Sector  Bills   ................ .......................  17
2.6 Protection of Ground Water .......................    17
IV.  THE RURAL WATER SUPPLY SUBSECTOR .............    18
1. Diagnostic Study of the Subsector ...........   .......    18
2. Adjustment Measures .........................    20
2.1 Basic Orientations .......   ....... ......    20
2.2 Action  Plan  ..... .....................................  21
2.3 Development of the Subsector .....................    22



- 55 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 37
Page No.
V.  THE SANITATION SUBSECTOR .........  ............. . .  . .... .   23
1.  Diagnostic Study of the Subsector .............. #* .....    23
2.  Adjustment Measures ...........    ... ... ......... .. .     25
2.1 Redefinition of the Contractual Framework .........    25
2.2 Environmental Protection Works, Abidjan      ...........    26
2.3 Linkage to Interceptor and Service Connections  ....    27
2.4 Development of Tertiary Networks, Abidjlan ...  ......    28
2.5 Prevention of Pollution of Environment       ............    28
2.6 Sewerage and Drainage Systems for Interior Cities .    28
VI.  FINANCIAL RESTRUCTURING .................... ..      ...... .. .    29
1.  Diagnostic Study ....... . .................... ...........    29
2.  Financial Adjustment Measures .....  . ..................    30
2.1 Abolition of FNE and FA .......................... .      30
2.2 The National Water Fund (PNE) .      ....................    30
2.3 Financial Consolidation .......................    31
VIII.  IMPLEMENTATION OF ADJUSTMENT .................. . . ..........    31
1. Adoption of Adjustment Measures ....................    31
2.  Status of Implementation ... ... . . . . . .  ................. ....... .    32
2.1 Urban Water Supply Subsector ......................       32
2.2 Rural Water Supply Subsector ......................       34
2.3 Sanitation Subsector .0..* ........ .. . ......... .   ....... .    35
ATTACHMENT: Calendar of Actions



- 56 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 37
I. INTRODUCTION: MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT
Since the beginning of the 19808 the Government of COte d'Ivoire has
been engaged in a program to rehabilitate the national economy, the goals being
to restore the main macroeconomic equilibria and stabilize debt service, with
particular emphasis on the reform of the public and parastatal sectors.
Notwithstanding the increasing effectiveness of this program, the hoped-for
restoration of economic growth proved transitory (1985 and 1986) and the sudden
and substantial deterioration in the external environment, specifically as
regards the prices of COte d'Ivoire's exports, has considerably darkened the
prospects for the renewal of growth, the reduction of indebtedness, and the
efficacy of the switch to private initiative. Although the main lines of the
plan for economic restructuring are the same as before, namely:
-     Government retrenchment and an expanded role for the private sector
in the restoration of growth, in line with C6te d'Ivoire's free
market option;
-     containment of the public finances;
-     control of external indebtedness;
It now appears that the constraints associated with the trend in household
incomes and the deterioration in external conditions make it necessary to
implement this plan more gradually.
In light of more cautious projections regarding the impact of
structural adjustment measures and the level of activity in the private sector,
where savings and investment capacity has been affected by the crisis, it is
advisable in particular that public investments should at least be maintained
at their 1986 level, so as to sustain the economy during the crisis now again
beginning to affect C8te d'Ivoire, even at the risk of slowing down the ongoing
process of debt reduction.
The response to the crisis, whose causes are exogenous, must take
the form not just of a continuation of the massive adjustment effort undertaken
by C8te d'Ivoire over the past several years but also a sustained commitment by
the donor community, rather than our inducing a lasting recession which would
obliterate the positive impact of Cote d'Ivoire's efforts and would inevitably
and permanently demobilize the population.
In these circumstances, the Government adopted an adjustment program
whose four main orientations were reiterated in a letter to the International
Monetary Fund in November 1987, as followss
1.    pursue an investment policy appropriate for sustaining economic
activity;
2.    improve  the  structure  of  incentives  so  as  to  enhance  the
competitiveness of the Ivorian economy and encourage growth;



- 57 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 37
3.    continue the effort to adjust and mobilize domestic resources so as
to reduce external financial assistance and encourage productive
utilization of domestic savings;
4.    ease the debt burden in agreement with the donor community, in order
to release the resources needed in the medium term and improve Cote
d'Ivoire's repayment capacity in the long term.
It should be pointed out that, as regards incomes policy, this letter indicates
that the authorities do not plan to increase the civil service salary schedule
and will maintain the SMIG at its present level.
This policy is being specifically applied to the adjustment of the
water supply and sanitation sector in view of the nature and volume of the
investment involved, its financing and that of the associated debt, and also in
light of the impact of the price of water on the cost of production factors and
on household budgets.
The technical, economic, financial and institutional analysis of the
water and sanitation sector and the study of adjustment measures was begun in
January 1987. In December 1987 the Government embarked on implementation of the
range of reforms described below.
II. SECTOR ADJUSTMENT POLICY
11.1 The 1973 National Program
In 1973 C8te d'Ivoire initiated a very large program to supply water
to both urban areas and villages, while in 1974 a study was begun on a program
to extend Abidjan's sewerage and drainage system.
There were two basic objectives of these programss
-     to strengthen the control of urban development by improving urban
hygiene and public health;
-     to support agricultural development by Improving health in rural
areas.
In terms of investments, this involved:
-     providing all the subprefectures, before 1980, with water supply
systems and strengthening existing or newly-built networks by 1985;
-     establishing 7,160 new water supply points (wells, boreholes or
impoundments) for villages of more than 100 inhabitants, between 1973
and the end of 1980;
-     extending and upgrading Abidjan's sewerage network.



- 58 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 37
Sector operations were made the responsibility of the COte d'Ivoire
Water Distribution Company -- Societe de Distribution d'Eau de la COte D'Ivoire
-- (SODECI). The physical targets of this program were all comfortably achieved.
As of September 1988, there were 155 urban water supply piped systems
serving more than 200 communities, the value of fixed assets being CFAP 125
billion.
At the end of 1988 more than 14,000 village supply points had been
installed in 8,000 villages (out of C8te d'Ivoire's total of 10,000),
representing an investment of CFAF 40 billion. As regards sewerage (waste water)
and drainage (rain water), very substantial expansion of networks and
installations took place in Abidjan, especially between 1975 and 1982, with
assistance from the World Bank, giving the city an excellent basic
infrastructure. The current value of these assets is some CPAP 60 billion, of
which CFAP 18 billion for sewerage installations and systems.
Almost all of the urban and village water supply and sewerage
investments were financed by foreign loans, debt service being guaranteed by a
surcharge on sales of potable water in the cities; hence the debt resulting from
village water supply systems has been borne by the urban consumer.
II.2 Sector Difficulties
X     For the first ten years, the implementation and management of the National
Water Supply Program were an undeniable success. Investments and the rate
of coverage, both in urban and rural areas, increased at a steady rate
hitherto unknown in Africa. Between 1974 and 1983 the annual increase in
connections to the distribution networks was 24 percen. in the interior
towns and 9 percent in Abidjan.   Over the last ten years the annual
increase in connections in all urban centers has been over 8 percent.
Nonetheless, it became clear from 1980 onwards that the expansion in water
consumption was beginning to slow down, principally owing to flat and then
declining consumption by the large private industrial users.
The continuing increase in household consumption could not offset the
reduction in industrial consumption.  The fall from 27 million ma to 20
million m' between 1981 and 1986 in the demand of large consumers reflected
both the general reduction in economic activity and the impact of a tariff
policy that increasingly inflicted the burden of the surcharge funding the
National Water Works Fund -- Fonds National de l'Hydraulique -- (FNH) on a
few hundred industrial and commercial users. The decline in the demand of
these large consumers led to a fall in the average proceeds of the
above-mentioned surcharge of some 20 percent. In 1986 PNH resources met only
60 percent of the debt service.
The sector's own resources could not support the financial cost of an
ambitious investment program based on a very optimistic projected growth rate
of water consumption, viz. 9 percent annually for the period between 1978 and
1985, against 3 percent actual. The sector's financial autonomy no longer
being guaranteed, the State had to step in to an increasing extent to honor
the FNH's obligations.



- 59 -
ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 37
*     Water tariffs having already reached high levels, both for households and
industry, it was impossible in social and economic terms to raise them
further in order to:
-     restore financial equilibrium to the sector, where the accumulated
deficit at the end of 1988 was CFAF 18 billion;
-     enaure normal renewal of installations and networks over time; for
some years replacements were limited to CFAF 200 million a year and
involved electro-mechanical equipment only.
*     The high maintenance costs of village supply points, particularly resulting
from the centralized management of this subsector, the belated requirement
for a contribution by villages to these costs following a long period
during which no charge was made, and from the absence of coordinated
community development and training activities, largely explain:
-     the growing financial commitment by the State, in the form of its
financing of sector deficits;
-     poor recovery of the amount billed each year to village communities
to finance the maintenance of water supply installations (35 percent
collection rate);
-     the high proportion of breakdowns (50 percent of installations,
recorded in 1987).
*     The high unit cost of maintaining sewerage systems in Abidjan, the lack
of planning and supervision of this maintenance, the low collection rate
of the sanitation tax additional to the property tax assessment for
improved lots and the partial reversion of the proceeds of this tax to the
National Sanitation Fund -- Fonds National de l'Assainissement -- (FNA)
explains
-     the inadequate financing of maintenance operations in this subsector
(only one-third of requirements);
-     the poor operating condition of installations and networks;
-     the absence of renewal of assets of the subsector.
Pending the completion of installatiouls for its discharge into the sea,
waste water flows into the Ebrie Lagoon; the resulting pollution of this
fragile environment is the reason for the lack of an active policy for
connections to the existing main interceptor, which therefore is being used
very much below its capacity.
11.3 General Adiustment Obiectives
Recent years have been characterized by:
-    large, high-quality investments whose full potential is not being
exploited;



60 -
ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 37
-     high operating costs;
-     deficient maintenance and inadequate renewals
-     a growing financial commitment by the State in the form  of the
financing of sector deficits.
These facts point up the need fort
-     improved  technical  and  economic  management  of  the  sector,
specifically institutional reforms placing real responsibilities on
the social partners;
-     radical changes in the financing strategy for the sector, which must
henceforward be based on State disengagement and increased
privatization.
Within the framework of the structural adjustment of the economy,
the new policy being implemented is designed to achieve the following four basic
objectivess
(a)   to obtain a proper return on existing installations and increase the
capacity for self-financing;
(b)   to reduce operating cost  and tariffs and control the future
evolution of both;
(c)   to strengthen the maintenance and replacement of 4nstallations and
networks;
(d)   to prevent and eliminate pollution of the natural environment, in
particular the Lagoon environment.
II.3.1 Increasing the Return on and Self-financing of Investments
Investment policy has hitherto essentially been based on the rapid
extension of water supply services to urban and village communities throughout
the country, on the one hand, and on the establishment at Abidjan of primary
wastewater collection and treatment infrastructures, on the other. Henceforward
investment policy will be oriented toward economically justified and finamcially
viable investments, which will enable operating costs to be reduced over time.
*     As regards urban water supply, the investment policy is intended to
progressively ease the impact of debt service on water tariffs. To this
end, tariff policy must provide for the self-financing of investments in
the upgrading and adaptation of installations. Priority is being given
to investments in densification. This policy is being implemented within
the framework of contract-plans signed by private operators and the State.
The financing of investments with long-term returns through loans will be
systematically pursued on conditions appropriate to the sector's repayment
capacity.



- 61 -
ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 37
*     Future investments in rural water supply and sanitation will no longer be
borne by urban water consumers.   They will be financed by resources
earmarked for the purpose.
*     The provision of village water points will be financed by the State in the
same way as all basic investments with a social purpose. The upgrading
of village water points from a system of handpumps to a motorized system
(pay standpipe or mini-network for supply and distribution direct to the
consumer) will be studied on a case-by-case basis. This change will only
be introduced to the extent that communities explicitly request it and
agree to pay the associated financial cost in full. The possibility of
integrating such systems into the concession for urban water supply will
be considered only if their return does not threaten the overall operating
equilibrium of the concession.
*     Investments directly related to sanitation are henceforward to be supported
in the first instance by urban users under existing fiscal legislation
(sanitation tax based on the property tax assessment for improved lots --
Law No. 74781 of December 26, 1974).
11.3.2. Reduction and Control of Costs and Tariffs
*     The objectives of an immediate reduction in water tariffs and the control
of future changes are determined by the need to:
-     reduce the costs of industrial production factors, thereby helping
to improve the competitiveness of industry;
-     soften the impact of the cost of water on household budgets, per
capita income having declined sharply (a real drop of 32 percent
between 1980 and 1988).
These objectives are to be achieved by the following essential measures;
-     SODECI's disengagement from the rural water supply subsector, which
has been a heavy burden on its operating costs;
-     the definition of maximum operating costs, particularly as regards
overhead costs, to induce the operator to realize productivity gains;
-     periodic negotiation of an overall, lumpsum remuneration per mP sold
for the operator, adjustable according to a review formula designed
to encourage productivity gains;
-     annual evaluation of the technical and economic management of the
concession agreed as part of the privatization of subsector
operations.
*     A  reduction in the cost of maintaining village installations  is a
prerequisite for the full and effective transfer of the associated costs
to the villagers.



- 62 -
ANNEX 3
Page 10 of 37
This objective is being achieved through the decentralization and
privatization of maintenance work, making it possible to:
_     eliminate  the  general  expenses  associated  with  centralized
management;
_     reduce repair costs by using the services of self-employed repairmen
operating in the vicinity of the village water points;
-     ensure  swift  and regular intervention,  thereby  improving the
prevention of breakdowns, which in turn reduces the need for major
repairs and their associated costs.
*     Reducing the unit costs of operating and maintaining sewerage and drainage
networks and installations in Abidjan is a prerequisite for improving the
operation of these infrastructures. It is also a necessary preliminary
to expanding the number of service connections that will increase the
return on existing infrastructure.
This objective is being achieved through the following essential measuress
-     use of competitive bidding for contract award purposes;
determination of precise quantities of remedial and preventive
activities, together with their planning.
11.3.3 Strengthening Maintenance and Renewal
*     Maintenance of urban water supply systems is henceforward being entirely
financed by the operator as part of his overall, lumpsum remuneration
(maximum base price).  In addition, the water tariff provides for the
systematic financing of a renewal program covering the entire range of
installations and networks. This program has been prepared in the form
of an ad hoc five-year program.
*     A program to rehabilitate village water supply points has already been
introduced for the renewal of installations currently not in use.
Effective take over of pump maintenance by the inhabitants of the villages
is being prepared through awareness-building, training of self-employed
repairmen and the introduction of a private network for the supply of spare
parts.
*     The monitoring and technical and economic evaluation of maintenance work
in the sanitation subsector must be strengthened to enable service
standards and costs to be determined.
The proceeds of the sanitation tax are financing a renewal program in the
subsector that is compatible with the normal depreciation of installations
and networks.



- 63 -
ANNEX 3
Page 11 of 37
11.3.4 Protection of the Lagoon Environment
The very rapid growth of the city of Abidjan, whose population has
risen from 125,000 in 1955 to some 2 million and 1988, in which contains most
of the industries in the country, has inevitably entailed a deterioration in the
quality of the water in the lagoon. Drainage works carried out up to the present
time have helped to carry rainwater runoff toward the lagoon and therefore have
had a negative impact on the quality of its water.
The sewerage programs already implemented have had as their main
objective the removal of wastewater from inhabited neighborhoods in order to
improve their salubriousness. While undeniably beneficial for the neighborhoods
concerned, these \ )rks have intensified the flow to the lagoon of wastewater
carrying most of the city's domestic and industrial pollutants.
Furthermore, the works have had the effect of concentrating
discharges of wastewater at a limited number of outlets, thus hindering the
natural elimination of pollution in the lagoon.
In recent years, therefore, Abidjan's environment has deteriorated
rapidly and the lagoon is threatened with irreparable damage in the short term.
The Government has made it one of its objectives to restore the
quality of the water in the Ebrie Lagoon, one of the most attractive features
of the location of Abidjan and which has given the city the title of "the Pearl
of the Lagoons.'
This objective will be basically achieved through the impending
implementation of the "Abidjan Environmental Protection Project' which will
entail completion of the main interceptor and the discharge of wastewater into
the sea through a long submarine outfall, after pretreatment adapted to the
capacity of this new receptor environment.
When these works are completed the emphasis will be put on the
development of:
-     linkage of secondary sewerage systems to the main interceptor;
-     tertiary wastewater collection networks;
-     service connections to the sewerage network.
III. THE URBAN WATER SUPPLY SUBSECTOR
III.1 Diagnostic Study of the Subsector
*     Two contracts between the State and the COte d'Ivoire Water Distribution
Company (SODECI), of whose capital the State holds 2 percent, had governed
the provision of potable water to urban centers.   She first was a
concession dating from 1959 to supply water to Abidjan, whose scope was
considerably reduced in 1967, when SODECI's role in investments was



- 64 -
ANNEX 3
Page 12 of 37
confined to boreholes only.  Subsequently a lease contract dating from
1974 provided for the supplying of the interior urban centers and villages.
*     From the beginning, the profits deriving from the concession had fully
covered losses under the lease contract, although between 19e3 and 1986
the cumulative losses resulting from the latter wiped out almost
three-quarters of the profits from the former (CFAF 9.4 billion of losses
and CFAF 12.6 billion of profits, respectively). During this period the
accumulated losses on rural water supply accounted for 30 percent of total
lease contract losses (CFAF 2.2 billion for rural water supply and CFAF
7.2 billion for interior urban centers, respectively), burdening the profit
and loss account to the tune of some CFAF 0.5 billion per year.
During the period 1983-1986 water sales fell by about 1 percent a year,
while the operating costs of the two contracts increased more than twice
as fast as inflation (10 percent per year, as opposed to inflation of 4.2
percent). General expenses and overhead rose 15 percent and 8 percent per
year respectively. The operating costs of water supply networks in the
interior towns (excluding rural water supply), in relation to sales, were
more than twice as high as in Abidjan, while overhead costs were more than
three times as high.
*     Abidjan, the consumption of which accounts for two-thirds of the total
water distributed by SODECI, is supplied exclusively from ground water.
Water production capacity in Abidjan was about 50 percent greater than
current needs. This sizable anticipation of demand was the result of very
high projections for consumption and urban growth, investments having been
undertaken accordingly.   However,  some more  recent  zones of urban
development (Djibi, for example) are not served. This is a consequence
of the lack of coordination between urban planning and the programming of
water supply investments.  Production capacity (pumping and treatment)
for the interior towns as a whole is more than 3.6 times greater than
current needs.
The coverage rate for the urban centers as a whole is estimated at 72
percent (87 percent for Abidjan and 60 percent for the interior towns).
The number of SODECI network customers was 200,000 in 1988, 51 percent of
these being in Abidjan and 49 percent in the other urban centers.
*     Throughout the country, SODECI operates a range of installations and
equipment consisting of 32 dams, 306 boreholes and 48 river intakes, 244
treatment plants, 267 storage installations (reservoirs) and more than
6,000 km of pipes. The network being recent, particularly in the interior
towns, its overall yield (relationship of volume billed to volume produced)
is excellent at 88 percent.
*     The conception and planning of investments  (except for boreholes at
Abidjan, as indicated above) was the responsibility of the supervisory
agency (Ministry of Public Works and Transportation - Water Department),
SODECI not being consulted but being obliged to operate the works as soon
as they were delivered.



- 65 -
ANNEX 3
Page 13 of 37
*     The structure of the average tariff per in of water, on the conditions in
effect since 1984, had been made up as follows: 2 percent for investments
exclusively earmarked for free connections to benefit low-income groups;
43 percent to finance, though only in part, the sector's debt service and
55 percent to remunerate SODECI.
*     SODECI was only responsible for the renewal of electro-mechanical equipment
of Abidjan boreholes, in the amount of CFAF 0.2 billion per year on
average, this representing 0.8 percent of the total proceeds of sales of
potable water in urban centers.
*     Under the provisions of Decree No. 68-528 of October 21, 1968 governing
the supply, conservation, preservation and utilization of water resources
in the Abidjan region, all private boreholes for commercial and industrial
purposes were subject to a user charge for the exploitation of ground
water, this charge going to the FNH. In practice, the tax has actually
been collected on less than 20 percent of the boreholes inventoried.
III.2 Adjustment Measures
III.2.1 Redefinition of the Contractual Framework
The National Water Works Program introduced in 1973 established the
need for two legal systems (concession and lease contract) to govern the
provision of potable water to urban centers. The substantial investments
required in the interior towns within a very short period, on the one hand, and
the adoption of a uniform tariff throughout the country for water, on the other,
could not provide an acceptable return for private operators. The lease contract
approach was therefore required for water supplies to the interior towns, while
the profitability of the Abidjan network made it entirely suitable for a
concession.
At the present time, 73 percent of the 135 communes and 59
subprefectures without communal status are equipped with piped water systems.
Supplying the 53 urban centers not yet thus equipped on terms offering a
satisfactory return would involve investments of about CFAP 100 million per
center. Meanwhile the network densification investments needed to increase the
rate of coverage would provide an opportunity to improve the operating
equilibrium in a number of interior urban centers at reasonable cost.
This creates an auspicious context in which to unify the legal
framework for the operation of urban supply systems, in the form of a public
service concession which:
-     gives the private sector greater responsibility than was possible
hitherto;
-     relieves the State of the direct costs of developing the subsector.
The exclusion of SODECI from the rural water supply subsector is one
of the necessary but not sufficient conditions for improving the equilibrium of
urban water supply operations.



- 66 -
ANNEX 3
Page 14 of 37
To make the concessionaire fully responsible for subsector
operations, the contract between it and the State gives it exclusive control
over:
-     exploitation of ground water;
-     production and distribution of urban potable water throughout the
country;
-     activities associated with network operation and management;
-     maintenance and repair work on all the assets assigned to the
service;
-     renewal of these assets;
-     new network adaptation, reinforcement and extension works required
to maintain the quality of the service and to expand the coverage
potential.
The responsibilities entrusted to SODECI do not preclule Governmewt
oversight of the managemt of the public service concession, without this
oversight limiting or reducing the obligations of the concessionaire.
11I.2.2 Reorientation of the Development Strategy
The potential capacity of existing infrastructures, taken together
with the prospect that urban growth will be both slower than in past years and
better controlled under the new rural development policy (diversification of
agricultural production and installation of young modern farmers), is leading
to a new phase in the development of urban water supply systems.   The
wide-ranging basic investments in production and transportation under the 1973
National Plan, which deliberately took a long-term view of the return on these
investments and required no immediate renewal, must be followed by a policy for
rational utilization of existing assets. This policy is henceforward being based
on:
-     systematic pursuit of productivity gains, particularly through the
intensification of tertiary distribution investments;
-     preserving the potential of installations and networks through the
introduction of planned renewal.
The establisbment of new urban water supply systems will be pursued
subject to the following two essential conditions:
-     no undermining of productivity gains achieved in other ways;
-     keeping the subsector's financial charges at a level compatible with
the steady reduction of certain tariff categories.



- 67 -
ANNEX 3
Page 15 of 37
In addition, the policy of free connections for low-income groups
is being continued; the eligibility conditions for access to this status have
been redefined precisely in order to ensure its social nature.
Application of the above-mentioned principles, taken together with
the significant (20 percent) reduction in operating costs since July 1987
following the negotiation of the concession agreement with SODECI and the new
tariff structure adopted, have made it possible to replace the almost complete
dependence on loans for financing by a very large measure of self-financing of
subsector investments.
In line with the general law governing public service concessions,
the installations and networks (production, treatment, storage, transmission
lines and distribution installations) and connections and meters are maintained
and repaired by the concessionaire, at its risk and expense, without the costs
involved affecting the resources allocated to finance investments.
III.2.3 Contractualization of Development
The convergence of the State's economic, social and financial
objectives and the return sought by the concessionaire has led to the
contractualization of development policy for the subsector, as regards both
investment and renewal, within a framework of concerted planning.
The concession agreement stipulates that the concessionaire must
submit to the authority granting the concession, for approval, a draft five-year
development program prepared on its own initiative and distinguishing between;
_     renewal;
-     investment in new works to strengthen, adapt and extend systems;
-     free connections for low-income groups.
The objective of making five-year plans for urban water supplies
produce a return will only be achieved if the development of the subsector and
urban development policy are made mutually consistent, both at the planning stage
and as regards the execution of operations. This two-fold harmonization, also
a prerequisite for improving the management of urban development and the return
on the investments involved, is henceforward to be governed by the following
principless
-     coordination of tertiary water supply system investments  (for
priority execution in urban zones already possessing infrastructures)
with land management processes in the same zones (priority cession
in these zones of sites for development and priority equipping of
sites to be ceded);
-     planning of water supply system extensions in accordance with master
plans and urban development plans;
-     urban planning to take into account both existing and future primary
water supply infrastructures;



- 68 -
ANNEX 3
Page 16 of 37
-     coordinated adjustment of water supply and urban development plans
in light of the pace of their execution.
To allow for inevitable fluctuations in the overall economic context,
the actual rate of urban development, demand, operating costs incurred and the
financial equilibrium of the concession contract and the subsector as a whole,
the five-year plans will be adjustable either at the request of the
concessionaire or at that of the authority concerned.
Full execution of the five-year plan is legally required of the
concessionaire.
Financing of these plans is fully and exclusively ensured by a
specific development levy' on sales of water, collected by the concessionaire
as part of the billing process, the amount being determined in light of annual
financing needs as established in the plans. This solutions
-     enables  the  concessionaire  to  honor  its  obligations  without
undermining the financial equilibrium of the contract, coverage of
current operating costs and the concessionaire's margin being
guaranteed in other ways (maximum base prices);
-     allows plans to be timely executed so that the desired return can
be quickly achieved.
The accounts for the development levy, as regards both the proceeds
and their expenditure, are maintained by the concessionaire in three separate
third-party accounts (investments, renewal and free connections) so as to avoid
any confusion between the current operation of the public service and its
development.
The concessionaire is entirely free to finance from his own resources
any complementary investment to the five-year plans that it regards as
appropriate;   these investments are subject to the general rules regarding
oversight by the authority granting the concession.
111.2.4 Rigor and Flexibility in Tariff Management
A major change in the tariff policy hitherto in effect is required
in order tot
-     bring about a selective reduction in certain tariff categories in
light of the Government's economic and social objectives and to
control the average price of water;
-     ensure a balanced operation for the concessionaire;
-     maintain the subsector's financial autonomy.
Tariff policy is therefore now based on the following principles:



. 69 -
ANNEX 3
Page 17 of 37
-     automatic but partial adjustment of the concessionaire's remuneration
(maximum base price) in line with observed changes in the cost index
of its production and operating factors;
-     detenmination of the amount of the surcharge earmarked for financing
the debt service assigned to the subsector in light of the schedule
of maturing obligations;
-     selective reduction of certain tariff blocks within the limit of
covering the average cost of supplying a cubic meter of water and
subsector financing needs, as determined in the five-year development
plans;
-     adjustment of the average tariff in light of changes in consumption,
any increase in the latter enabling tariff reductions and the
sector's development to be pursued.
In December 1987 measures were taken to reduce tariffs for low-income
and industrial consumers.
111.2.5 Public Consumption and Collection of Public Sector Bills
In recent years consumption by the public administration and the
parastatal sector has risen uninterruptedly and now accounts for a quarter of
SODECI's total annual sales.   In addition to the major impact of water
consumption on the public finances, the lengthy payment delays in the public
administration (12 months) and the parastatal sector (15 months) are a burden
on SODECI's cash flow position.
To achieve the economies sought as part of the process of adjusting
the national economy and the reduction in the costs of operating the concession,
particularly financial costs, requires the adoption of measures designed to:
-     limit the expenditure on water by the State and the parastatal
sector;
-     expedite procedures for payment of governmental bills and improve
those of public bodies.
111.2.6 Protection of Ground Water
The exclusive right to exploit ground water (an integral part of the
State's public domain under Articles 538 and 539 of the Civil Code) is directly
linked to the public service regulations governing the concessionaire and
obliging it, in particular, to ensure uninterrupted urban distribution of
high-quality water.   In return, the authority granting the concession must
protect the concessionaire against any uncontrolled exploitation of a scarce and
fragile public resource. To this end, private exploitation of ground water must
be authorized on a case by case bacis; the concessionaire must be in a position
to avert any threat of pollution or harm to its normal supply.
Although in the past not all the urban demand for water could be
satisfied given the then existing production and distribution capacity, this is



- 70 -
ANNEX 3
Page 18 of 37
no longer true, except in cases where the zone to be served is remote from an
urban distribution system. Nowadays, the option exists either to be connected
to the public network or to obtain an authorization to exploit ground water
directly. Private exploitation of a public resource provides grounds for the
imposition of a charge as a contribution to the financing of the debt contracted
in order to create the public network, except as regards water destined
exclusively for agricultural or household use or provided by a village borehole.
Measures have been taken to extend the protection of ground water
resources throughout the entire territory of COte d'Ivoire.
IV. THE RURAL WATER SUPPLY SUBSECTOR
IV.1 Diapnostic Study of the Subsector
e     The target of the 1973 National Water Works Plan was to supply 10-15 liters
per capita per day in rural areas. To achieve that the villages had to
be equipped at the rate of one pump for every 100 inhabitants plus an
additional pump for every 600 inhabitants after the first 900. Originally,
the creation of a water point was conditional on a village participation
of CFAP 150,000 (well) or CIA? 200,000 (borehole). This requirement was
very quickly abandoned because of the disparity of village resources
between regions. The goal was fully achieved, at the rate of 1,000 village
water points installed per year.
*     Debt service of the village water works loans was the responsibility of
the urban water works subsector and financed by the FNH surtax charged on
the sale of water.
*     Maintenance and renewal of village facilities were entrusted to SODECI by
government decision of January 1973. This responsibility was confirmed
in the lease contract of 1974 concerning water supply to interior towns.
Following the example of financing of the subsector 's debt service through
urban water sales, maintenance financing, deriving from the lessee
company's operating expenditures, was charged to urban water production
and distribution cost.
In February 1981 the Government decided that the villagers should bear
directly village maintenance and renewal costs of rural water points,
relieving the urban water supply subsector's costs accordingly. To that
end SODECI had to bill and collect an annual flat-rate charge per water
point, initially set at CFAF 60,000 but later reduced to CFAP 55,000.
With the steady increase in the number of water points, SODECI eventually
set up 40 maintenance teams, with an average of 300 pumps or 200 villages
each to visit.
*     The handpump market has essentially been shared by two pump suppliers, ABI
and VERGNET, with the following distribution:
-     ABI-MN equipment 50 percent;



- 71 -
ANNEX 3
Page 19 of 37
-     JVERGNET equipment 25 percent;
-     pumps manufactured jointly by ABI and VERGNET (ABI-ASM) 25 percent.
A large proportion of the equipment was procured on very good terms, the
ABI pumps being manufactured in Cote d'Ivoire.
Owing to their simple technology (expandable chamber), the selection of
the VERGNET and ABI-ASK pumps -- about half the stock -- brought the
possibility of a very low maintenance cost (light in weight and easy to
disassemble).
*     As soon as 1982, a diagnostic study of the condition of the pumps,
beginning in 1982, revealed that 18 percent of facilities were out of order
and 42 percent were experiencing operating problems.
To try to remedy these maintenance deficiencies, several regional
experiments were undertaken:
-     awareness-building among the villagers concerning the health benefits
of potable water;
_     training of village repairmen;
_     informing and training repairmen through a combination of the
preceding two activities and improving the technical qualities of
the pumps (Water Always -- Eau Toujours -- Program).
Evaluation of these activities revealed that:
-     the breakdown rate had fallen by 40 percent as a result of the
awareness campaign;
-     the combination of the awareness and repairmen training activities
made it possible to reduce the breakdown rate to 10 percent, the
villagers organizing themselves to fully finance the (reduced) cost
of maintaining the facilities.
Owing to the limited scope of these activities, the national breakdown rate
was still 50 percent in 1987.
*     The following are the main causes of the maintenance shortcomings:
-     ignorance by the villagers of the health advantages of modern water
points over traditional surface-water supply;
-     remoteness of the maintenance teams from the village water points.
This ignorance, which is due to lack of initial awareness-building among
the villagers to prepare them to agree in advance to the construction of
a well, militated against self-organization of the villages in order to:
-     alert the maintenance teams quickly, before a breakdown can worsen;



- 72 -
ANNEX 3
Page 20 of 37
-     provide the necessary resources to finance the repair costs.
The regionalization of the maintenance teams was not sufficient to bring
them closer to the maintenance sites. In addition to heavy travel costs,
it resulted in long action delays, consequent worsening of the breakdowns
and lack of regular monitoring to prevent them. This remoteness, combined
with the poor motivation of salaried staff (in contrast to the interest
an independent repairman can take), reinforced the villagers' lack of
interest in wells.   Finally, the relative over-qualification of the
maintenance staff in relation to the importance of the breakdowns and
suitable solutions helped to increase service costs.
IV.2 Adiustment Measures
IV.2.1 Basic Orientations
In the rural water supply subsector, the basic sectoral adjustment
objectives of State disengagement and restoration of the availability of
equipment and services are being pursued through:
transfer of maintenance and renewal responsibilities and costs to
the villagers;
-     redefinition and reorientation of the State's role.
*     To strengthen maintenance (speedy and regular action) and reduce costs (by
eliminating the administrative expenses of centralized management), the
repair staff have to be brought close to the water points. This involves:
-     direct service by a self-employed repairman remunerated on the basis
of service rendered;
-     that the villagers directly and immediately take care of repair
costs.
*     In this context the State is ipso facto relieved of all technical and
financial responsibility and costs for maintenance and renewal. In return,
its role should be to bring about, at the local level, all necessary
conditions for effective privatization of maintenance and renewal first
of existing and second of future facilities.
The State continues to be responsible for rehabilitating works out of
service or in poor operating condition and for programming and financing
future investments.
These guidelines are being implemented in accordance with the plan of
action described below, which aims at:
_     privatizing all existing village water points within three years,
2,500 facilities being transferred as of the end of 1989;



- 73 -
ANNEX 3
Page 21 of 37
-     resuming the construction of new water points, the operation of which
will also be privatized in accordance with the above principles and
actions.
IV.2.2 Action Plan
IV.2.2.1    Institutional Restructuring
*     Regional branch offices of the Water Directorate
Setting up the local organization required for the transfer of
responsibilities and costs requires to increase the number of the Water
Directorate's regional "rural water supply" offices from 7 to 12.
Strengthening the regional offices' logistical resources involves setting
up 56 teams, each comprising:
-     a community development specialist;
-     a technician/instructor (technologue).
These teams, provided with the necessary vehicles and communications
equipment and having received specific prior training, are responsible for:
-     information and community development;
-     identifying,  selecting and training village repairmen and area
mechanics (600 for the whole of C8te d'Ivoire);
-     preparing the status survey/diagnostic study prior to dtafting of
the rehabilitation program;
-     executing the rehabilitation works.
Once the rehabilitation phase has been completed, the number of teams can
be reduced; the teams will then be responsible fort
-     carrying out activities preliminary to the construction of new water
points (community development, information);
-     monitoring and evaluating private management of the subsector.
*     Village organization
The local organization must include:
-     designation by the villagers of a waterworks official responsible
for:
--   small running repairs;
-- management of the village fund;
--   alerting the repairman;



- 74 _
ANNEX 3
Page 22 of 37
-     establishing a repairman comon to several villages (area mechanic).
*     Spare parts supply network
A contract must be negotiated with the private sector to set up a
commercial spare parts procurement network under the following essential
conditions2
-     12 sales points  Installed in the localities where  the Water
Directorate's regional offices are located;
-     schedule of conditions and specifications calling for the management
of a minimum stock of spare parts, previously identified, sold at
approved prices.
The setting up of this network is an essential precondition of any
rehabilitation operation. The operation will be implemented following the
facilities status surveyldiagnostic study described below.
IV.2.2.2    Activities Timetable
Privatization of operation of the subsector will be implemented in
four stages:
*     Status surveyldiagnostic study and preliminary awareness-building in order
tos
- -   make an inventory of the condition of the pumps and evaluate
the rehabilitation works;
- -    prepare a list of candidates for training as repairmen,
selected from among local mechanics.
i     Training, selecting and setting up artisan repairmen.
*     Community development, through repeated visits, to assess the villagers'
motivation first to assume responsibility for management of the facilities
and second to decide on rehabilitation.
*     Rehabilitation activities, conducted jointly by the training technician
and the repairman after the village organization has been set up.
IV.2.3      Develovment of the Subsector
The development of the subsector will follow a two-prong approach.
*     Construction of new water points
Once 2,500 existing water points have been effectively transferred, the
Government will program new works to equip villages that lack service or
whose equipment needs to be expanded owing to the size of the population.
The estimated target is 500 water points per year.
These investments will be financed by the State.



- 75 -
ANNEX 3
Page 23 of 37
*     Transition to mini urban distribution networks
Except where a village center is transferred under the urban water supply
concession (on the terms set forth in para. II.3.1), transition from a
village equipped with handpumps to a mini urban network will be studied
case by case in light of the following criterias
-     the villagers' actual capacity and willingness to pay the resulting
price per cubic meter of water;
-     actual or feasible connection to the national electricity grid;
-     assessment and actual raising of the necessary resources by the
villagers with a view to independent financing of the equipment and
its maintenance and renewal.
V. THE SANITATION SUBSECTOR
V.1 Diagnostic Study of the Subsector
*     The basic guidelines of national sanitation policy as enacted in 1973 were:
-     in Abidjan, design and construction, with priority status, of basic
sewerage and drainage infrastructures in order to protect the health
and environment of a rapidly expanding agglomeration (the annual
urban growth rate at that time was over 10 perce.c);
-     In the interior cities, focus on storm drainage:   the sewerage
problems were less acute owing to the low housing density and city
size.
*     In the case of Abidjan, three solutions were available, depending on the
type of sewage receptor:
-     the subsoil, used for example in the case of individual sewerage
disposal systems in which the sewage is usually filtered through a
leach pit after passing into a septic tank;
-     the Ebrie Lagoon, which receives the runoff water and is therefore
also the most accessible receptor for the sanitation networks;
-     the Atlantic Ocean, which is undoubtedly the least sensitive receptor
but is inconvenient to use by reason of, in particular, the technical
difficulties and the cost of the discharge works.
The study of the Abidjan Master Plan for Sewerage and Drainage, started
in 1974, concluded in favor of discharge into the sea for reasons of
economic efficiency.   This choice was also technically sound.   The
ecological considerations pertaining to protection of the Lagoon advocate
sea discharge and demonstrate that, in the future, discharge into the sea
of wastevater purified by conventional stations would not guarantee a



- 76 -
ANNEX 3
Page 24 of 37
lagoon water quality consistent with the survival and reproduction of its
aquatic fauna.
Finally, discharge into the sea is perfectly compatible with marine uses.
It would be an illusion to think that discharge into the lagoon would
afford better protection of marine fauna: toxic wastes discharged by the
stations would reach the sensitive zones of the lagoon where many marine
species reproduce.
*     A large investment program was initiated in 1975.  Two phases of the
program were implemented, the second of which was completed in 1982. The
purpose of these operations was to dispose of the liquid organic waste of
the neighborhoods by discharge into the Ebrie Lagoon.
The network is largely a separate system and includes a small portion of
unitary networks. The investments made comprise:
-     1,900 km of buried piping;
-     500 km of open culvert;
-     28 sewage pumping and booster stations;
-     4 treatment plants.
*     The sewerage investments amounted to CFAF 18 billion.  They were financed
in particular by four World Bank loans.
*     The following institutions were involved in management of the subsectors
-     the governmental supervisory body (the W%ter Directorate),  for
investment design and programming;
-     the Urban Development Company -- Societe d'Equipement des Terrains
Urbains -- (SETU), established in 1971, as executing agency;
-     the COte d'1voire Water Distribution Company (SODECI) for system and
facilities maintenance, under the terms of the lease contract
concluded in 1976 between SETU and SODECI;
-     the National Sanitation Fund (PNA) for management of the subsector's
debt service and financing of maintenance costs, with financing
deriving froms
--    the FNA surcharge on urban potable water sales;
--    the sanitation tax additional to the property tax on improved
lots, the rate of collection of which up to 1986 never exceeded
20 percent at most of the amounts assessed.
*     The resources allocated to maintenance declired steadily from 1983 onward
and this caused a serious technical deterioration in discharge and
treatment capacity. The inadequacy of the maintenance budget led SODECI



- 77 -
ANNEX 3
Page 25 of 37
to behave as a service contractor rather than as a fully responsible lessee
operator.
*     Projects concerning linkages of secondary networks to the main interceptor
and promotion activities for private service connections were deferred
because of:
-     the need to limit the concentration of pollution to a few points of
the lagoon and maintain the widest possible diffusion;
-     the progressive deterioration in discharge and treatment capacities
caused by inadequate system and facilities maintenance.
V.2 Adiustment Measures
*     The low rate of connection to the sewers (estimated at 20 percent of the
population), due to the causes stated above, is reflected in
under-utilization of the primary sewerage infrastructures of Abidjan. To
obtr'n a full return on these national-interest investments it will be
necassary to:
-     strengthen system and facilities maintenance and renewal;
-     complete the basic interceptor and build the sea outfall;
-     finally, after these prior conditions have been met, to construct
private connections and tertiary collection system works.
e     The policy to be followed for the sewerage and drainage service of the
interior cities is directly tied to the municipalization strategy pursued
by the Government since 1980 and the basic provisions of Law No. 85-578
of July 29, 1985 (amending Law No. 80-1180 of October 10, 1980) setting
forth the system of transfer of responsibilities from the State to the
municipalities and the city of Abidjan.   This law, which is actively
implemented, reflects all the consequences of the Government's wish to
clarify the sharing of responsibilities between the Government and
municipalities with respect to urban facilities -- both infrastructures
and superstructures.
V.2.1 Redefinition of the Contractual Framework
As a first step, the 1976 SODECI-SETU lease contract was cancelled
and replaced by a maintenance And operation contract which was put out for
tender. The schedule of conditions and specifications of the contract included,
inter alia:
-     a complete inventory of the systems and facilities to be maintained;
-     projection of annual senvice quantities;
-     service rules regulating relations between users and contractor;
-     a schedule of unit prices.



- 78 -
ANNEX 3
Page 26 of 37
This contract is financed by the proceeds of the sanitation tax
additional to the property tax.
During a second phase the Goverrment will eventually conclude a
comprehensive lease contract transferring full responsibility for, and the risks
inherent in, sound operation and maintenance of all systems and facilities to
the operating company. Achievement of this goal will be subject tot
-     rehabilitation of certain facilities;
-     complete and detailed assessment of the technical obligations that
will be imposed on the future lessee-operator and the corresponding
costs.
V.?.2 Environmental Protection Works, Abidian
The sewage collected in Abidjan is discharged into the Ebrie Lagoon
and in the present state of development of the systems is already a source of
serious pollution of the receptor.
Cases of destruction of aquatic fauna due to pollution have been
observed in Bietry Lagoon, and catch volumes have fallen substantially in the
Abidjan region over the past decade.
'Wide sections of the lagoon are becoming anoxic, and the harmful
effects of this situation are already being felt by the inhabitants of Abidjan.
This worrying situation is hampering sanitation development; in
particular, it is preventing work on additional service connections and
connection of existing systems to the interceptor which would aggravate the
aggression to which the lagoon environment is exposed.
If nothing is done to bypass the lagoon and discharge the sewage into
the ocean, it is to be feared that 20 years from now the deterioration will be
such that the lagoon will no longer be amenable to any productive use. That
would affect both recreational uses and the value of shore lands, which would
fall sharply. The lagoon neighborhood of the residential and industrial areas
would resemble an open sewer.
The solution to the problem does not lie in the construction of
conventional treatment plants ahead of lagoon discharge. The development of the
city and particularly of tertiary networks and service connections would very
quickly lead to intolerable residual pollution for the lagoon environment. It
is therefore necessary to conduct the sewage to the ocean and thereby relieve
the lagoon of the bulk of the domesti. and industrial pollution generated by
Abidjan.
The environmental protection works in Abidjan are therefore a
priority project for the Government. They comprises
-     completion of the Abobo-Port-Boult sewage interceptor;



- 79 -
ANNEX 3
Page 27 of 37
-     construction of a treatment station suited to the method of discharge
selected;
-     construction of a sea outfall off Vridi.
This investment should be financed by the World Bank and the European
Investment Bank.
Debt service of the corresponding loans vill be financed as follows:
-     50 percent by the proceeds of the sanitation tax with respect to the
part of the investments pertaining to sanitation in the strict sense;
-     50 percent by the national budget with respect to the part of the
equipment specific to environmental protection.
The  subsector  is  fully  responsible  for  maintaining  the
sanitation-related systems and facilities of the Abidjan environmental protection
project. Maintenance is therefore financed by the proceeds of the sanitation tax.
V.2.3 Linkage to the Interceptor and Service Connections Investments, Abidian
These vill be programued and executed as part of a Revised Abidjan
Sanitation Master Plan taking into account population growth and foreseeable
development of the city as indicated by the most recent urban planning studies.
*     Action in neighborhoods that can be connected quickly
The policy will be to connect to the basic interceptor the neighborhoods
already equipped with tertiary networks, beginning with those that involve
the lowest investment expenditure for maximum pollution elimination.
In these neighborhoods the policy will be to construct service connections
that improve health and hygiene conditions and help to earn a reasonable
return on the systems and facilities.
*     Action in other neighborhoods
In the peripheral neighborhoods where connection to the sewerage system
will not be feasible for many years, the system of independent individual
disposal with infiltration into the soil must be developed.
Where this solution is not practicable, watertight sewage tanks will be
built which will be emptied periodically and the septage disposed of into
the base interceptor via dumping stations placed all along its length.
The peripheral areas will thus also benefit; this will further increase
the return on the sewerage and lagoon environmental protection works.



- 80 -
ANNEX 3
Page 28 of 37
V.2.4 Development of Tertiary Collection Networks in Abidjan
In neighborhoods not yet equipped, tertiary networks will be built
later, as financing capacity permits and in accordance with the Revised Master
Plan. In the case of the development of urban sites, however, tertiary networks
will be constructed along with the other sites and services works whenever the
location of the site is compatible with their connection to the main sewerage
system. In these subdivisions, a full return on the sanitation investments will
be assured by private service connections constructed at the same time as the
networks.
V.2.5 Prevention of Pollution of the Environment
Regulation of discharge into the public system and direct discharge
into natural environments is essential in order to reap the full benefit of the
investments that have to be made. The regulations will need to take into account
the sewerage system adopted, the treatment processes used and the capacities of
the receptors to handle the various types of pollution.
The Government will issue rules regulating discharge into the public
system and discharge into the natural environment of liquid industrial effluent,
taking into account the solution adopted for sewage disposal in Abidjan and
protection of its lagoon environment.
The Government will provide the ministerial departments involved with
the necessary resources to put these regulations rapidly into effect and monitor
compliance with them for the pretreatment of waste by industrial operators
authorized to discharge their effluent into the public system or complete
treatment of effluent discharged directly into the lagoon.
At the same time the Government will develop, within the competent
agencies and services, a system of control and monitoring of the quality of
lagoon and coastal ocean water.
V.2.6 Sewerage and Drainage Systems for Interior Cities
The following technical guidelines were set forth in a communication
in the Council of Ministers, the conclusions of which were adopted by the
Government, on October 19, 1988.
0     Sewerage
Some interior towns possess a rudimentary sewerage system. They include
public systems in Ayame, San-Pedro, Yamoussoukro and Bouake and,
particularly in Yamoussoukro, a fairly large number of sewage collection
and treatment facilities connected to school buildings.
Maintenance and operation of these systems and facilities is in many cases
less than satisfactory. The Government will make a point of promoting
their rational operation, ensuring that adequate budgets are allocated to
these tasks.



- 81 -
ANEX 3
Page 29 of 37
In the case of sewage disposal, in most of the towns and villages the
Goverment will promote the development of individual independent sewage
disposal systems or the construction of improved latrines, which in the
villages often offer an acceptable solution at minimum cost.
Where the construction of a system is essential, the treatment process and
level will be adapted to pollution loads and receptor capacity.
Whenever possible, intensive treatment in conventional purification
stations will be rejected in favor of extensive treatment using the
"natural lagooning method. This type of station, which does not require
energy, has been tested in COte d'Ivoire with particularly encouraging
results.
*     Drainage
In most towns and villages of the interior, the sanitation problem in the
broad sense of the term is more one of rainwater discharge than of sewage
disposal; the latter problem can often be resolved without recourse to the
construction of expensive separate systems and collector facilities.
In the future the Govermuent will promote investments relating to storm
water discharge (drainage) as part of operations receiving international
assistance, such as for example World Bank, US-AID and KfW projects.
VI. FINANCIAL RESTRUCTURING
VI.l Diagnostic Study
* Although the programming of investments for the sector as a whole was carried
out by the supervisory agency, financing was the responsibility of the FNH
and FNA, set up in 1976 as public establishments and managed by the Caisse
Autonome d'Amortissement (CAM).
* Salient features of the financial management of the sector were the
following:
-    Investments were programmed by the Water Directorate, without due
account being taken of the real potential for the sector to contribute
to its own financing. As a result, the programs were not adjusted when
water sales declined;
-    Financing was based almost exclusively on borrowing;
-    External borrowing did not take into account the return in the sector
(medium and long term); nearly two-thirds of loans carried high
(commercial) interest rates and/or were for short terms (12 years or
less);
-    Loans were obtained from the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO)
to finance the local counterpart for the projects;



- 82 -
ANNEX 3
Page 30 of 37
-     There was total separation between the PNH, which was running a
deficit (the debt service on the village water supply sector
accounted for more than a third of the Fund's financial obligations)
and the FPA, which had a surplus.
*     Under the tariff conditions in force since 1984, and disregarding the
consequences of the new rate schedule adopted in December 1987, the
accumulated sector deficit at the end of 1989, would be CFAF 18 billion,
of whichs
-     CFAF 12 billion in arrears of debt service;
_     CFAF 6 billion of consolidated liabilities of the FNH and FNA.
*     The cumulative obligations of the National Treasury and the CAA for debt
servicing were CFAF 20 billion in June 1988.
VI.2  Financial Adjustment Measures
VI.2.1 Abolition of the FNH and FlA
The structural cause of the deficits accumulated by the sector was
fragmentation of responsibilities for investment programming and financing and,
lastly, for the operation of networks and facilities.
The situation made it impossible to implement a coordinated financing
strategy based on a systematic economic and financial analysis of projects in
relation to the real resources of the sector.
The initiative for investment planning being handed over to private
operators and financing assured by the tariff policy, there was no reason not
to abolish the FNH and FNA.
VI.2.2 National Water Fund (FNE)
*     The Government established a financial account in the CAM  in the name of
the National Water Fund -- Ponds National de l'Eau -- (INE), which replaces
the former national funds in their rights and obligations. The function
of the FNE is limited to:
-     keeping the accounts for the surcharge collected by SODECI on urban
water sales, the sanitation tax collected by the Treasury and the
user charges paid by operators of private wells;
-     payment of maintenance and operating costs of sewerage networks and
facilities in Abidjan, under the contract concluded with SODECI;
-     payment for works fianmced through borrowing.
*     The surcharge on water sales and the user charges for private wells finance
the debt service on the water supply and sewerage components of loans
contracted prior to adjustment.



- 83 -
ANNEX 3
Page 31 of 37
*     The sanitation tax additional to the property tax is used to finances
-     operating and maintenance costs of sewerage and drainage networks;
-     the debt related to future investments in the subsector and in
particular the sewerage component of the Abidjan environmental
protection project;
-     works for new connections of tertiary networks to the interceptor
and service connections;
-     renewal of facilities and networks classified as being in the
national interest, at the rate of 2 percent of revalued net fixed
assets.
Following computerization of the cadastre, it was determined that the
collection rate of the sanitation tax was 25 percent of billings in 1987.
The Government will take all necessary steps to increase this rate in order
to ensure the financial equilibrium of the sewerage subsector.
*     The Managing Committee of the PNE, responsible in particular for management
oversight of that account, will have a study conducted to determine the
appropriate accounting procedures for the Fund.
VI.2.3 Financial Consolidation
*     Prior to the dissolution of the FNH and FNA, in May 1988 the PIA repaid
CFAP 4.5 billion of an advance made by the CAA for the FNH's debt service.
*     The sector's cumulative deficits will be consolidated by the National
Treasury under the sectoral adjustment loan.
*     Settlement of mutual debts  (State,  nationwl  public  establishments,
state-owned companies, local communities, FRE and SODECI) will take place
as soon as the first tranche of the adjustment loan is released.
VIZ. IMPLEMENTATION OF ADJUSTMENT
VII.1 Adoption of Adjustment Measures
*     On December 17, 1987, the Government adopted the basic adjustment measures
for the water supply and sanitation sector, namelys
-     Decree No. 87.1471 approving the concession of the urban potable
water public distribution service in COte dlIvoire and organizing
public control of the concession;
-     Decree No. 87.1472 creating the National Water Puwd, to be known by
the acronym FNE, and setting the means of its operations;



- 84 -
ANNEX 3
Page 32 of 37
-     Decree No. 87.1473 dissolving the National Water Works Fund, known
by the acronym FNH, and the National Sanitation Fund, known by the
acronym FNA, and setting the means of their dissolution;
-     Decree No. 87.1474 setting the price and rate for water sales and
determining eligibility for the special water supply arrangements
for low-income groups.
*     At the same session of the Council of Ministers, the Government authorized:
-     the launching of a rehabilitation and training program for village
water supply and the financing of the program from the remainder of
World Bank loan 2130-IVC;
launching, by the Directorate of Large Works -- Direction et ContrOle
des Grands Travaux -- (DCGTx), of competitive bidding for the
proviseln of services and works for the maintenance of the sewerage
and drainage systems in Abidjan;
negotiation of the sectoral adjustment loan with the World Bank, for
CFAF 25 billion.
*     Lastly, under the Tax Schedule -- Annexe Fiscale -- to Law No. 87.1476,
the finance law for fiscal 198R, the National Assembly on December 18, 1987
adopted Article 15 regarding user charges for the use of groundwater.
VII.2 Status of Implementation
VII.2.1 Urban Water Supply
(a)         Reducing Water Tariffs
Retroactive to October 1, 1987, the rates for industrial and
low-income consumers were cut by 10 percent and 23 percent respectively.
As part of the structural adjustment of the economy, and in
particular of the support to the industrial sector, where productivity needs to
be improved, the Government, following the same approach as in the planned
reductions in electricity rates, will again reduce water charges to industry in
1989. If the debt of the water supply sector is to be paid in full and its
financial autonomy restored, the industrial rate cannot be reduced by more than
CFAF 62Im0, bringing it to CFAF 350/Im, i.e. in total a 23.5 percent cut in
relation to the rate in force prior to the sectoral adjustment (CFAP 458/in).
This measure will also apply to the user charges for private wells,
which are based on the surcharge applicable to the industrial tariff. Thus, user
charges (excluding the flat rate charge of CFAF 5Im? due to SODECI for billing
and collection costs) will fall from CFAF 250Dm' to CFAF 179/in, i.e. a reduction
of 28 percent in relation to the amount charged since October 1, 1987.
As a result.of the negotiations on operating costs and the tariff
policy adopted, the relative share of the components of the average selling price
changed as follows:



- 85 -
ANNEX 3
Page 33 of 37
Tariff Components                    Base October 1984        Base October 1987
Remuneration to SODF^I                    55 X                     51 2
Surcharge                                 43 2                     39 ?
Development levy 1/                        2 2                     10 2
11  The previous rate included a flat service connection fee.
In addition to decreasing debt service, the tariff policy aims at
gradually aligning the rates charged to each category of user with the marginal
cost per  in.
(b)           Reduction in Operating Costs
Compared to fiscal 1985-86, the operating charges for urban water supply
were reduced by 26 percent following the July 1987 negotiations. Sector overhead
was cut by 67 percent and now accounts for only 11 percent of total charges, as
against 24 percent in the past.
This substantial cut in costs led the concessionaire to make a sweeping
organization of its management methods and structures.
A comprehensive review of procedures, which led to greater
standardization of tasks and the setting of productivity targets, resulted in
a recasting of the organization chart, including:
-    a reduction in line services and paring of hierarchical intermediaries;
-    greater  decentralization  through  more  numerous  and  strengthened
decision-making centers.
Implementation of the reorganization meant:
-    elimination of certain regional departments;
-    the strengthening of personnel management (personnel qualification and
selection procedures);
-    adoption of a microcomputer development plan for processing in real
time.
Immediate savings were moreover achieved through:
-    reductions in staff;
-    reduction of vehicle fleet and longer vehicle depreciation period;
-    better inventory management, a longer period for suppliers' credit and
more advantageous discount con1itions;                        0        0



- 86 -
ANNEX 3
Page 34 of 37
-     development of subcontracting through competitive bidding for certain
works.
(c)         Effectiveness of the Concession Contract
The contingencies on the effectiveness of the concession were lifted
on July 2, 1988 and the notification to proceed was sent that day to the
concessionaire.
The draft five-year plan for the development of urban water supplies,
stipulated in Article 26 of the concession contract and formulated by SODECI,
will be available by the end of March 1989.
The regulations governing the operations of the concessionaire
(Article 10 of the concession contract) are now being prepared.
(d)         National Uater Fund (FNE)
Under a law voted on July 5, 1988, the National Assembly approved
the dissolution and liquidation of the FNH and FNA. Liquidation will begin in
the first quarter of 1989.
The Managing Cosmittee of the FNE, envisaged in Article 5 of Decree
No. 87.1472, was officially installed on December 22, 1988.
(e)         Miscellaneous Provisions
Two decrees regulating the operation of private wells and the
rate-setting for specific services provided by the concessionaire will shortly
be submitted to the Government for its approval.
A memorandum (communication) from the Council of Ministers will soon
be submitted with a view to the adoption of budgeting procedures for the water
expenditures of the State and public establishments on the one hand and for rapid
payment of the invoices received by public entities on the other.
Under the concession contract, SODECI will prepare a detailed
inventory of urban water supply fixed assets.
VII.2.2     Rural Water SupplY Subsector
Following the adoption by the Government on December 17, 1987 of the
conclusions of the memorandum on the restructuring of the water supply and
sanitation sector, the timetable for adjustment actions in the village water
supply subsector was set as follows:
-     March 1988s  field testing by the 15 teams under the former "Water
Always" program;
-     July to September 1988:  training seminars for the field teams
(leader/trainer and technician/trainers);



- 87 -
ANNEX 3
Page 35 of 37
-     third quarter 1988s  diagnostic review and preliminary comuwnity
development activities. The analysis of this review is now being
carried out and will be completed in January 1989;
-     January to March 1989:   training, selection and setting up of
repairmen; upgrading seminar for field teams; finalization of
negotiations and establishment of the commercial network for the
supply of spare parts;
-     April 1989:  village awareness-building and evaluation of village
capacity and motivation for the complete taking over of facilities;
start of rehabilitation operations;
-     July 1989s evaluation and upgrading seminar for field teams; review
of commuity development activities, first rehabilitations and
adjustments to methodology, if necessary.
VII.2.3     Sanitation Subsector
On December 17, 1987, the Government authorized DCGTx to issue a call
for bids to let a service and works contract for the maintenance of the sewerage
networks in Abidjan.
In 1983 that Department had took over all technical studies and costs
for completing primary sewerage infrastructure in Abidjan (main collector and
outfall for discharge into the sea). The timetable for adjustment actions in
the subsector is as follows:
(a)         Maintenance and Renewal of Networks and Facilities
-     December 29, 1987:  call for bids on the maintenaace contract.  Ten
companies were asked for quotations.   Four bids were submitted
representing six companies;
-     May 1988: award of the contract to SODECI, which had submitted the
lowest bid.  The competitive bidding made it possible to lower
maintenance costs by 35 percent and resulted in a substantial
increase in the quality of service.   The three-year contract
envisages annual expenditures of CFAF 850 million;
-     October 1988:  general policy guidelines for the interior towns
adopted by the Government;
-     December 1988:  installation of the Managir  Committee of the PNE
responsible for financing the above-mentioned contract and inclusion
of corresponding costs in the FNE budge'.
In addition, after SITU had been abolished and liquidated by Decree
No. 87-365 of April 1, 1987, under the Third Urban Development
Project: ,
-     monitoring of the operations of networks and facilities is the
respousibility of the Water Department;



- 88 -
ANNEX 3
Page 36 of 37
investments in the subsector are monitored by DCGTx.
(b)         Abidjan Environmental Protection Proiect
-     End 1988s completion of project studies and preparation of bidding
documents. The studies made it possible to cut the investment cost
for comparable technical alternatives in half;
-     January 1989:  start of international competitive bidding;
-     End 1989:  start of works, expected to last 18 months;
-     The regulatory and administrative provisions for environmental
protection will be finalized by the end of 1989.



_ 89 -
ANNEX 3
Page 37 of 37
ATTACHMENT
Calendar of Actions
Date
Inventory of assets                                          March 1990
Effective transfer of at least 2,500 rural water               May 1990
points to villagers
Submission of three-year investment program for              Effectiveness
rural water supply                                           + Five months
Launching a study on village water supply                    Effectiveness
+ One month
Decrease of industrial block rates and fees                  November 1989
Adoption of decree on private water extraction               Effectiveness
and inventory of private wells                               + Four months
Completion of first phase of financial                       Effectiveness
restructuring                                                 + One month
August 7, 1989
Note:       Given the slippage in presenting the WASAL to the Board, some of the
above dates have been revised.   They have been flagged in the
appropriate sections of the report.
4      ,        a



- 90 -
ANNEX 4
REPUBLIC OF COT! D'NVODRE
WATER SUPPLY 7AW SrA W1uIN SEC_TOR AJUSTMEN1 LOAN
Pro2rom of PolIcy Veasures and Actions
Policy ArosmeIssues            M.asu Ae AIrady Taken            Measures to be Taken
I. Institutional Frawork
Urban Water Supply
Inappropriteo Investment dew-   SOOECI  plans, finances  and  Satisfactory and tiomly ex-
lsions by DE.                   executes all Inv st ents  in  scutlon of concession con-
the subse cor, under a con-  tract  provisions  rgarding
cesion contract effectiv  In   rvwisions of SODECI'. compen-
July 188.                       sation and  xecution of the
investoent program. J
Five-year  tnvestment program
prepared by SODECI. (June 1060)
Unequitable risk-sharing bet-  Full commercial  risk to  be
weon SODECI and the public   borne by the concessionaire;
sector; limited incentiv" to   procedure  of revision of SOD-
control operating cost..        KCIs compnsation dosignedto
increas, productivity emboled
tn concession contract.
Sanitation
Inadequate 0 a V of Abidjan   Award of adequate 0 & M con-
sceerago end dr Inago systems.   tract for Abidjan swerage and
drainage systems to a private
operator through LCS. (Mabch
Investment program noeds to be  Preparation of a three-year   Masutr plan for sanitation
redefined and updated.          tnvetmont program for sewer-  and environmental protection
ago, drainage and environon-   to be opdabsd under the AEP
tel protection. (June 1908)     Project.
Rural Water Supply
Inadequate Institutional ar-   Official  Government  coimit-  Succossful  transfer  of  at
rangements causing poor         sent to shIft 0 & M rspon-   least 2,600 water points to
maintenance  of  rural  water  sibilities to villagers; ter-   villagers  (including  reha-
points;  lack  of  villagers'  mination of SODECI loose con-  bilitation as needed). e
participation,                  tract for rural water poite
approved by Government. (Dce-
mber 1it?)
Preparation of an implemntn-
tion plan for the transter of
0 4 M rponsibilities throu-
gh the extension of onoing
comunity   development   and
trainitn programs. (June 1989)
Investment criteria and sor-                                     Prepration of a three-year
vice  levels  In rural  reas                                     Investment program for rural
must be redefined.                                               water supply, Including ti-
nancing and Investment crlt-
erl. *
Initiation of a study on the
perpectives of rural water
supply. e
ndicates condition of second trenche release.



- 91 -
ANNE 4
Page 2 on
REPUIC OF  IE D'ZVOIRE
WATER SUPPLY NO SANITATIN SECTOR ADJUSTIMNT LOAN
PrWoram of Policy Measure *and Actions
Po)I ey Areas/Issues           Measures Alrady Taken            Measures to be Token
Environmental Protection
Groundrater protection mut be  L l frameork for genral Ixa-
enhancoed  nd enforced.         Ing  groundwater  protection
outeide Abidjan adopted In
January 18B.
Preparation of deree organis-  Adoption of decree. 
lg e systse of drillin noti-
f ieation and giving onforce-
mnt right to SODECI. (June
1989)
Growing pollution of Abidjan   Decision to proceed with the
Lagoon induced by unorganized   execution  of  environmental
discharg  of organic and ln-  protection works In Abidjan.
dustrial w stes; lack of ade-
quate discharge facd lties.     Outline of legielation on do.-   Enforcement of legislation at
estic and Industrial woe- completion of environmental
tewater prepared In June 1919.   protection works under AEP
Project.
U. Pricina Framework
Urban Water SuDI IA
bon  Wto
istortions In tariff struc-  Revision of urban tariff stru-   Industrial block ratt to be
ture ponalizing Industrial and   cture  Including a IOX dbere-   reduced to CdAF 86O/0m .
iw-incomo consumer and gene-   so of Industrial rates op-
raeIng volatilty of revenues.    roved by Government In D eo-
ror 198?.
Poor performance  In collet-   Revislon of regulations con-   Completion of the Inventory
tag fees levied on private   eorning private extraction of   of private water wells sub-
wells and boreholes due to  water. (se  above)                   ject to extraction fee  six
Inadequate legal framework.                                     months after enactmnt of the
above decree.
Fes to be reduced to CFAF
Rural Water Supuly
Low level of cost recovery for   Action plan to ensure cott  Maintenance coats financed by
maintenance of water points.    recovery for maitenonce in  villagers for at lNet 2,500
parallel rith transfer of res-  water point. 
ponsibilitles to villagers
prepared In June 1989.
Absence  of  financial  par-                                     Review of criteria and pro-
ticipation of villages toward                                    cedures for villagers' fi-
Investment and renewal of                                        nancial participation.
PM".
e indicates condition of second trenche relesse.



- 92 _
peso a or 
REPUBiUC OF COTE D'IVIRE
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATIQN SECTOR ADJUSUTENT LOAN
Prosram ot Policy Measur  and Actiorse
Polt Ic  Atesi7esues           Masu r /I Aoady Taken            Measure to be Taken
III. Fiancitn Strq$ ar nd
Financial Re tructurins
Poor financial oanagement of   Abolition of FNH/FNA approved
the sector by FN0/FNA           by Government; creation of FNE
within CAA. (July 1988)
Lack of clear and true          Establishment of sound accou-  Setup of *ectoral assett reg-
financial picture at  ectr      nting procedure  for FNE.        istere. (July 1090)
level.
Inventory of cross-debts bet-
woen FPA, FNH, SCDECI, CM,
Treasury and suppliers.
Inappropriate financing         Self-generation  of  cash  to  Definition of acceptable bor-
strategy.                       finance  urban  water  supply  rowing terms and conditions
Investment, embodied In         for rural water supply as-
SODECI concession contract.     toe. s
budget financing of rural
water supply investment .
Restructuring of SeJtor         First rpayment of sectoral   Consolidation  of  sectoral
finnces required to restore   arrears (CFAF 4.5 billion) to   arrears towards the Treasury
financial autonoy.              the CAA. (May 1986)              and completion of the first
phase of financial restruc-
Adoption of liquidation plan   turing. *
of FNN/FNA. (June 1098)
Flanl sottlement of cross
Adoption of consolidation plan  debts. (End 1900)
for sectora 1arrears. (June
o indietes condition of second tranche release.



- 93 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 7
Table 5.1: FNH Account. 1906-A88?
(CFAF mil lI on)
INCOME STATEMENTS                                   UANGES IN WORKING CAPITAL
1985    1986    198?                          1985    1986    1987
REVENUES  ------------ ~        ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ---------
REVEES
Inventorles            440    482      431
Water Surcharge           10 818  10 416   9 863
Interest Earne              15     146      100   Recaevable Afcounta:
CEAO Participation             0     128    201   .Disbtaursemnt            12      91       0
Other                         0       2      171   .CAA (Public Debt)      144    218    257
Total--  --_   j---    J.Cr.doc                    8       8       a
Total                   10772  10 691  10835    .SODECI                7 696   7 004  6 924
.FNA                     0      84       0
EXPENDITURES                                       .Works                  260    266        5
.3re-ta              2 980  2 980        0
CA  Operating Cost            44    144    140   .Accrued Interest          2B      15       a
Ministry of Health           200     50      50   .CEAO                      0       0     201
Non Opoeratln  Cost           0      228  a 026                                 --           -
--_4-   -;2-  --          Sub-total           11 079  10SOS 6     898
Total                      244    422  a 81
Cash                 2 290   2680   4 067
NET REVENUES              105 28  10 269  S619
Total               13 608  1S 8a8  11 895
Minus:
Debt Service
.Interest                 4 067  4 055   8 625   Payable Accounts:
.Repayments               8 079  9 322 10 023   .CA (ubllc Debt)   5262   5000   5 041
Incr. in Working Capital  1 SS  (4 083)(10 110)   *Treasuy              5 894  10 028  16 681
Foreign Exch. Adjust.       (56)    (69)  (118)  .BSIE                   1 841   1 647   1884
-------    -      .FNA                    46   16   17
Sub-total                11 645   9 226   8 424     Contractors            51      67  1 043
Internal Cash Generation  (1 118) 1 043   3 096    Sub-total             8a 093  16 064  28 56
Capital Expenditures       7 762  4 474  6 708   Working Capital           718  (8 021)(11 700)
Variation               (8S) (8 737) (8 679)
Balance to be Financed     8 900  3 481   3 811   Working Capital Other
than Cash           (1 574) (5 657) (15 767)
Loans                      6 104  2 914  8 905   Variation               1 566  (4 098)(10 110)
Grants                     1 156    868   1 137
Sub-total                 7 29  8 777  5 042
Cash Variation            (1 640)   346   1 431
Source: Audited Accounts



- 94 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 7
Table 5.2t FNA Account. 1965-1667
(CFAF mil lI on)
INCOME STATEMENTS                                  OOES IN 10211  CAPITAL
1385    191 6    18o                         1985   198    1987
REVENUES
Invnorles                0       0       0
Seeage Surcharg           1 025    668    749
Interest Earned             487     8        6    Receivable Accounte:
Sanitation Tax            1 964   1 62  2 994   .CAA (Public Debt)         l0     152    221
-    ------   .SODECI                            252  201  118
Totl                    8 47   2 804  4 106   .FI                        i       16      17
.Treasury            1 826      896  2 994
EXPENDITURES                                       .Accrued Intert        1i8     128    115
CM Operating Coot           107      86      22    Sub-toal              1846     66   8 460
0hm Costa SewerageDrainag 812    816    692
Non Operatini Co0t            0       0       0   Coeh                  4 96   5 786   4 697
Total                     019    652    714   Total                   6 881  6 672  6 857
NET REVENUES              2 657   1 952  a 82
Payable Account.:
Minus:                                              CAA (Public Debt)       0       0       2
Debt Service                                       .Treasury                0       0       0
.Interest                   709    720    654   .6SIE                     812    t6    806
.Repayments                 984  1 087    68U   J.H                         0       0       0
Incr. In Working Capitol  (2 268)  (GM7) 2 492   .Contractors             80      262    292
Sub-total                 (598)   949    0 999    Sub-total            1 120  1 017   1 099
Internal Csh Gonratton  a 150  1 008   (607)
Working Capital      6 711   656  7 28
Capital Expenditures      1 661    289    K(1    Varlation               (148)    (68)  1 608
Working Capital Other
Balance to be Financed    (1 599)   (714)   906   then Cost               720   (181)  2 861
Variation           (2 288)   (67)  2 492
Loans                       48       968    20                         urszx   urn=Ss.s
Grants                       42       0       0
Sub-total                  525      68      20
Cash Variation            2 128    602   (669)
Source: Audited Accounts



- 95 -
ANM  5
Page 3 of 7
Table 5.8: Allocation of WteOr Tariffs and Revenumw
198S 19      197   199LO     1989  IM     39A          1998  1094  1905  1996
Water Sold (mIllIon e3)    78.2  70.0  77.8  00.7  90.2  05.6  99.2  90.9  98.8  96.4  99.8  102.8
Number of Connections
(Thousands)                176   166   198   210   220   2J0   240   25*   260   270   280   290
Allocation of Water Tariff,
(CFAF'm)
SODECI Compensation:
.Operating Costs           147   148   150   184   184   184   187   189   142   145   148   151
.Investments US              0      0      0    28    29    29    29    a          40     69    76    94
Water Surcharge            162   144   182   105   101    88    94    88    87    7s    00    55
Subtotal      29   292   282   267   264   251   259   260   269   2z    289   299
Allocation of Revenues
(CFAF mlMlion)
Water Sales             21 872 280 08 21 98 21 US 521962 21 494 22 8U  28 587 2C 184 26 874 29 709 so 624
Social Connect. Charges\!15 I8  1 587  1 8S4      0      0      0     0      0      0      0      0      0
Private Abstraction Fe"s   527   $07   840   185   809   004   681   622   516   480   420   877
28 98B 25 751 28 007 21 68 22 771 22 088 28 480 24 109 25 700 27 840 29 185 81 001
SODECI Operating Costs  10 700 11 878 11 061 10 010 11 14C 11 479 12 OM 2  072 18 815 18 988 14 090 15 440
SODECI Investments           0      0      0 2 20  2 897 2 468 2 510  2 879  8 744 5 055  7 481 9 594
SODECI Connection FeeA&  1 584 1 587  1 04        0      0     0      0      0      0      0      0      0
12 844 12 910 18 295 18 078 18 542 18 985 14 5S 15 651 17 059 19 048 22 176 25 084
Water Surcharges
Available to Sector
Funds                   11 089 11 804 10 12  6 010  9 229 9 18  8 88   0       0 641  7 697    959 8 67
\  Social connections charge abolished as of D". 81 1907  d Included In s800Ks compensation.
Evolution of Slelk Rt. 1968-1990
(CFAF/40)
Block                              188        14         1967       1990
Social (los then 81 m'/quarter)    18i s       187        S 159     169
Domestic (81 n8 to 100 MP)          2B1        261       209        209
Normal (101 e to 800as)             800       80         807        807
Industrial (more than  00  )        22        458        412        850
Administrative                      261        21         261        261
\   Including the socal connclon foe abolle  in Oec. 197.



- 96 -
ANNEX S
Page 4 of 7
Table 654: Sector Finencial OutlOok Sore R estriActurina
(CFAF milloh)
-FNAFNH  ---------  FNE
INCOME STATEMENTS               1987        1988   1989   1990   1991    1992   1993   1994    1995   1990
REVENUES
Water and S.wrsg  Surcharegs  10 612       6 610   9 229   n108   688   3 58   86 41   7 097   6 959  6 987
Interest Earned                  483         445    206    106    108         98      se      79      70    268
Sanitation Tax                 2994        2 676   2 652  2 64   80 94  8 186   8 441   8 717  4 014  4 885
Other                            872         220  2 764    208    195    137    178          170    162    154
Total                        14 441      11650  14 861  1188?  12260  12024  12i84   11663  11205  10?19
EXPENDITURES
CAA Operating Cost               162         166    170    174    179    168    166          198    19?    202
OWY Cost Sewrge/Dra nag           92         600      183   1 500  1 77   1 T67    1 961   2 022  2 087  2 154
Non Operating Costs            8 76        5 064     5O      60      sO      sO      SO      sO      5O      sO
Total                        458         6050   1858   1 724   2 008  2 108   2 199  2 265   2 884  2 406
NET REVEUES                    S st        5 800  13 496   9 012  10 274   9 16  10 147  9899   6 30  68 18
Minus:
Debt Service                  1S 1SS      17 286  12 946   6 871  7 649  7 299   6 50       624  6 105   4 258
.UwS (FM)                      6 412       9 549   7 622  4 624  4 272   86 94   8 m    2 567   2 502  2 649
.RWS (FNH)                     5 818       0 251   8 940  2 01   2 027  1 729   1 512   18 01   1 088       18B
.Senitation (FNA and AEP)      1 427       1486   1 880   1 446   1550   186   1 702   1 71        1 S6    1 223
Increase In Working Capital   (7 016)    (9 545) 8 686       841  1 086   1 778   2 706  2 796  2 569  2 597
Foreign Exchange Adjust ant     (118)          0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
Sub-totl                       7 424       7 691  18680  6788 12    4484   0 072   9 212   6 422   7674   06 8S
Internal Cash Generation       2 467      (1 991) (8 186)   900  791    848          05      9"7    1 197   1 457
Capital Expenditure
.Investment  s \!              6 706       2 88   1100   1 100       420      0       0       0       0       0
.Investments Sanitation          801       1 614    O6N   4 544  0 752  6 214   1 117   1 072   1 889   1 448
Sub-total                      7 007       4647   175SC  56644    172   6214   1117   1 072   1 89   1 448
Balance to bo Financed         4520        0568   4  98  4 744  6 81   5 871    182          95    192    (14)
Loans                          8 924       1569   1 01   4 170  6 841   4 189          0       0       0      0
Consolidation of Arrears           0           0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      0
Grants                         1187          746      74    658    582  1 067         07       0       0      0
Sub-total                       62        2814  1766  4728    228   5 226             7       0       0      0
Cash Variation                   U41      (4 224) (8 186)   (21)  (156)   (145)   (95)   (95)   (192)    14
Cash *t end ot year            6964        4 740   1 02   1 664   1 5S0    1861   1 286   1 170      976     m
\  Excluding urban water supply investment made by SODECI from 1988 onwards.



- 97 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 7
Table 6.4: Sector Financial Outiook bfore Restructurln (cont'd)
(CFAF aliIIon)
-FNA/fNH -   ------ -                          NE--------
WORKING CAPITAL VARIATION     187         1088    1039    1990   1991    1902    1998   1994    1996   1996
Inventorie.                    481           0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
Receivable Accounts:
.CAA (Public Debt)             478           0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
.SODECI                      7 087       7 087   S e24  o 644  8 788   0084  0 704  65 0o  *94  0 870
.Trosaury                    2 994           0  8 966   4 681  4 780   4  2   4 825   46 4   4 969  5 049
.Other                         849         116       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
Sub-total                    106s        715   958   11325  11474  11 455  11c29   1 460  11 462  11419
Cash                          8 964      4 740   1 602   1 664   1 50    18 6    1 26s   1 170     978    m
Total                       20 268      11 9   11 191  12 989  12 979  12 816  12 795  12 6o5  12 440  12 411
Payable Account.:
_CA (Pubilc DCbt)            5 048         6        0   195   1 808   1 217   1 04    987    8"1          710
:Treasury                   15 061      19 464 20 914  20 914  19 514  17 814  15 814  12 614  10 114   7 614
.BSIE                        2 689       2 68        0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
Contractors                  1 047         28a    283    283    298    288        28s    298    288    288
.SODECI                        288       76 5    7 655   7655 7e65    7 f  e6   7 655   7 655   76 55   76 55
.Other                          17           0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
Sub-total                    269e4        o0 1829S2  80 247  29760  26 99 24 8    214490  189s0   16 262
Working Capitol             (4 442)    (16 211)(17 661)(17 256)(15 782)(14 158)(11 542) (6 880) (6 468) (8 851)
variation                    ( 076)    (s 8769)    550    408   1 476   1 2s    2 611   2 08   2 n8    2 012
Working Capital OthMr
than Cash                  (18 406)   (22 950)(19 268)(18 922)(17 287) (15 514)(12 607)(10 009) (7 441) (4 848)
Variation                    (7 1e8)     (9 646)  8 e6     841   1 685   1 7     2 708   2 796   2 569   2 597
Sources:
I987* consolidIated FNA and FNH accounts
1906: fNE Accounts
1969-1996: Bank estimatee



- 98 -
ANNEX S
Page 6 of 7
Tebl- 6.51 Soatgr Fnlangll Oudlook Afttr Restructuring
(CFIF atIliIn)
-FM/Mt-                                     FNE -------------------------------
INCOME STATEMENTS            1687        1638   1698   1990   1991   1992   1998   1994   1996   1996
REVEiJES
Water and SeJrag Surch.   10612         9610  9 229  31        066 05 5 C8  3 41  7697  8 959   5 c7
Interest Earned               46S         446    200    145    199    222    287    254    26          263
Sanitation Tax              2 964       2 6    26    5 OS2  2 *04  3094   8 186  a 441  8 717  4 014   4 36
0ther                         an          220  2 764    208    195    187    170    170    16?    164
Total                    14 441      1180 14 8651 1t875 12 a76  12i12 t2 49   1166  118    10 719
EXPENDIURES
CMA Operating Costs           162         166    170    174    176    168    183    198    197    202
o06 Cont S.wesra/Draing       6on         s0c    1 1t8  I 5O0   1 m77   1 675  1 961  2 022  2 087  2 154
Non Operating CoSt "          676       6084      50      60      60     60      5o      60     50      s0
Total                     4 680         050  I 86    1 724  2 000   2 108  2 199  2 265  2 84   2 406
NET REVENUES                9 911       56 00 19 496    9 61  10, 70  10 044  10 209   9 578  9 063  0 318
Mlnus:
Debt Service               15 15       17 28  12 948  3 371  68640   3799  9 000  8 124   7605  6 756
.FMA/FNH Det               15155       176 US 12 94      201  75 t80  6650   5 977  4 975  4 U1   8 48
AEP Project                    0           0      0    110    269    440        29    649    774    n78
.Consolidation                  0          0       0    60  1 000  15 00   2 50    2 50O   2 so0    2 50
Incr. In Worknlg Capital    (7 SI"     (9 545)    668  19 621    152    (10)    40      98      69      97
Foreign Exch. Adjust.         (118)         0      0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0
Sub-total                  7 428       761  1  66  26 892  9 001  89769  9 046   6222   76 74  6 a6s
Internel Cash G¢nration     2 4S7      (I 691) (8 18)(18 741) 1 870  1 255  1 258  1 851   1 390  1 457
Capital Expni tprs
.Inv.otment. aS  Z          6 706s      2 88    1 1oo  1 100    420       0      0       0       0      0
.invontmsnta S;nntation       go0       1 914    S6   4 644  672   6 214  1 117  1 072   1 69   1 448
Sub-total                  700?        447   1 7565   644   71 2   6214  1 117   1 07    1 89   1 448
Selenc to be Flnanced       4 520       65S6  4 8s  248 65  56 2  4 969   (186)  (279)    (1)   (14)
Loans                       8984        1 56   1 81  4 170      641   4 189      0      0       0       0
Consolidation of Arrars         0           0      0 20 914       0       0       0      0       0       0
Grant.                      11 i          745     74    65    s52  1 087         37      0       0       0
Sub-total                  606 2a814  1755  25                6228   5226       37       0      0       0
Cash Variation                $42      (4 224) (8 188) 1 252    421    267    228    279         1      14
Cash  t ond ofytr           3 #4        4 740  1 o2  2 654  8 274      541   8 76    4 044  4 045  4 059
-          Esms    -WS    -                               = M=           mt
\~Excluding urban water spply inwestsnfte mad. by 600MC frme 1933 onwards.



- 99 -
'Pa 7 of 7
Toble .s Sfctor FPinamial Outlook Afte, RestrolUrInA (.o*td)
(CA ml I Iion)
-FNA4W-      e--
W(XINO CAPITAL viAnaT        1          1989  16"   lUG    1091   1992   196    1994   1996   199
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- - --* ---------
Inventorl                    431          0      0       0       0      0       0      0       0      0
Receivablo Accounts:
.CAA (Publioce b)             476          0      0       0      0       0      0       0       0      0
.SGDECI                     7 087      7 037   6 24  1 020  1 111  1 070  1 0@0    962    8?0    746
.tr.asury                   2 994          0  8  n      716    774    70?    9e    9O9   1 004  1 064
.Other                        349        lie      0       0      0       0      0       0       0      0
Sub-total                 10656       7 15    0860  176   16         16   1040   1 O  01  178  1 6
Cash                        69984      4 740   16 0    2 664  8 274   8541   87 65  4 044  4 045  4 059
Total                      202a       11 n8  11191  4 590  5150   5406  8 7 0            ON   6 50s 1   889
Payablo Accounts:
.CAA (Publie Xbt)           5 048         6       0  1 479  1 475  1 46?  1 601  1 664   1 266  21 26
.Treasury                  1566       10 464 20 914       0      0       0      0       0       0      0
.3SIE                       26 80      26e8       0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0
.Contractors                1 047        26a    28               0       0      0       0              0
.SOECI                       2g8       7 6  5  7 n        0      0       0      0       0      0       0
.Other                         17          0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0
Sub-total                 24 64       8010620652   1470   149 7      1467   151   184   1268   1126
U*NM      UUMMS    __~            _      Mw  Soom  s$  a _
Working Capital            (4442)   (18 211)(176 1)  S 112  8 64  8 941  4 204  4 52   4 61  4 7
Variation                  ( 076)   (18 760)    NO  20 m        572    267    6"       77      6     112
Working Capital Other
than Cash                 (18 406)   (22 OEM)1(S 28)   266    410    400    439    57    6o0    703
Variation                  (7 610)    (90 5) 8 6    19 621    152    (10)    40        96      60     97
Soureo:
17:conso idatd FIA and FlN aceeunts
1088: FNE Accournt
189-1996: Bank estimates



- 100 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Impac:t of Policy Reforms on Public Secto' Revenues
1.        The proceeds of water bills have been divided, since 1974, between
the private company SODECI and the two national funds FNH and FNA, which
belong to the public sector. The reforms pursued under the WASAL reduce the
share of the public sector and thus its revenues by: (a) decreasing water
rites; and (b) allocating a greater portion of the tariffs to SODECI for
financing all new investments in the urban water supply subsector.
2.        A first reduction of water tariffs took place in October 1987, and
a further reduction of industrial water rates should occur in July 1990.
They will bring the average water rate to a level 20 percent lower, in real
terms, than the one achieved in 1986. In addition SODECI has retained, from
1988 onwards, a portion of the water tariff for financing the investment
program prepared by the private company. Urban water supply investments of
about CFAF 2.5 billion per year will cover:
(a)  expenditures for the renewal of txisting assets (CFAF 0.9 billion);
(b)  the costs of a social connections program that will provide about
10,000 free service connections to low-income households (CFPA 0.6
billion); and
(c)  the costs of expanding distribution networks as needed to maximize
the use of existing water systems (CFAF 1.0 billion).
3.        Estimates of the water surcharges transferred to the sector funds
for servicing the sectoral debt have been carried out under two scenarios.
In a first scenario, it is assumed that, in the absence of sectoral reforms
of tariff and investment policies, the amount of the water surcharge would
have been maximized by maintaining the water tariff at the level reached in
1986 (in real terms) and that no additional investment will take place. The
second scenario gives the actual amount of the water surcharges under the
pricing framework resulting from the reforms.
4.        The allocation of water tariffs between SODECI and the sector funds
under the two scenarios is given in the following tables



- 101 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 3
Tebie 6.1: Allocation of Water Tarifft (CFAF/68)
1080 67 1986 S8   1889  1890
Scenario 1 (without sectoral
1. SODECI Compensation
.Operation and maintenonc        148   150   184   184   184
.Investente                        0     0     0     0     0
Subtotal               148   160   184   184   184
2. water surcharge (FNH/FA        144   145   185   180   190
Total Water Rate                  2     25   299   814   824
Scenario 2 (with seoWral
1. SODECI Compensation
.Op.ratlon and mlaitenance       148   160  1IL   184   184
.!nvestmento                       0     0    28    29    29
Subtotal               148   150   162   168   168
2. Wstor surcharge (FNH/FNA)     144  182  106   101   95 \I
Total Water Rate                  292   282   287   264   268
I Industrial tariff dcrese scheoled In July 1990.
5.         The analynis of past water sales showed that the price elasticity
of water consumption and. particularly industrial water consumption is
significantly different from zero. Therefore, water consumption under the
first scenario that assumes kI7gher tariff levels should have been lower than
the actual consumption observed in 1987-1989. Regressions over the period
1974-1988 have provided the following estimates of the price elasticity of
water consumption:
Industrial consumetion (IC):
Los ICt ° 0.2  + 0.71 Lao   t - 0.47 Log PIt   R2 . 0.969
(0.027) (0.22)       (0.05)         Standard Error
Where: CDP a Gross Domestic Product (constant pries); PI a Industrial block rate (deflated)
Total consumption (C)t
Lao TCt u 0.468 + 0.86 Log OPt, * 0.45 Log CONt - 0.21 Lg Pt,  2 a 0.992
(0.024) (0.07)       (0.08)         (0.08)     Standard Error
Where: CDP a  Cro Domestic Product (constnt prices); COMN a Average numbr of connections;
P a Average tariff (deflated)
6.         Estimates of vater  ansumption over the period 1987-1990 under the
first scenario (without reforms) have been computed by reference to the above
price elasticity of - 0.2 for total consumption. They also took into account
a reduced growth in the number of service connections (4,000 connections per
year).



102 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 3
7.        The financial Impact of the sectoral refonms on the revenues of the
public sector La suuuariued In the following table.  Over the period going
from October 1987, date of the Initiation of the refotms, to the end of 1990,
the accumulated losses In water surchargee are estimated to ClAF 17.4 billion
(US$61 million).
Table 6.2: FIeaaetl lsc1 .1 Setor Reform (CFAF blI IIon)
Le    1667  LaEf  ,1f9 3190
Wator sold (ml IIton as)
.Scenrle 1                      70.6    . 77. .2  77.4  77.4
.Sconarlo 2                     70.6  77.8   0.?  68.2  86.2
Wer surharge r s
.Scsaarlo 1                     11.0  11.8  12.0  18.9  14.7
.Sconarlo 2                     11.0  10.2   8.5   0.4  8.1
Difft rec                         0.0  1.1   4.8   5.6  6.6
Accumultion                        .M         14 ,; .3     - 4



- 103 _
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
SUPPLEMENTARY LOAN DATA
Section Is   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project Identification             March 1984
(b)  Preparation Responsibility         Governmentliank
(c)  Bank Appraisal Mission             May 1985
(d)  Post Appraisal Mission I           November 1985
(e)  Post Appraisal Mission II          July 1987
(f)  Post Appraisal Mission III         July 1988
(g) Negotiations                        July 1989
(h)  Board Presentation                 June 1990
(i)  Planned Date of Effectiveness      July 1990
Section II: Special Imolementation Actions
Working with Supervisory Board appointed by Government to monitor
progress in the Implementation of the adjustment program.
Section IlIs Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of Board Presentation
None
(b) Conditions of Effectiveness and First Tranche Release (US$50 million)
None except standard conditions.
tc)  Conditions of Second Tranche Release (US$30 million)
(i)      Satisfactory Execution of the Concession Contract Provisions
regarding Tariff Revisions, Investment Program and Assets
Registers;
(ii)      Transfer of at least 2,500 Working Water Points to Villagers;
Wii)       Preparation of Investment Program for Rural Water Supply;



- 104 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
(Uv)      Initiation of a study on the prospective of water supply
systems for rural communities;
(v)      Reduction of the Indu3trial Block Rate to CFAF 350/nP and
parallel reduction of the groundwater extraction fee;
(vi)      Issue of the decree on groundwater extraction, including a
system of drilling notification and the preparation of the
inventory of private wells;
(vii)      Completion or the first phase of the financial restructuring
of the sector.



- 105 -
A.INEX 8
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF COTE DIVOIRE
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
Document Title                      AISC Reference
A. Reports by SAFEGE
ttude institutionnelle des secteurs de l'eau et
de l'assainissement:
-- Analyse de la situation actuelle (September 1984)       D 29 483
-- Analyse prospective et propositions                     D 29 484
organisationnelles (May 1985)
-- Analyse des variantes (November 1985)                   D 29 485
-- Rapport general de synthase (November 1985)             D 29 486
B. Reports by DCGTx:
PrOt d'ajustement du secteur de l'eau et
de l'assainissement:
-- Secteur de l'eau: mise A jour de la situation           D 29 487
financi&re (June 1986)
-- Observations sur les contrats actuels de concession et D 29 488
d'affermage (December 1986)
-- Restructuration de la dette du FNH (January 1987)       D 29 489
-- Hydraulique villageoise (May 1987)                      D 29 490
-- Situation et consolidation financiares (January 1988)  D 29 491
-- Resultats de l'enquete hydraulique villageoise          D 29 492
(March 1988)
-- Restructuration hydraulique villageoise - Methodologie D 29 493
et objectifs (March 1988)
C. Selected Documents on Rural Water Supply:
-- ttude de l'entretien des points d'eau villageois        D 29 494
by Geomines (January 1983)
-- Operation Eau Toujourst Mode operatoire                 D 29 495
by Rasel Tecbnoservices (December 1984)
-- Politique d'entretien des points d'eau villageois       D 29 496
by Direction de l'Eau (February 1985)



- 106 -
ANNEX1 8
Page 2 of 2
Document Title                      AISC Reference
Rapport d'etude sur l'hydraulique villageoise en         D 29 497
d'Ivoire (pompes, sensibilisation organisation)
by Rasel Technoservices (February 1985)
tvaluation de la deuxzime phase du prograxze             D 29 498
d'hydraulique villageoise du Conseil de l'Bntente
by BRGHIIURGEAPICINAM (April 1986)
Post *valuation des interventions du service national  D 29 499
d'education sanitaire en hydraulique villageoise
by BURGEAP (April 1986)
Rapport d'actions pilotes sur la rentabilisation du    D 29 500
point d'eau by Rasel Technoservices - (October 1986)
'hydraulique villageoise en COt2 d'lvoire by SODECI   D 29 501
(February 1987)
D. SODECI Contractual Documents:
Convention de concession des services de distribution  221.138 (A) to (N)
d'eau et d'assainissement d'Abidjan - Original
Contract and 13 amendments - (1959-1982)
Alimentation en eau potable urbaine et villageoise       221.137 (A) to (E)
dans lee centres de l'linterieur - Convention et
cahier des charges d'affermage - Original Contract
and Amendments - (1974-1984)
Concession du service de distribution publique urbaine D 29 502
d'eau potable en CMte d'Ivoire (October 1987)
Contrat d'esploitation et d'entretien du r6seau          D 29 948
d'assainissement d'Abidjan (April 1988)



-    >    r          4    6        I             ~~~~~~~BU RK I NA  F AS O
146,,~t.  f_             ,6-               ; E       
s  /;--tswe_O:\s 44 108         F t     \t                   
GUIE    ut I            44   o  >i-  60  i-92   9                           -         3702
~~~~~~~~3    462  --'--e-'n\ 
.S,<ij8E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OlS _5 
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 6.r666                                y
WATE SUPPL SYTM
ADMINISRAnVE IVISION AND LCANON O SYS7 
O.           194e                              X        
.72,~~~~~~ I 86                                               63S   o 
3~   ~             a     tZ')                    1
272~~~~~~E , . CEDY1  
'°      5     ULMIR5   t0°i                                                   'Adl:    
'''_  (---   104   GHN
4_                665                                                              N. 2~ir  .............'- u'fC,
_   ro_ >  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~713
3         __S.~~_#__J      _         73                                                            _



