Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12635
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3240-IVC)
DECEMBER 22, 1993
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Infrastructure Operations Division
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Cur ency Unit = CFA Franc
Annual Averages, CFAF per US DolLar
1987 - CFAF 301
1988 - CFAF 298
1989 - CFAF 317
1990 - CFAF 272
1991 - CFAF 284
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31 (Government)
October 1 - September 30 (SODECI)
SYSTEM OF WE!GHTS ANn MEASURES (METRIC2
1 meter (m) = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km) = 0.62 mile (m)
1 Liter (l) = 0.26 US gallons
1 cubic meter (m) = 35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 liter per capita per day (Lcd) = 0.26 US gallons per capita per day
ABBREVIAT!ONS AND ACRONYMS
AEP                  Abidjan Environmental Protection Prcject / Projet de protection de l'environnement d'Abidjan
ASAL                 AgricuLture Sector Adjustment Loan / Pret d'ajustement du secteur de lagriculture
CAA                  Debt Amortization Fund / Caisse autonome d'Amortissement
CFD                  French Aid Agency / Caisse francaise de developpement
DCGTx                Office for Supervision and Control of Public Works; an agency within the Presidency of the
Republic / Direction et Contr6le des grands Travaux
DE                   Water Directorate / Direction de l'Eau
ESAL                 Energy Sector Adjustment Loan / Pr6t d'ajustement du secteur de lenergie
FNA                 National Sanitation Fund / Fonds national de l'Assainissement
FNE                 National Water Fund / Fonds national de l'Eau
FNH                 National Water Works Fund / Fonds national de t'HydrauLique
MTF                  Mediumi Term Framework for Financial and Economic Policies / Cadre de politique 6conomique et
financiere a moyen terme
MTPT                 Ministry of Public Works and Transportation / Minist6re des Travaux publics et des Transports
0 & M                Operation and Maintenance
RWS                  Rural Water Supply / Hydraulique villageoise
SAUR                 Societe d'am6nagement urbain et rural (Private French Water Company)
SODECI               Ivoirian Water Distribution Company / Soci6t6 de distribution d'eau de Cote d'lvoire
UwS                  Urban Water Supply / Hydraulique urbaine
WASAL                Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Adjustment Loan / Pret d'ajustement du secteur de l'eau
et de l'assainissement
The CFA Franc exchange rate is fixed at a rate of 50: 1 with the French Franc.  The latter is a
floating currency.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 22, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Cote d'Ivoire
Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Adjustment Loan
(Loan 3240-IVC)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Cote d'Ivoire - Water
Supply and Sanitation Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan 3240-IVC)" prepared by the
Infrastructure Operations Division, Occidental and Central Africa Department of
the Africa Regional Office. The Borrower has not provided Part II.
The Sector Program was prepared and the Loan made in support of a
stabilization program. The sector program objectives were: (i) to restore the
availability of basic rural water services; (ii) to improve planning and
sustainability of investments; (iii) to improve control of costs and efficiency
of pricing; (iv) to strengthen the protection of water resources and of the
environment; and  (v) to restore  the financial autonomy of the sector.   The
Program was a first in the water sector in that it uses an adjustment instrument
with up-front sector policy conditionalities.
The physical, institutional, regulatory, and cost recovery
enhancement objectives of the SECAL have been broadly accomplished and its
poverty focus has been favorable. However, the measures used for the part of the
financial restructuring aimed at settling the arrears of the public sector to
SODECI were not a permanent solution. As arrears have continued to mount, SODECI
has withheld funds from FNE whose only alternative is to get advances from the
Treasury in order to continue servicing the debt of the sector.
On the basis of the PCR, the program's overall outcome is rated as
satisfactory and its institutional development as substantial; the sustainability
of sector development continues to be uncertain because the solution given so far
to the arrears problem is precarious.
The PCR is informative but does not deal with the measures needed to
enhance sustainability of sector investments.
An audit is planned.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onLy in the performance of
their officiaL duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLMTION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(Loan 3240-IVC)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .............  i
Evaluation Summary ..  .........................................                                             ii
PART 1: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . .1...... 
A.       Project Identity       ...................1.................... 
B.      Background   ....................1..................... 
Macroeconomic Framework ................................    1
Sector Background  ..........                   ...........................                     2
C.      Program  Objectives and Description  ..........................    4
D.      Program  Design and Organization ............................    4
Initial Design . ........................................  4
Gradual Change of Focus .................................    5
Impact of the Macroeconomic Dialogue .........................    5
Linkage with Other Bank Operations ..........................    5
E.       Program  Implementation ..................................                                      6
Pre-Board Implementation .................................    6
Tranche Release Conditionalities and Compliance  ..................    6
Borrower Performance .........                     ..........................                   8
Bank Performance ......................................    8
Disbursement and Procurement ..............................    9
Reporting and Auditing ...................................    9
F.       Results  .      ...........................................                                     9
Urban Water Supply .....................................   10
Rural Water Supply .....................................   10
Sanitation and Environment .........                   .......................   11
Financial Restructuring and Financial Discipline ...................   11
Macroeconomic Impact .             ..................................   11
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
G.    Sustainability .........................................  12
H.         Lessons Learned  ...........  ..  ..  ..  ..  .                            ..  ..  ..  ..  .    ..  ..  ..  .   .   .    12
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....... 14
PART  III:  LOAN   DATA   ........................................    15
Calendar of Key  Events  ..................................    15
Related  Bank  Loans .....................................                                                              15
Cumulative Loan Disbursement ..............................  16
Mission Data  .........................................                                                                 16
Staff Inputs  ..........................................                                                                17
ANNEX:   Matrix  of Policy  Measures and  Actions   ........................    18
ATTACHMENT
Second Tranche Release Memorandum



REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(Loan 3240-IVC)
PROGRAM COMIPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
1.        This is the Program Completion Report (PCR) for the Water Supply and Sanitation Sector
Adjustment Loan (WASAL) to Cote d'Ivoire for which Loan 3240-IVC in the amount of US$80.0 million
equivalent was approved by the Executive Directors on June 28, 1990 and became effective on June 29,
1990. The closing date of the Loan was scheduled on December 31, 1991. The last disbursement
occurred on January 22, 1991. This is the first SECAL implemented in the water and sanitation sector.
2.        The PCR was prepared by the staff of the Infrastructure Division of the Occidental and
Central Africa Department (AFIIN). At the time this report was issued, the Borrower had not yet
submitted Part II.
3.        This report is based, inter alia, on the Project Files, the Report and Recommendation of the
President to the Executive Directors, the Loan Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between
the Bank and the Borrower and internal Bank memoranda.






REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(Loan 3240-IVC)
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Macroeconomic and Sectoral Background
i.           After a long period of sustained growth and external and internal stability, the
economy of Cote d'Ivoire has been for some time in a state of prolonged crisis triggered by the sharp
decline in the terms of trade, compounded by an appreciation of the real effective exchange rate.
Real GDP has declined by more than a quarter since 1986. Faced with this situation, the Government
launched in mid-1989 a stabilization program, aimed at restoring control over the Government's
finances by the end of 1990. The stabilization program was supported by an 18-month IMF stand-by
arrangement, approved in November 1989, and by three Bank-financed SECALs in the agriculture,
energy, and the water supply and sanitation sectors, approved between October 1989 and June 1990.
The main objective of the stabilization program was to reduce the fiscal deficit and to start clearing
up domestic and external arrears while carrying out structural reforms in the sectors covered by the
three SECAL operations (paras. 1-3).
ii.          Substantial progress was achieved in implementing the structural reforms and reducing
the fiscal deficit. However, the stabilization program did not achieve all its objectives, in particular
those related to the reduction of domestic and external arrears.  This failure precluded the
disbursement of the last tranche of the IMF program in December 1990. In August 1991, the
Government adopted the second phase of the program, known as the Medium Term Framework for
Financial and Economic Policies (MTF), whose timely implementation is seen by the Bank as a
prerequisite to the resumption of growth and creditworthiness in the next few years (paras. 4-5).
iii.         From 1974 to 1983, the development of the water supply and sanitation sector
benefitted from investments amounting to US$500 million (6 percent of total public investments).
Eighty-five percent of those investments were financed by external and internal loans. Urban water
services were extended to more than 150 urban centers, while 13,500 handpumps were installed in
8,000 villages.  Sewerage services were made available to about 35 percent of the Abidjan
population. The impressive absorption capacity of the sector stemmed from an unusual institutional
framework whereby: (a) SODECI, a private company with a majority of Ivoirian shareholders,
operated all urban water piped systems under a lease contract, maintained all rural water facilities
equipped with handpumps and the sewerage and drainage systems of Abidjan; (b) investments were
planned and executed by the Water Directorate (DE) of the Ministry of Public Works; and (c) two
sector funds, the National Water Works Fund (FNH) and the National Sanitation Fund (FNA)
managed sector finances (paras. 6-7).
iv.          The development of the sector came to a standstill after 1983.  Urban water
consumption and sales declined under the concurrent shocks generated by the depressed
macroeconomic situation and by successive tariff increases which brought the water rates for
industrial customers well above the long-term marginal cost. The financial burden of the sector rose
excessively as investments had been often based on over-optimistic demand forecasts and costly
standards. Sectoral deficits grew to about US$75 million in 1987. This financial crisis resulted from



- ii -
basic weaknesses of the institutional arrangements, of the regulatory framework and of the cost
recovery policies. At the same time, an exhaustive survey of the 13,500 rural water points showed
that 50 percent of them did not supply water or were not used by villagers (paras. 8-1 1).
Program Design and Objectives
v.             The Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Adjustment Loan (WASAL), the subject of
this report, took an exceptionally long time to prepare. Project files show, on the Bank's side, a
gradual change of focus during preparation, partly in reaction to Government's indecision to proceed
along the initial design of the operation and, later, a growing concern to tailor the timing of critical
processing steps to the macroeconomic dialogue with C6te d'Ivoire. On the Ivoirian side, an early
consensus between the various partners was shaken by the intervention of the Office for Supervision
and Control of Public Works--DCGTx, placed under the Presidency--which brought a new perspective
of sectoral issues and was determined to reduce sectoral costs (paras. 14-18).
vi.            The Government's Letter of Development Policy for the WASAL identified "the need
for institutional reforms placing genuine accountability on the various partners of the sector and for
changing the development strategy which should be based on State disengagement and increased
privatization". The objectives of the sectoral adjustment program were: (a) to restore the availability
of basic services in rural areas throughout Cote d'Ivoire; (b) to improve planning and sustainability
of investments; (c) to improve control of costs and efficiency of pricing; (d) to strengthen the
protection of water resources and of the environment; and (e) to restore the financial autonomy of
the sector (para. 12).
vii.           To this effect, the program incorporated a comprehensive set of reforms: (a) a new
institutional framework based on increased privatization of urban services and community
management of rural facilities; (b) introduction of efficient pricing of urban water and of full recovery
of maintenance costs in rural areas; (c) establishment of regulations and controls on private extraction
of groundwater and on disposal of domestic and industrial wastewater; and (d) implementation of a
new financing strategy and restructuring of sector finances (para. 13).
Implementation Experience
viii.          The actual implementation of the program supported by the WASAL reforms began
in December 1987. Several key institutional and pricing policy reforms had been approved up front
by the Government prior to negotiations, namely: (a) signing of a concession contract giving SODECI
investment-related responsibilities in the urban water supply sector and shifting all commercial risks
to the concessionaire; (b) termination of SODECI's lease contract for rural water points and decision
to transfer maintenance responsibilities of rural water points to village communities; (c) definition of
a new tariff structure and an initial reduction of urban water rates; (d) adoption of a new legal
framework for the protection of groundwater resources; (e) abolition of FNH and FNA and creation
of FNE (para. 21).
ix.            The Loan became effective on June 29, 1990. The second tranche was released as
anticipated on December 3, 1990, uponI fulfillment of all the specific conditions, geared to monitor
effectiveness in implementing sectoral reforms, including: (a) the effective transfer of at least 2,500
water points to villagers; (b) the reduction of the industrial block water rate; (c) the completion of
the first phase of the sector's financial restructuring (para. 23).



- iii -
x.            The effective implementation of the Program resulted from a strong Government
commitment to the sector reforms and also from the positive response of the private sector and of the
rural communities. The slower pace of execution of the financial restructuring of sector institutions
reflects the difficulties of the stabilization program to reduce internal arrears. However, the prospect
of an imminent release of the second tranche boosted the decision-making process (paras. 28-30).
xi.           The WASAL was a model of a quick-disbursing operation. Given the protracted
preparation period, the standard conditions of effectiveness were fulfilled very swiftly and twenty
percent of the loan, i.e., the Special Account, was disbursed within twenty-four hours of Board
approval. The second tranche was entirely disbursed by January 22, 1991, less than seven months
after Board approval.  CAA experienced difficulties in collecting enough eligible invoices for
justifying disbursements under three simultaneous adjustment operations. The provision of the loan
agreement limiting the eligibility of imports of foodstuffs and petroleum products to 20 percent of
the loan amount was eliminated from the agreements of subsequent SECALs (para. 34).
xii.          CAA was unable to provide the Bank with a satisfactory audit report until July 1992.
To avoid a repetition of such shortcomings, Bank provisions regarding audits have been tightened,
thus linking disbursement of tranches to the availability of timely audits. Also, accounting procedures
of CAA have since been strengthened and detailed terms of reference were prepared for the audits
of subsequent SECALs. The ceiling for the use of SOEs was reduced from US$1 million to
US$500,000. (para 37).
Results
xiii.         Four of the five main objectives of the WASAL were achieved, allowing sectoral
development to resume in urban as well as rural areas. The fifth objective, namely the restoration
of the financial autonomy of FNE may now be regarded as questionable, even if the relevant
conditionality had been met at the time of the release of the second tranche (para. 38).
xiv.          The negotiation of the concession contract, led by DCGTx, resulted in a 20 percent
decrease of SODECI's remuneration, which, in turn, allowed to reduce water rates by 20 percent and
to allocate about US$0.10/m3 for financing SODECI's investment program. From 1988 to 1992,
investment expenditures by SODECI amounted to US$38 million. Investments were devoted to
expanding the distribution networks and SODECI constructed and self-financed 70,000 free service
connections, which matches the pace reached during the economic boom. Under the adjustment
program, however, the expansion of piped water services benefitted the poorer strata of the urban
population and average investment cost per connection was sharply reduced (paras. 39 & 41).
xv.           From  1988 to 1992, water consumption grew at an annual rate of 3 percent,
compared with the 9 percent reduction of the Ivoirian GDP over the same period and with the 1
percent annual decline of water consumption observed before the adjustment (para. 40).
xvi.          The availability of rural water services was restored in more than 7,400 villages. The
total cost of transferring water points to the communities (training, rehabilitation, community
development, supervision and operating costs of DE) amounted to US$10 million (including US$2.5
million financed by the Government), i.e. about US$2.50 per person covered.  The annual
maintenance cost of a handpump decreased from US$195 to less than US$70. No pressure was
exerted to enroll communities and most of the implementation choices were left to the communities.
(paras 42-43).



- lv -
xvii.         The contractual arrangements for the operation and maintenance of the sewerage and
drainage systems should evolve towards a more dynamic format creating real incentives and
accountability of the operator, such as a lease contract. This is a weak point of the program, which
should have included establishing a sewerage connection fee billed and collected by the operator of
the networks (para. 44).
xviii.        The WASAL also provided for the establishment of a comprehensive legal framework
for the abstraction of groundwater resources by industrial users. It is felt, however, that the level
of the user fees is excessive (about US$0.75/m3) and should be revised (para. 46).
xix.          The final settlement of arrears between SODECI and the Government, which was
scheduled six months after the release of the second tranche, did not take place. On the contrary,
public customers continued to accumulate arrears. In January 1992, SODECI, facing public arrears
of more than US$72 million, obtained a waiver of its contractual obligation to transfer part of the
revenues to the FNE, which endured until a recent (March 1993) compensation of cross-debts. This
constitutes a return to practices observed before the WASAL with the following shortcomings: (a)
the debt service of the sector has to be supported by CAA and eventually by the Budget; and (b)
public customers who no longer pay their bills have no incentives to control their consumption (para.
47).
xx.           The thrust to control and reduce factor costs initiated under the WASAL was also
applied to the electricity sector under the ESAL, which followed the privatization avenue opened by
urban water services. The poverty impact of the Program has been substantial because the policy
reforms helped: (a) redirect investments to develop services to the poor in urban areas through the
social connections program; and (b) restore basic services to about four million people in the rural
communities (paras. 49-50).
Sustainability
xxi.          SODECI demonstrated its ability to adjust to external shocks and to the changes of
the economic environment, before, during and after the WASAL. There is no question that the
system of urban water services is sustainable (para. 51).
xxii.         The transfer of rural facilities to communities represented a major challenge. The
response of the private sector (repairers, reconditioners and suppliers of spare parts) has been
impressive. It has to be noted, however, that village committees remain fragile, particularly in the
largest communities where social cohesion is low and in the southern part of the country benefitting
from ample surface water resources. Recent surveys estimated the availability rate of the rural
handpumps at 83 percent, eighteen months after the completion of the transfer--against only 33
percent for the pumps of villages which declined to participate in the operation (para. 52).
xxiii.        The future of the FNE appears compromised and its abolition should be considered.
Its debt servicing functions could be entirely taken over by CAA. Direct cost recovery of the
maintenance costs of the sanitation networks under a lease contract would then eliminate the last
raison d'etre of the FNE, i.e. its role as recipient and provider of funds for the maintenance contract.
There is, however, a fundamental difference between the present financial situation of the sector and
the one prevailing in 1987. The sector was not financially viable in 1987, as its financial needs
exceeded its revenues. The sector, due to the change of financing strategy, is now in a position to
cover its costs and to self-finance significant investments in urban areas (paras. 53-54).



Findings and Lessons Learned
xxiv.         The effectiveness of a sectoral adjustment program is best ensured whenever policy
changes take place sufficiently in advance of loan approval. This enables (a) internalization of the
reform process; and (b) early concentration on implementation issues. In this respect, the long
preparation of the WASAL and the delays incurred before negotiations and Board approval turned
out to be beneficial by granting the additional time required for fine-tuning the implementation of the
reforms. Thus, once the WASAL was approved, disbursements took place in almost record time
(para. 22).
xxv.          The existence of substantial undisbursed amounts under the Second Water Supply
Project allowed financing of priority activities (the transfer of rural water points) supporting the
policy reforms. This association of a SECAL and of an ongoing investment loan is a practical
alternative to an hybrid loan (para. 20).
xxvi.         The Bank's decision to link the processing of the SECALs with the development of
the macroeconomic framework was appropriate. In view of the unusual features of the processing
of the WASAL, the weight assigned in loan conditionalities to measuring progress in implementing
sectoral reforms was equally relevant (para. 31).
xxvii.        CAA did not request the Bank to replenish the Special Account of the Loan. It is
quite apparent that the establishment of a Special Account was not justified in this case. The Ivoirian
currency is convertible and 100 percent of the eligible imports under the WASAL were prefinanced
by the importers (para. 34).
xxviii.       The Ivoirian experience of privatization of urban water services confirmed that the
private sector has limited interest in purchasing existing water facilities and in financing investments
from its own resources (para. 15). The private sector, however, is keen to operate public facilities-it
should then bear the full commercial risk--and also to program and execute investments self-financed
from water sales. The technical supervision of the private sector may be left to a ministerial
department; the latter should not be the sole regulator, as it usually lacks the competencies required
to negotiate remunerations and is also deprived of financial incentives and accountability. An
independent and cost-conscious body is better suited for this negotiation (para. 51).
xxix.         The fragmentation of investment-related responsibilities led to an overall lack of
accountability. The cost-effectiveness of urban water investments increased dramatically when
SODECI took over planning, execution and financing responsibilities. This reform was made
possible by the radical change of the financing strategy--from exclusive reliance on borrowing to self-
financing (paras. 9 & 41).
xxx.          Centralized maintenance of scattered rural facilities is not sustainable, even if it is
carried out by a private company. Community management of rural water points is the only answer
to maintenance issues in West Africa. Communities must be entirely free to choose their revenue
collection systems and their repairers (paras. 11 & 43).
xxxi.         The financial restructuring of the sector has, however, been less successful, as the
Government accumulated arrears which jeopardized the very existence of the National Water Fund.
This outcome confirms the vulnerability of the sectoral investment funds backed by earmarked
resources. One may also wonder whether the periodic recourse to compensation to settle cross-debts



- vi -
between governments and utilities is not an addictive process, eventually generating a lack of
discipline and control of public consumption (para. 47).



REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3240-IVC)
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. PROGRAM REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. PROJECT IDENTITY
Project Name:        Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Adjustment Loan (WASAL)
Loan Number:         3240-IVC
RVP Unit:            Africa Region
Country:             C6te d'Ivoire
Sector:              Water Supply and Sanitation
B. BACKGROUND
Macroeconomic Framework
1.           After a long period of sustained growth and external and internal stability, the
economy of Cote d'Ivoire is now in a state of prolonged crisis triggered by the sharp decline in the
terms of trade since 1986.  This deterioration of the terms of trade was compounded by an
appreciation of the real effective exchange rate of Cote d'Ivoire, that is now over 30 percent higher
than its level of mid-1985. Real GDP has declined by more than a quarter since 1986. The fiscal
and balance of payments current account deficits reached very high levels (respectively 16 percent
and 11 percent of GDP in 1989). Delays in adjusting government expenditures to the external shocks
resulted in a rapid increase of the level of both the external and the internal public and publicly
guaranteed debt. External and internal debt reached 125 percent of GDP and 37 percent respectively
at year-end 1990. The resulting debt service burden is unsustainable and the Government of Cote
d'Ivoire is unable to meet its debt obligations.
2.            Faced with this situation, the Government launched in mid-1989 an adjustment
program consisting of two phases: a stabilization phase, aiming at restoring control over the
Government's finances by the end of 1990, and a second phase aiming at restoring sustainable
growth, international competitiveness, and ultimately the Government's creditworthiness.  As
explained below, the sectoral adjustment operation that is the subject of this report was designed as
part of the Bank's support for the stabilization phase of this program.
3.            The stabilization phase was supported by a 18-month IMF stand-by arrangement,
approved in November 1989, and by three World Bank financed SECALs in the agriculture, energy
and water supply and sanitation sectors, approved between October 1989 and June 1990. The main
objective of the stabilization program was to reduce the fiscal deficit and to start clearing up domestic
and external arrears while carrying out structural reforms in the sectors covered by the three SECAL



operations. The three sectoral adjustment operations aimed at increasing the overall efficiency of the
relevant sectors and also at contributing, indirectly, to an improvement of the economy's overall
competitiveness by reducing the cost of such important inputs as energy and water.
4.            Substantial progress has been achieved in implementing the structural reforms and
reducing the fiscal deficit.  The primary budget deficit (that measures the difference between
government revenues and government expenditures other than interest payments) was reduced from
7.6 percent of GDP in 1989 to 2.1 percent of GDP in 1990. The agricultural reforms supported by
the Agricultural Sectoral Adjustment Loan (ASAL) played a major role in this achievement by
reducing substantially the deficit of the Cocoa and Coffee Price Stabilization Fund in 1990.
However, the stabilization program did not achieve all its objectives, in particular those related to the
reduction of domestic and external arrears. This failure precluded the disbursement of the last
tranche of the IMF program in December 1990. In September 1991, the IMF approved a new stand-
by arrangement to support a revised program for 1991-92.
5.            In August 1991, the Government adopted the second phase of the program, known
as the Medium Term Framework for Financial and Economic Policies (MTF). The MTF sets forth
an important program of structural reforms aiming at restoring the competitiveness of the Ivoirian
economy and thereby returning it to a path of sustainable growth. The objective is to reach a
sustainable growth rate of 5 percent per year by 1996. The Government's program contains specific
policy actions in several key areas:  Public finance, monetary and credit policies, external
competitiveness, promotion of internal competition, restructuring of the financial sector, human
resources development, and management of public sector resources. In addition, the program will
continue the major reforms in the agriculture and the energy sectors that were supported by the
SECALs mentioned in the previous paragraph. Three additional SECALs were approved by the Bank
between October and December 1991 in support of the Government's MTF, whose timely
implementation is seen by the Bank as a prerequisite to the resumption of growth and to
creditworthiness in the next few years.
Sector Background
6.            The development of the Water Supply and Sanitation Sector of CMte d'Ivoire had been
based on an original institutional framework whereby: (i) SODECI, a private company with a
majority of Ivoirian shareholders, operated all urban water piped systems under a lease contract,
maintained all rural water facilities equipped with handpumps and maintained the sewerage and
drainage systems of Abidjan; (ii) investments were planned and executed by the Water Directorate
(DE) of the Ministry of Public Works; and (iii) two sector funds, the National Water Works Fund
(FNH) and the National Sanitation Fund (FNA) managed sector finances. SODECI billed urban
customers, collected bills, retained part of the proceeds (a fixed amount per mi3, periodically
renegotiated with DE) to cover O&M costs and transferred the balance to the sector funds. A
progressive block rate structure was established.
7.            From 1974 to 1983, the coverage of urban water services was extended to more than
150 urban centers and about 90 large villages, while 13,500 handpumps were installed in 8,000
villages. Water consumption grew at a 8 percent annual rate. Sewerage services were available to
about 35 percent of the Abidjan population. Sectoral investments amounted to about US$500 million,
i.e. 6 percent of the total public investment over the period. Water tariffs were regularly increased



- 3 -
to cover O&M costs and the debt service requirements of the sector (including the debt incurred to
finance rural water supply investments and sanitation investments).
8.            The development of the sector came to a standstill after 1983.  Urban water
consumption and sales declined under the concurrent shocks generated by the depressed
macroeconomic situation and by successive tariff increases which brought the average rates well
above the long-term marginal costs. At the same time, the financial burden of the sector rose
excessively as investments had been often financed with medium-term and commercial credits, based
on over-optimistic demand forecasts and costly standards. Sectoral deficits, growing to about US$75
million in 1987 translated into growing support from the Budget and into a complete loss of financial
autonomy. This major financial crisis actually resulted from basic weaknesses of the institutional
arrangements, of the regulatory framework and of the cost recovery policies.
9.            Urban Water Supply. Although the operating performance of SODECI had been
commendable, the fragmentation of responsibilities led to a lack of accountability of the various
partners. DE was not financially liable for its investment decisions. SODECI's remuneration for
O&M was periodically revised by reference to DE's forecasts and was subject to provisions entitling
the company to be compensated for the difference between actual and projected sales, which reduced
the extent of the commercial risk borne by the private operator. In addition, the bulk of tariff
increases befell large users, mainly industrial customers. The latter reduced their consumption or
shifted away from public supply to private wells tapping the same water resources.
10.           Sanitation. Investment planning in the sanitation subsector suffered from conflicts
arising between various governmental agencies (DE and the Office for Supervision and Control of
Public Works--DCGTx--placed under the Presidency). These conflicts, compounded with technical
differences on the choice of the solution for final discharge of liquid wastes, and a low priority given
to sewerage works in general, delayed the completion of the sewer interceptor and of the execution
of facilities required to protect the fragile ecology of the Abidjan lagoon. In the absence of an
adequate solution, concerns over the environmental impact of the sewerage system led to stop its
expansion after 1984.
11.           Rural Water SupDIy.  SODECI had been unable to duplicate its outstanding
performance in managing urban water supply in rural water operations. An exhaustive survey of the
13,500 rural water points carried out in the summer of 1987 by DCGTx showed that 50 percent of
them did not supply water or were not used by villagers. The poor condition and use of rural
facilities was due to: (i) the inadequacy of the centralized maintenance system that induced costly and
delayed repairs; (ii) erratic cost recovery policies which went from total gratuity to the abrupt
imposition of an annual maintenance fee without any effort to create understanding among the rural
population and local leaders; and (iii) the absence of villagers' participation in the management of
maintenance activities which resulted in a general lack of sense of ownership. Aware of these
failures, DE had launched in 1984 a comprehensive training and community development program
financed under the Second Water Supply Project (Ln. 2130-IVC, approved in 1982) to assist the
communities in taking over the maintenance of handpumps, but the contractual framework in
existence at the time prevented the generalization of this experience.



- 4 -
C. PROGRAM OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
12.          The Letter of Development Policy (LDP) of the WASAL issued by the Government
in March 1989 identified "the need for institutional reforms placing genuine accountability on the
various partners of the sector and for changing the development strategy which should be based on
State disengagement and increased privatization" (LDP para. 11.3). The President's Report (Report
No. 5089-IVC) listed the following objectives for the WASAL: (i) to restore the availability of basic
rural services; (ii) to improve planning and sustainability of investments; (iii) to improve control of
costs and efficiency of pricing; (iv) to strengthen the protection of water resources and of the
environment; and (v) to restore the financial autonomy of the sector.
13.          To this effect, the WASAL incorporated a comprehensive set of reforms of the
institutional, regulatory and pricing framework of the sector and of its financing strategy, which is
detailed in the attached Annex and can be summarized as follows: (i) a new institutional framework
based on Government retrenchment through increased privatization of urban services and community
management of rural facilities; (ii) introduction of efficient pricing of urban water and of full
recovery of maintenance costs in rural areas; (iii) establishment of regulations and controls on private
extraction of groundwater and on disposal of domestic and industrial wastewater; and
(iv) implementation of a new financing strategy and restructuring of sector finances.
D. PROGRAM DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
14.          This adjustment operation, the first ever made in the water and sanitation sector, took
an exceptionally long time to prepare (almost seven years between the first mention in files and Board
presentation). Project files show on the Bank side a gradual change of focus during preparation,
partly in reaction to Government's indecision to proceed along the original design of the operation
and, later, a growing concern to tailor the timing of critical processing steps to the macroeconomic
dialogue with Cote d'Ivoire. On the Ivoirian side, an early consensus between the various partners
was shaken by the intervention of DCGTx which brought a new perspective of sectoral issues and
was determined to reduce sectoral costs.
Initial Design
15.          Priority was initially given to streamlining sectoral responsibilities and then to
addressing the financial difficulties of the sector through the design of an innovative debt-equity swap.
SODECI would have bought back sectoral assets by taking over sectoral debts and would have been
vested of all investment-related responsibilities under a concession contract with the Government.
The Bank loan would have in turn help to replenish SODECI's working capital as sectoral revenues
in the first years of the new arrangements would have been lower than debt service requirements.
This scheme, albeit discussed in detail in the post-appraisal mission of November 1985 and supported
by various Ivoirian parties, never materialized. DCGTx, building on its strong implementation
performance in infrastructure projects, had come into the picture to claim the leadership in the
preparation of the operation, questioning the size of the financial gap in view of potential savings in
operating costs. In November 1986, SODECI itself indicated that the imbalance between the size of
the sectoral assets and its own equity created considerable risks. The company, however, was still
interested by a concession contract covering new investments.



-5-
Gradual Change of Focus
16.          Pending the settlement of the leadership issue (which actually went beyond the
WASAL and was not resolved until a Presidential letter of January 1987 gave the responsibility of
the preparation of all SECALs and of most of the investment projects to DCGTx), the Bank decided:
(i) to prepare a memorandum on the specific issues of the rural water supply subsector; (ii) to explore
interfaces between the adjustment operation and other investment projects; and (iii) to formulate a
policy matrix encompassing the three major elements of the sectoral adjustment: regulatory and
institutional framework, pricing framework and financial restructuring.
17.          The Rural Water Supply Sector Memorandum issued in May 1987 was instrumental
in convincing the Government that the centralized maintenance of water points should be replaced
by community-managed systems. The policy matrix brought forward three new proposals: (i) the
reduction of water tariffs; (ii) the transfer of rural water points to rural communities; and (iii) a new
concept of the financial restructuring of the sector, associated with new financing strategies. A
consensus over these components, as well as over the institutional framework proposed for the urban
water supply subsector emerged during the third quarter of 1987, whereas DCGTx led the
negotiations of the concession contract with SODECI.
Impact of the Macroeconomic Dialogue
18.          The design of the operation was essentially completed at the end of 1987 and the
actual implementation of the WASAL began in December 1987, at which date most of the
institutional and pricing policy reforms had been approved by the Government. Processing of the
adjustment loan, however, had to be restarted practically from scratch, due to the growing complexity
of the macroeconomic dialogue with Cote d'Ivoire. The negotiations of the WASAL (as well as of
the other SECALs) was held up until June 1989, pending agreement on the stabilization program.
One more year was required to get the final green light and the President's Report notes (para. 116)
that "following difficulties the Government had encountered with meeting a number of performance
criteria under the IMF stand-by arrangement, the Bank decided to withhold submission of the
WASAL to the Board until agreement on a new program with the IMF had been reached, which
occurred in June 1990."
19.          Those delays did not slow down the pace of implementation of sectoral reforms,
which evidences both the Government's commitment to the sectoral adjustment and the Government's
trust in the Bank's commitment to proceed with the WASAL. Another example of mutual trust is
given by the Bank's agreement to a substantial frontloading of the first tranche (US$50 million i.e.
62.5 percent of the loan amount).
Linkage with other Bank operations
20.           Two Bank-financed investment projects were closely connected to the WASAL. The
Second Water Supply Project of 1982 helped to finance the first batch of studies which revealed the
shortcomings of the existing institutional arrangements and the critical situation of sector finances.
This project also allowed to test the capacity of village communities to participate in the maintenance
of handpumps. It was agreed in 1988 to use the unspent balance of Ln. 2130-IVC to finance the
foreign exchange costs of the rehabilitation and transfer of rural water points.  The Abidjan
Environmental Protection Project (Ln. 3155-IVC, approved in January 1990) was prepared in parallel



- 6 -
with the WASAL and embodied several conditionalities relevant to the adjustment of the sanitation
subsector.
E. PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION
Pre-Board Implementation
21.           The implementation period of the WASAL did not coincide, as noted above, with the
disbursement period of the loan (June 1990 - January 1991). The attached Annex details, inter alia,
the measures and actions taken prior to negotiations, which are summarized below:
(a)    institutional and regulatory reforms: signing of a concession contract giving SODECI
investment-related responsibilities in the urban water supply sector and shifting all
commercial risks to the concessionaire; termination of SODECI's lease contract for
rural water points and decision to transfer maintenance responsibilities of rural water
points to village communities; tendering and award of the maintenance contract for
the Abidjan sewerage and drainage systems;
(b)    pricing policy reform: definition of a new tariff structure and first reduction of urban
water rates; operation and maintenance costs of rural facilities to be managed and
financed by rural communities;
(c)    environmental protection: adoption of a new legal framework for the protection of
groundwater resources;
(d)    financial strategy and financial restructuring: discontinuation of cross-subsidization
between subsectors; inventory of cross-debts; abolition of FNH and FNA and
creation of FNE.
22.           Even if the reforms were initiated early, most of them entailed a high degree of
complexity (privatization and financial restructuring) and innovation (community-based maintenance
of handpumps, total self-financing of urban water supply investments). The first progress report of
the WASAL (issued four months before Board presentation) shows that considerable efforts had to
be deployed to finalize the urban water supply investment program or to adapt the design of the
transfer of water points to the diverse reality of rural C6te d'Ivoire. In this respect, the delays
incurred before negotiations and Board approval (para. 18) allowed for the additional time required
for this fine-tuning.
Tranche Release Conditionalities and Compliance
23.           There was no specific condition of effectiveness. The second tranche was released
as anticipated on December 3, 1990, upon fulfillment of the conditions listed below (copy of the
second tranche release memorandum is attached):
(a)    satisfactory execution of the concession contract for urban water supply, particularly
of provisions regarding costs control, execution of the investment program and setup
of sectoral assets registers;



-.7 -
(b)    effective transfer of at least 2,500 water points to villagers;
(c)    furnishing to the Bank of a three-year investment program for rural water supply and
prospective methods for financing of new investments;
(d)   initiation of a study on the prospects of water supply systems for villages;
(e)    reduction of the industrial block water rate from CFAF 412/m3 to CFAF 350/m3 and
parallel reduction of the groundwater extraction fee;
(f)    adoption of the decree setting the groundwater extraction fee for industrial use,
including a system of drilling notification; and
(g)    completion of the first phase of the sector's financial restructuring.
24.           Condition (a) refers to the evaluation of the execution of SODECI's concession
contract effective since July 1988. Due to the low inflation, SODECI's compensation was not
modified during the review period. Investment expenditures by SODECI amounted to CFAF 3.9
billion as of September 30, 1990, thus consuming 87 percent of the resources collected. The bulk
of investments had been devoted to the densification of distribution networks. The inventory of assets
was completed shortly after effectiveness.
25.           The rehabilitation and transfer of all Ivoirian rural water points was the first operation
of this magnitude undertaken in West Africa. The transfer began in March 1989, following the
completion of a survey of about 14,000 handpumps and the training of 57 community development
teams of the Water Directorate and of about 600 private repairmen. As of August 31, 1990, 9,800
water points had been transferred, thus surpassing condition (b) by almost a fourfold margin. Other
conditions related to the Rural Water Supply subsector (conditions (c) and (d)) were complied with
in September 1990 and July 1990, respectively.
26.           The reduction of the industrial water rate and of the groundwater extraction fee
(condition (e)) was approved by the Government on September 19, 1990 and effective as of October
1, 1990. The decree setting the groundwater extraction fee and organizing the system of drilling
notification (condition (f)) had been approved shortly after negotiations (October 1989).
27.           Not surprisingly, the condition (g) pertaining to financial restructuring was the last
to be fulfilled. Apart from the compensation of cross-debts between FNE and SODECI (CFAF 8.9
billion or US$36 million) which occurred in February 1990, little progress had been made prior to
the final disbursement of the first tranche of the loan. The liquidation of FNH and FNA took longer
than expected and the Treasury had been reluctant to consolidate FNE arrears and above all to bring
fresh money to settle arrears on public water bills owed to SODECI. The Government, however,
acted promptly after the supervision mission of October 1990. Cross-debts between the Treasury and
the FNE were settled on October 27, 1990 by the compensation of CFAF 7.9 billion (US$32 million)
and the consolidation of CFAF 15.7 billion (US$63 million) over ten years. The payment of CFAF
5.5 billion (US$22 million) by the Treasury to SODECI on November 23, 1990 completed the first
phase of the financial restructuring, clearing the way for the release of the second tranche.



-8-
Borrower Performance
28.           The effective implementation of the WASAL resulted from a strong Government
commitment to the sector reforms and also from the positive response of the private sector and of the
rural communities. SODECI adjusted to the new institutional and regulatory framework of the urban
water supply subsector. As the termination of SODECI's lease contract in December 1987 had left
rural facilities without any caretaker, the multiplication of private maintenance initiatives that
flourished at once --well ahead of the actual start-up of the transfer to villagers-- confirmed the
willingness of rural communities to take over the water points.
29.           The transfer of rural facilities involved both force account by DE's teams and
numerous small contractors. Force account is inherently difficult to control but the independence and
clout of DCGTx, responsible for supervising the transfer, brought the efficiency and rigor required
in these activities. In this respect, DCGTx built on the experience accumulated in controlling
scattered road maintenance works carried out on force account during the Second Highway Sector
Project (Ln. 2581-IVC).
30.           The comparatively slower pace of execution of the financial restructuring reflects the
difficulties of the stabilization program to reduce internal arrears (para. 4). Also, during project
preparation, DCGTx had assumed such a preeminent role (para. 16) that it almost substituted itself
for the Ministry of Finance, which, in turn did not consider itself implicated in understandings
reached with DCGTx concerning the financial restructuring. The steering committee of the WASAL,
formally created in September 1989, never met and DCGTx apparently assumed most of its duties
until April 1990.  In April 1990, the President established the Interministerial Committee for
Economic Stabilization and Recovery with extensive powers to finalize and implement the stabilization
program. The External Resource Mobilization Group under the Interministerial Committee then took
over the responsibilities assigned to the steering committees of the three SECALs. The latter
arrangement was well suited to follow-up on decisions with financial implications and the perspective
of an imminent release of the second tranche boosted the decision-making process.
Bank Performance
31.           The Bank demonstrated considerable flexibility and endurance throughout preparation.
The solid teamwork between Programs and Projects allowed to keep the operation in the lending
program prior to the emergence of a consensus in 1987. The Bank's decision to link the processing
of the SECALs with the development of the macroeconomic framework was definitely appropriate.
In view of the early governmental decisions on policy changes, the weight assigned in tranche release
conditionalities to measuring progress in implementing sectoral reforms was equally relevant.
32.           The Bank's monitoring efforts were intensive. From 1988 onwards the supervision
of the Second Water Supply Project had been almost exclusively devoted to the follow-up of the
design and execution of the transfer of rural water supply facilities. The record of TRS data given
in Part III does not provide a full picture of Bank's monitoring activities. One weak point of the
supervision was the absence of review of CAA accounts and records kept by CAA, although
disbursements appear to have been closely monitored.
33.           The resident mission also played an important role through its daily collaboration with
the Interministerial Committee (para. 30). This close relationship helped particularly to acquaint the



- 9 -
Committee with the financial restructuring package and to report on its implementation after the first
supervision mission.
Disbursement and Procurement
34.           The WASAL was in every respect a quick-disbursing operation. The second tranche
was entirely disbursed by January 22, 1991, less than seven months after Board approval. CAA
never requested the Bank to replenish the Special Account which was fully recovered after the release
of the second tranche. It is quite apparent that the establishment of a Special Account was not
justified in this case.  Special Accounts are to be established when the borrower is unable to
prefinance imports from its own resources or when the borrower needs to have access to Bank funds
to open letter of credits for the goods to be financed under the adjustment operation. In the case of
the WASAL, all imports had been pre-financed by the importers, thus alleviating the need for the
Special Account.
35.           Apart from  petroleum  imports by the parastatal refining company SIR, all
disbursements were made against imports of the private sector, procured in accordance with
commercial practices. CAA experienced difficulties (para. 37) in collecting enough eligible invoices
for justifying disbursements under three simultaneous adjustment operations. In this respect, the
common provision of the legal agreements of the ASAL, ESAL and WASAL limiting the eligibility
of imports of foodstuffs and petroleum products to 20 percent of the amount of each loan proved to
be too restrictive. The agreements of subsequent SECALs provided, therefore, for high ceilings for
such imports.
Reporting and Auditing
36.           Two general progress reports were issued by DCGTx in February and September
1990. In addition, DE and DCGTx reported quarterly on the restructuring of the rural water supply
subsector and issued a final report in January 1992.
37.           CAA, albeit repeatedly reminded of its obligations, delayed the audit of the SECALs
until August 1991. The approaching Board presentation of the second batch of Ivoirian SECALs
obviously accelerated the process. The auditor reported that the documentation submitted to the audit
mission allowed to justify all but six percent of the withdrawal applications and CAA was requested
to provide the Bank with the missing documentation, which was done in July 1992. To avoid a
repetition of such shortcomings, Bank provisions regarding audits have been tightened, thus linking
disbursement of tranches to the availability of timely audits. Also, accounting procedures of CAA
have since been strengthened and detailed terms of reference were prepared for the audits of
subsequent SECALs.  The ceiling for the use of SOEs was reduced from  US$1 million to
US$500,000.
F. RESULTS
38.           Four of the five main objectives of the WASAL (para. 12) have been reached,
allowing the development of the sector to resume in urban as well as rural areas. The fifth objective,
namely the restoration of the financial autonomy of the sector, has been only partially reached, even
though the relevant conditionality had been met at the time of the release of the second tranche.



- 10 -
Urban Water Supply
39.          The negotiation of the concession contract, led by DCGTx, resulted in a 20 percent
decrease of SODECI's remuneration, which, in turn, allowed to reduce water rates by 20 percent and
to allocate CFAF 28/m3 (about US$0.10/m3) for financing SODECI's investment program.
40.           The trend of urban water demand marked an upturn after the implementation of the
reforms. Actual water consumption exceeded forecasts in 1988-1992 and grew at an annual rate of
3 percent, compared with the 9 percent reduction of the Ivoirian GDP over the same period and with
the 1 percent annual decline of water consumption observed before the adjustment (para. 8). The
growth of demand was generated by public customers and above all by the flow of new domestic
customers attracted by the total gratuity of social connections established under the WASAL and by
the tariff decrease of 1988. On the other hand, the formal sector plunged into a recession deep
enough--industrial production decreased by 23 percent--to offset any measurable impact of the
reduction of the industrial water rate which took place later in the adjustment process.
41.           From  1988 to 1992, investment expenditures by SODECI amounted to US$38
million. Investments were devoted to expanding the distribution networks. SODECI constructed and
self-financed 70,000 free service connections, which matches the pace reached during the economic
boom. Under the WASAL, however, piped water services were expanded to benefit poorer strata
of urban population and the average investment cost per connection was sharply reduced. In the
seventies, DE invested US$40 million per year. SODECI spent only US$7 million per year in 1988-
1992 to achieve the same coverage performance.
Rural Water Supply
42.          The availability of rural water services was restored in more than 7,400 villages. The
final report on the restructuring of the rural water subsector (para. 36) shows that 82 percent of the
rural communities took over the maintenance of their pumps on a voluntary basis. Seven percent of
the water points were judged to be beyond rehabilitation and were excluded from the transfer. The
remaining eleven percent did not participate because of a lack of motivation and social cohesion of
the community. Four hundred eighty private repairers were contracted by the communities and a
private distribution network was set up to supply spare parts. The total cost of the operation
(training, rehabilitation, community development, supervision and operating costs of DE) amounted
to US$10 million (including US$2.5 million financed by the Government), i.e. about US$2.50 per
person covered. The annual maintenance cost of a handpump decreased from CFAF 55,000
(US$195) to less than CFAF 20,000 (US$70).
43.           Although some governmental authorities were primarily concerned to achieve a 100
percent success rate, no pressure was exerted to enroll communities. Apart from basic principles
(establishment of a water committee, total recovery of maintenance costs), most of the implementation
decisions were left to the communities: choice of the repairer, collection procedures (payment by
bucket, lump sum fees per head or per household, monthly or annual payment, etc.), in-kind
participation to the rehabilitation. Another favorable factor was the consensus demonstrated by
donors which unanimously stopped their interventions in the subsector in 1986, pending the
establishment of a sustainable maintenance system. Donors resumed their activities at the end of 1991
(CFD, BOAD, Japan).



- 11 -
Sanitation and Environment
44.           The competitive bidding of the operation and maintenance of the Abidjan drainage
and sewerage systems resulted in a 35 percent decrease of the unit prices. Shortly after the award
of this contract, the Directorate of Sanitation--under the newly created Ministry of Environment--took
over the supervision responsibilities from DE. This administrative reorganization hampered the
supervision of the contract. The contractual arrangements should evolve towards a more dynamic
format creating real incentives and accountability of the operator, such as a lease contract. This is
a weak point of the WASAL, which should have pushed for establishing a sewerage connection fee
billed and collected by the operator of the networks.
45.           The facilities financed under the Abidjan Environmental Protection Project to ensure
the safe discharge of domestic and industrial effluents (an ocean outfall combined with a pretreatment
plant) will be completed at the end of 1993. The regulatory framework for the establishment of a
discharge permit system is being prepared as expected in the policy matrix.
46.           As noted above, the WASAL provided for the establishment of a comprehensive legal
framework for the abstraction of groundwater resources by industrial users. It is felt, however, that
the level of the user fees is excessive (about US$0.75/m3) and should be revised.
Financial Restructuring and Financial Discipline
47.           The first phase of the financial restructuring of the sector was completed before the
release of the second tranche. However, due to the increasingly difficulty budget liquidity, the
second phase, i.e., the final settlement of arrears between SODECI and the Government which was
scheduled six months after, never took place. On the contrary, public customers, particularly the
e.tablissements publics (universities, hospitals) and the military continued to accumulate arrears. In
January 1992, SODECI, facing public arrears ot more than US$72 million, obtained a waiver of its
contractual obligation to transfer part of the revenues to the FNE, which endured until a recent
(March 1993) compensation of cross-debts. This constitutes a return to practices observed before the
WASAL with the following shortcomings: (i) the debt service of the sector has to be supported by
CAA and eventually by the Budget; and (ii) public customers which no longer pay their bills have
no incentives to control their consumption.
48.           From 1987 to 1991, public consumption actually grew, without justification, from
22 percent to 26 percent of the total water sales. One supervision report outlined that the water
consumption of Ivoirian public users was higher than the total urban consumption of Guinea and
Benin combined (about 11 million people). This did not seem to have provoked any efforts to control
expenditures on the Government's side. On the contrary, several initiatives by SODECI to set up
leakage detection programs inside the installations of large public users were turned down. The issue
of public expenditures, including the reduction of Government consumption of public utilities, is now
the subject of a new review by the Bank in the context of a country economic memorandum,
currently under preparation.
Macroeconomic Impact
49.           The thrust to control and reduce factor costs initiated under the WASAL was also
applied to the electricity sector under the ESAL, which followed the privatization avenue opened by



- 12 -
urban water services. The global impact of the water and electricity tariff reductions on industries
has not been significant, in view of the collapse of the formal sector observed since 1987 (para. 40).
The combination of growing public arrears and of self-defeating tax practices caused the formal
economy to shrink and contributed to the eventual failure of the Government's macroeconomic
strategy of internal adjustment.
50.           The poverty impact of the WASAL has been obvious, since the policy reforms
allowed: (i) to redirect investments to develop services to the poor in urban areas through the social
connections program; and (ii) to restore basic services to about four million people in the rural
communities.
G. SUSTAINABILITY
51.           SODECI demonstrated its capabilities to adjust to external shocks and to the changes
of the economic environment, before, during and after the WASAL. There is no doubt on the
sustainability of urban water services. Efforts to contain costs of these services could endure only
if an independent and cost-conscious body is appointed as the public negotiator in the price
discussions scheduled every five years with SODECI.
52.           The transfer of rural facilities to communities represented a major challenge. The
response of the private sector has been impressive. The creation under the WASAL of a countrywide
network of repairers, reconditioners and suppliers of spare parts has established an environment for
sustainable maintenance systems. The final report of DE and DCGTx noted, however, that village
committees remained fragile, particularly in the largest communities where social cohesion is low and
in the southern part of the country benefitting from ample surface water resources. CFD is financing
a program which would strengthen community management and establish permanent monitoring of
the maintenance performance. Recent surveys estimated the availability rate of the rural handpumps
at 83 percent, eighteen months after the completion of the transfer (against only 33 percent for the
pumps of villages which declined to participate in the operation). Ninety percent of the private
repairers trained during the transfer program are still operational.
53.           The President's Report identified as a major risk the possibility that the arrears on
public water bills would not be settled. The materialization of this risk reflects the poor performance
of the stabilization program (para. 4). In this context, the future of the FNE appears bleak and its
abolition should be considered. Its debt servicing functions could be entirely taken over by CAA.
Direct cost recovery of the maintenance costs of the sanitation networks under a lease contract, as
proposed above (para. 44), would then eliminate the last raison d'etre of the FNE, i.e. its role as
recipient and provider of funds for the maintenance contract.
54.           There is, however, a fundamental difference between the present financial situation
of the sector and the one prevailing in 1987. The sector was not financially viable in 1987, as its
financial needs exceeded its revenues. The sector, thanks to the change of financing strategy, is now
in a position to cover its costs and to self-finance significant investments in urban areas.



- 13 -
H. LESSONS LEARNED
55.           The effectiveness of a sectoral adjustment program  is better warranted whenever
policy changes take place sufficiently in advance of loan approval. This allows to (i) internalize the
reform process; and (ii) to concentrate early on implementation issues. In this respect, the long
preparation of the WASAL and the delays incurred before negotiations and Board approval turned
out to be beneficial by granting the additional time required for fine-tuning the implementation of the
reforms. Thus, once the WASAL was approved, disbursements took place in almost record time.
56.           The existence of substantial undisbursed amounts under the Second Water Supply
Project allowed to finance priority activities (the transfer of rural water points) supporting the policy
reforms. This association of a SECAL and of an ongoing investment loan is a practical alternative
to an hybrid loan.
57.           The Ivoirian experience of privatization of urban water services confirmed that the
private sector is not interested in purchasing existing water facilities nor in financing investments
from its own resources. The private sector can be used, however, to operate public facilities--it
should then bear the full commercial risk--and also to program and execute investments self-financed
from  water sales.  The technical supervision of the private sector may be left to a ministerial
department; the latter should not be the sole regulator, as it usually lacks the competencies required
to negotiate remunerations and is also deprived of financial incentives and accountability.  An
independent and cost-conscious body is better suited for this negotiation.
58.           Centralized maintenance of scattered rural facilities is not sustainable, even if it is
carried out by a private company. Community management of rural water points is the only answer
to maintenance issues in West Africa. Communities must be entirely free to choose their revenue
collection systems and their repairers.
59.           The fragmentation of investment-related responsibilities led to an overall lack of
accountability. The cost-effectiveness of urban water investments increased dramatically when
SODECI took over planning, execution and financing responsibilities. This reform was made
possible by the radical change of the financing strategy--from exclusive reliance on borrowing to self-
financing.
60.           The financial restructuring of the sector has been, however, less successful, as the
Government accumulated arrears which jeopardize the very existence of the National Water Fund.
This outcome confirms the vulnerability of the sectoral investment funds backed by earmarked
resources. The periodic recourse to compensation to settle cross-debts between governments and
utilities appears to be an addictive process, eventually generating a lack of discipline and control of
public consumption.



- 14 -
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(Loan 3240-IVC)
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
PART II. PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(At the time this Report was issued, the Borrower had not yet submitted this chapter)



- 15 -
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(Loan 3240-IVC)
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
PART m. LOAN DATA
Calendar of Key Events
Steps                       I             Actual Date
First Mention in Files                              November 1983
Initiating Memorandum                               April 27, 1989
Letter of Development Policy                        August 22, 1989
Negotiations                                        June 23, 1989
Board Approval                                      June 28, 1990
Loan Agreement                                      June 28, 1990
Effectiveness                                       June 29, 1990
Second Tranche Release                              December 3, 1990
Final Disbursement                                  January 22, 1991
Original Loan Closing                               December 31, 1991
Actual Loan Closing                                 December 31, 1991
Related Bank Loans
Loan and Title                  Purpose                    Year Approved         Status
2130-IVC           Construction of piped water systems in 56     1982             Closed
Second Water       urban centers and of 300 rural water
Supply             points. Support to Directorate of Water
and institutional studies.
3155-IVC           To provide solution for safe discharge of     1990            Ongoing
Abidjan            domestic and industrial effluents and to
Environmental      restore ecological conditions of Abidjan
Protection         Lagoon.



- 16 -
Cumulative Loan Disbursements
(US$ Equivalent)
Date             Disbursement         Cumulative          Percent
Disbursement       Disbursed
06/29/90           16,000,000.00      16,000,000.00             20.0
07/09/90           11,863,860.97      27,863,860.97             34.8
07/19/90            4,136,264.27      32,000,125.24             40.0
08/29/90             211,296.16       32,211,421.40             40.3
08/31/90           10,824,063.98      43,035,485.38             53.8
09/13/90            6,957,969.02      49,993,454.40             62.5
10/03/90               6,545.60      50,000,000.00             62.5
12/10/90          22,533,432.05      72,533,432.05             90.7
12/11/90           6,286,705.92      78,820,137.97             98.5
12/14/90             849,282.97      79,669,420.94             99.6
01/22/91             330,579.06       80,000,000.00            100.0
Mission Data
Mission       | Month/Year       No. of          No. of       | Staff
_________________l  [_Weeks      Persons 2     |_Weeks
Appraisal Mission      May 1985            4.0    3 (E, SA, FA)        12.0
Post Appraisal I       November 1985       1.0    4 (E, SA, FA, CONS)   4.0
Post Appraisal 11      July 1987           4.0    3 (E, SA, FA)        12.0
Post Appraisal III     July 1988           2.1    3 (E, SA, CE)         6.3
Negotiations           June 1989           1.0    2 (E, SA)             2.0
Supervision I          September 1990      2.0    1 (E)                 2.0
Supervision 11         January 1991        0.8    2 (E, SA)             1.6
Supervision III        August 1991         0.9    1 (E)                0.9
2     E = Sector Economist CE = Country Economist SA = Sanitary Engineer FA = Financial
Analyst CONS = Consultant (Economist)



- 17 -
Staff Inputs
(Staff Weeks)
Stage of Cycle  IFY85 _ FY86 __FY87__FY88 _ [F89_  FY90 _JFY91 _ F92
Pre-appraisal    20.1
Appraisal       10.0    26.7
Negotiations         _            22.3    16.1    21.5    20.6
Supervision                                                          8.7       0.3
PCR                                                                            0.9
TOTAL STAFF INPUTS: 147.2 staff-weeks. Record of staff inputs before FY85 were not
available. Supervision does not include inputs provided under the Second Water Supply Project.



- 18 -
ANNEX
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR ADJUSTMIENT LOAN
Program of Policy Measures and Actions
Measures Taken Before     Measures to be Taken After    Agencies
Policy Areas/lssues          Loan Negotiations            Board Presentation      Responsible        Comments
1. INSTIrUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
Urban Water Supply
Inappropriate investment dec-  SODECI plans, finances and  Satisfactory and timely ex-  SODECI and  Condition  fulfilled.
isions by DE.                 executes all investments in  ecutionofconcessioncontract  Supervision  Investmentsfinanced
the subsector, under a con-  provisionsregardingrevisions  Agencies(DE   and  executed  by
cession contract effective in  of SODECI's compensation  and DCGTx)  SODECI  reached
July 1988.                  and execution of the invest-               US$38.5 million at
ment program. *                           end of FY92.
Unequitable  risk-sharing  be-  Ful commercial risk to be  See above.                  Same as        Condition  fulfilled.
tween SODECI and the public  bome by the concessionaire;                               above          To date, no revision
sector; limited  incentives to  procedures of revision  of                                            of SODECI's com-
control operating costs.      SODECI's  compensation                                                  pensation.
designed to increase produc-
tivity embodied in concession
contract.
Sanitation
Inadequate 0 & M of Abidjan  Award of adequate 0 & M                                   SODECI         Unit prices reduced
sewerage and drainage systems.  contract for Abidjan sewer-                                           by 35 percent and
age and drainage systems to a                                          maintenance expen-
private  operator  through                                             ditures increased by
LCB. (March 1988)                                                      40 percent.
Investment program needs to be  Preparation of a three-year  Master plan for sanitation and  DCGTx    DCGTxcarryingout
redefined and updated.        investment program for sew-  environmental protection to                studies.
erage, drainage and environ-  be updated under the AEP
mental  protection.  (June  Project.
1989)
indicates condition of second tranche release.



- 19 -
ANNEX
Page 2 of 4
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Program of Policy Measures and Actions
Measures Taken Before     Measures to be Taken After    Agencies
Poicy Areas/lssues            Loan Negotiations           Board Presentation      Responsible        CommenLs
Rural Water Supply
Inadequate institutional arrange-  Official Government commit-  Successful transfer of at least  DE and  Condition  fulfiUed.
ments causing poor            mcnt to shift 0 & M respon-  2,500 water points to villag-  DCGTx       11,000 water points
maintenance  of rural water  sibilities to villagers; termina-  ers (including rehabilitation         eventually  trans-
points; lack of villagers' partici-  tion of SODECI lease con-  as needed). *                         ferred  to  7,400
pation.                       tract for rural water points                                            villages
approved by Government.
(December 1987)
Preparation of an implemen-
tation plan for the transfer of
O   &   M   responsibilities
through the extension of
ongoing development and
training program. (June 1989)
Investment criteria and service                            Preparation of a three-year  DE and        Condition  fulfilled.
levels in rural areas must be                              investment program for rural  DCGTx        Other donors
redefined.                                                 water supply, including fina-              (CFD,  Japan,
ncing and investment criteria.             BOAD)  resumed
*                                         activities in line with
Initiation of a study on the              sector strategy.
perspectives of rural water
supply. *
Environmental Protection
Groundwater protection must be  Legal framework for general-  Adoption of decree. *    DE             Condition fulfiUed
enhanced and enforced.        izing groundwater protection
outside Abidjan adopted in
January 1988.
Preparation of a decree orga-
nizing a system of drilling
notification and giving en-
forcement rights to SODECI.
(June 1989)
Growing pollution of Abidjan  Decision to proceed with the  Enforcement of legislation at  Ministry  of  Completion of AEP
Lagoon induced by unorganized  execution of environmental  completion of environmental  Environment  works expected in
discharge of organic and indus-  protection works in Abidjan.  protection works under AEP             January 1994; poUu-
trial wastes; lack of adequate                             Project.                                   tion   monitoring
discharge facilities.         Outline of legislation on do-                                           program    being
mestic and industrial wastes                                           implemented.
prepared in June 1989.
Preparation of legis-
lation under way.
* indicates condition of second tranche release.



- 20 -
ANNEX
Page 3 of 4
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Program of Policy Measures and Actions
Measures Taken Before      Measures to be Taken Afler     Agencies
Policy Areas/Issues            Loan Negotiations           Board Presentation        Responsible        Comments
D. PRICING F1RAMEWORK
Urban Water Supply &
Sanitation
Distortions in tariff structure  Revision of urban water tariff  Industrial block rate to be             Condition fulfilled in
penalizing industrial and low-  structure, including a 10%   reduced to CFAF 350/ml. *                   September 1990.
income consumers and gene-  decrease in industrial rates
rating volatility of revenues.  approved by Government in
December 1987.
Poor performance in collecting  Revision of regulations con-  Completion of the inventory  SODECI        Inventory  not yet
fees levied on private wells and  cerning private extraction of  of private water wells subject          completed   outside
boreholes  due  to  inadequate  water. (see above)          to extraction fee six months                 Abidjan.
legal framework.                                             after enactment of the above
decree.
Fees to be reduced to CFAF                  Condition fulfilled in
179/m 3. *                                  September 1990.
Rural Water Supply
Low level of cost recovery for  Action plan to ensure cost  Maintenance costs financed  DE and           Condition  fulfilled.
maintenance of water points.    recovery for maintenance in  by villagers for at least 2,500  DCGTx      Maintenance costs of
parallel  with  transfer  of  water points. *                            11,000 water points
responsibilities to  villagers                                           taken over by villag-
prepared in June 1989.                                                   ers.
Absence  of  financial  par-                                 Review of criteria and pro-  DE and         Criteria and princi-
ticipation  of villages  toward                              cedures for villagers' finan-  DCGTx        ples   successfully
investment and renewal of                                    cial participation.                         tested in pilot opera-
pumps.                                                                                                   tion (30% of invest-
ment costs financed
by villagers).
* indicates condition of second tranche release.



- 21 -
ANNEX
Page 4 of 4
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR ADJUSTMIENT LOAN
Program of Policy Measures and Actions
Measures Taken Before      Measures to be Taken After      Agencies
Policy Areasl/ssues            Loan Negotiations            Board Presentation        Responsible         Comments
HI. FINANCING STRATEGY AND
FINANCIAL RESTRUCTURING
Poor financial management of  Abolition   of   FNH/FNA
the sector by FNH/FNA.          approved  by  Government;
creation of FNE within CAA.
(July 1988)
Lack of clear and true          Establishment of sound ac-  Setup of sectoral assets regis-  SODECI
financial picture at sector     counting   procedures   for  ters.
level.                          FNE.
Inventory   of  cross-debts
between FNA, FNH, SODE-
Cl, CAA, Treasury and
suppliers.
Inappropriate financing         Self-generation  of cash  to  Definition   of  acceptable  DE and          Condition fulfilled.
strategy.                       finance urban water supply  borrowing terms and condi-  DCGTx
investments  embodied  in  tions for rural water supply
SODECIconcessioncontract.  assets. *
Budget financing of rural
water supply investments.
Restructuring of sector finances  First repayment of sectoral  Consolidation   of  sectoral  Treasury,     Condition  fulfilled.
required  to  restore  financial  arrears (CFAF 4.5 billion) to  arrears towards the Treasury  CAA, FNE,   Consolidation   of
autonomy                        CAA. (May 198)                and completion of the first  SODECI          CFAF 15.7 billion,
phase of financial restructur-               compensation   of
Adoption of liquidation plan  ing. *                                      more than CFAF 15
of FNH/FNA. (June 1988).                                                  billion of cross-debts
and   payment  of
Adoption  of consolidation                                                CFAF 5.5 bilLion of
plan  for sectoral arrears.                                               arrears.
(June 1988)
Final settlement of cross  Treasury          Arrears on  public
debts. (End 1990)                            water bills increased
sharply after com-
pletion   of  first
phase.
* indicates condition of second tranche release.



- 22 -
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
FOR OFFIC[AL LSE ONLY
SecM90-1520
FROM:  Senior-Vice President, Operations                             December 5, 1990
COTE D'IVOIRE - Progress of the Water Supply and Sanitation Sector
Adjustment Loan*
Release of Second Tranche
1.         As provided in Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement for the Water Supply
and Sanitation Sector Adjustment Loan (Ln. 3240-IVC), discussions were held in
Abidjan, Cote d'Ivoire during recent weeks on the progress achieved in carrying
out the  sectoral adjustment program  assisted  by the  loan.   This memorandum
summarizes the progress achieved under the sectoral adjustment program and in the
fulfillment of the specific conditions agreed for the release of the loan's
second tranche during the negotiations of the loan.
I. BACKGROUND
2.         The Government of Cote d'Ivoire  and the  IBRD held discussions  in
Abidjan (September 24 - October 2, 1990) to review the Government's progress in
implementing the Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Adjustment Program.  The
program is being supported by a US$80 million Water Supply and Sanitation Sector
Adjustment Loan (WASAL) from the IBRD. The Water Supply and Sanitation Sector
Adjustment Program has been designed to: (a) restore the availability of basic
rural services; (b) to improve planning and sustainability of investments; (c)
to improve control of costs and efficiency of pricing; td) to strengthen the
protection of water resources and of the environment; and (e) to restore the
financial autonomy of the sector.
3.         The Government's reform program in water supply and sanitation is part
of an overall economic adjustment program aimed at reducing domestic and external
financial imbalances and at restoring the country's competitiveness, through
major changes in the incentive and regulatory framework, and through a reduction
of the price of tradeables relative to nontradeables. The Government's program
was supported by a Stand-by Arrangement approved by the IMF in November 1989, and
three sectoral adjustment operations by the Bank in the agriculture, energy, and
water supply and sanitation sectors.  In addition to the Bank and the IMF, the
European Community, the African Development Bank and the Governments of France,
Japan and Germany are providing support for Cote d'Ivoire's adjustment effort.
Distribution
Executive Directors and Alternates                 *Questions on this document may be
President                                           referred to Mr. Richard Verspyck
Senior Vice Presidents                              (ext. 34533)
Senior Management Council
Vice Presidents, IFC
Directors and Department Heads, Bank and IFC
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onlI in the perfornrjnce
of their offcial duties [ts contents may not otherwise be disclosed Aiinhou[ World Bank authoriz.: on



- 23 -
II. PROGRESS UNDER THE MACROECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
4.        After  slippages  in  the  stabilization  program  during  1989,  the
Government has taken decisive action starting 1990 to bring the program back on
track, and preliminary evidence suggests that those actions are starting to yield
the desired results. COte d'Ivoire has so far succeeded in respecting the Fund's
performance criteria for end June and end September, with minor slippage
affecting the stock of arrears.
Results for 1989
S.        The decline in coffee and cocoa prices had severe repercussions on the
public finances as the deficit of the Price Stabilization Fund (Caisstab) rose
to CFAF 159 billion compared with CFAF 133 billion expected in the original
program. In addition, the decline in economic activity led to a shrinking in the
tax base.   Tax and non tax revenue fell to CFAF 703 billion compared with
CFAF 798 billion in the program.   Current spending targets were achieved,
although investment spending exceeded program targets by CFAF 12 billion. As a
result, the overall fiscal deficit in 1989 rose to CFAF 479 billion (16 percent
of GDP) compared to a program target of CFAF 375 billion (12.6 percent of GDP).
The deterioration of the fiscal situation led to a rise in domestic arrears, a
worsening of private sector liquidity and a deepening of the recession. Thus,
nominal GDP in 1989 fell by 3 percent while real GDP fell by 1 percent.  This
decline in GDP has occurred although agricultural output rose by 4 percent. due
to a bumper cocoa crop.
Developments in 1990
6.        As the financial situation deteriorated, the government worked with
Fund and Bank staff and produced by end February 1990 a new program that involved
salary cuts, and announced it in early March. Because the public had not been
adequately prepared for such measures (the reason for postponing them in the
original program) and due to the general political climate, the announcements
were met by riots and widespread disorders. In addition, some poorly prepared
proposals by several political figures led to undercutting the coherence of the
proposed program.
7.        The Government responded by withdrawing the proposals, which had by
then lost all credibility.  But it reaffirmed its commitment to the reform by
appointing in April 1990 an Interministerial Committee for Economic Stabilization
and Recovery of hard-line reformers headed by Mr. Ouattara, Governor of BCEAO and
former IMF Director for Africa.   The economic team immediately adopted a new
program that goes much further than the October 1989 program, but that leaves the
salary questions for a later phase after the political groundwork has been done.
The enhanced program aims at reducing the fiscal deficit from CFAF 479 billion
in 1989 (16 percent of GDP) to CFAF 260 billion in 1990 (9 percent of GDP). This
would imply a primary surplus of about 1 percent of GDP, which together with
external financing, would permit a reduction of domestic arrears by some 3
percent of GDP.
8.        Major steps have been taken on the political front, with important
implications  for the quality of economic management.   The  first pluralist
presidential and legislative elections in the post independence era took place
in  October and  November  1990,  and went  relatively  smoothly.    President
Houphouet-Boigny was re-elected by a majority of about 81 percent. The President
moved quickly to resolve the issue of his succession; the constitution was



- 24 -
changed to allow the Speaker of Parliament to continue the presidential term in
case of vacancy. Concomitantly, he decided to limit his involvement in the day
to day management of the economy and of the ruling party. Thus, Mr. Ouattara was
appointed Prime Minister with full powers as far as economic management is
concerned. The ensuing cabinet reshuffle was very wide ranging: the number of
cabinet posts was cut nearly in half, and a group of young technocrats entered
government for the first time. The post of Secretary General of the ruling party
was created and is to be filled during and extraordinary Party Congress, to be
held in the next few weeks.
9.        This improved economic management, which started by the creation of the
Interministerial Committee and further reinforced by the appointment of a Prime
Minister, is starting to yield its fiscal results. Preliminary figures for end
September indicate that the program targets are being globally achieved, except
for external arrears criteria.   This is occurring despite a deteriorating
external environment (oil price increases) and a large decline, in economic
activity. The probability that Cote d'Ivoire will meet the end December criteria
regarding the budgetary deficit and credit ceilings is good.
10.       The positive fiscal outcome masks some negative developments, however,
which indicates that the new economic management team must continue to monitor
the program with care and take corrective action when needed. Because of delays
in fulfilling ASAL conditionality, there could be an important shortfall in
external financial assistance which would imply that the initial arrears
reduction targets may not be achieved.  A proportion of the favorable revenue
results in 1990 were due to one shot operations (compensations between tax and
payment arrears and some new tax measures) while the underlying tax base has
declined or remained stagnant.
11.       Estimates for real GDP in 1990 show a sharp decline (between 4 and 5
percent) which does not augur well the possibility of an economic recovery in the
near future. The deterioration in the terms of trade (13 percent in 1990 and a
cumulative 40 percent between 1985 and 1990) and the relative appreciation of the
CFA franc with respect to the dollar have further worsened the weak
competitiveness of the Ivorian economy.  The current account deficit of the BOP
is expected to slightly improve in 1990, mainly because of lower imports, as
investment and economic activity are expected to slow down. However, because of
the negative real and nominal GDP growth in 1990, the current account deficit as
a percentage of GDP is expected to slightly deteriorate from 10.2 percent in 1989
to 10.6 percent in 1990.
12.       The program also provides for a large number of structural reforms.
In addition to the sectoral reforms supported by the Bank's ASAL, ESAL and WASAL,
the program includes significant actions in the following areas: (a) regulatory
reform including and immediate liberalization of most prices, the simplification
of trade regulations and labor laws; (b) reform of the financial system; and
(c) improving public enterprise monitoring and preparing a wide ranging
privatization program.   The Government is also committed to take additional
actions which may be needed to enhance the economy's competitiveness and restore
growth.
III. PROGRESS UNDER THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
13.       Considerable progress has been made towards reaching the objectives of
the sectoral adjustment program spelled out in para 2. The private sector and
local counities proved to be particularly . responsive to the far-reaching



reforms of the institutional and regulatory framework of the sector, as well as
to the reforms of the pricing and financing policies which have been implemented.
14.       To achieve its objectives, the sectoral adjustment program comprises:
(i) a new institutional framework based on Government retrenchment through
increased privatization and community management of rural facilities; (ii)
introduction of efficient pricing of urban water services and of full recovery
of maintenance costs in rural areas; (iii) establishment of regulations and
controls on private extraction of groundwater and on disposal of domestic and
industrial wastewater; and (iv) implementation of a new financing strategy and
restructuring of sector finances.
A. The Urban Water Supply Subsector
15.       Increased Privatization.   The concession contract for urban water
supply is satisfactorily executed.  Under this contract, the private Ivorian
water utility, SODECI, carries new investment-related responsibilities, and fully
assumes commercial and operational risks.  The five-year investment program,
prepared and executed by SODECI gives priority to maximizing the use of urban
water systems and expanding direct access of low-income households to the water
service. More than 40,000 service connections have been installed free of charge
since the signing of the concession contract. All urban water investments are
self-financed.
16.       Efficient Pricing and Control of Costs.  The first stage of the reform
of the pricing policy of the subsector had been accomplished before the
negotiations of the WASAL and comprised a 23 percent reduction of domestic water
rates and a 10 percent reduction of the industrial water rate. Domestic water
demand increased in response to the reform of the tariff structure, allowing for
a resumption of the growth of urban water consumption at an annual rate of 5
percent. The second stage of the reform was completed on September 19, 1990.
when the Government approved an additional 15 percent reduction of the industrial
block water rate, thus bringing down water tariffs in line with marginal costs.
SODECI cut its operating costs by more than 20 percent, while maintaining in
parallel a sound operating performance. Cost savings were achieved through a 20
percent reduction of staff and a drastic cut in overhead costs.
B. The Rural Water Supply Subsector
17.       Community Management.  Concerted efforts on training, rehabilitation
and community development activities by the Water Directorate (DE) and the
Directorate of Major Works (DCGTx) have led to a speedy transfer of rural water
points to villagers.   As of August 31, 1990, 7,300 villages had taken over
maintenance responsibilities. 9,800 handpumps have been rehabilitated with the
assistance of private repairers. Seventy-three percent of the rural water points
are operational. It is expected that this proportion will rise to more than 85
percent at the end of the transfer activities, to be compared to only 50 percent
at the inception of the adjustment program.
18.       The  establishment   of  community  management   resulted   in  the
multiplication of private initiatives which were suppressed under the former
centralized maintenance system. More than 600 private mechanics were trained,
of which 325 have been hired by villages. A private network for the supply of
spare parts is operational throughout the country. In addition private workshops
provide appropriate support for reconditioning the most costly handpump parts.



- 26 -
19.       Maintenance costs of the transferred water points are fully borne by
the local communities, which choose their mechanics and pay them directly for
services rendered as well as for spare parts. Decentralization of maintenance
has led to substantial costs savings, in the range of 50 percent.
20.       Investment Policies.  The Government formulated in September 1990 a
three-year investment program for rural water supply aiming at: (i) supporting
outreach activities; (ii) complementary rehabilitation works focusing on
boreholes; and (iii) construction of new water points in the poorest regions of
Cote d'Ivoire. Financing of this program will not be subsidized by urban water
customers.   Various donors  (France,  Japan,  BOAD and Conseil de l'Entente)
expressed their support to the new maintenance policy which strengthens the
sustainability of rural water supply projects and have already committed funds
for the execution of the investment program.
21.       DCGTx launched in July 1990 a study to explore ways of improving the
level and quality of rural water services beyond the handpump option and of
increasing the participation of rural communities to investment decisions. The
study covers the following: (i) identification of appropriate low-cost
technologies and systems; (ii) communities' involvement in the choice of systems
and type of delivery; (iii) financial participation of communities to investment
costs; and (iv) specific problems of financial intermediation.   Preliminary
results of the study,  carried out with the support of the UNDP/World. Bank
Regional Water Supply and Sanitation Group (RWSG) based in Abidjan, will be
available in March 1991.
C. The Sanitation Subsector and the Protection of the Environment
22.       Water  Resources.    The  protection  of  water  resources  has  been
strengthened with the publication of the decree establishing a system of
declaration and notification of well drilling for industrial purposes throughout
COte d'Ivoire. The excessive groundwater extraction fee has been decreased in
September 1990 by 25 percent and is now in line with the economic costs
associated with the use of resources and with the safe disposal of industrial
wastewater.
23.       Pollution  Control.    The  Government  is  preparing  regulations  to
establish a discharge permit system for industrial wastes. This permit system
will be implemented in parallel with the execution of works under the Abidjan
Environmental Protection Project (Ln. 3155-IVC).  Contracts award for these works
are expected before the end of 1990.  In the meantime, the scope and quality of
maintenance of the sewerage and drainage systems of Abidjan have been greatly
improved under a new maintenance contract awarded to SODECI after competitive
bidding.
D. Financial Restructuring
24.       Three major constraints to the restoration of the financial autonomy
of the sector were removed with: (i) the adoption of new financing strategies
based on the self-financing of urban water supply investments under the
concession contract and the abolition of the unsustainable cross-subsidization
between urban and rural consumers; and (ii) the completion in September 1990 of
the liquidation of the former National Funds FNA and FNH.
25.       The financial viability of the sector is being brought about by the
settlement of a morass of cross-debts between the National Treasury, SODECI and



- 27 -
the National Water Fund (FNE). In February 1990, FNE and SODECI wrote off cross-
debts of CFAF 8.9 billion (US$36 million). In October 1990, FNE's net arrears
of 15.7 billion (US$63 million) towards the Treasury were consolidated over ten
years. On November 23, 1990, the Treasury paid CFAF 5.5 billion (US$22 million)
of unpaid public water bills to SODECI.  This payment completes the first phase
of the financial restructuring of sector's institutions.
IV. PROGRESS IN FULFILLING SPECIFIC TRANCHE RELEASE CONDITIONS
26.       The following specific conditions for the release of the second tranche
are listed in Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement:
(a)  satisfactory execution of the urban water supply concession contract;
(b)  effective transfer of at least 2,500 water points with maintenance
responsibility to villagers;
(c)  furnishing to the Bank of a three-year investment program for rural
water supply, and prospective methods for financing of new
investments, excluding debt service for urban consumers;
(d)  initiation of a study on the prospects of water supply systems for
villages;
(e) reduction of the industrial block water rate from CFAF 412/me to CFAF
350(m3 and of the groundwater extraction fee for industrial use;
(f)  adoption of the decree setting the groundwater extraction fee for
industrial use, including a system of drilling notification; and
(g)  completion of the first phase of the sector's financial restructuring.
The Government's actions described earlier fulfill the specific conditions
defined above.
V. CONCLUSION
27.       Progress has been made to stop the deterioration of macroeconomic
equilibria.   Restoration of sustainable development of the water supply and
sanitation sector already took place in rural and urban areas. All conditions
for the disbursement of the WASAL's second tranche were met. The Government of
Cote d'Ivoire therefore, has been advised of the availability of the second
tranche of US$ 30 million.
MoeenA. Qureshi



