Report No. 1500-RO
Appraisai of Pig Production and   FIL  COPY
Processing Project Romania
June 27, 1977
Agricultrual Credit and Agroindustries Division
Projects Deparcment
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
FOR OFFiCiAL USe; ONLY
DocurnerYt of the Worid Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and mav be.used by recipients
only in thle performance of their o,ficial duties Its conterits may not
otherwvise t-e disclosed w.ithout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Leu X               US$0.05
Lei 1,000           US$50.00
Lei 1,000,000       US$ 50,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 millimeter (mm)               0.0394 inch (in)
1 meter (m)               =    3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (kn)          =    0.6214 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer ('Km-)  =    0.3861 square mile (mi2)
1 kilowatt (kw)                 1.3410 horsepower (hp)
1 kilogram (kg)           =    2.2046 pounds (lb)
I ton (ton)               =    2,204.6225 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS
BAFI        Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
CAP         Agricultural Production Cooperative
EEC         European Economic Community
1AS         State Agricultural Enterprise
ICA         Inter-Cooperative Association
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
MA          Ministry of Agciculture and Food Industry
MFIT        Ministry for Internal Trade
MIT         Meat Industrialization Trust
ROMANIAN FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF
PIG PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING PROJECT
ROMANIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ............................          i-iii
I.   INTRODUCTION ............  .................... ................  I
II.   COUNTRY BACKGROUND AND THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR   .....          1
A.   General   ............  .. **.. **.. ***.. **..**................ .   **......*  1
B.   Resource Base and Agricultural Production
Trends .     ......... 0 ...............                2
C.   National Planning and Investment in
Agriculture ......... ...... ..... ***.***.**           3
D.   Pig Production ..........c....0            ....            5
E.   Marketing and Processing .....        ..................   7
P.   Input and Product Pricing  ........*   ...........         8
G.   Pork Consumption ........ *..........*..                   8
R.   Pork Exports ........       .........................     10
ITI.   TEE BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND FOOD INDUSTRY .........           11
A.   Tasks, Responsibilities and Powers ..       ..........    11
B.   Organization and Management ...................           11
C.   Fiscal Agency Operations    ............... .......       11
D.   Financing Policies and Procedures .............           12
E.   Lending and Investment Operations         ........        13
P.   BAEI-Financing of Pig Production and
processing                                     ..13
G. Sources of Funds ..13
R.   Financial Condition .... . .. .....                       14
I.   Performance Under the Sadova-Corabia
Agricultural Project .14
IV.   THE PROJECT ..15
A.   Objectives ..............       -     ...................  15
B.  Detailed Features . .......                                15
C.   Cost Estimates ........ ... .........                     16
D. Financing                     ....18
E.   Procurement ........                       ......         19
F.  Disbursement .......... ............. . ...                19
G.   Environmental Impact.....                                 20
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Romania
in November 1976, consisting of Messrs. E. P. Schertz, W. Nickel and W.
Bertelsmeier (IBRD) and M. Walshe (Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                     Paae No.
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ..... ........................      20
A.   Organizational Management       .....................  20
B.  Lending Policies and Procedures ...... .........      21
C.  Accounts and Audits ***************.****.*.....       22
D.  Project Monitoring ........ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . * * * .  22
E.  Risk   . .........   . ..  ........ O...* ....**.. *... .....  23
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .........................      23
A.   Production, Markets and Prices ..........o ....      23
B.  Financial Results         .............................  24
C.  Economic Analysis .. .................                24
VII.   RECOMMENDATIONS ....................... ........          25
ANNEXES
1. The Agricultural Sector
2. Marketing
3.  The Banking Structure in Romania
4. Pig Production:
Model: Pig Breeding/Fattening Unit - State Enterprise
Model: Pig Breeding/Fattening Unit - Cooperative
Model: Crossbred Gilt Production - State Enterprise
Model: Crossbred Gilt Production - Cooperative
5. Livestock Slaughtering and Meat Processing:
Model: Slaughterhouse and Processing Facility
Model: Sausage Processing Facility
6. Project Procurement Projections
7. Total Project Cost and Investments by Year
8. Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
9. Estimates of Project Receipts and Disbursements
10. Economic Analysis
MAP
IBRD 12669



APPRAISAL OF
PIG PRODUCTIuN A.I lUC;i.u iAOJCL 
ROMANIA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project which represents a two-year trancne
(1977-78) from Romania's 1976-80 National Development Program for the pig
production and meat processing subsector. The proposed project would be
nationwide in scope, representing the first Bank participation in Romanian
agricultural development plan financing on a non-regionalized basis. The
project would make a major contribution toward fulfillment of planned
increases in domestic meat supplies to support efforts to achieve greater
nutritional balance. Investments to expand the pig production and processing
subsector are considered to be of high priority due to (a) the strong consumer
preference for pork in increasing the meat content of diets, (b) the high
level of production and processing technology and performance established
in the country, (c) the satisfactory domestic feedgrain base, and (d) export
experience and the relatively close proximity to export markets for exportable
surpluses. Specifically, the project would aim to (a) develop a sufficiently
large multiplier herd to support the industry; (b) produce animals of high
genetic quality through the use of improved breeding stock and additional
development of testing and selection centers; (c) continue reorganization of
pig production activities into specialized, "industrial-type" complexes to
capture managerial and technical economies of scale and to facilitate trans-
feral of technical know-how throughout the subsector; (d) increase dispersion
of production capacity throughout the country to meet more efficiently the
consumption requirements of the population; (e) provide adequate slaughtering
and processing capacity for anticipated pig production levels; and (f) install
new meat processing units and modernize existing facilities in accordance with
international sanitary standards and high operational efficiency.
ii.       The proposed project would include investments for (a) facilities
and initial livestock for about 60 pig breeding/fattening complexes with an
aggregate annual capacity of 1,500,000 pigs; (b) facilities and initial live-,
stock for about 40 pig breeding farms with an aggregate annual production
capacity of about 100,000 gilts to be used as breeding stock; (c) a pig farm
modernization program designed to increase and renovate the production capacity
of existing facilities; (d) a pig improvement and selection program extending
and developing further the national breeding program inxol7iag bie_.d  J. higiL
genetic quality; (e) construction of modern livestock slaughtering and meat
processing facilities and specialized sausage processing plants; and (f) a
modernization program for existing slaughterhouses and meat processing plants.
Technology to be employed in project facilities is well established in Romania.
Investment credit would be provided to State enterprises and cooperative
complexes for the construction of buildings and installation of supporting
infrastructure, acquisition of quality breeding animals, farm machinery, and
vehicles, and erection of suitable feed storage units. All components under



- ii -
the project would be supported by technical service inputs including breeding
and feed research and development, veterinary services, vaccine production and
development, and meat inspection. With proposed investment in energy feed
and protein development schemes, and with sufficient importation of protein
materials to supplement domestic stocks, an adequate grain-protein base would
be provided to support proposed incremental livestock production. Project
facilities would be constructed and operated in conformity with Romania's high
standards governing waste water treatment.
iii.      The total project cost would be 6,449 million lei (US$322.5 million)
of which 22% or 1,425 million lei (US$71.3 million) would represent the foreign
exchange component. The proposed Bank loan would finance this foreign exchange
component. The Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI) would finance
66% of the total, or 4,251 million lei (US$212.5 million), and the remainder
of 778 million lei (US$38.9 million) would be provided by cooperative sub-
borrowers out of their own funds.
iv.       BAFI would be the Borrower.  The district offices of BAFI would have
direct responsibility for financial and administrative execution of subprojects
with assistance from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry, research
stations, and the Meat Inspection Service. Interest rates on project subloans
would be set at existing rates charged by BAFI for similar investments--for
cooperatives, 3% p.a.; and for State enterprises, 2% p.a. during construction
and 4% p.a. after construction. Civil works construction would be carried
out by State-owned construction enterprises on contract bases. Equipment
and materials required for the project are estimated to cost US$112 million
(including contingencies). Items totalling US$71 million, equivalent to
the foreign exchange component of the project, would be procured under inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Project
implementation would begin in 1977 and would be completed in four years.
V.        Annual incremental pork production resulting from project investments
is expected to reach 208,100 tons (live-weight) at full development. Slaugh-
tering and processing throughput capacities would be increased by 148,000 tons
of pork, 32,400 tons beef, and 71,800 tons baby beef (live-weight). It is
anticipated that incremental pork supplies will make major contribution toward
fulfillment of planned increases in per capita meat consumption increases
from 46 kg (1975) to 55-60 kg by the end of the 1976-80 Plan period, thereby
enabling greater intake of high grade protein and improvement in nutritional
balance. Incremental exports generated from the project would permit addi-
tional foreign exchange earnings, principally in convertible currencies,
and an improvement in Romania's balance of payments. In addition to meat
output from project facilities, the economy would benefit from the nutritive
value of manure produced and soybean meal imports foregone as a result of
meat, blood, and bone meals generated under the project. The Romanian economy
is expected to realize at least an 17% economic rate of return from total
project investments. The project would create an estimated 9,000 full-time
jobs in project facilities located throughout the country. As is customary
in Romania, the project would include a detailed education component to up-
grade skill levels.



- iii -
vi.       Having received the assurances set forth in Chapter VII, the project
is suitable for a Bank loan of US$71 million to the Bank for Agriculture and
Food Industry under the guarantee of the Socialist Republic of Romania for a
term of 15 years including three years of grace.






APPRAISAL OF
PIG PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING PROJECT
ROMANIA
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Socialist Republic of Romania has requested
the Bank's assistance in financing the Pig Production and Processing Project.
The proposed project would increase pig production and meat processing capac-
ities and would renovate existing facilities where technically and economically
feasible. Project investments would be made on State enterprises and coopera-
tive complexes. An incremental supply of 208,100 tons of live-weight pork
would be generated as a result of project investments. The proposed project
would be nationwide in scope, representing the first Bank participation in
Romanian development plan financing on a non-regionalized basis.
1.02      Romania joined the Bank on December 15, 1972.  The proposed project
would represent the fourteenth Bank loan to Romania, bringing the lending
total to nearly US$700 million. Previous loans to the agricultural sector
account for a total of US$260.0 million: (a) Guirgiu-Razmiresti Irrigation
Project (US$70.0 million), (b) Sadova-Corabia Agricultural Credit Project
(US$30.0 million), (c) The agricultural components of the Flood Recovery
Project (US$40.0 million out of a total US$60.0 million), (d) Rasova-Vederoasa
Irrigation and Agricultural Development Project (US$60.0 million), and (e)
Ialomita-Calmatui Irrigation Project (US$60.0 million). The proposed loan
would be the sixth in this sector.
1.03      The proposed project was identified and prepared by the Government.
The project was appraised in November 1976 by a mission consisting of Messrs.
E. Schertz, W. Nickel, W. Bertelsmeier (IBRD), and M. Walshe (Consultant).
This report is based on their findings.
II. COUNTRY BACKGROUND AND THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. General
2.01      Romania, with a total land area of 237,500 km2, ha3 a t-tl 2lc-
tion of 21.2 million (mid-1975 estimate) increasing at an annual rate of about
one percent. In 1975 the rural population was estimated at 12.1 million
(56.8%), in comparison with 12.5 million (67.9%) recorded in 1960. GNP per
capita for 1975 was estimated at US$1,300 (World Bank Atlas methodology).
2.02      The country is endowed with an abundant supply of natural resources
such as sources of energy, good soils, and exploitable irrigation potential,
but Romania remains dependent on imports for several key raw materials, par-
ticularly iron ore. The State manages resources allocation and product dis-
tribution to achieve centrally determined social and economic development



-2-
objectives outlined in the country's five-year development plans and detailed
for each year in annual plans. For further discussion of Romania's economy
see Romania: Economic Memorandum, IBRD Report No. 818a-RO, December 3, 1975.
2.03      Although the agricultural sector ranks below the industrial sector
in the allocation of investment funds, the sector does play an important role
within the national economy. In 1975, agriculture accounted for 13% of social
product 1/, 38% of the total labor force, 11% of the total fixed assets, and
23% of total exports. By providing an expanding food base for the increas-
ingly urban population, raw materials for industrial production, a reserve
labor pool for eventual utilization in other growth sectors, and funds for
capital investment and convertible foreign exchange through exports, the
agricultural sector has been an important contributor to the high rates of
growth and capital formation recorded over the last decade. Over the 1965-75
period, social product 2/ in the agricultural sector increased by 50%, or by
a compound rate of 4.1% p.a. Expansion of agricultural production has been
achieved with reduced labor intensity, infusions of capital and improved
technology, and increased utilization of material inputs, e.g. fertilizers
and pesticides. Livestock production, growing at about 5.8% per year compared
to three percent for crop production, represented 36.8% of gross total agricul-
tural output in 1965 and 43X by 1975. Romanian agriculture has displayed a
positive trade balance over the last 25-year period; the trade balance for
agriculture rose from 412 million lei (US$20.6 million) in 1950 to 1,779 mil-
lion (US$88.9 million) in 1975. Exports of agricultural products declined as
a percentage of total exports from 54.7 to 26.8% over the 1950-75 period as
production and exports of relatively higher valued industrial commodities
expanded.
B. The Resource Base and Agricultural Production Trends
2.04      Romanian agriculture benefits from relatively good soils, a climate
which is seasonally suitable for production, and exploitable water resources.
Out of a national total of 23.8 million ha, 14.9 million are employed in
agricultural production. Of the agricultural total, arable land accounts
for 65.2%, pasture 20.3%, meadowland 9.5%, and vineyards 5.0%.
2.05      Romania can be divided into three agro-climatic zones based on
climatic factors, topography, soils, and other natural conditions influencing
land use and agricultural performance (see Map). The Plains Zone located in
the western and southern parts of the country, is especially well endowed with
fertile soils.. Crop yields tend to be highest in this region, and livestock
1/   Social product is basically defined as the total output of material
production generated at all stages of production. The production
sector comprises those branches of the economy in which material goods
are produced, circulated, and distributed for final use.
2/   In comparable 1963 prices.



-3-
activities, especially pig and poultry production, have been concentrated in
this major grain belt. In 1974, 60.6% of the national pig herd was located
within the 12 districts of the Plains Zone. The Foothills Zone, situated
mainly to the north of the Plains Zone, is characterized by shallow and less
productive soils. Only 20.6% of the national pig herd was located in this
region in 1974. The Mountain and Tableland Zone includes districts in the
northern and central parts of the country.  It accounts for 50  of all pas-
ture and meadowlands. The zone contained only 18.8% of the 1974 pig herd.
C. National Planning and Investment in Agriculture
2.06      National planning in Romania encompasses all aspects of production,
marketing, investment, and finance. The State assumes the role of centralized
manager-planner-coordinator to ensure that production activities satisfy cen-
trally delineated requirements of society. The vehicles used for translating
Stat- prioritics into detailed production targets are the Five-Year and Annual
Plans for socio-economic development. General targets are established for the
economy as a whole as well as specific targets for the production complex at
the microeconomic level. Directives in the plans are obligatory and carry
legal authority.
2.07      The 1976-80 Plan calls for an increase in gross agricultural produc-
tion of 28-44% over the 1971-75 average. Based on past sectoral performance,
growth at least equal to the lower bound target is considered feasible. The
Plan proposes intensive development and modernization of agriculture to in-
crease domestic food supplies in line with consumption requirements, guarantee
sufficient raw materials for the industrial sector, and contribute to increased
foreign trade (Annex 1, Part IV).
2.08      Proposed investments in pig production and processing under the
1976-80 Plan would represent one component of a total investment package for
the livestock subsector attempting, inter alia, to raise meat production
to a 1976-80 annual average of 2.5-2.7 million tons of meat (live-weight).
Fulfillment of this target would mean an increase in meat production of
34-45% over the 1971-75 average level of 1.8 million tons, or 24-35.5% over
1975 output of 2.0 million tons. As presented below, a total of 6,940 mil-
lion lei has been committed under the Plan for investments to increase and
upgrade pig production capacities and another 5,550 million lei to provide
adequate facilities to process projected incremental pig output. Proposed
investments would permit a continuation of the average five percent annual
rate of growth in pig production demonstrated over the last decade. Based
on past production performance, technological development, and a satisfactory
grain-protein base for livestock activities, planned growth rates in pig
production are considered attainable (Annex 1, Part V and Annex 4).



-4-
Investment Program in Pig Production and Processing, 1976-80
~~- ------    Lei Million-- ---
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980       Total
Pig Production                  1,170   1,760   2,080   1,070       860      6,940
Slaughterhouse and Meat
Processing Facilities        1,150   1,050   1,050   1,150   1,150        5,550
Total                2,320   2,810   3,130   2,220   2,010    12,450
2.09      The proposed increase in pig production from 8.6 million pigs in
1975 to 13 million by 1983 would make a substantial contribution toward (a)
a planned boost in per capita meat consumption from 46 kg (fresh meat basis)
in 1975 to 55-60 kg by 1980; and (b) exportable balances of fresh and frozen
pork and pork products. To support this livestock development scheme, Romania
has (a) made a policy decision (1970) to forego exports of feedgrains whenever
necessary in order to ensure adequate supplies to the livestock subsector, and
(b) placed emphasis through the 1976-80 Plan on investments to increase feed-
grain production (maize and barley), and to speed up substitution of domestic-
ally produced protein materials for imported stocks (principally soybean meal
and fishmeal) (Annex 1, paras 5.13-5.24).
2.10      Investments in pig production included in the 1976-80 Plan would
enable an expansion of pork production by 428,500 tons (live-weight) for a
45% increase over 1975 production levels by 1983 (Annex 2, Table 1). Project
investments, encompassing those committed for 1977 and 1978, would yield 48Z
of the total incremental pork output. Preliminary quantities of pork would
be generated from project investments beginning in 1978 and 1979, with full
production achieved in 1981. Assuming a total meat production level of
2.8 million tons by 1983 1/, pork output would represent 50% of the total.
Project output in 1983 would equal about 7.4% of national meat production
and 26.4% of incremental meat production over 1975 levels.
2.11      Under the 1976-80 Plan, total slaughtering capacity for all live-
stock would be increased from 927,000 tons, carcass-weight 2/ in 1975, to
1,750,000 tons annually in 1985 when 1980 investment commitments would be
fully operational. Pig slaughtering capacities would be increased from
474,000 to 862,000 tons, sufficient for handling incremental pig production
generated under the Plan. Processed meat production capacity would also be
expanded from 170,000 to 281,000 tons. Under the project, total livestock
slaughtering capacity would be expanded by 167,900 tons, carcass-weight,
including 111,000 tons of pork, 39,100 tons of baby beef, and 17,800 tons
of beef. Incremental processed meat production capacity financed under
the project would total 34,000 tons.
1/   Mission estimate.  This assumption is consistent with planned meat
production (2.5-2.7 million tons live-weight, annual average 1976-80)
and historical trends of total meat supply composition. Over the
1971-75 period, pork represented 46-50% of total meat production.
2/   Carcass basis equals 75% of live-weight basis for pork and 55% for
beef.



- 5-
D. Pig Production
2.12      Pig rearing and fattening have been traditionally important pro-
duction activities within Romanian agriculture. Consumer preference for
pork as well as a firm feedgrain base have provided stimulants for increased
allocation of investment funds to this subsector and complementary research
program. Romania over the last 15 years has developed systems of pig produc-
tion that rank among the largest in the world for their large scale of opera-
tion, and compares satisfactorily in productive performance with other pig
producing countries. To support this important subsector, an active research
program is maintained to improve the genetic base of the national pig herd.
Veterinary services are extensive and generally maintained within each large
production complex.
2.13      Over the 1950-75 period the national pig herd quadrupled from 2.2
to 8.8 million head. During these years of general growth in pig production,
the organization of this livestock activity has undergone significant change,
in part reflecting the concurrent reorganization and collectivization of the
agricultural sector (Annex 1, para 5.4-5.9).
Agricultural Production Units
2.14      The present structure of the agricultural sector is the result of
a State-managed program to increase collectivization and direct State par-
ticipation in production activities. During the 1945-48 period, a small-scale,
peasant-oriented farm structure was established. This was eventually trans-
.formed (1949-1962) into a large-scale farming system including cooperatives
and State-owned and operated farming enterprises. Today five kinds of agri-
cultural production entities can be distinguished: (a) State agricultural
units, including State agricultural enterprises (IASs); (b) cooperative com-
plexes (CAPs); (c) inter-cooperative associations (ICAs); (d) small individual
plots used by CAP members; and (e) privately owned farms.
2.15      IASs are State-owned, large-scale, capital-intensive farm enter-
prises worked by State employees. In 1975, there were 391 IASs farming 14%
of total agricultural land. In that year IASs averaged 5,263 ha per unit
and employed an average of 644 persons per complex, implying about 8.2 ha per
employee. LASs in 1975 produced 22% of total cereals, 13% of cattle, 38% of
pigs, and 12% of sheep. LASs, considered the pilot sector within Romanian
agriculture, have until recently received priority with r,Žspuct tc L..catio.
of superior land, irrigation facilities, new technology, and financial re-
sources. Beginning in 1962, the Government began a reorganization of the IAS
system to collectivize State farms engaged in pig rearing and fattening activi-
ties under a State enterprise structure specialized exclusively in pig produc-
tion. These "State Agricultural Enterprises for Pig Production" generally have
no complementary land resources and therefore usually rely on State-operated
feedmills for feed requirements. Fifty percent of IAS net income is allocated
to a minor on-farm investment fund and to an insurance fund, and the balance
transferred to the State budget. Salaries of IAS staff are fixed by law but



-6-
vary according to skill levels; 80% of salaries is paid at least monthly and
the remainder at the end of the season, provided the planned targets have
been met 1/ (see Annex 1, paras 3.13, 3.14, and 3.17).
2.16      The land and assets of a CAP are jointly owned by the cooperative
members. In 1975, there were 4,419 CAPs supporting 3.4 million families for
about 2.6 ha per family. CAPs owned 54% of total agricultural land and pro-
duced 64% of cereals, 42% of cattle, 32% of pigs, and 40% of sheep. A CAP is
managed by its elected President and comes under the purview of the district
General Director for Agriculture. The net farm income of a CAP is allocated
among a development fund to finance future investment, a consumption fund to
cover wages, security payments, and a socio-cultural fund. Wages are com-
puted on the basis of production norms, which vary across agricultural activ-
ities. In pig production, workers are paid, for example, according to number
of piglets born per month, number of sows tended, mortality rate, the number
of piglets weaned, and incremental weight gain per month. Eighty percent of
the labor payment is usually paid on at least a monthly basis. The remainder,
with any bonuses, is paid at the end of the production year if annual targets
are reached or exceeded.
2.17      Some CAPs have begun to pool their resources for large-scale invest-
ments in agroindustries and livestock activities. These associations known
as ICAs are operated by State employees paid out of ICA revenues. With regard
to pig production, a central ICA unit is responsible for breeding activities
and raising weaners. A member CAP is expected to sell feedgrains to the ICA
in accordance with its equity share in the total ICA investment. After
selling these feedgrains for processing by feedmills, the ICA purchases back
the finished feeds and allocates them to CAP fattening units. Part of the
net income from ICA sales of fattened pigs is retained for further ICA devel-
opment; the balance is divided among member CAPs proportional to their contri-
bution to equity capital.
2.18      Members of CAPs are assigned small plots of cooperative land aver-
aging 0.15 ha per active member (1975) for their own personal use. Although
CAP members individually farmed only 7% of total agricultural land in 1975,
they were responsible for 36% of all vegetables produced; 49% of eggs, 10% of
cereals, and 21% of pigs. Individual CAP members are allowed to utilize col-
lectively operated land for personal purposes once wheat and barley harvests
are completed. Maize is usually grown as the follow-up crop to support back-
yard livestock production activities.
1/   IAS unskilled farm workers earn approximately 1,200-1,600 lei per month.
Comparable labor on CAPs earn a minimum of 1,000 lei monthly. In addi-
tion, the latter receives further income from the sale of home-produced
commodities and from off-farm employment. Their income, however, prob-
ably averages slightly lower than those of IAS counterparts. In order
to provide incentives, both IAS and CAP personnel receive bonus premiums
if Plan targets are exceeded. In 1975, wages to workers in the agricul-
tural sector averaged 1,622 lei (US$81) per month or about 8% less than
that obtained in the industrial sector.



-7-
2.19      About 10% of total agricultural land is farmed by about 150,000
private farmt families. Most of this area is located in the foothills and
mountains. These farmers are important producers of vegetables and livestock
products (Annex I, Part III).
rechnology
2.20      Ia an effort to increase pig production on a crash basis, 12
specialized State enterprises were organized in 1961-62 to produce annually
100,000 fattened pigs per complex. In subsequent years, steps were taken to
refine production techniques, e.g. manure removal systems, and expand produc-
tion capacities to capture managerial and operational economies of scale.
Managers enjoy considerable freedom of action within the centrally controlled
system in regard to day-to-day operational decision-making. The levels of
management capability vary widely and are generally satisfactory. Advanced
training is currently provided to upgrade skills for staff already in the
field (Annex 1, paras 6.4-6.6). Based on experience gained in this formative
periou, smaller units with a modal capacity of 32,000 head p.a. were found to
be more efficient and would be replicated under the 1976-80 Plan. Although
pig production efficiency has improved with experience, specific measures can
be implemented to improve productivity: (a) upgrading feed quality through
utilization of more higher quality protein meals; (b) reduction of feed
wastage through better management and improved feeding practices;- (c) increas-
ing sow fertility and feed conversion efficiency through improvement in the
genetic base of breeding stock; and (d) increasing sow fertility through
better management practices with particular regard to timely breeding, disease
detection, assistance at farrowing, and monitoring. It is expected that under
the project improvement in the above would result in increased yields of pork.
E. Marketing and Processing
2.21      Within the Department of Food Industry of the Ministry of Agri-
culture and Food Industry (MA), there exists a special agency, the Heat
Industrialization Trust (MIT) in charge of processing most of the beef, pork,
and mutton produced in the country. The organization and operation of MIT is
discussed in Annex 2, Part I. In 1975, MIT handled 654,900 tons of pork
(live-weight) representing 68.6% of national pork production. In the same
year, 524,700 tons of pork, or 80% of the MIT total, were supplied by State
enterprises and cooperatives. Of the 372,000 tons of pork produced in the
private sector in 1975, 35% was sold to the MIT through local consumption
cooperatives, 61% was retained for home consumption, and four percent was
slaughtered in small local abattoirs and retailed in peasant free markets.
2.22      The Ministry for Internal Trade (MFIT) is responsible for the in-
ternal distribution of all products for consumption. The MFIT submits esti-
mates of domestic consumption requirements to the State Planning Committee
during the formative phase of the national plans. Based on the Committee's
assessment of feedgrain availabilities, meat supply, and export and consump-
tion projections, quantities of meat available for domestic consumption are



-8-
determined and included in the final plan submitted to the General Assembly
(see Annex 2, Part I for further details). Pork, mutton, and beef are sup-
plied under contract with MIT enterprises to State shops and consumption
cooperatives. Small quantities of meat can also be obtained at peasant free
markets, pig production complex retail outlets, and a small number of private
shops. Of the total 654,900 tons of pork processed by MIT enterprises in
1975, 226,500 tons were transformed into sausages and tinned meat, 86.3% for
internal consumption and the balance for export. A total of 428,300 tons were
processed into fresh and frozen products, 74% for domestic consumption (see
diagram in Annex 2, Part I).
2.23      Romania has an established livestock slaughtering and meat processing
industry including both small rural abattoirs for local consumption needs and
large, modern meat packing plants. Existing facilities range from small, in-
efficient operations to large-scale, efficient facilities constructed and run
in conformity with international sanitary standards. A complementary Meat
Inspection Service operates to ensure compliance with established health
standards.  By 1975, 86% of total slaughtering capacity nationwide existed in
large industrial-type units. Some of these specialized industrial facilities
in Romania are designed to slaughter and process only one type of livestock,
usually pigs; other processing plants are equipped to manufacture a variety
of meat products such as sausages and smoked and canned meats from purchased
beef and pork carcasses. Byproducts are processed into edible fats; blood,
meat, and bone meals; inedible fats; hides and skins; casings; and glands for
pharmaceutical products. Planned expansion of livestock slaughtering and meat
processing capacities are discussed in para 2.11.
F. Input and Product Pricing
2.24      Prices of all products in Romania, at both farmgate/ex-factory and
retail levels, are established and controlled by the State. A major tenet of
Romanian economic policy is to maintain stable price levels. Over the 1971-
75 Plan period, retail prices in the aggregate increased by less than three
percent and are expected to increase by approximately five percent between
1976 and 1980. The relative prices of essential goods, including food prod-
ucts, are kept low; retail prices for some goods, e.g. bread, are unchanged
since the early 1950's. Producer (supply) prices are also kept stable over
at least one planning period: between 1974-76, producer prices were revised
for the first time since 1963 to reflect changes in costs and technology on
internal and international planes. As is discussed in Annex 2, Part II, a
split-level pricing system operates for inputs and outputs of cooperative
complexes and IASs. The financial rates of return for investments proposed
under the project reflect these price differentials.
G. Pork Consumption
2.25      Pork represents a major component in the Romanian diet and a pre-
ferred meat commodity by the Romanian consumer. Over the last decade, pork
represented half of all meat consumed per capita, rising from 13.5 kg (1965)



-9-
to 23 kg (1975) on a fresh meat basis. Along with eggs and other meat prod-
ucts, pork represents a major source of high grade protein in a diet marked by
relatively high cereal consumption and intake of protein of vegetable origin.
2.26      Comparisons of per capita consumption of total meat and pork in
Romania and other Eastern European countries having similar tastes and income
levels reveal a generally lower relative consumption level in Romania. Accord-
ing to FAO data, Romania ranked lowest of the Eastern European countries in
total meat intake and second lowest in pork over the 1964-66 period; in 1975,
this consumption gap remained significant. Similarly, per capita meat and
pork consumption in Romania was below EC-9 averages (1974) by 43% and 30%
respectively (Annex 2, Part III).
2.27      The 1976-80 Plan proposes expansion of domestic supplies of food
commodities, and particularly meat to facilitate a planned 20-30% increase in
meat consumption per inhabitant over the 1976-80 period. Proposing to keep
the share of pork in meat consumption relatively constant through 1980, the
Government supports an increase in total meat consumption per capita from 46
kg in 1975 to 55-60 kg by 1980, including a growth in pork consumption from 23
to 29 kg over the five-year period.
2.28      The proposed project would make a major contribution toward fulfill-
ment of this planned 20-30% increase in per capita meat consumption. Incre-
mental pork derived from the project would total 208,100 tons (liveweight) in
1981 or 75.5% of an estimated 275,717 tons required for domestic consumption
in that year (see Annex 2, Table 1). With full development of total 1976-80
Plan investments in 1983, an estimated 69.4% of the total incremental pork
production equalling 428,500 tons must be allocated to the home market to
maintain per capita consumption at the 1976-80 planned level of 29 kg. 1/
By 1983, an excess incremental supply of 131,100 tons of pork, approximately
equal to the live-weight equivalent of 1975 pork exports, would be generated.
This excess incremental quantity, valued at 1976 f.o.b. Romanian prices,
would.be worth an estimated US$158.3 million equivalent. Should this incre-
mental amount have to be diverted to internal markets due to diminished oppor-
tunities for export, it would enable an increase in pork consumption from 29.0
kg per capita in 1975 to 32.4 kg in 1983, a level on par with the EC-9 1974
average.
2.29      To support a per capita meat consumption of 55-60 kg, 353,000-529,000
tons of incremental meat supplies must be provided for domestic -se !J t 00.
If meat production totals 2.8 million tons by 1983, implying a 788,000 ton
increment over 1975, 44.8-67.1% of this increment would be required to support
domestic consumption targets. If Romania in that year were unable to find
suitable markets internationally for the balance and were forced to divert it
to internal use, per capita consumption of meat in 1983 would rise to 66.6 kg.
This level would still be 18% below the EC-9 1974 average.
1/   One percent&population growth rate assumed.



- 10 -
H. Pork Exports
2.30      Meat exports, totalling 22,600 tons in 1970, grew to 164,800 tons
by 1975 after Government placed increased emphasis on this export category
as an important generator of convertible foreign exchange. In 1975, fresh
and frozen pork exports totalled 82,300 tons while tinned meats and sausage
exports, composed predominantly of pork, summed to 23,000 tons. Converted
to a uniform live-weight basis, pork exports represented 14.2% of total 1975
pork production, approximately 78% of which was sold in fresh and frozen
form. Although detailed data concerning the geographical distribution of
Romanian meat exports were not provided to the mission, fragmented informa-
tion suggests that (a) Italy, France, and the Federal Republic of Germany
(FRG) represent the major buyers of Romanian fresh and frozen pork; (b) US
for canned hams and pork loins; (c) FRG, the Netherlands, Sweden, and UK for
other canned meats; and (d) FRG, Austria, and Sweden for sausages.
2.31      Foreign trade is a State monopoly in Romania.  Prodexport, a State-
run trading company, is the only agency authorized to sign contracts with
foreign buyers for the purchase of Romanian pork and other selected agri-
cultural products. Prodexport searches for new markets, advises economic
planners concerning the world market situation, and concludes contracts with
various State centrals for the supply of goods for export. With regard to
beef, mutton, and pork, once contracts are signed, MIT is responsible for
production of export commodities and their delivery to the border point of
dispatch (Annex 2, paras 4.2-4.4).
2.32      Although Romanian exports of pork have expanded rapidly over the
last five years, the prospects for continued expansion for the medium- and
long-term are difficult to assess. Detailed analysis of the EC, US, Eastern
European, and Japanese markets is presented in Annex 2, Part IV. Over the
last several years, Romania has been able to capitalize on a reduction in
pork exports from Poland, the Netherlands, Denmark, and Canada, principally
to the US and EC markets. In addition, Poland and the USSR have relied on
Romanian supplies to compensate for recent cutbacks in their national herds.
The following are viewed as potential constraints to major growth in Romanian
pork exports in the future: (a) potentially rapid buildup of national herds
in importing countries; (b) improvement in feedgrain production performance
enabling the support of larger pig production activities in importing coun-
tries; (c) trade barriers; (d) increased competition in the international
market; (e) reduced consumer preference for imported pork, especially canned
hams (US); (f) less than favorable general economic climate in importing
countries; and (g) balance of payments constraints of importing countries
because of growing imports of petroleum products (Annex 2, paras 4.5-4.18).
In view of the difficulties in projecting export levels, the absorption of
project output has been considered both in terms of domestic consumption as
well as export (paras 2.27-2.29 and 6.02).



- 1.1 -
III. THE BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND FOOD INDUSTRY (ANNEX 3)
A. Tasks, Responsibilities and Powers
3.01      The Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI) is a State-owned
credit institution established to finance production and investment in agri-
culture and agroindustries. The more important responsibilities of BAFI are
to: (a) act as fiscal agent for collection and distribution of budgetary
funds; (b) grant short-term production credit; (c) approve investment pro-
posals of State enterprises and cooperatives; (d) grant long-term investment
credit; (e) maintain checking accounts and accept deposits; (f) exercise
financial control over execution of financial and investment plans; and (g)
cooperate with foreign and international organizations to finance investments
in agriculture and agroindustries.
B. Organization and Management
3.02      The Administrative Council is the policy-making body of BAFI.  It
is composed of BAFI's President, Senior Vice President, and Vice President,
directors of BAFI departments in the head office in Bucharest and several
BAFI branches, economic and agricultural experts, representatives of minis-
tries and other central State organs, and a delegate designated by the General
Trade Union of Romania. Between the sessions of the Administrative Council,
the Executive Bureau acts as the decision-making body. Its members are the
President, the Senior Vice President, the Vice President, three department
directors and the trade union representative (see para 5.01 and Annex 3,
para 3.6 for further details about BAFI staffing).
3.03      BAFI's operations are carried out by 39 branches, 92 sub-branches,
and about 800 credit cooperatives for small-scale lending. Institutions
of national importance are served by the three operational departments in
the head office (agroindustries, cooperative sector, and State sector).
C. Fiscal Agency Operations
3.04      One of BAFI's most important functions is that of financial agent
for State long-term investments in agriculture and agroindustries. BAFI
reviews and approves details of proposed development plans, makes disburse-
ments according to each plan, supervises plan implementation with particular
emphasis on development targets, and collects "depreciation" payments 1/ on
State budget account. For this service, BAFI receives a commission of 0.5%
of the investments channelled through it. Over the past several years, State
equity contributions for investments disbursed through BAFI were as follows:
1/  Depreciation charges are assessed on capital inputs based on acquisition
costs and the legal life of each item to provide for full cost recovery
(Annex 1, para 3.17).



- 12 -
FY                     Lei Million               1970 - 100
1970                      27,077                      100
1973                      39,471                      146
1975                      62,593                      231
D. Financing Policies and Procedures
3.05      BAFI makes both short- and long-term loans to the cooperative sector
and to a limited degree to individual coop-members and private farmers. Short-
term capital requirements of State enterprises are met by BAFI production
credits. Long-term investments in State enterprises are normally financed on
non loan basis from the State budget. Long-term lending to State enterprises
started with a very limited scope under the "Small Mechanization Program" and
on a regional basis under the Bank-financed projects (Sadova-Corabia Agricul-
tural Credit Project, Flood Recovery Project, and Rasova-Vederoasa Project).
The shift from equity contributions to investment lending reflects a policy
decision to require greater financial responsibility from the State enter-
prises.
3.06      Repayment terms for long-term loans are set by law.  The length of
the repayment period varies with the type of investment financed. The interest
rate charged depends on the ownership of the investing entity; State enter-
prises are charged two percent during construction and four percent thereafter
while all other borrowers pay a uniform three percent.
3.07      Short-term loans must be repaid within 12 months.  Interest rates
for short-term financing are fixed by law and vary from 2% to 4% according to
the ownership and production activity of the borrower (see Annex 3, para 5.7).
3.08      In addition to controlling plan execution, BAFI intervenes even
during project design whether financed from the State budget or loan funds.
Production complexes prepare technical and financial proposals for investments
included in annual plans; these detailed project studies, once approved by
a State technico-economic commission, are reviewed by BAFI's technical and
engineering staff which often gives "compulsory advice" to reduce proposed
investment costs. Once a plan is approved by BAFI it is binding for both the
client and BAFI. After approval, BAFI supervises the operations of borrowers
and investors closely. BAFI inspectors visit clients regularly and report on
conditions in the field. Delays-and infractions in operations and project
execution are penalized. In addition to the supervision activities carried
out by BAFI branches, sub-branches, and operational head office departments,
there is a central supervision division which ensures that this activity is
performed properly.
3.09      Loans are primarily secured by "credit engagements" of borrowers
who commit all present and future income to debt service and are obliged to
maintain all their revenue in BAFI accounts. In accordance with BAFI policy,
short-term credit must not exceed 60% of production valued at selling prices.
Though no bad debt has been recorded by BAFI to date, the law provides that
in the case of a liquidity problem, BAFI's claims would have priority vis-a-
vis other debts.



- 13 -
E. Lending and Investment Operations
3.10      The total volume of BAFI financing rose from 149 billion lei (US$7.4
billion) in 1970 to 380 billion lei (US$19.0 billion) in 1975 with its struc-
ture remaining relatively stable (80% being short-term production credit and
the balance long-term investment financing).
F.  BAFI-Financing of Pig Production and Processing-/ (Annex 3, Table 4)
3.11      To date financing of pig production and processing accounted for
less than 10% of total outstanding short-term credit. About half of this
was allocated to one borrower, MIT. A large and increasing percentage of
outstanding short-term loans for pig production was allocated to the coopera-
tive sector (1973: 67%; 1975: 87%). About five percent of total State funds
funnelled through BAFI for investment were for pig production and processing,
with a growing percentage of funds being allocated for the latter (87% in
1975). Investments in pig production and processing were financed by contri-
butions from the State budget (for State enterprises), investors' own funds,
and long-term BAFI loans (in the case of the cooperative sector). No invest-
ment loans for pig production,and processing to date have been made to State
enterprises, private farmers, or individual coop-members.
G. Sources of Funds
3.12      The main sources of BAFI funds are its statutory capital (800 mil-
lion lei), the reserve fund representing accumulation of net profits (800
million lei), and special funds provided from the State budget based on the
State's financial plan for agricultural investment targets. BAFI obtains
short-term borrowings from the National Bank of Romania and accepts deposits
from socialist organizations. 2/ BAFI pays 1.5% p.a. interest on these lia-
bilities. Deposits have ranged between 4.0 and 5.1 million lei over the last
five years.
1/   Data available concern only the industrial-type system.  Financing of
pig production and processing in the traditional sector is not covered
by data obtained as these units are engaged in mixed farming; informa-
tion on their financial operations is aggregated. This sector therefore
covers the industrial-type system which accounted for about 39% of the
pig production in 1975.
2/   State enterprises and cooperative complexes.



- 14 -
H. Financial Condition
3.13      BAFI's net operating balance has risen steadily from 260.5 million
lei in 1970 to 1,243.6 million lei in 1975. While total income grew rapidly
over the period, total expenses remained relatively stable. Costs are kept
under tight control. Despite a considerable growth in total assets from 23
to 60 billion lei over the 1970-75 period, the total number of BAFI staff
members was cut by 100. The latter reflects BAFI's success in controlling
operating costs through the introduction of electronic data processing and
other efficiency measures.
3.14      BAFI's net worth was 1,600 million lei on December 31, 1975.
Because of its control over the accounts of its borrowers, surveillance
of disbursements and loan proceeds, as well as detailed and rigorous inspec-
tions of operations at the project level, BAFI has had no reported loss due to
bad debt. Additionally, BAFI does not run foreign exchange risk since such
operations are handled by the National Bank of Romania and the Romanian Bank
for Foreign Trade. Being well protected against potential risks with regard
to its assets and liabilities and given BAFI's close control of cost develop-
ments, BAFI is expected to continue to remain in good financial condition.
I. Performance Under the Sadova-Corabia Agricultural Credit Project
3.15      The objectives of the Sadova-Corabia Agricultural Credit Project
are generally being achieved up to Bank expectations and in accordance with
appraisal report estimates. Through investment financing for development of
socialist complexes in the Sadova-Corabia region, the project would facilitate
execution of a farm development and agroindustries program initiated under the
1971-75 Plan. The objectives of this strategy were (a) intensive cultivation
of crops benefitting the most from irrigation in order to satisfy projected
domestic demand and anticipated exports; (b) development of the livestock
subsector; and (c) integration of production activities with existing agro-
industrial capacities and creation of new capacity as required. Toward these
ends, the project includes financing for development of orchards, vineyards,
dairy farms, beef fattening units, a fruit handling and storage complex, a
feedmill and silo, a premix feedmill, refrigerated trucks, farm machinery,
a leaf analysis laboratory, as well as provision for technical training. As
of March 31, 1977, 80.4% and 88.2% of total project investment funding and
Bank loan proceeds respectively had been committed. By April 30, 1977, dis-
bursements had reached US$14.2 million or 47% of the Bank loan. Disbursements
are currently running about 42% ahead of estimates made at appraisal; there-
fore, based on present performance, the loan is expected to be fully disbursed
by January 1980 as per the appraisal estimate.
3.16      The physical execution of the project has basically conformed to the
scale and purpose envisaged. On-farm development subprojects are proceeding
satisfactorily with construction and equipping of beef-fattening facilities,
dairy barns, and ancillary structures, completion of contracts with foreign



- 15 -
suppliers for delivery of in-calf heifers, and planting of vineyards and
orchards. The feedmill and silo complex construction is progressing on sched-
ule. The fruit and vegetable processing facility is expected to be completed
for the 1977 harvest season. The MA Institute of Design has recently prepared
a technico-economic study for the design of the leaf analysis laboratory, and
construction was begun in early 1977. The training component of the project
is expected to be initiated in late 1977.
3.17      The technical and financial analysis and supervision of subloans
by BAFI has proved comprehensive and satisfactory.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
4.01      The project represents a two-year tranche from Romania's 1976-80
National Development Program for the pig production and meat processing sub-
sector. The project would make a major contribution toward fulfillment of
planned increases in domestic meat supplies to support efforts to improve
nutritioual balance and generation of increased exports. Investments to
expand the pig production and processing subsector are considered to be of
high priority due to (a) the strong consumer preference for pork in increasing
the meat content of diets, (b) the high level of production and processing
technology and performance established in the country, (c) the satisfactory
domestic feedgrain base, and (d) export experience and the relatively close
proximity to export markets for exportable surpluses. Specifically, the
project aims to (a) develop a sufficiently large multiplier herd to support
the industry; (b) maintain animals of high genetic quality through the use of
improved breeding stock and additional development of testing and selection
centers; (c) continue reorganization of pig production activities into special-
ized "industrial-type" complexes to capture managerial and technical economies
of scale and to facilitate transferal of technical know-how throughout the
subsector; (d) increase dispersion of production capacity throughout the
country to meet more efficiently the consumption requirements bf the popula-
tion; (e) provide adequate slaughtering and processing units and the moderni-
zation of existing facilities in accordance with international sanitary
standards and high operational efficiency.
B. Detailed Features
Project Components
4.02      The project would include investments for (a) facilities and initial
livestock for about 60 pig breeding/fattening complexes 1/ with an aggregate
1/   Equivalent of 39 pig breeding/fattening complexes with a modal annual
fattening capacity of 32,000 head per unit.



- 16 -
annual capacity of 1.5 million pigs; (b) facilities and initial livestock for
about 40 pig breeidng farms 1/ with an aggregae annual production capacity of
about 100,000 gilts; (c) a pig farm modernization program for increasing and
renovating the production capacity of existing facilities; (d) a pig improve-
ment and selection program for extending and developing further the national
breeding program involving breeds of high genetic quality; (e) the construc-
tion of modern livestock slaughtering and meat processing facilities and
specialized sausage processing plants; and (f) a modernization program for
existing slaughterhouse and meat processing plants. Subloans would be pro-
vided to State enterprises and cooperative complexes for buildings and
utilities, processing equipment, quality breeding stock, farm machinery and
vehicles, and feed storage units. Investments would be phased over a four-
year implementation period (1977-81). In an effort to explore possible
measures to increase pig production efficiency, the Ministry of Agriculture
will review, improve and develop, in consultation with the Bank, the current
pig husbandry, nutrition, selection and reproduction programs including
their organization, to maximize project benefits. Detailed descriptions of
individual components are provided in Annexes 4 and 5. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the project features as described above would
be undertaken.
C. Cost Estimates
4.03      The total project cost is estimated at 6,449 million lei (US$322.5
million) of which 1,425 million lei (US$71.3 million) would represent the
foreign exchange component. Detailed cost estimates are presented in
Annexes 4 and 5.
4.04      Cost estimates are based on December 1976 price levels.  These es-
timates were adjusted to reflect increases in base costs of construction
materials and equipment effected by Council of Ministers Decision 394/76
dated December 12, 1976 about which the Bank was informed during negotiations.
Physical contingencies of 10% for the pig breeding/fattening complexes, 5% for
the pig breeding farms, and 4% for the other components (averaging 4.8%) have
been included in the project cost estimates. Also included is a 5.4% average
price contingency to allow for expected inflation in foreign and local costs
during the implementation period.
1/   Equivalent of 106 pig breeding farms each with a modal production
capacity of 960 gilts.



- 17 -
TOTAL PROJECT COST
Local       F.E.      Total      Local      F.E.   Total    Z
-----------Lei '000--------          ------ US$'000-------  F.E.
Pig Fattening
Complexes
Cooperatives  1,139,915    284,150  1,424,065   56,996  14,208   71,204   20
State Enter-
prises          700,014    174,624    874,638   35,001   8,731   43,732   20
Pig Feeding Farms
Cooperatives    692,048    168,927    860,975   34,602   8,446   43,048   20
State Enter-
prises          151,073      34,647    185,720    7,554   1,732    9,286   19
Pig Farm Modern-
ization            266,597      62,541    329,138   13,330   3,127   16,457   19
Pig Selection
Farms               77,654      17,994      95,648    3,882       900    4,782   21
Slaughterhouse and
Meat Processing
Facilities       1,543,586    369,800  1,913,386   77,179 .18,490   95,669   19
Slaughterhouse
Modernization      123,253      30,837    154,090    6,163   1,542    7,705   20
Subtotal    4,694,140  1,143,520  5,837,660  234,707  57,176  291,883   20
Contingency
Allowances
Physical          223,967      55,530    279,497   11,198   2,777   13,975
Price /1          105,782    226,230    332,012    5,289  11,311   16,600
Subtotal       329,749    281,760    611,509   16,487  14,088   30,575
Total        5,023,889  1,425,280  6,449,169  251,194  71,264  322,458   22
/1   The following expected inflation rates were used (in percent per annum) in
determining price contingencies for the total project cost:
Imported Component    Local Component
1977                             8.0                     1
1978-79                          7.5                     1
1980                             7.0                     1



- 18 -
D. Financing
4.05      The financing plan for the project is shown below:
IBRD        BAFI      Sub-borrowers      Total
…__               ___------ Lei '000…-----…-- …------
Pig Fattening Complexes
Cooperatives                   362,467    759,231         480,371    1,602,069
State Enterprises              218,649    763,271             -         981,920
Pig Breeding Farms
Cooperatives                   199,779    451,629         279,066       930,474
State Enterprises               40,893    159,633             --        200,526
Pig Farm Modernization            73,565    263,572           18,863       356,000
Pig Selection Farms               21,994      83,006            -          105,000
Slaughterhouses and Meat
Processing Facilities          466,033  1,640,147                     2,106,180
Slaughterhouse Modernization    36,620    130,380               -          167,000
Total Lei '000           1,420,000  4,250,869          778,300    6,449,169
Total US$ '000              71,000    212,543           38,915       322,458
Percentage of Project
Total Cost                        22        66                12           100
4.06      A Bank loan of US$71 million would be made to BAFI which would fi-
nance about 22% of total project costs, equivalent to 100% of the estimated
foreign exchange component. BAFI would contribute 66%, and sub-borrowers
(cooperatives) would provide the balance from their own resources. BAFI would
cover 23% of total project costs from its own funds through on-lending to
cooperative sub-borrowers. Cooperative sub-borrowers would contribute 30%
of the cost of each individual investment subproject. Investments on State
enterprises amounting to 43% of total project costs would be financed from
State budget funds which would be channelled through BAFI for onlending.
State enterprises would not contribute to the investments from their own
funds. The Bank loan would be for 15 years including three years of grace.
BAFI would provide medium-term loans to sub-borrowers for a maximum period of
six years to cover interest during construction.  Investment subloans would
be for a period of up to 18 years including a maximum three-year grace period.
BAFI would finance any cost overruns that might occur in the project. Govern-
ment would bear the foreign exchange risk. Assurances on these financing
terms would be obtained during negotiations.



- 19 -
E. Procurement
4.07      Although Romanian laws provide for international competitive bid-
ding and for joint ventures involving foreign and domestic enterprises, in
practice, all civil works are constructed by Romanian State-owned construction
enterprises who are experienced and familiar with local conditions, methods,
and regulations. Installations similar to those proposed under the project
have in the past proved well designed and constructed. These would be widely
dispersed throughout the country, would vary in size from location to loca-
tion, and would be constructed over a four-year period. Therefore, construc-
tion of project facilities would be carried out under contract by the Romanian
construction enterprises. Equipment and material required for the project are
estimated to cost about US$112 million (including contingencies). An agreed
list of items to cost an estimated $71 million would be procured by Romagrimex
under ICB in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines. These items include
construction materials steel reinforcing rods, US$12 million; electric cable,
US$14 million; structural steel, US$9.0 million; asbestos cement sheets, US$4
million; and steel pipe, US$2 million; and slaughterhouse and meat processing
equipment US$30 million. Romanian manufacturers would be allowed a 15% pre-
ference margin or the applicable customs duty, whichever is lower. Romanian
manufacturers are highly competitive and it is anticipated that foreign sup-
pliers would be awarded contracts for only about US$9.4 million for slaughter-
house and meat processing equipment which are not manufactured in Romania.
During negotiations assurances were obtained that project procurement of items
specified above would be obtained through ICB in accordance with Bank Guide-
lines.
F. Disbursements
4.08      Bank disbursements would extend over an estimated 5-year period
although the entire loan is expected to be committed by the end of the third
year. The annual phasing of investments and the forecast of quarterly dis-
bursements are shown in Annexes 7 and 8 respectively.  Disbursement of the
proposed Bank loan of US$71 million would be as follows:
(a)  Disbursements under BAFI       -  25% of the amounts disbursed
loans (US$71 million)             by the Borrower on subloans.
Supporting documents for BAFI loans would not be submitted to the Bank for
review but would be held available for inspection by Bank supervision missions.



- 20 -
G. Environmental Impact
4.09      Romania maintains a comprehensive system of-standards and controls
to ensure satisfactory waste water treatment. Facilities financed under the
project would be constructed and operated in conformity with this environ-
mental protection code. During construction, each pig production complex
would be required by law to install suitable waste water treatment works
as well as separate well and water pumping facilities. In the manure and
waste disposal system, combined solid and liquid manure would be pumped to
concrete holding tanks for sedimentation and separation of liquid and semi-
solid materials. After about 20-30 days of drying, the reanining solid
material would be loaded and transported to farms for use as fertilizer.
Similarly, slaughtering and meat processing facilities would be required
to construct pre-treatment plants to bring waste water to a purity level
equal to that of local municipal waste water. Only then could a facility
discharge into the municipal sewerage system. Caution would even be taken
to ensure that surface rain water is removed through a separate system from
that handling plant waste. Slaughterhouses and meat processing plants must
pay to discharge pre-treated waste water into municipal systems for final
processing; this charge is either calculated on a fixed fee or a gauged basis.
If a slaughterhouse complex is constructed in a community where it represents
the dominant industry, it would build a sewerage treatment unit for the entire
town and thereafter forego periodic charges for its use. A strict system of
penalties is maintained to ensure compliance with water purity requirements.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
5.01      BAFI would be the Borrower under guarantee of the Socialist Republic
of Romania, and individual subprojects would be implemented by State enter-
prises and cooperatives. The project would be administered by BAPI through
its branches in all 39 districts of Romania. Of the total 3,710 BAFI employees,
80% are professional staff members trained in engineering or specialized in
economics, banking, or accounting. As is the Romanian practice, managers of
farm enterprises would be university graduates whose technical competence
would be continuously upgraded through seminars and demonstrations.
5.02      BAFI branches would have responsibility for directly supervising
the financial and administrative execution of the subprojects, with technical
assistance from the MA, particularly the Directorate General of Agriculture,
research stations, and meat inspection service (para 3.08). BAFI would meet
project expenditures from a special project account which would receive funds
from the State budget and through disbursements from the Bank loan.



- 21 -
B. Lending Policies and Procedures
5.03      Proposals of subprojects to be financed would be examined by BAFI
which would determine that all subprojects financed are technically feasible
and financially viable. Analysis of those subprojects subject to prior Bank
approval would be undertaken according to a format agreed upon between BAFI
and the Bank. Detailed subproject investment proposals would be submitted
to the branches or to BAFI's Central Office depending on their complexity.
All subproject investment proposals would have to be cleared by the respon-
sible MA agency before the subloans would be approved by BAFI. BAFI would
prepare an individual summary analysis for each investment subproject includ-
ing indicators and investment data. For subprojects involving total invest-
ment of 40 million lei (US$2 million) or more BFI would submit the individual
summary to the Bank for prior approval. For subprojects involving total
investment between 20-40 million lei BAFI would submit individual summaries
for representative investment subprojects, 2 slaughterhouses - modernization,
4 new pig breeding/fattening complexes, 4 breeding farms, 4 pig breeding/
fattening complexes-modernization to the Bank for prior approval. This level
of Bank review would cover 33% of the subprojects financed under the project.
Under the 1976-80 Plan, provision has been made for sufficient slaughtering
capacity to process anticipated pig output resulting from total Plan invest-
ments for pig production. While 50% of the 1976-80 pig production investments
would be made under the project, only 30% of total planned pig slaughtering
capacity investments would be included in the project. Therefore, each
subproject proposal would contain assurances that sufficient slaughtering
capacity would be available to process incremental output expected from the
subproject. Project subloans would be subject to the tight and efficient
supervision BAFI exercises on current operations and borrowers (paras 3.08-
3.09 and Annex 3, para 4.3).
5.04      Under the project, IAS investment requirements would be met by
BAFI loans with fixed amortization periods instead of by interest free allo-
cations from the State budget. This would continue the policy of long-term
lending to State enterprise emphasized under the Bank-financed Sadova-Corabia
Agricultural Credit Project. IAS subloan maturities would take into consider-
ation the grace period and the capacity of subprojects to repay from incre-
mental income generated therefrom. For cooperative sub-borrowers, the maximum
subloan repayment periods are set by law. For pig production the grace and
repayment periods may not exceed 3 and 18 years respectively.
5.05      Interest rates would be the same as those charged by BAFI for similar
investments. Interest on subloans to cooperative sub-borrowers would be 3%
per annum. Interest on subloans to IASs would be 2% p.a. during construction
and 4% p.a. after construction. Due to rigid controls on domestic prices,
Romania maintains a domestic inflation rate of less than one percent per year.
This one percent annual rate of increases takes into account the 19.8% in-
crease in construction material costs effected in 1976; this cost adjustment
represents the first since 1963 and no further increase is anticipated during
project implementation. Insulation of the Romanian economy from world infla-
tion is expected to be continued in the future. In view of the above, current
BAFI interest rates are positive and are expected to remain so during repayment



- 22 -
of subloans. In addition, interest rates in general do not influence the
allocation of resources or individual investment decisions in Romania (para
2.06). Lastly, the level of interest rates does not influence the level of
capital intensity employed in investments, since project design and technology
choices are standardized by the Ministry of Agriculture's Design Institute
and applied nationwide. During negotiations, assurances were obtained on
the project lending policies and procedures described in paras 5.01-5.05.
C. Accounts and Audit
5.06      The existing accounting and auditing procedures in Romania are quite
strict and satisfactory. BAFI's accounts are subject to a continuous audit
by independent internal inspectors and an annual audit by inspectors from the
Ministry of Finance and the Court of Superior Control. The Court, which
reports directly to the President of the country, conducts an independent
audit of BAFI's accounts and of results of audits by inspectors from the
Ministry of Finance.  Assurances were obtained that BAFI would submit its
annual audit report satisfactory to the Bank within five months of the close
of the fiscal year.
5.07      BAFI will keep separate accounts for all project expenditures in-
cluding those related to goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the proposed Bank loan. These accounts will be audited according to existing
procedures. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that a report on
project accounts, audited by the Ministry of Finance, would be submitted to
the Bank annually within five months of the close of the Romanian fiscal
year.
D. MonitorinR
5.08      In order to measure progress of project implementation in relation
to project objectives, goals, and schedules established for each project
component, BAFI would submit quarterly reports to the Bank within three
months of the close of each quarter. This would include data on progress
of construction of all physical facilities, progress in the procurement of
equipment and materials, and data on project expenditures and livestock
production. Information would be collected on each component which would
be consolidated into an annual report, reflecting increased pig production,
annual consumption of pork, exports of pork and pork products, numbers of
livestock slaughtered, and distribution of piglets for fattening. BAFI
would be responsible for evaluating the benefits realized under the project
including the impact of the project on livestock development and enactment
of technical efficiencies discussed in para 2.20 in sub-borrower operations
through a program to be agreed upon with the Bank. Assurances were obtained
to this effect during negotiations.



- 23 -
E. Risk
5.09      The risks associated with project investments would be minimal.
Design of the project components has been prepared in detail, and the Govern-
ment has well organized and coordinated plans to supply necessary manpower,
materials, and technical expertise to complete project works on schedule. The
project represents a two-year investment program from the 1976-80 national
development plan whose directives are obligatory and carry legal authority.
However, to ensure that sufficient pork processing capacity would be provided
to handle the incremental pigs produced under the project, assurances were
obtained during negotiations that investments presently planned for 1979-80
for additional pork processing capacity would be made (Annex 5, para 2).
The Government in addition (a) has allocated sufficient grain to support the
project, (b) stands ready to forego grain exports, if necessary, to support
livestock activities, (c) is actively pursuing programs to expand domestic
production of high grade proteins for feed manufacture, and (d) supports the
importation of protein materials to supplement domestic supplies. The rela-
tively long-term nature of project production activities makes it difficult to
analyze export prospects for incremental production of pork or total meat with
any degree of accuracy. However, as argued in Annex 2, para 3.6 and 3.7, in-
cremental pork production from the project, as well as projected incremental
total meat quantities generated under the 1976-80 Plan, could reasonably be
absorbed through internal consumption. The basic technology to be employed
in project facilities is well established in Romania, and levels of efficiency
observed are acceptable, but amenable to improvement through activities built
into the project (para 2.20 and Annex 4, paras 13, 14, and 15). Project
construction is usually completed within the time schedule specified by
Government, and costs overruns are rare. Construction costs and wages are
fixed for the duration of the 1976-80 Plan period.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Production, Markets and Prices
Production
6.01      Annual incremental pig production resulting from project invest-
ments is projected to reach 208,100 tons (live-weight) at full development.
Slaughtering and processing throughput capacities would be increased by
148,000 tons of pork, 32,400 tons beef, and 71,800 tons baby beef (live-
weight).
Markets
6.02      Since the mission was not provided historical data and projected
estimates on per capita consumption of beef, lamb, and poultry, the relative
demand for various meat products could not be analyzed. Also because the



- 24 -
mission was not provided with information on past and planned exports of pork
and other meat products, it was unable to evaluate completely the incremental
production in the context of Government's planned allocation between local
consumption and exports. However, based on Government's overall meat produc-
tion and consumption targets, it is expected that most of the incremental pork
produced under the project would be allocated to the domestic market. Incre-
mental output would represent about 76% of the estimated requirements needed
to increase per capita pork consumption from 23 kg (1975) to 29 kg by the
end of the 1976-80 Plan period. As part of the larger investment program
(1976-80), the project would contribute to a total incremental pork output
reaching 428,500 tons (live-weight) by 1983. Maintaining per capita consump-
tion at 29 kg in that year, an excess incremental supply of 131,100 tons of
pork would be produced. Government most likely would attempt to export this
amount, but the export prospects are presently uncertain and difficult to
project. Should export prospects not materialize and the total increment be
diverted into the domestic market, the per capita pork consumption level would
be raised to 32.4 kg by 1983 on par with the 1974 EEC-9 average (para 2.29).
Prices
6.03      In view of the centrally controlled pricing system in Romania,
incremental demand for feedgrain components and incremental supply of pork
output are expected to have no effect on price levels unless authorized by
Government directives (see para 2.24).
B. Financial Results
6.04      The subloans under the project would be made according to the
approved Plan. In view of the centrally administered pricing system, the
financial rates of return, although calculated for the investment models,
have limited value in the Romanian context. The financial rates of return
projected or achieved do not govern the levels of investment which are estab-
lished by law under the national planning system and do not indicate relative
desirabilities of respective subprojects (Annex 1, para 4.1 and Annex 2, para
2.4). Financial models for typical investments under the project are given
in Annexes 4 and 5. The notional financial rates of return range between 5
and 12%.
C. Economic Analysis
6.05      The Romanian economy is expected to realize at least an 17% economic
rate of return from total project investments inclusive of physical contingen-
cies (Annex 10, Table 1). Since the pig production and processing components
of the project are not independent, calculation of separate rates of return
was deemed inappropriate. Such a calculation would in addition merely reflect
the impact of pricing differences within the subsector (Annex 2, para 2.4).
The economic rate of return was determined taking into account the following



- 25 -
quantified benefits: (a) final pork and beef commodities from slaughterhouses;
(b) final products from sausage processing facilities; (c) soybean meal
imports foregone as a result of meat, bone, and blood meals generated under
the project; and (d) manure in inorganic fertilizer equivalents. All inputs
and outputs were valued at end 1976 prices with assessment made for tradeabie
items according to international prices. Costs of insurance, social security
premiums, and payments to special children's funds were excluded from the
analysis. No special shadow pricing was conducted for labor used in project
facilities assuming that wages given reflect the cruciality of significant
skill levels required in production and processing operations to maintain high
efficiency levels and conformity with international standards of hygiene (See
Annex 10, para 2(f)). Sensitivity tests were conducted to assess the stability
of the rate of return to variation in project cost and benefit streams. While
displaying relative insensitivity to a ten percent increase in project invest-
ment costs (15%), the rate of return did reveal a high degree of sensitivity
to a ten percent increase in operating costs (7%) and to a ten percent reduc-
tion in project benefits (5%). Such sensitivities are not atypical of live-
stock production activities employing grain-intensive feeding systems wieL.,
operating costs (principally reflecting feed costs) are high relative to
income. This economic risk is considered limited due to the unlikelihood of
a future rise in international feedgrain prices without a compensatory adjust-
ment through market forces in prices of pork and pork products. Improvements
in technical efficiency in pig production activities (para 2.20 and Annex 4,
paras 13 and 14) would result in higher economic rates of return and in a
dampening of sensitivity oscillations (Annex 10, para 6). By increasing the
number of marketed pigs per sow per year from the 12.5 average observed during
appraisal to 13.5, the economic rate of return would increase.to 19% or by
13%. Similarly, an improvement by ten percent in feed conversion efficiency
would result in an 19% increase in the rate of return to 20%. With a 10%
increase in operating costs, declines in the rates of return would be limited
to 9.4 and 8.6 percentage points in the case of better sow fertility and that
of improved feed conversion respectively (vs. 9.8 points in the base case).
Dietary Improvement
6.06      The incremental output allocated for domestic consumption would
(a) enable increased intake of meat products (pork especially preferred by
the Romanian consumer); (b) facilitate greater consumption of high grade
proteins; (c) make additional provision for consumption needs of an expand-
ing and increasingly urbanized population; and (d) improve the geographical
distribution of pig production and processing complexes and resulting goods
for retail (Annex 2, Part III).
Increased Exports
6.07      Incremental exports would permit additional foreign exchange earn-
ings, principally in convertible currencies, and an improvement in Romania's
balance of payments (para 2.28 and Annex 2, Part IV).



- 26 -
Employment and Distribution of Project Benefits
6.08      The project would create an estimated 9,000 full-time jobs in
project facilities located throughout the country. As is customary in Romania,
the project would include a detailed education component to upgrade skill
levels (Annex 1, para 6.6).
6.09      The socio-political system in Romania maintains income distribution
mechanisms (Annex 2, Part II), which would pass on project benefits to a much
wider segment of the population rather than merely limiting them to those
individuals employed in project facilities. Considering the society in total,
the entire population is expected to benefit directly from increased avail-
ability of meat and meat products enabling improvement in nutritional balance.
VII.  RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained from Government:
(a) that the project would be implemented in accordance with the
project description given in para 4.02 (para 4.02);
(b) that the procurement procedures contained in para 4.07 would
be followed (para 4.07);
(c) that the project lending policies and procedures described
in paras 5.01 through 5.05 would be followed (para 5.05); and
(d) that investments presently planned for 1979-80 for additional
pork processing capacity would be made (para 5.09).
7.02      With the indicated assurances, the project would be suitable for
a loan of US$71 million, equivalent, to BAFI for a term of 15 years including
3 years grace.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
PIG PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING PROJECT
ROMANIA
Agricultural Sector
I. Role of Agriculture in the Romanian Economy
1.1       Agriculture represents a major sector of the Romanian economy.
In 1975, agriculture accounted for 13% of social product 1/, 38% of the total
labor force, 11% of total fixed assets, and 23% of total exports. The Romanian
economy has demonstrated a 9-10% growth in national income over the past
decade, largely attributable to high rates of capital formation averaging
annually about 30% of national income. The agricultural sector has been an
important contributor to this rate of economic growth. It has provided an
expandin.g food base for a population growing at about one percent per year.
The sector has been a source of important raw materials for industrial produc-
tion and development. In addition, agriculture has provided a substantial
reserve of labor essential for growth in other sectors of the economy, a labor
pool tnat can be kept gainfully employed within agriculture until alternative
or off-farm employment opportunities are established. In this regard, the
labor force in agriculture declined from 6.2 million in 1950 to 3.8 million in
1975, while the labor force in the non-agricultural sectors increased from 2.2
to 6.4 million. More than half of the growth of employment in non-agricultural
sectors since 1950 has been filled by former agricultural workers who have
either moved to urban centers or have assumed non-farm employment in rural
areas. The agricultural sector in addition contributes capital and earns
convertible foreign exchange through exports to finance investment in industry,
the sector receiving highest priority in Romania's development strategy.
Producer prices for agricultural commodities are fixed by the State at rela-
tively low levels to enable generation of large margins through retail and
export activities, ultimately accruing to the State for potential allocation
to investment in other sectors of the economy (see Table 1).
1.2       Over the 1965-75 period, social product in the agricultural sector
(in comparable 1963 prices) increased by 50%, or by a compound rate of 4.1%
per annum. Over this decade, crop production expanded annually by about 3%
while livestock, growing at about 5.8% per year, assumed a larger share of
total agricultural output. Livestock production represented 37% of the
gross total in 1965 and 43% by 1975.
1/ Social product is basically defined as the total output of material pro-
duction generated at all stages of production. The production sector
comprises those branches of the economy in which material goods are
produced, circulated, and distributed for final use.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
1.3       Expansion of agricultural output with reduced labor intensity was
achieved by large infusions of capital and improved technology. Fixed assets
in agriculture tripled during 1950-75, growing slightly more rapidly than total
social product from agriculture. Social product per worker in agriculture was
five times higher in 1975 than in 1950. Utilization of material inputs such
as fertilizers and pesticides expanded as farming operations were increasingly
mechanized. Total fertilizer use, for example, rose from only 22,000 tons
(active substance) in 1955 to 929,000 tons in 1975, or by about 21% per year.
1.4       Romanian agriculture has displayed a positive trade balance over
the last 25 years. Imports of agricultural products, largely limited by
Government to essential primary commodities, rose from 285 million lei in
1950 to 4,725 million lei in 1975. Agricultural exports in comparison have
expanded from 697 million lei in 1950 to 6,504 million lei in 1975 1/. Exports
of agricultural products however declined as a percentage of total exports
from 54.7 to 22.6% over the 1M5C-'5 2eri ' ac production and export of rela-
tively higher valued industrial commodities expanded. A large part of the net
foreign exchange earnings in agriculture has been in convertible currency
instrumental in financing investment in the industrial sector.
II. The Resource Base and Agro-Climatic Zones
2.1       Romania is relatively well endowed with good soils, a climate
seasonally suitable for agriculture, and exploitable water resources. Out
of a total of 23.8 million ha, approximately 41% are arable, 19% under pasture
and meadows, 3% vineyards and orchards, 27% forest, and 10% waste and other
land. While land reclamation programs succeeded in increasing arable area
from 9.4 to 9.7 million ha, 1950-75, heavy investment by the State in irriga-
tion systems enabled an expansion of irrigable area from only 43,000 ha in
1950 to 1.47 million ha in 1975.
2.2       Cereals for grain accounted for 63% of the average total of 9.6 mil-
lion ha under crops, 1971-75. Maize and wheat were the major crops in this
category with 3.1 and 2.4 million ha respectively. Oilseeds-sunflower, soy-
beans, and flax-covered almost seven percent of the average cropped area
while fodder crops about 16%. Sugarbeets, tobacco, potatoes, dry beans, and
peas are other important annual crops. Most of the barley and maize harvested
for grain and important by-products from wheat, barley, soybeans, sunflower,
and sugarbeets are allocated to support the livestock subsector. Generally,
annual crops account for about 92% of the total cropped area and perennial
crops for only about eight percent.
2.3       Romania can be divided into three agro-climatic zones based on
climate, topography, soils, and natural conditions influencing land use and
agricultural performance (see map appended).
1/   Imports and exports are expressed in current international prices
converted into lei as the current official rate of exchange.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
(a) The Plains. This zone, located in the western and southern
parts of the country, encompasses about 35% of the national
land area. The terrain in this region is relatively level
and endowed with relatively fertile soils. Rainfall averages
350-400 mm annually along the Black Sea coast, 500-600 mm
moving west along the Danube, and 500-700 mm in the western
sections of the country. Investments in irrigation systems
have been primarily concentrated in this area, mainly in the
southeastern plains, where rainfall is inadequate or erratic.
This zone was especially affected during 1975 floods which
inundated approximately 2.5 million ha. Flood protection works
are presently being constructed to protect about 2.1 million ha
of valuable cropland, predominantly in this region. The Plains
area is particularly suitable for agricultural production.
About 53% of all arable land and 42% of vineyards in Romania
(1973) are located in this zone. Crop yields tend to be
highest in this region, and livestock activities, especially
pig and poultry production, have been concentrated in this
major grain belt. In 1974, approximately 61% of the national
pig herd was located in the Plains zone.
(b) Foothills. The Foothills, comprising about 33% of the
national land area, are located mainly to the north of the
Plains region and are characterized by shallow and less pro-
ductive soils. Rainfall averages 500-600 mm in the eastern
foothills and 600-800 mm in the western foothills. Wind and
water erosion are especially serious problems in the eastern
districts of this zone. Approximately 28% of total arable
land, 35% of total pasture, 49% of vineyards, and 50% of
orchard area are located in this agro-climatic zone. About
one-third of the national cattle and sheep populations are
in the Foothills, but only about 20% of the national pig herd.
(c) Mountains and Tablelands. This zone, covering about 32%
of total land area, includes districts in the northern and
central parts of the country. As in the case of the Foothills,
the mountainous areas of this region suffer serious problems
of soil erosion. Potato yields are especially high in this
area. Although it contains only 19% of total arable land,
the region accounts for 50% of all pasture and meadow as well
as about 35% of all cattle, 28% of total sheep, and 19% of
total pigs produced.
III. Agricultural Production Organizations
Background
3.1       In pre-World War II Romania, a large portion of the agricultural
land was owned by landlords and the church, but cultivated by tenants. There
were however also a number of small farmers scattered throughout the country.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
After the War, the transformation of agricultural land ownership and produc-
tion from pre-war Romania to the present was accomplished in three phases,
principally over the 1945-1962 period. During the first phase (1945-48), an
attempt was made to establish a small-scale, peasant-oriented farm structure.
The Government expropriated 1.6 million ha belonging to landlords and churches,
distributed 1.1 million ha among about 0.9 million agricultural workers and
small farmers, and allocated the balance to form the initial endowment of the
State agricultural sector. At the same time, medium- and large-sized private
farms were discouraged through the selective use of discriminatory quotas and
prices.
3.2       The second phase of reorganization (1949-1958) involved a move
toward large-scale farming through collectivization of small farms and an
expansion of State agricultural enterprises (IASs). Although private farmers
were encouraged through pricing incentives to join collectives, the campaign
was initially unsuccessful basically because farmers were reticient about
relinquishing title to their land and were unaccustomed to organized, coopera-
tive production. As an interim measure, Agricultural Associations were formed
in the early 1950's in which participating farmers pooled their land without
relinquishing titles and received remuneration based on contribution to
aggregate production. By 1958, however, about 30% of total agricultural
land was still operated by individual private farmers.
3.3       The final effort toward collectivization was made during the 1959-62
period. Private farms and Associations were consolidated to form Agricultural
Production Cooperatives (CAPs) in which all land and other fixed assets were
collectively owned by the membership. By 1962, only 18% of agricultural land
remained individually operated, located predominantly in areas geographically
not conducive to collectivization.
3.4       Since 1962, the structure of the agricultural sector has been con-
solidated further through a reduction in the total number of farming enter-
prises. Between 1965 and 1971, the number of IASs declined from 721 to 215,
subsequently to increase to 391 in 1975. In contrast, the number of CAPs fell
less abruptly from 4,680 in 1965 to 4,419 in 1975. During the restructuring
process, LASs were considered the pilot sector and were given superior land, a
larger share of irrigation facilities, more mechanization, and quicker access
to improved technology and material inputs.
3.5       In 1975, lASs and other State agricultural units such as research
stations and pasture and forest enterprises, accounted for 30% of total agri-
cultural land, 30% of all irrigated area, and 21% of all arable land. In
1975, IASs averaged 5,263 ha per unit and employed 252,000 persons implying
approximately 644 employees per complex and about 8.2 ha per employee. Invest-
ments on IASs in 1975 averaged 13.9 million lei per unit, or about 2,638 lei
per ha of agricultural land. In 1975, LASs produced 22% of all cereals, 20%
of oilseeds, six percent of potatoes, 13% of all cattle, 38% of pigs, and 12%
of sheep. IASs utilized 252,000 tons of fertilizer in the same year, or 122
kg per ha of agricultural land (about 69% higher than the average per ha
application on CAPs).



ANNEX 1
Page 5
3.6       CAP farms accounted for 54% of total agricultural land in 1975, 69%
of all irrigated area, 66% of all arable land, 44% of vineyards, and 50% of all
orchards. In 1975 CAPs, exclusive of individual private plots, averaged 2,407
ha per unit and supported 3.4 million families, for about 2.64 ha per family.
Investments in 1975 averaged 1.2 million lei per CAP unit or only 591 lei per
ha (about 22% of that spent on IASs per ha). Lower investment levels have
been in part attributable to (a) the reliance of CAPs on machine services from
State-run Stations for Agricultural Mechanization (SAMs) and (b) Government
priorities to the IAS sector. CAP farms accounted for 64% of total cereal
production in 1975, 80% of oilseeds, 41% of all vegetables, and almost all
Romanian output of sugarbeets, 42% of all cattle, 32% of pigs, and 40% of
all sheep. Fertilizer consumption on CAPs totalled 583,000 tons in 1975,
or approximately 72 kg per ha of agricultural land.
3.7       IASs are most numerous in the Plains agro-climatic zone where they
operate almost 30% of the arable land. CAPs operate 80% of the arable land
in the Foothills and Mountain and Tableland areas. As a consequence of
superior endowment of resources, technology, and investments, growth in agri-
cultural productivity has been considerably higher on IASs relative to that
on CAPs. Between 1965 and 1975, total gross agricultural production on IASs
rose by 77%, crop production by 35%, and livestock production by 156%. In
comparison, gross agricultural output on CAPs increased by only 35% over the
decade, crop production by 25%, and livestock by 84%. Output of wheat and
rye in 1975 averaged 20 quintals per ha on CAPs, or 78% of the average yield
obtained on IASs. Yields for maize on CAPs in the same year averaged 27.4
quintals per ha, or 22% below that recorded on IASs. In livestock production,
IASs outperformed CAPs-in milk per cow, wool per sheep, and eggs per chicken
by 90, 67, and 12% respectively.
3.8       Members of CAPs are assigned small plots of cooperative land,
averaging 0.15 ha per active member (1975), for their own personal use. CAP
members individually farm seven percent of total agricultural land, eight
percent of cropland, 38% of vineyards, and 12% of land under orchards. How-
ever, reflecting the intensive use of space and relatively high yields, CAP
members in 1975 produced 36% of vegetables, 10% of all cereals, 49%.of eggs,
31% of wool, 38% of milk, and 21% of all pigs. Individual cooperative members
are also permitted to use collectively operated land for private purposes once
-the wheat and barley harvests are completed in June/July. Maize is usually
grown as the follow-up crop to support small livestock activities pursued by
CAP members in family operations. Little in-kind trading takes place among
CAP members since they each tend to prefer to maintain mixed rather than
specialized activities on their plots mostly to satisfy family requirements.
3.9       About 1.5 million ha, or almost 10% of total agricultural land,
are operated by about 150,000 private farming families. Most of this area
is located in the foothills and mountains where collectivization would be dif-
ficult or impractical. Private farmers work 19% of total pasture and meadow-
land in Romania and over 21% of orchards. These farmers are important pro-
ducers of vegetables and livestock products, accounting for 16% of all cattle,



ANNEX 1
Page 6
20% of all milk, six percent of pigs, 14% of sheep, 12% of wool, and 14% of
eggs (1975). Both the CAP member and the private farmer can use output from
their individual units for family food requirements, contract for sales to
State marketing enterprises, or sell surpluses in private markets. Within
their private livestock activities, farmers in these two categories will
typically produce two fattened pigs per year, slaughtering one for home
consumption and selling one either to the State or at a small private market.
Organization and Operation of Agricultural Production Cooperatives
3.10      The management of a CAP is the responsibility of its President, one
or two Vice Presidents, a Management Council, and a General Assembly. The
governing body of a CAP is its General Assembly which consists of all working
adults in the CAP. The General Assembly meets quarterly and is responsible
for preparing draft production, investment, and financial plans; ratifying
major contracts with suppliers, buyers, and SAMs, and deciding the allocation
of CAP net income. A CAP President is elected by its General Assembly for
a two-year term, subject to approval of the district's General Director for
Agriculture. The General Assembly also elects representatives of technicians
and CAP members for the Management Council and ratifies the President's
choices for chiefs of farms and chief economist.
3.11      The Management Council, the coordinating body of the CAP, meets once
or twice a week. The membership consists-of the President and Vice Presidents
of the CAP, the chief economist, chiefs of farms, and the elected representa-
tives of the technicians and the membership. The President and the Vice
Presidents conduct day-to-day operations with assistance from the chief
economist. -The latter is responsible not only for the preparation of sound
preliminary investment plan but also for the accounting and financial manage-
ment of CAP affairs. The chiefs of farms are the heads of the various produc-
tion units within the CAP. These are assisted by a farm economist and various
agricultural technicians employed by the CAP. CAPs do not generally own farm
machinery or equipment but tend to rely on SAMs for these services. These
enterprises are responsible for providing all farm machinery and implements to
CAPs whenever required in return for fixed charges for various operations.
3.12      The net farm income of a CAP (value of total production minus cost
of production excluding labor contributed by members) is allocated among three
funds: (a) the Development Fund, which is at least 18% of the net income, (b)
the Consumption Fund, and (c) the Socio-Cultural Fund. Allocation among the
three funds is somewhat flexible and varies among CAPs. The Development Fund
is a compulsory savings mechanism to provide partial financing of future
investment on the CAPs as well as production expenses in the next cropping
season.  The latter fund is deposited with the Bank for Agriculture and Food
Industry (BAFI) and earns 1.5% interest. In general, about 85% of the Con-
sumption Fund is distributed among the members, eight percent toward a social
security account, and seven percent for miscellaneous expenses. The General
Assembly of the CAP has the power to alter the percentages to the funds in
order to keep the personal incomes of members in line with personal incomes
elsewhere in Romania.



ANNEX I
Page 7
3.13      Incomes of CAP members differ widely since they receive income from
the sale of home-produced commodities, off-farm employment, as well as remuner-
ation for work on CAPs. Their incomes, however, probably average lower than
those of workers on IASs. Wages are computed on the basis of production
norms, which vary across agricultural activities. In pig production workers
are paid, for example, according to the number of piglets born per month,
number of sows tended, the mortality rate, number of piglets weaned, and
incremental weight gain per month. Eighty percent of the labor payment
fund is usually disbursed on a monthly or semi-monthly basis. The remainder,
with any bonuses, is paid at the end of the production year in March if
annual targets are reached or exceeded. Labor payments are made in-kind
as well as in cash.
3.14      In an effort to bring salaries for CAP members more in line with
those of their IAS counterparts, a system of minimum monthly salaries was in-
stituted in 1968:  about 1,000 lei (US$50), 1,200 lei (US$60), and 1,50C l_i
(US$75) for members of cereal crop units; vegetable, grape, and fruit farms;
and livestock units respectively. If the Consumption Fund in any given year
is low, BAFI extends loan to the CAP to ensure payment of the guaranteed
salaries to members. Such a loan is usually repayable within one year and
carries no interest.
Organization and Operation of State Agricultural Enterprises
3.15      IASs are owned by the State and are operated and managed by employees
of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry (MA). A single enterprise
usually consists of several operational units known as State farms. In the
past, an IAS has been traditionally organized on a mixed farming basis with
several farms under its control, each specializing in a particular production
activity--field crops, vegetables industrial crops, fruit, milk, beef fatten-
ing, pigs, etc. In recent years, however, efforts have been made to reor-
ganize IASs, wherever appropriate, into "industrial-type" complexes where
State enterprises and their individual farm units have been separated and
reassigned to form enterprises specializing usually in only one production
activity. The number of specialized IASs for pigs, poultry, or grain
production has increased over the last decade. However, production of other
livestock, e.g. dairy cattle and sheep, is considered more adapted to the
mixed enterprise system because of its strong dependence upon land resources
for pasturage and fodder.
3.16      The chief executive officer of an IAS is the Director, who is
appointed by the General Director of IASs in the MA. He is assisted by the
chief engineers of the farms in the LAS and by a chief economist/accountant.
Other technicians required for the farms are included on the staff. The
Workers' Council the governing body of the IAS consists of the top manage-
ment, chiefs of the farms, representatives of the unions and the Party, as
well as elected representatives of the workers. Storage facilities, transport
vehicles, and farm equipment are usually owned by the IAS.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
3.17      Salaries of the IAS staff are fixed by law but vary according to
norms and skills; 80% of salaries is paid semi-monthly or monthly and the
remainder at the end of the season, provided the planned targets have been
met. If the targets are exceeded, special premiums are paid. In 1975,
salary scales were increased by up to 48%, and these revised scales are
scheduled to remain effective during 1976-1980 Plan period.  Past and revised
salary scales are shown below:
Monthly Wage              Increase
1974           1976-80          over 1974
Category                             -----(Lei) ------                    %
Director                         3,100-4,200      3,100-5,660          0-35
Farm Manager                     2,300-3,800      2,540-4,375         10-15
Economist/Accountant             2,000-3,250      2,220-3,735         10-15
Farm Mechanic                    1,976-2,964      2,290-3,380         16-14
Technician                       1,380-1,800      2,005-2,670         45-48
Clerk                            1,130-1,325      1,200-1,450          6- 9
Unskilled Worker                 1,020-1,425      1,202-1,570         18-10
3.18      Net income of an IAS is defined as the gross value of production
less production costs, which include costs of labor and depreciation on all
capital investments in the IAS. Depreciation payments are made by the IAS to
a Special Depreciation Fund within BAFI to be used as a source of financing
future investments in the public sector. Normally, about 10% of net income
is credited to a Consolidation Fund which is used to finance minor on-farm
investments on any IAS at MA discretion. About 40% of net income is allocated
to a Risk Insurance Fund, which is used to meet extraordinary losses while the
remaining 50% is credited to the State budget. Net income in excess of that
planned, after payment of labor premiums, is allocated among the Consolida-
tion Fund, (25%) the Insurance Fund (30%) and the State budget (45%).
Inter-Cooperative Associations (ICAs)
3.19      The organization of agriculture in Romania is still evolving.  In
addition to the reorganization of IASs on more specialized bases, some CAPs
have begun to pool their resources for large-scale investments in food
processing, dairy, beef fattening, pigs, and other production activities.
ICAs are operated by State employees who work for wages paid out of ICA
revenues. Capital required to establish ICAs is supplied by the member CAPs,
or other participating entities, either from their own resources or from
loans from BAFI. ICA net income is allocated to a Development Fund (30%)
as well as distributed among participating units in proportion to their
respective equity capital contributions (70%).
3.20      The ICA is run by an Administrative Council including delegates from
participating CAPs and other production units as well as the Director hired to
manage the ICA complex. The ICA is an independent legal entity capable of



ANNEX I
Page 9
obtaining loans directly from BAFI and establishing contracts with State
marketing agencies. In 1975, there were 230 ICAs most of which were engaged
in large-scale livestock production. A recent law permits the establishment
of ICAs by CAPs in cooperation with IASs and other State agricultural units.
Under this arrangement, the ICA benefits from LAS managerial input, infusion
of equity capital from the State budget, and technical assistance from LAS
personnel. Such jointly owned and operated complexes are receiving increasing
priority from Government and are anticipated to be a major source of future
growth in agriculture, especially in livestock production.
IV. National Planning and Investment in Agriculture
The Planning Process
4.1       National planning in Romania encompasses all aspects of production,
marketing, investment, and finance. Rather than relying on market forces to
equilibrate supply and demand and to allocate productive resources, the State
assumes the role of centralized manager-planner-coordinator in order to ensure
that production activities satisfy centrally delineated requirements of the
society. General targets are established for the economy as a whole, e.g.,
growth in social product; growth in production by sector and by subsector;
allocation of production between investment and consumption as well as between
domestic utilization and export; distribution of investment between sectors,
subsectors, and geographic regions; employment levels; price levels; and in-
creases in wages and salaries. In addition, specific targets are drawn for
each socialist production unit at the microeconomic level--e.g. physical
volumes of production, technical coefficients of production, employment, in-
vestments, expected increases in the utilization of material inputs, salaries,
wages, supply and cost prices, and expected financial performance. The
vehicles used in Romania for translating State priorities into detailed pro-
duction targets are the Five-Year and Annual Plans for socio-economic develop-
ment. The Five-Year Plans set major targets by year as well as for the total
period. The Annual Plan translates Five-Year Plan targets into detailed
proposals and makes adjustments in these annual targets based on performance
already achieved. Directives specified in the plans are obligatory and carry
legal authority.
4.2       In agriculture, the planning process begins at the farm level under
the purview of the district MA Directorate as well as at the ministerial level
where policy is made, organizational matters decided, and new investments
determined. LASs and cooperatives prepare tentative plans for production,
investment, and employment within technical and financial guidelines to be
followed during the planning period. Proposed plans from each complex are
reviewed at the district level before submission to the MA where proposals
are aggregated into the preliminary draft national plan for presentation to
the State Planning Committee. After reviewing the proposed plan for agricul-
ture, correlating it with those for other sectors of the economy, and making



ANNEX I
Page 10
required adjustments, the State Planning Committee passes the draft plan on to
the General Assembly for final approval. After passage district Directorates
receive district-specific targets and under the supervision of the MA, establish
plan targets for production, investment, and efficiency for specific IASs and
cooperative units. Marketing centrals and State export agencies also par-
ticipate in the planning process usually in an advisory capacity. They
provide information to MA officials coordinating plan preparation on such
topics as domestic consumption levels, future internal requirements, and
export prospects for envisaged incremental production.
4.3       Once approved, investments in agriculture are financed either
through allocations from State funds or from resources retained by the agri-
cultural complexes. Major agricultural development works are funded within
the Annual and Five-Year Plans directly from the State budget. Investments
for IASs are either financed by direct interest-free allocations from the
State budget funnelled through BAFI, or increasingly by long-term interest-
bearing BAFI loans.  IASs also utilize resources accumulating in their Con-
solidation Funds for quick-yielding, smaller-scale investments. Investments
in the cooperative sector are financed from the Development Fund and/or from
long-term loans obtained from BAFI. Long-term investments generally include
construction of major production units, mechanization, and development of
perennial crop and livestock production. BAEI also grants short-term credit
to these State and cooperative complexes-for working capital requirements (see
Annex III for details concerning BAEI operations). Similarly, private farmers
receive various kinds of financial assistance, e.g. short-term credit for
purchase of fodder and longer-term credit covering the purchase of work
animals and breeding stock.
Oblectives of the 1976-80 Five-Year Plan
4.4       The Five-Year Plan for 1976-80 was adopted into law by the General
Assembly in July 1976. In the Preamble of the adoption legislation President
Ceausescu explained that "the fundamental objective of the 1976-80 Five-Year
Plan will be continuation of the rapid development of the equipment and
material resources of the national economy and of society as a whole."
Although primary emphasis is placed on investment and development within the
industrial sector, intensive development and modernization of agriculture
receive high priority to increase domestic supplies in line with consumption
requirements, guarantee sufficient raw materials for the industrial sector,
and contribute to increased foreign trade. Special emphasis has been placed
on such areas as crop production, vegetable and fruit cultivation, wine
production, livestock production, and land reclamation.
4.5       The approved Plan calls for an increase in gross agricultural pro-
duction by 28-44%, or 3.8 to 6.2% annually, over the 1971-75 annual average.
Since production over the 1971-75 period did average 25.4% higher over the
preceeding five-year mean, a proposed 28% increase is considered feasible.
However a growth of 44% would require performance far superior to that
achieved to date. Lower and upper limit targets have also been placed on
individual commodities, this variability to absorb effects of unforeseen



ANNEX 1
Page 11
climatic vagaries. In general, continuation of high growth rates achieved
during the 1965-75 period would enable fulfillment of lower bound targets for
the 1976-80 Plan. Specifically, the Plan provides for increases of 35-51% for
all cereals, 46-60% for soybeans, over 50% for most other major crops, 35-45%
for all meats, and 37-47% for milk. 1/
4.6       The 1976-80 Plan places particular emphasis on more intensive uti-
lization of productive resources to achieve higher yields per hectare and
increased output per animal unit. Fertilizer supplies are to be increased
to permit a boost in fertilizer use from 95 to 280 kg (active substance)
per ha of arable land, vineyards, and orchards. Approximately 1.2 million
additional ha would be brought under irrigation, implying a 66% increase over
the five-year period. Drainage works and erosion controls will likewise
protect an additional two million ha. Improved breeding of livestock, espe-
cially for cattle and sheep, are expected to increase yields and feed con-
version efficiency. At the same time, emphasis is given to increases in
production through extensive means especially in livestock, through signi-
ficant growth in herd sizes over 1971-75 levels: e.g. cattle, 25%; pigs,
40-50%; and sheep and goats, 32-35%.
4.7       Real national income is projected under the 1976-80 Plan to grow by
61-68.5%, total real disposable income by 35-40%, and real wages by 18-22%.
Total volume of goods available for retail sales is expected to rise by
45-47.5%. Within the food category, meat and meat product retail sales are
to expand by 55-63%; milk for consumption, 65-78%; vegetables, 65-76%; fruits,
100-154%; and eggs, 50-60%. Steps are planned to ensure more regularity in
all retail supplies, improved distribution of commodities throughout the
country, as well as better placement and utilization of retail outlets.
Similarly, livestock production is being increasingly dispersed throughout
the country in accordance with regional-specific consumption requirements
(see Table 3).
National Investment in Agriculture Under the 1976-80 Plan
4.8       Total volume of investment in the Romanian economy over the 1976-80
period is planned at one thousand billion lei (US$50 billion) in constant
prices, of which 90.8% will come from the State, 4.1% from the cooperative
sector, and 5.1% from the population's own funds. Planned investment in
agriculture over the period would total 116.4 billion lei, compared with
1/   It should be noted that production projections for livestock commodities,
involving considerable equipment and construction investment, are ex-
pressed on an investment capital commitment basis rather than a realized,
year-specific basis. For example, although investment funds might be
committed in 1977 for new pig complexes, output derived therefrom would
not be generated until 1979-80. This incremental output, however, is
stated in the Plan for year 1977.



ANNEX 1
Page 12
580.5 billion lei for industry. Investments in agriculture are projected to
increase to an annual average of 23.2 billion lei over the 1976-80 period
compared with 15.4 billion lei and 10.3 billion lei in 1971-75 and 1966-70
respectively. Land reclamation, including irrigation, drainage, and erosion
control, is scheduled to receive about 7.8 of the 23.2 billion lei 1976-80
annual average. Mechanization, animal production, and vegetable production
would rank next with 6.5, 4.9, and 3.2 billion lei respectively. It should be
noted that investments in land reclamation would rise by 70% over the previous
five-year plan level, mechanization by 91%, animal production by 11%, and
vegetable production by 113%.
4.9       In an effort to address the historically inequitable distribution of
investment funds between IA.Ss and CAPs and to disseminate technological know-
how more uniformly throughout the agricultural sector, investment plans for the
1976-80 period place greater emphasis on the development of cooperative complexes.
While investment in cooperatives is scheduled to increase from 4.5 billion lei
(1971-75) to 7.4 billion lei (1976-80), or by 64%, investment on IASs is pro-
jected to decline from 4.1 billion lei (1971-75) to 3.2 billion lei (1976-80),
for a drop of 22%. Planned loans to the cooperative sector would increase by
0.6 billion lei, or by 24% over 1971-75 levels. At the same time, cooperatives
will be expected to finance a greater share of their own on-farm investments
under the 1976-80 Plan: 58%, in comparison with only 44% during 1971-75.
Investments in Pix Production and Processing
Under the 1976-80 Plan: A General Statement
4.10      Proposed investments in pig production and processing under the
1976-80 Plan would represent one component of a total investment package
for the livestock subsector attempting, inter alia, to raise meat production
to a 1976-80 annual average of 2.5-2.7 million tons of meat (live-weight).
This target would require an increase in meat production of 35-45% over the
1971-75 average level of 1.8 million tons, or 24-33.5% over 1975 output of
2.0 million tons. Livestock herds would be upgraded and expanded to permit
this growth in meat supply. With full development of the 1976-80 Plan, the
cattle herd is expected to have increased 25% over the 1971-75 average, pigs
by 40-50%, and sheep-and goats by 32-36%. Poultry production--broilers and
layers--is also scheduled to expand over the period. In addition to supply
increases attributable to herd enlargement, beef and mutton volumes would
expand due to higher targeted weights at slaughtering.
4.11      As presented below, a total of 6,940 million lei has been allocated
under the Plan for investments to improve the genetic quality of the national
pig herd and to increase pig production capacities, as well as another 5,550
million lei to provide adequate facilities to process the projected incremental
pig output. Investments in pig production to be made during the five-year
period are expected to reach full production by 1983, thereby permitting a
continuation of the compound five percent annual rate of growth in pig produc-
tion demonstrated over the 1965-75 period. Investments would be made in large,
specialized pig production complexes with an annual modal capacity of about



ANNEX 1
Page 13
32,000 fattened pigs and a minimum capacity of about 16,000. The technology
being proposed for these relatively large complexes is well established
in Romania, and the level of efficiency in their operation is satisfactory.
National Pig Production and Processing Investment Program, 1976-80
- - ----     - ------Lei Million--------
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    Total
Pig Production             1,170   1,760   2,080   1,070       860    6,940
Slaughterhouse and Meat
Processing Facilities   1,150   1,050   1,050   1,150   1,150    5,550
Total                2,320   2,810   3,130   2,220   2,010   12,450
4.12      The proposed increase in pig production from 8.6 million pigs in
1975 to 13 million by 1983 would make a substantial contribution toward (a)
a planned boost per capita meat consumption from 46 kg (fresh meat basis)
in 1975 to 53-60 kg by 1980, representing a 20-30% increase; and (b) an
increase in exportable balances of fresh and frozen pork and pork products.
To achieve these goals the following specific objectives have been included
in the 1976-80 Plan: (a) development of a sufficiently large multiplier herd,
(b) maintenance of animals of high genetic quality through the use of improved
breeding stock and additional development of testing and selection centers,
(c) continued reorganization of pig production activities into specialized,
"industrial-type" complexes to capture managerial and technical economies of
scale and to facilitate transferal of technical know-how throughout the sub-
sector, (d) increased dispersion of production capacity throughout the
country to meet more efficiently the local consumption requirements of the
population, (e) provision of adequate slaughtering and processing capacity to
handle anticipated pig production levels, and (f) installation of new process-
ing units and modernization of existing facilities in accordance with interna-
tional sanitary standards and high operational efficiency. To support this
livestock development scheme, Romania has (a) made an important policy deci-
sion (1970) to forego exports of feedgrains whenever necessary in order to
ensure adequate supplies for the livestock subsector, and (b) placed emphasis
through the 1976-80 Plan on investments to increase feedgrain production
(maize and barley) and to speed up substitution of domestically produced
protein materials for imported commodities (principally soybean meal and
fishmeal).
4.13      Investments in pig production included in the 1976-80 Plan would
enable an expansion of the national herd to approximately 13 million pigs at
full development in 1983, or by 47.5% over the 1975-83 period. Pork produc-
tion would increase by 428,500 tons (live-weight) for a 44.9% increase over
1975 production levels (See Annex 2, Table 1). Project investments, encom-
passing those committed under the 1976-80 Plan for 1977 and 1978, would yield
48.5% of the total incremental pork output, or 208,100 tons. Preliminary
quantities of pork would be generated from Project investments beginning in
1978 and 1979, with full production achieved in 1981. Plan investments



ANNEX I
Page 14
committed in 1976 would reach full development by 1979, yielding 92,300 tons
of pork. Those committed for 1979 and 1980 would generate an additional
128,100 tons by 1983. Assuming a total meat production level of 2.8 million
tons by 1983, pork output, reaching 1.4 million tons that year, would re-
present 50% of the total. 1/ Project output in 1983 would equal about 7.4%
of national meat production and 26.4% of incremental meat production over 1975
levels. 2/
V. Pig Production
Background
5.1       Pig rearing and fattening have a traditional importance within the
agricultural sector of the Romanian economy. Not only has consumer preference
for pork provided a stimulant for increased allocation of investment capital
into this subsector, but a firm and expanding feedgrain base has facilitated
expansion of pig production and associated technological development. Romania
over the last fifteen years has developed systems of pig production that stand
alone in the world for their large scale of operation. To support this impor-
tant livestock subsector, an active research program is maintained to improve
the genetic base. Veterinary services-are extensive and are generally main-
tained within each production complex (see Annex 4, paras 24-33).
5.2       Paralleling the general decline in agricultural production during
the WW II period, the national pig herd declined from 2.8 million pigs in
1937 to 2.2 million in 1950, a drop of 21%. During the subsequent decade,
however, production practically doubled, increasing at an average annual rate
of seven percent. By 1970, production had risen by the same incremental
amount, 2.1 million pigs, thereby yielding a national herd of 6.4 million
pigs. Herd size grew to 8.8 million pigs between 1970 and 1972, there to
stabilize for the remainder of the 1971-75 Plan period. Over the 1950-75
eriod, the national herd size expanded at an annual average rate of 5.7
percent (see Table 2). Over the 1950-75 period, only the poultry subsector
rivaled pig production in rate of expansion. While pig production rose by
400% over the 25 years, poultry expanded by 384%. Cattle and sheep popula-
tions, in contrast, grew by only 33 and 36% respectively.
5.3       During these years of general growth in pig production, the orga-
nization of this livestock activity underwent significant change, in the main
reflecting the concurrent general reorganization of the agricultural sector.
1/   These mission estimates are consistent with planned meat production
(2.5-2.7 million tons (live weight), 1976-80 annual average) and
historical trends of total meat supply composition. Over the
1971-75 period, pork represented 46-50% of total meat production.
2/   1975 total meat production (live-weight):  2,012,000 tons.



ANNEX I
Page 15
In 1950, for example, when Government's program of collectivization and
State-run farming was just in the formative phase, 96% of all pigs were
produced on private farms and only four percent in the State and cooperative
sectors. By 1960, of the total 4.3 million pigs produced, the private farmers'
portion had been reduced to 51% while IASs and the cooperative sector contri-
buted 18.6% and 8.5% respectively. Individual cooperative members in 1960
produced 0.9 million pigs, or 20.7% of the total. By 1970, approximately ten
years after the introduction of the "industrial-type" system of production,
IASs accounted for 35.1% of the 6.4 million pigs nationwide, and cooperatives
25.4%. Private farms and CAP members produced 8.2 and 28.4% of the 1970 total
respectively. By 1975, IASs' share of the total pig population had increased
to 38.3% while that for cooperatives grew to 31.7%. CAP members' and private
farmers' portions correspondingly dropped in percentage terms to 20.8 and 7.0%
respectively.
Industrial-Type vs Traditional Pig Production
5.4       Beginning in 1962, the Government began a reorganization of the IAS
system to collect State farms engaged in pig rearing and fattening activities
under a State enterprise structure specialized exclusively in pig production.
Formerly, under the traditional system, State farms would possess both breed-
ing and fattening units, generally all operating on a relatively small scale.
Incorporation into a specialized enterprise entailed concentration of breeding
activities and rearing of weaners on one or several State farms within the
enterprise where superior breeding stock could be maintained and where improved'
technology and expertise could be centralized. On other satellite farms, pro-
duction activities were narrowed to include only fattening of weaners supplied
by the State farms within the IAS engaged in breeding and weaner production.
In Romania, pigs on such complexes are generally fattened to 110 kg. "State
Agricultural Enterprises for Pig Production" usually have no complementary
land resources and therefore either rely on State-operated feedmills for
feed requirements or in a few cases manufacture feeds on the premises from
purchased inputs. To obtain quality animals required for special gilt and
boar production units, the State maintains separate pure breed selection
farms concentrating on performance testing. The former are engaged in cross-
breeding activities to sell high performance, superior breeding stock to the
specialized pig production complexes.
5.5       The following advantages accrue from the "industrial-type" system
of production: (a) quality managerial and technical expertise can be con-
centrated and optimally utilized in large specialized complexes; (b) a high
degree of mechanization (feed and water distribution, manure disposal, ven-
tilation) can be achieved, raising per capita productivity; (c) enterprises
are self-stocking and the supply of weaners continuous thereby enabling the
elimination of seasonal variability in production flows; (d) more uniform
and guaranteed deliveries of pigs to processing facilities are possible
thereby improving supplies to retail markets and the prospects for long-term
contracting in export markets; (e) feed utilization efficiencies are achieved
as pigs reach slaughter weight in 200-240 days rather than 280-300 under the



ANNEX 1
Page 16
traditional system; (f) improved technologies can be readily utilized on a
large scale; and (g) through optimal control of feed and environmental factors,
the biological potential of the improved stock can be more fully realized.
5.6       In an effort to increase pig production on a crash program, 12
specialized State enterprises were organized in 1961-62 to produce annually
100,000 fattened pigs per complex. Steps were later taken on these first
improved complexes to achieve greater utilization of space, e.g. greater
number of farrowing pens per house, and thereby eventually to increase the
number of fattened pigs produced per year. Manure removal was cited as a
major problem initially encountered in these large complexes. By 1970, about
123,000 tons of pork (live-weight basis), or 20% of the national total, were
produced on industrial-type complexes, exclusively in specialized IASs. In
addition, about 53% of all pork production from the IAS sector in 1970 was
generated on these specialized units.
5.7       After 1970, a policy decision was made to involve the cooperative
sector in the industrial-type system though the formation of ICAs for pig
production. The central ICA unit is responsible for breeding activities and
raising weaners. At 30 kg, weaners are supplied to member CAPs for final
fattening. A member CAP is expected to sell feedgrains to the ICA in accord-
ance with its participatory share in. the total ICA investment. The ICA in
turn sells grain to the Marketing Enterprise for Cereals and Animal Feeds for
conversion into feeds. The ICA purchases back the finished feeds and allocates
them as required to CAP fattening units. Part of the net income from ICA
sales of fattened pigs is retained for the further development of the ICA; the
balance is divided among the member CAPs proportional to their contribution to
equity capital.
5.8       Recently, increased cooperation has been advocated between IASs
and CAPs, and as a consequence, special associations have been formed for
various production activities, including pig production. State enterprises
provide 70% of the equity capital for the association and supply valuable
technical assistance. IASs control breeding and weaner production operations
in their facilities and then sell weaners to the member CAPs for the fattening
phase. The Director of the LAS manages the operation of the association.
5.9       By 1975, 39% of all pork or 374,000 tons (live-weight basis) was
produced in industrial-type complexes. Of the 225,000 tons of pork produced
in the cooperative sector, 64% originated from these integrated units. At
the same time, the amount of pork produced on specialized IASs climbed from
123,000 tons in 1970 to 231,000 tons by 1975, the latter representing 65% of
total IAS pork production. Through investments made on specialized IAS and
ICA complexes during the 1976-80 Five-Year Plan, Romania proposes to increase
the share of pork production on industrial-type units to at least 62% by 1983.



ANNEX 1
Page 17
Geographical Distribution of Pig Production
5.10      Article 9 of the Law on the Adoption of the Unified National Plan
of Economic and Social Development for the 1976-80 period states that:
"Equipment and material resources will be developed and modernized (to enable]
creation in each judet [district] of livestock raising complexes to meet
the judet's own needs for meat and eggs." During the early 1960s when the pig
production development and modernization program was initiated, initial in-
vestments were concentrated in close proximity to supplies of feeds. As
demonstrated in Table 3, 60.5% of the 1974 national herd remained concentrated
in twelve districts all located in the relatively rich Plains agro-climatic
zone. In the same year, these twelve districts accounted for 56.6% of total
maize production.
5.11      In compliance with the Five-Year Plan directive, it is proposed
to develop pig production capacities nationwide to satisfy local consumption
needs. With full development of new and modernized facilities financed under
the 1976-80 Plan, only 26.0% of total pig production would be located in the
twelve districts of the Plains zone. The regional approach to pig production
was selected after analysis of three alternatives: (a) production of animals
in grain areas with subsequent transport of live animals to consumption cen-
ters for slaughter and processing; (b) production and processing of pigs in
grain areas and shipment of meat to consumption sites; and (c) transport of.
grain and feeds to pig production complexes located near consumption centers.
5.12     The first alternative was rejected because of the high risk of
serious losses in shipment given periods of inclement weather hampering
transport. Even under optimal conditions, shipment places a high degree
of stress on the animals, causing an average weight loss of ten percent.
Transport carrier space is underutilized in the process with only about 60%
of space being employed. Loading and unloading also prove time- and labor-
intensive. Transport of meat in carcass-form, the second option, was elimi-
nated mainly on relative cost grounds. In addition to high refrigeration
costs and relatively suboptimal utilization of vehiclar space, the risk of
losses remains high should shipment disruptions occur en route. The third
alternative was selected because of the relative cheapness of the approach.
Cost of rail transport of grain runs about 30% of that for truck transport
of animals, and losses due to delivery delays are greatly reduced. Also,
transport of cereals lends itself to mechanical handling and enables more
optimal use of space. Therefore, under the current Plan, pig production
capacity in certain districts would be reduced, and expanded in others in
accordance with local requirements as detailed in supplementary district-
specific plans.
The Energy Grain and Protein Base
5.13     With full development of project pig production facilities in 1981,
an incremental quantity of 208,100 tons of pork (live-weight basis) would be
generated, representing a 21.8% increase over the production level achieved in



ANNEX I
Page 18
1975. To produce one kg of pork live-weight, an estimated 4.7 kg of feed
are required, approximately 80% of which is energy feedgrains (mostly maize
and barley) and about 20% protein meals (soybean, fish, meat, bone, blood).
Examination of the grain and protein base is therefore necessary to ascertain
whether an increment to the pig herd of the magnitude proposed can indeed be
supported.
5.14     Total area devoted to cereals declined from 6.8 to 6.2 million ha
over the 1954-75 period, largely attributable to the substitution of alterna-
tive crops for oats. Alternative crops receiving priority were fodder crops
and soybeans for the development of the livestock sector, and to a lesser
extent, pulses, vegetables, sugarbeets, sunflower, and flax. Area allocated
to maize has remained relatively stable over the 21-year period, deviating
annually on average less than ten percent about a mean area of 3.3 million
ha. Barley however dropped from 438,000 ha in 1954 to only 195,000 ha one
decade later, thereafter to increase to 442,000 ha by 1975. Area allocated
to barley cultivation g&ew .at.ier iapidly duriug the 1971-75 Plan period, re-
flecting increased emphasis in national planning on production of feedgrains
(see Table 2).
5.15     Production of maize has risen from a 1954-56 average of 4.9 million
tons to a 1971-75 average of 8.3 million tons for a total increase of 70%.
Over the same period, barley production grew from 368,000 to 845,000 tons,
or by a total of 130%. Not only did such increases in feedgrains enable
growth in livestock production, especially in the pig and poultry subsectors,
but also generated quantities of maize earmarked for export averaging 340,400
tons annually over the 1971-75 period.
5.16     Yields of maize and barley have demonstrated significant increases
over the last 20 years, accounting for the gains in grain production. Per
hectare yields of barley grew from a 1954-56 average of 993 to 2,341 kg in
1971-75, while that for maize rose from 1,467 to 2,677 kg. Grain yields per
hectare were considerably higher on IASs than on the CAPs. Over the 1971-75
period, while maize yields averaged 3,362 kg on IASs, those on CAPs averaged
only 2,666 kg. Between 1971-75, barley yields on IASs averaged 2,907 kg per
ha in comparison with only 2,155 kg on CAPs.
5.17     Soybean production in Romania remained relatively low until the
1971-75 Plan period when increased emphasis was placed on self-sufficiency
in high grade protein sources for development of the livestock sector. Between
1966 and 1970, area under soybeans increased from 10,000 to 79,000 ha; during
the 1971-74 period soybean area rose from 147,000 to 238,000 ha. In 1975,
soybean area dropped to 121,000 ha, reflecting severe damage incurred during
June/July rains, hail, and floods which hampered sowing of the crop and
destroyed large portions of the crop already planted. Soybean production
rose from 20,000 tons in 1966 to 90,000 tons in 1970; and from 1971 to 1974,
production increased from 165,000 to 298,000 tons. Although soybean area in
1975 dropped to half the 1974 level, production in 1975 declined by only 28%,
reflecting satisfactory yields on planted area. Yields in soybeans have
improved substantially over the 1966-75 period, from an average of 1,011 kg
per ha during the 1966-70 Plan period to 1,435 kg per ha during 1971-75.



ANNEX 1
Page 19
5.18     There remains considerable scope for increased production of feed-
grains and soybeans in Romania. Recognizing the importance of a firm feed
base to the development of the livestock sector, Romania proposes a 35-51% in-
crease in cereal grains and 146-260% growth in soybean production under the
1976-80 Plan. Principal emphasis is being placed on increasing per ha yields
of soybeans and maize as livestock feed requirements. As demonstrated in
Table 5, although Romania has made progress in boosting yields over the last
two decades, its grain productivity record remains significantly below that
of other Eastern and Western European nations. Similarly, soybean yields in
Romania lie considerably below those achieved in the US where yields averaged
1,772 kg per ha over the 1972-74 period.
5.19     In an effort to stimulate productivity, the Government proposes to:
(a) encourage fertilizer production and use in order to raise
fertilizer consumption from 95 kg per ha of arable laud in
1975 to 280 kg (active substance) by 1980;
(b) bring an additional 1.2 million ha under irrigation boosting
the irrigable total to about 3.0 million ha by 1980;
(c) install suitable drainage facilities to improve 1.1 million ha;
(d) initiate erosion control measures on about 1.0 million ha;
(e) expand usable arable land through reclamation measures on
125,000 ha;
(f) concentrate investments in the cooperative sector where, be-
cause of limited investments in the past, the marginal returns
to incremental developmental expenditures should be relatively
high.
Especially important are those measures designed to provide supplementary
irrigation, flood control protection, and drainage. Romania's crop yields and
total production have demonstrated considerable fluctuation year-to-year as a
consequence of variable climatic conditions. Although in some years there may
be sufficient rainfall during the important months of July and August to obtain
satisfactory yields, lack of rainfall often causes yield reductions and at
times complete crop failure in affected areas. Irrigation facilities would
provide a high degree of insulation against low levels of rainfall. In other
years, flood damage due to excessive rainfall, as experienced in June/July
1975, can adversely affect continuity in stable annual production levels.
Flood protection, drainage, and erosion works should therefore contribute
toward greater stability in production.
5.20      Conservatively assuming a 6.2 annual rate of growth in energy feed-
grain production that would result in a total growth of 35.1% by 1980 over the
1971-75 average, projected energy grain requirements under the Project would



ANNEX 1
Page 20
consume at most 22% of incremental grain production at full development. Pro-
posed measures to boost crop yields, scope for achievement of these results,
and proposed priority allocation of newly irrigated land to maize and soybean
cultivation, support the technical feasibility of increasing production by
6.2% per year at least over the medium-term (see Table 4).
5.21      Romania remains an importer of protein meals to support livestock
production. About one-half of total soybean meal utilized, or about 260,000
tons were imported in 1975, principally from the US. In 1976, this imported
quantity of soybean meal was expected to diminish to 200,000 tons, and by
1980 is expected to drop to only 57,000 tons, or approximately ten percent of
projected requirements. Fishmeal imports have averaged about 20,000 tons in
recent years, mainly from Peru. Depending on the success obtained in efforts
to raise soybean production, up to 80,000 tons of imported fishmeal will be
required by 1980. At the same time, the Government is placing high priority
on research programs to render Romania eventually self-sufficient in edible
proteins. Collaboration with the Japanese is now in progress in the develop-
ment of single-cell protein production. Emphasis is also placed on production
of maize varieties with higher protein content.
5.22      As demonstrated in Table 4, at full development, project-generated
animal waste product meals would provide about three percent of protein meal
requirements under the Project. Projecting growth in soybean production to
1980 on the conservative basis of 19.7% per year, net incremental protein
requirements could utilize up to 63% of incremental soybean output in 1980.
However, given the present low production base, the scope for improvement, and
the priority placed on self-sufficiency in edible proteins, production growth
could easily surpass this rate of increase. Additionally, Government recog-
nizes the need to import soybean meal and fishmeal to supplement domestic
supplies of protein products to support its livestock sector.
5.23      To ensure timely delivery of feeds to the production complexes, the
Five-Year Plan has provided funding for improvements in the internal trans-
portation system. It also has given priority to silo construction as well as
to modernization of on-farm storage facilities in an effort to minimize losses
in grain and meal stocks. The need for increased silo facilities and improved,
expanded warehouse capacity is apparent in Romania. In 1976, when production
of maize was relatively high, large quantities of maize were harvested with
up to about 24% moisture content and were then deposited in open temporary
structures. Losses from insufficient drying and substandard storage facil-
ities will result in a significant level of spoilage. The Government proposes
an active program to expand silo capacity and to increase unloading capacities
at existing structures to ease the backlog at the field-level. On-farm stor-
age is generally limited in Romania to that needed for seed material and a
15-day stock of feed requirements. A 200 million lei program is included in
the 1976-80 Plan to renovate and mechanize existing storehouses for these
short-term stocks.



ANNEX i
Page 21
VI.  Complementary Services 1/
,entral for MarKeting of Cereals and Animal Feeds 'CMC)
6.i       This State agency is responsible for the collection, storage, and
.ispusal of grain produced by State enterprises and cooperatives and for the
conversion of feeds and protein meals into animal feed concentrates. The CMC
has two branches, the Cereal Marketing Enterprise and the Trust for Feeds.
The former is responsible for (a) concluding contracts with cereal production
complexes, (b) drying and storing acquired grain, (c) purchasing soybeans and
dispatching them for processing, (d) allocating stocks for export or to
various grain processing enterprises, including the Trust for Feeds, (e)
distributing stored grain to grain-deficit areas as required. The Trust for
Feeds has responsibility 'ur the production of feed meals in its 65 feedmills.
It purchases feed inputs from the Cereal Marketing enterprises, processes
them, and delivers its products to livestock production units. Directors
of livestock complexes relay to the directors of the feedmills information
regarding feed requirements on monthly, quarterly, and annual bases; each
feedmill in turn correlates projected demand and input supplies with the
Trust. At present there is at least one feedmill complex in each district
with up to six in selected cases. While 1976 feed production totalled 7
million tons, requirements for 1980 are projected to reach 10 million tons,
necessitating the construction of an estimated ten new factories under the
1976-80 Plan.
6.2       Should shartages develop in feed input supplies, the Institute of
Research for Animal Nutrition is responsible for recommending and approving
adjustments ia fix-ed feed formulae. If shortages arise, complexes with supe-
rior quality oreeding stock, e.g. selection and testing farms, have priority
access to tetter quality feeds. In such periods, State enterprises and coop-
eratives receive the same adjusted rations.
Premix Preparation
6.3       Romania presently blends most premix requirements for its livestock
sector, although certain vitamin-mineral ingredients, fats, and milk solids
must be imported.  A 50,000 ton premix plant is located in Bucharest which
presently blends all required premixes for the country. By 1981-85 require-
ments are projected to reach 500,000 tons. It is envisaged that by then
five new premix factories will be in operation to handle this need. Begin-
ning in 1977, a premix factory included in the Bank-financed Sadova-Corabia
Credit Project will be built in that region for operation by 1979. This plant
would manufacture basic components, e.g. milk solids and fats, and blend them
with vitamins, minerals, and high protein concentrates.
1/   Veterinary services and pig research are discussed separately in Annex 4.



ANNEX I
Page 22
Agricultural Education
6.4       Agricultural education in Romania has been organized into a
national system, coordinated by the Ministries of Agriculture and Education,
to provide training for specialists and skilled workers for the agricultural
sector. The structure of formal education can best be divided into two
branches-instruction for new personnel and that for staff already employed.
The former category starts with agricultural gymnasiums, or high schools,
where students are exposed to a wide range of agricultural activities as well
as an opportunity to specialize. 1/ One segment of these graduates proceeds
directly to production complexes as skilled workers while another portion
continues to agricultural universities. Agricultural universities and in-
stitutes are dispersed throughout the country. The MA determines the
numbers of experts needed in future years and thereby finalizes the number
of seats available in the various disciplines. Post-graduate programs are
also maintained at the&et .sutitutiwia.
6.5       A varied refresher program is conducted for all levels of workers
in the agricultural sector. The MA organizes eight-week review courses that
are compulsory for all expert staff every five years. Similarly, short-
courses are given annually for experts and skilled workers in order to pass
down knowledge to lower level staff from research institutions as well as
to provide opportunities for discussion of mutual problems. The Center for
Management Training within the University of Economics and Political Science
arranges two-year advanced training courses for management staff already in
the field. In addition, the MA coordinates special weekly radio and televi-
sion broadcasts designed to reach the basic educational needs of CAP members.
CAPs are equipped with television sets. The chief engineer is responsible
for organizing CAP members to view or hear the broadcasts and for leading
discussions based on the central topic of each program.
6.6       Included in the investment cost of each new complex is a training
component for unit staff members. The director of the complex, for example,
is appointed from the beginning of construction works and follows through
their completion. Mechanical, electrical, and automative specialists for
the future complex are employed by the construction contractor before the
start-up of operations. To obtain familiarity with the operation of the unit,
the director and other key staff also work on existing units for at least six
months in all operational activities and are then expected to pass competency
tests conducted by district-level MA authorities.  Once a new unit is in opera-
tion, skilled workers from existing complexes are brought in to provide on-the-
job training for new lower-level staff for about six months.
1/   Education in Romania is compulsory to the tenth grade.



ANNEX 1
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
PIG PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING P!.OZECT
ROMANIA
Indices of Social Product, Nationei Income,
Fixed Assets, and EMPIoyment it Total Economr and Airiculture
119q0 = 100)
Social Prodact    National Income           Fixed Assets            Employment
Agri-                 Agri-                  Agri-                  Agri-
Total    culture      Total   c.lture        Totalcizlture          Total    culture
1950       100        100         100        100         100        100         100        100
1955       186        163         192        170         125        110         NA         NA
1960       263        171         268        169         161        127         114        100
1965       414        198         413        169         223        159         116         88
1970       629        21a         599        164         337        213         118         78
1971       701        264         680        214         368        235         119         74
1972       771        283         748        229         398        254         119         71
1973       852        287         828        217         433        279         120         68
1974       947        293         931        213         478        302         120         65
1975     1,000        304       1,000        213         534        334         121         62
Source: Statistical Yearbook of the Socialist Republic of Romania, Bucharest, 1975.



APPRAISAL OF
PIG PRODUCTION AND PROCERSING PROJECT
ROMANIA
Time Series or Project-Related Agricultural Data
Ujnit            1938       1950       1960      1965       1970      1971      1972          3      1974      1975
Arable Land                   1,000 ha           10,093      9,378     9,821      9,814     9,733     9,713      9,638     9,638     9,703      9,741.
Irrigated Area                1,000 ha              -           43.0      HA        222.6     664.6    NA         NA        NA       1,227.9   1,424.2
Maize Production              1,000 tons           NA         NA        5,531     5,877     6,535      7,850     9,817     7,397      7,440     9,241
Maize Yields                     100 kg              10.5        7.4       15.j      17.8      21.2       25.1      30.7      25.0       25.1      27.8
Barley Production             1,000 tons           NA         NA          405       485       513        789       838       730        916       952
Barley Yields                    100 kg               7.2        6.1      .15.2      20.9      17.8       23.9      25.6      23.2       20.8      21.5
Soybean Proluction            1,003 tons           NA         NA           12         3        90        165       186       244        298       213
Soybean Yields                   100 kg               9.4        4.1        4.8       4.8      11.4       11.2      17.1      13.4       12.5      17.6
Pig Herd                      1,000 heal          2,761/i    2,197     4,300      5,365     6,359      7,742     8,785     8,987      8,566     8,813
- Sows and Gilts              1,000 head            606 E      242        545       461       682        788       881       893        825       821
Distribution of Pig Herd      1,000 head           NA
State Units                                                   317.4      861.8   1,212.0   2,423.7   2,840.2   2,917.7   3,161.8   3,366.2   3,614.7
Cooperative Sector                                              4.4      364.5   1,228.4   1,612.9   1,955.8   2,325.1   2,540.0   2,620.2   2,795.1
Cooperative Members                                            35.2    .890.6   2,351.8   1,803.3   2,241.6  2,706.3   2,530.0   1,977.3   1,832.3
Private Farmers                                             1,840.1   2,182.7      573.2     519.5      704.1     835.9      755.0     602.2     571.2
Cooperative Associations                                      -            0.A     -          -         -         -          -         -         -
Total Meat Production /2       1,000 tons            760         595       943     1,047    1,349      1,396     1,627      1,840     1,977     2,012
- Pork                                               343        215        376       482      604        636       780        889       988       955
Total Exports of Meat +
Meat Products               1,000 tons           NA         NA           54.9      60.8      55.3       61.3      76.7      111.1     132.6      164.8
- Fresh and Frozen Pork /3    1,000 tons                                   29.4      11.8      18.4       24.4       17.5        : 2     51.0       823
- Tinned f4eats               1,000 tons                                    5.3       7.9       12.6      11.6       17.5      22 9      24 2       23.0
1 1937.
Live-weight basis.
Carcass basis.
Source:  Statistical Yearbook of the Socialist Republic of Romania, Bucharest, 1975 and 1976.



APPR4ASAL OF
PIG PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING PROIJECr'
ROMUAIA
Distribution of Population, Maize Production, and Present and Planned Pig Production
Pig Production
District                Zone /       Ppulation        Maize Production       _      Pig Proloction, 1974             Full Developigt, 1976-80 Livestock Program
July 1,1974     -                    Total      fTiSC Cooperative Se^tor         Total       lAS      Cooperative Sector
1,000 head         1,000 tons                       1,000 head                                 l,noo heal
Alba                     M              40s.4                74.2           103.7      24.3       14.0                 605.0       90.0         280.0
Arad                     P              496.0               289.9           392.6      83.7      171.8                 222.0       22.0         6O.0
Arges                    F              599.3               153.1           118.5      13.0       22.0                 250.0      125.0          12.0
Bacau                    F              676.9               195.1           185.9    114.6         5.9                 634.0      219.0         155.0
Bihor                    P              623.5               197.6           453.1    232.6        77.4                 115.0        10.0          5.0
Bistritai Nasaud         M              291.2                37.4            52.2       0.1        o.8                 228.5        32.0        125.0
Botosani                 F              488.7               283.0           156.4      37.5       74.7                 233.0       103.0         35.0
Brasov                   M              496.3                 8.4           159.6      75.7       33.7                 539.0      227.0         225.0
Braila                   p              374.3               418.9           436.5    218.9       163.8                 320.4        32.0        198.0
(Bucharest)              P            1,681.6                17.4            60.3      25.9        1.3                  30.0        -            -
Buzau                    p              519.6               235.0           154.7      12.8       85.5                 141.0       49.0          12.0
Caras Severin            F               371.5               86.0            47.5       -          1.8                 335.5       133.0         56.0
Cluz                     M              689.0                93.8           211.8      96.5       17.3                 467.0       124.0        270.0
ConsLanta                p              545.5               254.3           350.8      116.1     185.4                 141.0        19.0         17.0
Covasna                  M              192.8                 3.6            72.4        1.2      10.6                 190.0        25.0         62.o
Dimbovita                F              451.5               145.5            87.2        5.8      20.7                  561.0      137.0        285.0
Dolz                     p              745.2               347.4           404.5      113.4     208.0                 258.0        76.0        135.0
Galati                   F              558.3               337.0           130.7       48.6      59.2                  178.0       31.0          7.0
Gorj                     F               333.0              105.0           104.9        8.6       5.2                  126.0       10.0         -
Harghita                 M               310.7               12.7            67.4        0.1       0.6                  176.0       99.0         -
Hunedoara                M              514.0                33.6           105.9      58.6        0.3                 842.0       364.0        380.0
folodita                 p              392.6              582.7            617.6     364.0     195.6                  282.0      114.0          75.0
Iasi                     F              724.1               320.4           212.4      89.0       66.3               1,075.6       540.0        324.0
Ilfov                    P              808.3               675.o           814.7     425.7    250.3                   195.0        55.0         -
Maranures                M               485.2               22.0            91.8        8.1       0.4                  290.0       82,0         110.0
Mehedint                 F               326.8              132.5           170.0       59.9      51.8                  315.0       47.0          86.0
Mures                    M               612.0              115.5           186.3       33.2      43.4                  181.5       20.0          74.0
Neamt                    F               535.8              165 5             97.6       5.6      38.1                  487.0      124.0         209.0
Olt                       p              515.5              295.5            282.5     115.3      72.2                  252.0       s4.o         102.0
Prahova                  F              785.6               167.5           125.8       44.4      20.2                  335.0       68.o         105.0
Stu Mare                 M              337.9                78.0           205.1      59.9       47.8                  119.0       15.0         -
Dlaj                     M              272.3                34.3            61.5      -           1.1                 177.0        45.0         32.0
Sibiu                    M              456.9                47.4            97.7      26.4       11.8                 262.0       125.0         -
Suceava                  M              644.9                65.8           198.8     118.0        0.4                 468.o        75.0        310.0
Teleorsm&n               P              541.2               328.9           302.6      67.4      186.0                 873.5       317.0        330.0
iimis                    P              647.6               460.0           717.4      349.4     256.0                  355.0       54.0         230.0
T ulcea                  P               259.9              129.3           205.6       42.2     117.7                  225.0       24.0         110.0
"aslui                   F               477.9              257.1            117.8      13.0      52.0                  197.0       16.0           4.o
XVilcea                  F               404.0               94.4            109.3      -          3.6                  129.0        12.0         57.0
Vrancea                  F               384.3              i68.6             88.8      '7.6      45.5                   -                        -
21,029.1            7439            2          3,117.1   2,22                  12,813.0    3,710.0      i,7527.0
; Agro-Ciinatic Zone key:  P   Plains; F = Foothills; and N . Mountains and Tablelands.
SourceM: Statistical Yearbook of the Socialist Republic of Romania, Bucharest, 1975; Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry.



APPRAISAL OF
PIG PRODUCTION AND PROCESSBMG PROJECT
ROMANIA
Projected Energy Grain and Soybean Production and Requirements under the Project
Unit              1976        1977        1978         1979        1980        1981
Energy Grains Production /1  /2            1,000 tons       9,764.0    10,369.4     11,012.3   11,695.1    12,420.2    13,041.2
Incremental Grain Production
over 1971-75 Average                     1,000 tons         570.0     1,175.4      1,818.3     2,501.1      3,226.2     3,847.2
Incremental Grain Requirements
for Project /3                           1,000 tons         -           -             55.1        380.1       704.0       735.2
Incremental Requirements as
of Incremental Grain
Production                               percent            -           -              3.0         15.2        21. 0       19.1
Soybean Production /4                      1,000 tons         264.8       316.9        379.4        454.1       543.6       597.9
Incremental Soybean Production
over 1971-75 Average                     1,000 tons          43.6        95.7        158.2        232.9       322.4       376.7
Protein Meal Requirements
for the Project /5                       1,000 tons         -           -             13.1         8).8       167.2       174.6
Blood, Meat, and  Bone Meal
Generated in Project /6                  tons               -           -              30.3     1,274.1     3,957.1     5,354.9
Net Protein Requirements for
the Project                              1,000 tons         -           -              13.1        i9.5       163.2        169.2
Net Protein Requirements for
the Project in Soybean EqaivalentsL      1,000 tons         -           -             16.4         99.4       204.0        211.5
Net Protein Requirements as % of
Incremental Soybean Production           percent            -           -              10.4        42.7        63_3         56.1
8 Maize and barley.
Growth rates assumed: 6.2 percent (1976-1980)) and 5 percent (1981); projections built upon 1971-75 average
production of 9,194,000 tons.
/3 Grain equals 80 of feed requirement.
7/ Growth rates assumed : 19.7 percent (1976-1980); and 10 percent (1931); projections built upon 1971-75 average
production of 221,200 tons.
/5 Protein meal equals 19 percent of feed requirement.
Equbl to 1.8 percent Of live veight; includes products from cattle and calves sauAghterad in Project slaugbterhouses.
_r1n soybean processing, 20 percent of weight is exirscted ae oil; therefore soybean equivalent equals 125 percent of
protein meal requirement.
P19



AN=  1
Table -
APPRAISAL OF
PIG PRODUCTION-AMf-PROCESSLN2G PROJECT
ROMAN7IA
Crop Yields and Fertilizer Use in Selected Countries
kg/ha
Country                 Maize     Barley            Fertilizer Use /1
-1972-1974 Average-               1972
Romania                 2,617      2,390                 65
Bulgaria                3,982      2,951                156
Czechoslovakia          4,386      3,425                272
Democratic Republic
of Germany            2,652      4,225                388
Hun4axr                 4,131      2,953                196
Poland                  3,361      2,931                205
-1971-1973 Average-               1972
EEC-9                   5,150      3,813                151
Federal Republic
of Germany            5,003      4,023                241
France                  4,818      3,837                164
Italy                   5,794      2,283                 88
/1 Active substance per ha of arable land.
Sources: FAO, Yearbook of Agricultural Productiou, Rome, 1975;
. Statistical Office of the European Communities, Yearbook of
A.ricultural Statistics, Lixe"mbourg, 1975.-



ANNEX 2
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
PIG PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING PROJECT
ROMANIA
Pig and Pork Marketing and Processing,
Pricing, Pork Consumption, and Exports
I. Marketing and Processing
1.1       Pork is the main meat commodity produced in Romania, reflecting
domestic consumer preference for the product as well as the country's favor-
able agro-climatic conditions conducive to feedgrain production. Pork pro-
duction in 1938 totalled 343,000 tons, or about 45% of total meat produced.
As a result of sizable reductions in the national herd during the war years,
production of pork declined to only 215,000 tons in 1950 for a decrease of
37% over the 1938 level. Paralleling subsequent development and expansion of
pig production, pork production rose to a high of 988,000 tons in 1974, or by
a compound rate of growth of 6.6% over the 1950-74 period. In percentage
terms, pork has represented an increasing share of total meat produced, rising
from 36% of the total in 1950 to about 50% in 1974. Production of pork suf-
fered a three percent decline in 1975 probably reflecting serious disruption
of the production cycle by rains, hail, and floods that occurred during that
year. By the beginning of 1976, the herd size had grown to 8.8 million pigs,
and high production records were expected to be reached in 1976 and thereafter.
Organization
1.2       Within the Department of Food Industry there exists a special
agency, the Meat Industrialization Trust (MIT), in charge of processing most
of the beef, pork, and mutton produced in the country. The MIT is headed by
a Central which acts as a coordinating unit with no direct production func-
tions. MIT Central (a) coordinates the operation of 43 production enterprises
throughout the coiuntry, (b) correlates plan targets received from the MA with
input supplies, staffing, and production capacities, (c) oversees the trans-
port of processed products to internal destinations or to the border for
export, (d) maintains financial records and coordinates financial planning,
and (c) prepares designs for facility modernization and minor expansion.  The
Central is controlled by a twenty-one member Council of Workers composed of
the General Director of MIT, four Direction heads, and 16 representative
directors of enterprises under the Central.  A smaller Executive Committee
handles day-to-day management of MIT operations. The Central is composed
of four Directions, or departments: (a) the General Direction charged with
organizational planning, staffing, training, and legal matters; (b) the
Technical Direction coordinating production activities, supply of raw mate-
rials (principally animals), and investment matters; (c) the Commercial
Direction handling marketing activities--collection and transport of animals



ANNEX 2
Page 2
for slaughter, delivery of processed products to retail outlets and export
dispatch points, and inventory management; and (d) the Financial Direction
coordinating financial planning, accounting, prices, and fiscal controls.
Each MIT enterprise must pay a commission to the Central equal to four percent
of its operating costs of production.
1.3       The district MIT enterprises are semi-autonomous units maintaining
separate accounts and able to enter contractual arrangements as independent
agents as long as decisions made and contracts agreed upon are complementary
with fulfillment of targets given by the Central. Based on these targets,
each MIT enterprise establishes contracts with IASs, production cooperatives,
consumption cooperatives, individual CAP members, and private farmers. Each
contract specifies the number of animals to be supplied, weight, quality,
supply price, delivery date, and other conditions, and penalties covering both
buyer and seller should delays be encountered in delivery. One month before
collection centers assume possession of contracted animals, an MIT inspector
visits the supplier's facility to test for pesticide residues in the animals.
Those registering above tolerable limits are rejected.
1.4       Until 1976, individual CAP members and private producers were able
to contract cattle, pigs, and sheep directly with MIT enterprise collection
centers established throughout each district. Now direct contracting with
these producers is done only for cattle. In the case of pigs and sheep, CAP
members and private farmers now must contract with local consumption coopera-
tives at State-controlled acquisition prices. The consumption cooperatives
in turn hand over the contracted pigs and sheep to MIT enterprises for a
commission not to exceed four percent, and then will ultimately buy back-
finished meat products for retail sale in their shop facilities.
1.5       The individual producer--private farmer or CAP member--is free to
sell animals to whomever desired. However, although he is free to slaughter
pigs and sheep for home consumption needs, he is forbidden by law to slaughter
cattle. Privately owned cattle scheduled for slaughter must be sold directly
to a MIT enterprise collection center or processed in an approved abattoir.
The individual producer, however, is free to dispose of his excess pigs,
poultry, and sheep by contracting with the consumption cooperative, selling
the live animals to other farmers, or having the animal slaughtered in a
certified slaughterhouse and personally selling the meat in a peasant free
market. To market meat himself, the farmer must have evidence of his producer
status, veterinary certification from the slaughtering facility, and a rented,
clean, distinctive coat to wear at the market.
1.6       In 1975, an estimated 46% of Romania's total meat supply, or 926,000
tons (live-weight), was generated within the private sector. About 54% of
this quantity, 500,000 tons, was sold to the MIT. In 1975, about 65% of
pork, 30% of poultry, and 5% of mutton produced by individual CAP members
and private farmers were consumed at home or sold in the free markets. Even
though these individual producers move large quantities of fruit and vege-
tables through these free markets (an estimated 30-40% of national supply),



ANNEX 2
Page 3
only 1-2% of the total meat supply is sold this way. Although the local
popular councils maintain ceiling prices for fruits and vegetables sold in
these peasant free markets, none are established for meats.
1.7       The MIT enterprise then represents the usual marketing outlet for
surplus pigs, sheep, and cattle produced in the private sector. This requires
that contractual price planning by MIT and price setting by Presidential decree
must offer reasonably attractive prices to enable sufficiently large contract-
ing with the private sector to satisfy national meat targets.  At the same
time, selling to a consumption cooperative and MIT enterprise assure the
private farmer and CAP member of additional advantages: (a) the acquisition
price is known at the time of contracting; (b) cash advances are permitted
up to 45X of the final contracted value of the animals; (c) contracting
enables the seller to purchase feed requirements from the consumption coope-
rative at regulated prices; and (d) the consumption cooperative or BAFI
branch provides short-term credit to the supplier based on these contractual
arrangements.
1.8       In the future it is proposed to incorporate the private producer
and the CAP member into the industrial-type pig production system discussed
above. It is envisaged that specialized IASs and ICAs would eventually sell
quality weaners to these producers to fatten for home consumption and sales to
MIT enterprises. Feed requirements for the contracted pigs would be provided
through the consumption cooperative, and the acquisition of the animals would
be adjusted appropriately to reflect the value of the supplied weaners and
feed.
1.9       Of the total 654,900 tons of pork (live-weight) handled by MIT in
1975, 62,000 tons or 9.5% were processed into canned hams and shoulders and
other pressed ham products predominantly for export markets. During the same
year, 61,800 tons (live-weight), or 1.0% of the total MIT quantity, were allo-
cated to production of raw and dried salamis for domestic consumption and
export.
Retailing of Pork Products
1.10      The Ministry for Internal Trade (MFIT) is responsible for the
internal distribution of all products for consumption. It is divided into
three main branches: (a) Food Products and Public Alimentation, (b) Clothing
and Shoes, and (c) Metalic Commodities, Furniture, Construction, and Fuel.
MFIT submits estimates of domestic consumption requirements to the State
Planning Committee during the formulation of the national plans. Thereafter,
based on the Committee's assessment of feedgrain availabilities, meat supply,
and export and consumption projections, quantities of pork available for
internal consumption are determined and made part of each plan. Once the
total consumption quantity is specified, it must be allocated among the 39
districts and Bucharest. This distribution is based on four criteria:
regional average per capita income (purchasing ability), traditional food
preferences, and present relative level of consumption. At the district



ANNEX 2
Page 4
level, the MFIT Council of Supply must allocate the quantity of pork pro-
vided under the Plan (a) among the various counties and municipalities
and (b) between State and cooperative retail outlets. At the local level,
there is a Commercial Director within the local governing body, the popular
council. He and his staff receive information by quarter concerning quanti-
ties of pork to be received. The Director and the popular council must then
(a) divide the allocation on weekly and daily bases, (b) ensure that pork is
delivered in accordance with contracts between the MFIT and MIT from the
latter's enterprises; and (c) supervise an equitable distribution of the meat
supply in accordance with MFIT guidelines.
1.11      Pork, mutton, and beef are supplied under contract with MIT enter-
prises to State shops and consumption cooperatives. Meat can also be pur-
chased from Agro-Cooperatives 1/, peasant free markets, and a small number
of private shops.  State-controlled retail outlets--State shops and consump-
tion cooperatives--are organized as (a) specialized shops handling pre-
packaged meats, fats, and organs and providing custom butchering service as
requested; (b) general food units or multi-product shops having meat sections
where frozen and processed meats are usually available; (c) open markets
providing a variety of products and maintaining a separate section for meat
commodities.  Throughout Romania there are 17,500 retail shops in which one
may purchase meat, 350 located in Bucharest alone.  General food stores are
most common throughout the country.  Business hours are not uniform but rather
are fixed by each local popular council.  Supplies of meat available in State-
controlled retail outlets are not uniformly distributed throughout each week
period, but rather are managed by the popular council under supervision from
the district Council of Supply. Meats are available on a very limited basis
on Sundays, Mondays, and Tuesdays, with a gradual increase in supplies to a
weekly maximum on Saturdays. Romanian officials explained that this skewed
distribution reflects the lack of slaughtering and processing on Sundays as
well as the "traditional" practice and preference of the purchaser in Romania
to shop for meat toward the end of the week. Shortages in the retail market
are evidenced by the relatively low per capita consumption of total meat and
pork in Romania (46 kg and 23 kg respectively in 1975) and also by the long
queues of shoppers at food outlets even when meat supplies are greater.
1.12      The following flow diagram summarizes the distribution of pork
through the production and processing system for 1975. Quantities have
been converted to a uniform live-weight basis expressed in tons.
1/   Associations of Inter-Cooperatives for retail sale of produce.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Distribution of Pork, 1975
(in live-weight tons)
Socialist Pig          1975
Production            Total         Private Sector Pig Production
(IASs, CAPs, ICAs)                      (Private farmers, CAP members)
583,000 (61%) /1         955,000               372,000 (39%)
(IOO )       \   (90%)                          (3%        61%        (4%)
Processed on
Socialist Produc-
tion Complexes    Sales            Sales to
and Retailed       to MIT          Consumption          Home            Peasant
Locally_           Enterprises    Coops               Consumption    Free Markets
58,300 (6%)        524,700 (55x)  130,200 (14%)    225,700 (24%)  1,300 (2%)
(80%)  \            (20%)
MIT Total
654,900 (69%)
(78%)                   (22%)
State Shops, Consumption Coops
(for retail)                    Exports
514,100 (54%)                140,800  (15%)
(62%)                 (38%)                    (78            (22%)
Tinned Meat               +               Tinned Meat
Fresh, Frozen        and Sausages          Fresh, Frozen        and SausaRes
318,600  (33%)      195,500  (20%)        109,700  (11%)      31,100  (3%)
/1   Percentage to the right of each quantity represents percentage of total
1975 production. These have been rounded to nearest percent.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
II. Agricultural Prices
Introduction
2.1       Prices of all production in Romania, at both the farmgate/ex-factory
and retail levels, are established and controlled by the State. A major tenet
of Romanian economic policy is to maintain stable price levels. Retail prices
in the aggregate increased by less than three percent over the 1971-75 period
and are expected to increase by approximately five percent between 1976 and
1980. The prices of essential goods, including food products, are kept rela-
tively low, and retail prices of some goods, e.g. bread, are unchanged since
the early 1950's. Producer (supply) prices are also kept stable over at
least one planning period: between 1974-76, producer prices were revised for
the first time since 1963 to reflect changes in costs and technology, both
internal and international. In addition to fixed producer prices for socia-
list entities (takeover prices for IASs and contract prices for cooperatives),
acquisition Prices are established to cover produce sold to State marketing
agencies by individual CAP members, private farmers (see Annex 2, paras
1.6-1.7), and CAPs (for production in excess of contracted quantities).
2.2       Retail prices for basic foods (e.g. bread and meat) are fixed
by the State Committee for Prices which is established on the level of the
Council of Ministers.  Prices for food commodities which are considered of
less importance to the population are set by MFIT (e.g. canned vegetables).
Food products within a third category (e.g. sweets) are priced by the popular
councils within limits fixed by MFIT. Prices for fruit and vegetables may be
adjusted seasonally by the popular councils also within limits established by
MFIT. In addition to retail prices, "rebate percentages" are decided by the
State; these indirectly determine the price retailers pay to processors,
producers, and wholesale organizations. The rebate percentage is to cover
all marketing expenses. To a limited degree there exists a free market price
at which private farmers and individual CAP members sell their products in
peasant free markets. These prices are permitted to fluctuate with supply
and demand within certain limits specified by local popular councils (meat
has traditionally been exempted from such ceiling price controls).
Price Differentiation Between the State and Cooperative Sectors
2.3       An interesting feature of the Romanian economic system is the dif-
ferentiation of prices for many homogeneous commodities produced in the State
and cooperative sectors. 1/
1/   Differentiation is additionally made on qualitative, regional, and
seasonal bases.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
Differentiation of Feedmill Selling Prices for Feed Between
State Enterprise and Cooperative Buyers (lei/ton)
Difference
Feed                                     State              (in Z of prices paid
Category          Cooperatives          Enterprises          by State Enterprise)
01                 3,482                3,212                       8.6
02                 2,307                1,988                      16.0
03                 1,783                1,414                      26.0
04                 1,675                1,268                      32.0
05                 1,594                1,253                      27..2
06                 1,594                1,253                      27.2
In the case of the pork production activity cycle, the comparison of prices
for inputs and outputs of State enterprises with those for cooperatives
reveals that the largest price differential exists at the grain production
level and decreases as the conversion approaches meat processing (see preced-
ing and following tables). At the final stage, retail prices for meat and
meat products are the same regardless of their place of origin.
2.4       Because of the Romanian system of planning and allocating resources,
the differential pricing system is reflected, not by cooperatives specializing
in grain and IASs in pork, but by differentials in financial rates of return
in similar production activities. A main reason given for the split pricing
structure is that cooperatives are allowed to get higher prices because costs
in the cooperative sector are generally higher than those in the State sector,
which generally has better access to improved technology and investment capi-
tal. Production costs in cooperatives tend to be higher reflecting lower
efficiency levels, less mechanization, and higher input prices (Annex 1,
paras 3.5-3.7). The differences between prices for power, gas, and other
supplies paid by cooperatives and State enterprises represents a tax element,
omitted in the case of the State sector. It is argued by the Romanians that
the margins between costs and prices in the State and cooperative sectors are
not equal. The margin for the cooperative sector is reportedly set relatively
narrow in order to induce greater technical efficiency. It must be borne in
mind that a portion of the generally higher net income of the State enterprise-
representing the tax equivalent--would be shown as a cost in a rate of return
calculation for a cooperative. In this sense, the pricing structure reflects
a policy decision to collect funds for the State budget from economic units in
the form of taxes on inputs utilized by cooperatives, and in the form of net
income transfers in the case of State enterprises.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
Build-up of Prices (lei)
Cooperative      State    Difference as %
Consumer               Unit (tons)          Sector        Sector   of State sector
Price
fresh pork /2        20,800        20,800           -
Processing Plant
live
weight
pork                12,000        10,500          12.5
Pg Rearing
& Fattening
T=#9      |     feed LJ          2,307-1,594   1,988-1,253        16-32.0
Feed Mill
t               maize                 1,150            800         43.7
Grain
WProducers
L    Varying according to feed category; figures do not include category 01.
/2   Carcass basis.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
III. Pork Consumption
3.1       Pork represents a major component of the Romanian diet and a pre-
ferred commodity by the Romanian consumer. Over the last decade, pork has
represented half of all meat consumed per capita. In 1965, of the 27 kg
total meat consumed per capita (fresh meat basis), 13.5 kg were pork and pork
products. By 1970, total meat and pork consumption had increased by 14.8% to
31 kg and 15.5 kg respectively. Meat and pork consumption per capita in 1975
was 46 and 23 kg respectively, 48.4% above 1970 levels. Along with eggs and
other meat products, pork therefore represents a major source of high grade
protein in a diet marked by relatively high cereal consumption and intake of
protein of vegetable origin. MFIT estimated in 1972 that only 20% and 39% of
total calorie and protein consumption respectively were of animal origin.
3.2       MFIT reports that consumers buying from the State-controlled retail
market in 1975, purchased 62% of total pork sD retailed in fresh and frozen
form, 31% as salamis and sausages, and 7% as canned meats. That portion of
the population relying on home production or the peasant free markets usually
consumes pork in fresh form or preserved through local techniques which vary
regionally. In colder areas, freezing for several months generally is pos-
sible. In other sections of the country, pork is often smoked, dried, or
fried and preserved in hardened fat.  Preservation of pork in the summer
months presents a particular problem for rural residents lacking refrigeration
facilities. Such individuals are then usually dependent upon State-controlled
shops for any pork requirements.
3.3       Although urban residents generally attempt-to eat meat every day
for lunch and supper, rural residents are known to have meatless days; many
rural individuals abstain from consuming meat on Wednesdays and Fridays
because of traditional religious restrictions. For special events and holi-
days, meat is an important part of the meal, and pork is usually served.
3.4       Comparisons of per capita consumption of total meat and pork in
Romania and other Eastern European countries having similar tastes and levels
of per capita income reveal a generally lower relative consumption level
in Romania. According to FAO data, Romania ranked lowest of these Eastern
European countries in total meat consumption and second lowest in pork,
1964-66. UNESC data suggest that the pork consumption gap continued in 1975.



ANNEX 2
Page 10
Per Capita Pork Consumption (kg/yr)
(Fresh meat basis)
1964-1966 Average       1975 /2
Total Meat      Pigmeat    Pigmeat
Romania (FAO)                     38.5          19.0        22.6
Romania (MFIT) t1                 27.0          13.5        23.0
Hungary                           51.4          27.4        41.2
Poland                            50.5         31.6         40.9
Bulgaria                          40.6          16.0        n.a.
Czechoslovakia                    60.8         33.5         38.1
German Democratic
Republic (GDR)                  52.4         38.1         47.8
/1   1965.
/2   UNESC.
Sources:  FAO, Agricultural Commodity Projections, 1970-1980,
vol. II, Rome, 1971, pp. 127-8; Ministry for Internal
Trade, Bucharest; UNESC Economic Commission for Europe,
The European Market for Meat and Livestock in 1975 and
1976, AGRIC/R.47, November 25, 1976, p.41.
Meat consumption levels in Romania fall far below those achieved in other
European countries where pork also remains a preferred food by most consumers.
While recognizing differences in per capita income levels, comparisons of
consumption levels are useful and-indicative of potential consumption targets
as economic development and income growth occur in Romania. 1/
1/   Per capita real income rose 7.9% p.a., 1971-75 and is scheduled to in-
crease 6.2-7.0% p.a. under the 1976-80 Plan. Although no estimate of
income elasticity of demand for pork could be found for Romania, it is
considered positive and relatively high, probably ranging between .30
and .40. FAQ estimates for nearby countries are of relevance since
similar income levels and consumer preferences prevail: Poland: .30;
USSR: .40; Eastern European average: .33.



ANNEX 2
Page 11
Per Capita Pork Consumption (kg/yr)
1974
(Fresh meat basis)
Total Meat            Pork
Romania (1975) /1                    46                  23
EC-9                                 81                  33
Federal Republic
of Germany (FRG)                   89                 50
France                               97                  33
Italy                                65                  17
Netherlands                          71                  34
Belgium/Luxembourg                   92                  39
United Kingdom                       74                  26
Ireland                              92                  32
Denmark                              64                  35
/1   Ministry for Internal Trade, Bucharest.
Source: Statistical Office of the European Communities,
Yearbook of Agricultural Statistics, Luxembourg,
1975, p. 200.
Total per capita meat consumption in Romania (1975) was 28.1% below that
recorded in Denmark and 43.2% below the EC-9 average (1974). Although
Romanian pork consumption surpassed that in Italy (1974) by 35.3%, it was
30.3% below the EC-9 1974 average.
3.5       The Five-Year Plan for 1976-80 proposes an expansion of domestic
supplies of food commodities, and particularly meat, to improve dietary
standards, make adequate provision for a growing and increasingly urbanized
population, and raise per capita consumption levels of important dietary
items. Toward this end, the Plan has established a target of a 20-30% in-
crease in meat consumption per inhabitant over the 1976-80 period. Proposing
to keep consumption of each respective meat commodity in relatively constant
proportions through 1980, the Government supports an increase in total meat
consumption per capita from 46 kg in 1975 to 55-60 kg by 1980, including a
growth in pork consumption from 23 to 29 kg over the five-year period. To
achieve the latter, internal supplies of pork would have to be increased by
an estimated 264,600 tons (live-weight) by 1980, and keeping per capita con-
sumption levels constant, an estimated 297,500 tons in 1983. Maintaining
per capita intake constant, domestic supplies of pork in 1983 would need to
be expanded about 36.5% over those so allocated in 1975. 1/
1/   One percent population growth rate assumed.



ANNEX 2
Page 12
3.6       The project would make a major contribution toward fulfillment of
this planned 20-30% increase in per capita meat consumption over the 1976-80
period. Incremental pork derived from the project would total 208,100 tons
(live-weight) in 1981 or 75.5% of an estimated 275,717 tons required for
domestic consumption in that year (see Table 1). With full development of
total 1976-80 Plan investments in 1983, an estimated 69.4% of the total
incremental pork production equalling 428,500 tons must be allocated to the
home market to maintain per capita consumption at the 1976-80 planned level
of 29 kg. By 1983, an excess incremental supply of 131,100 tons of pork,
approximately equal to the live-weight equivalent of 1975 pork exports, would
be generated. This excess incremental quantity, valued at 1976 f.o.b. Romanian
prices, would be worth an estimated US$158.3 million equivalent. Should this
incremental amount have to be diverted to internal markets due to diminished
opportunities for export, it would enable an increase in pork consumption from
29.0 kg per capita in 1975 to 32.42 kg in 1983. Even with this additional
amount, per capita pork consumption in Romania (1983) would still be below
those levels achieved in Czechoslovakia (33.5 kg) and GDR (38.1 kg) in 1964-66.
A per capita pork consumption level of 32.42 kg by 1983 would enable Romania
to attain the EEC-9 1974 average and the level recorded in France the same
year.
3.7       To support a per capita meat consumption of 55-60 kg or a 20-30% in-
crease over the 1975 level, 353-529 thousand tons of incremental meat supplies
must be provided for domestic use in 1983. If total meat production totals
2.8 million tons by 1983, 1/ implying a 788,000 ton increment over 1975
levels, 44.8-67.1% of this increment would be required to support domestic
consumption targets. If Romania in that year were unable to find suitable
markets internationally for the balance and were forced to divert it to
internal use, per capita consumption of meat in 1983 would rise to 66.6 kg.
This level would be 5.8 kg higher than that recorded in Czechoslovakia in
1964-66 and on par with 1974 figures for Italy and Denmark, the two EEC
countries recording the lowest per capita meat consumption in that year.
While this meat consumption amount would be 11-21% above 1976-80 Plan targets,
it would still be 18% below the 1974 EC-9 average (See preceeding table).
IV. Pork Exports
4.1       Meat exports from Romania rose significantly after 1970.  In 1960
meat exports totalled only 54,900 tons and after rising to 60,800 by 1965,
declined to 55,300 tons by 1970. After Government placed increased emphasis
on this export category as an important generator of convertible foreign
exchange, meat exports rose to 164,800 tons by 1975, for a compound rate of
growth of 24.4% over the 1971-75 period. Fresh and frozen beef exports rose
from 22,600 tons in 1970 to 48,300 tons in 1974, thereafter dropping to 38,100
tons in 1975, at least in part in response to 1974 EEC import restrictions
1/   Mission estimate.



ANNEX 2
Page 13
imposed on foreign beef. Fresh and frozen pork exports totalling 17,300 tons
in 1970, grew to 82,300 tons by 1975 representing half of the total meat ex-
port volume. Tinned meats and sausage exports, composed predominantly of pork,
rose from 12,600 tons in 1970 to 24,200 tons in 1974 and 23,000 tons in 1975.
Converted from carcass and processed meat bases, an estimated total of 140,800
tons of pork (live-weight basis) were exported in 1975 representing about
14.2% of total production. About 78% of this pork export total was sold in
fresh and frozen form, the balance as tinned meat and sausages. Although
detailed data concerning the geographical distribution of Romanian meat ex-
ports were not available to the mission, fragmented information suggests that
(a) Italy, France, and FRG represent the major buyers of fresh and frozen
Romanian pork; (b) US for canned hams and pork loins; (c) FRG, the Netherlands,
Sweden, and UK for other canned meat; and (d) FRG, Austria, and Sweden for
sausages.
Organization of Pork Export
4.2       Foreign trade is a State monopoly in Romania.  Prodexport, a State-
run trading Company, is the only agency authorized to sign contracts with
foreign buyers for the purchase of live sheep and cattle, beef, pork, animal
fats, animal offals and by-products, poultry, eggs, tinned meat and meat pro-
ducts, dairy products, sunflower oil, sugar, honey, tobacco and cigarettes,
fish, and wild game products.  Currently, Prodexport contracts with firms   -
in 51 countries, distributing its total export volume as follows: Western
Europe, 77%; Near and Middle East, 12%; USSR and other Eastern European
countries, 5%; and the US, 2%. Maintaining four branch offices within Romania
as well as 11 permanent offices abroad, Prodexport searches for new markets,
advises economic planners concerning the world market situation, concludes
contracts with foreign buyers, and contracts with various centrals for the
supply of goods for export.
4.3       Prodexport maintains five departments dealing with meat exports:
(a) Marketing of Pork and Pork Products, (b) Marketing Intelligence, (c) Meat
Specialist, (d) Canned Hams, and (e) Fresh Meat Products. Although Prodexport
is solely authorized to conclude contracts with buyers abroad, MIT must par-
ticipate in negotiations and countersign contracts involving large and/or
long-term orders. For all meat commodities processed by MIT, Prodexport
concludes annual contracts with the Central specifying the quantities to be
exported and the terms of delivery. The MIT then is responsible for produc-
tion of the export commodities and their delivery to the border point for
shipment to the buyer. For services rendered the MIT must pay a commission
to Prodexport of 2% of the export value of the goods converted into lei at the
official rate (4.97 lei = US$1.00). This commission covers operating costs of
Prodexport, advertising, commercial samples, insurance, and consulate charges
incurred for export privileges to Middle Eastern markets. Once a contract is
signed, MIT will assign responsibility for filling the export order to its
regional enterprises based on their technical capability of producing the
specified goods, geographical location, and relative workload. With minor
exceptions, pork products are exported under Romanian brand names. Orders



ANNEX 2
Page 14
involving special processing or packaging are accepted in which cases appro-
priate upward adjustment is made to the ex-factory price of the products. MA
maintains a fleet of trucks employed exclusively in the transport of export
commodities; the fleet in 1976 numbered 600 vehicles, and an additional 900
are proposed under the 1976-80 Plan.
4.4       MIT gets no foreign exchange for goods exported, but rather receives
the ex-factory price in lei (with adjustments for the Prodexport commission,
transport, and any special packaging) through a financial transaction between
the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade and BAFI which maintains the MIT account.
If MIT targets are met or exceeded, it is eligible for an export incentive
bonus equal to 15-20% of the lei equivalent of the dollar value of pork
exported above that specified in the annual development plan (other bonus
rates: 15-20% for beef, and 30% for lamb and mutton).
Prospects for Increased Exports of Pork
4.5       Although Romanian exports of pork have expanded rapidly over the
last five years, the prospects for continued expansion, especially for the
medium- to long-term are difficult to assess given the relative rapidity with
which pig breeding herds can be expanded in importing countries, potential
competition in the international market, potential import barriers, and other
economic factors. Unlike cattle and sheep which are less prolific, pigs
reproduce relatively quickly and turn out large litters which enables rapid
buildup of national herds and domestic pork production capacities. Romania
presently enjoys net exporter status with regard to energy feeds such as
maize. Although domestic generation of required feedgrains is strong point
in Romania's favor with regard to pork production, several EC countries,
notably France, Italy and FRG, have acknowledged capability for increasing
production of feedgrains given adjustment in the relative prices of maize and
wheat within the EC. Romania also enjoys a cheap labor pool relative to that
available in other pig producing countries. However, such countries have
evidenced higher pig output-employee efficiency ratios which probably compen-
sate for higher labor costs (see Annex 4, para 15). In addition, protective
measures to insulate domestic producers in many cases obviate any cost advan-
tage Romania might enjoy. The possibility of pig and pork producer demands
for more stringent import restrictions cannot be ruled out should inflows of
foreign pork expand significantly, e.g. EC and US. Although pork producers
are termed as often less organized and less politically motivated than their
counterparts in beef production, increased imports of pork could result in
import controls similar to the 1974 EC ban on imported beef and recent trade
restrictions on cheap beef imports into the US. EC officials summarized that
relatively small quantities of specialty pork products and some primal cuts
for further processing would continue to be demanded from Romanian and other
suppliers, but large imports were not envisaged for the future.
4.6       In 1974 when the EC erected trade barriers to halt large imports
of beef, Prodexport was able to (a) substitute pork for beef exports, (b)
absorb quantities of beef originally earmarked for export on the internal
market, and (c) establish tied sales arrangements with Middle Eastern buyers



ANNEX 2
Page 15
of Romanian lamb. Now the Middle East continues a major market for Romania
as beef has gained consumer acceptance. Although reallocation of exportable
pork for home market utilization is considered feasible should trade barriers
be raised (see para 3-6), international market substitution would prove more
difficult for pork products than was the case for beef. Prodexport maintains
that some pork is presently being imported by Arab and Moslem countries;
however prospects for large-scale purchases in the future, even with high
income growth, appear limited.
The EC Market
4.7       The EC is practically self-sufficient in pork and while importing
relatively small quantities from outside, the EC has concurrently been ex-
porting pork outside the Community. Production of pork totalled 8.4 million
tons (carcass basis) 1/ in 1974 and 8.3 million tons the following year.
Analysts attribute this contraction within the EC to (a) the low profit-
ability of pork production due to significantly higher prices for imported
feedgrains and to reduced market prices for slaughtered pigs resulting from
relatively high EEC production levels in 1974; (b) the adverse effect of the
generally depressed economic climate; (c) the oversupplied beef market and
consumer substitution of beef for pork, and (d) a switch in Denmark out of
pork to more profitable dairy activities. Exports outside the EC were
271,00 and 234,000 tons in 1974 and 1975 respectively. Imports into.the
Community were 352,000 tons in 1974 and 392,000 tons in 1975. While imports
grew by 11.4%, intra-Community trade in pork rose from 1.56 million tons
in 1974 to 1.59 million tons the following year. Self-sufficiency indices
therefore stood at 99.0 and 97.5% in 1974 and 1975 respectively. Imports of
pork in 1975 included 60,000 tons of live pigs (carcass basis), 180,000 tons
fresh and frozen pork, 78,000 tons lard, 48,000 tons offals, and 26,000 tons
processed meats. Major foreign suppliers in 1975 were the German Democratic
Republic (GDR) (87,000 tons), Romania (63,000 tons). Hungary (62,000 tops),
US (46,000 tons), Poland (42,000 tons), People's Republic of China (22,000
tons), Sweden (17,000 tons), and Bulgaria (12,000 tons). Romania's exports
to the EC rose from 38,000 tons in 1974 to 63,000 tons in 1975 as exports
from the US, Poland, Sweden, and Spain declined. Exports of the EC to outside
markets in 1975 included 41,000 tons of fresh and frozen pork, 23,000 tons
of lard, 15,000 tons of offals, and 192,000 tons of processed meat. EC pork
was shipped to the following principal foreign markets in 1975: US (78,000
tons), Japan (30,000 tons), Cuba (17,000 tons) and Sweden (16,000 tons).
4.8       The EC establishes a high level of absolute protection for its
pork producers which has favored the expansion of intra-EC transfers of pork,
especially from the Netherlands and Belgium, at the expense of third countries.
Protective mechanisms for fresh and frozen pork include the basic variable
levy and the supplementary levy linked to a derived minimum import price or
"sluice gate price."  The basic variable levy placed on all incoming fresh
and frozen pork corresponds to the levy placed on the quantity of grain assumed
1/   Equivalent to 11.2 million tons live-weight.



ANNEX 2
Page 16
necessary to produce pork, plus an additional margin of protection. 1/ "The
basic levy thus compensates EC producers for using higher cost domestic grain
as well as providing additional protection. In fact, efficient producers are
overcompensated for high grain costs, since the EC assumes a greater quantity
of grain than is required by efficient producers." 2/ To ensure absolute
preference for domestic pork, a sluice-gate price is calculated representing
the "fair" cost of third country products delivered to the EC. Calculation
is based on the assumption of higher feed requirements than efficient third
country producers actually require. Outside products offered to the EEC at
less than the sluice-gate price are subject to an offsetting supplementary
levy. The supplementary levy is a short-term instrument invoked only when
violations of the sluice-gate price are observed. This additional levy, last
utilized in 1975, may apply to imports from all countries or only to those
from countries whose products do not meet the sluice-gate price. Special sup-
plier agreements have been established with Eastern European countries including
Romania (but excluding GDR 3/ and USSR), in which exporters promise to control
export prices and not to undercut the sluice-gate price; in return, the EC
exempts these special suppliers from supplementary levies. Sluice-gate prices
and basic levies are published every three months. Supplementary levies are
reviewed more often and adjusted as required. Romanian fresh pork is excluded
from British, Irish, and Danish markets because of protective regulations
prohibiting importation from countries reporting incidence of swine fever.
4.9       Demand for pork within the EC is likely to increase in the future
in response to an observed rate of population growth of 0.7% (EC-9, 1958-74)
and a positive income elasticity of demand of about .38%.  While the EC re-
presents a potential market for future Romanian export expansion, especially
in processed pork products, such growth could be constrained by envisaged
growth of pork production within the EC and protective measures designed to
favor intra-Community trade. Economic recession and simultaneous reductions
in beef prices because of the 1974 beef glut depressed demand for pork at a
time when the EC pig herd had been over-expanded. As a consequence of lower
prices and increased grain prices, pork production was cut substantially
from 1974 levels prior to the drought. The profitability of pig production,
however, has been improving significantly in Western Europe since mid-1975.
In response to a reduction of feedgrain prices on the world market, some
1/   Calculated on the basis of an estimated feed-meat conversion ratio and
weighted average of sliding scale customs tariffs on various feedgrains.
The tariff on each respective grain is set according to the difference
between the EC threshold price, expressed as the cif price Rotterdam,
and the world market price.
2/   USDA Foreign Agricultural Service, The Common Agricultural Policy of
the European Community, FAS M-255, Washington, November 1973, p. 11.
3/   GDR is regarded and treated by the EC as part of a unified Germany
rather than as a separate sovereign entity. Therefore, bilateral
agreements are not possible exclusively with GDR.



ANNEX 2
Page 17
improvement in the general economic climate, depletion of the beef glut, and
generally higher pork prices, an expansion in the EC pig breeding herd and
pork production were expected for 1976. Even in Italy, a major buyer of
Romanian pork, the pig herd expanded by 2% by the beginning of 1976 over 1975
levels and breeding stock expanded by 1%. EC officials envisage a gradual
adjustment in the wheat-corn price ratio to remove a general over-supply of
wheat and to curb imports of feedgrains. France, West Germany, and Italy
are likely to expand corn production should these relative prices be changed.
Expansion and renovation of pig production capacity with the concurrent
elimination of the small, relatively inefficient producer are proposed to
attain higher levels of technical efficiency. The table below summarizes
April 1976 forecasts for 1976 EC production and provides indicators for 1977.
USDA in November 1976 forecasted a 3.2% increase in total EC pork production
for 1976 over 1975 levels.
Forecasted Percentaxe Changes in EC Pig and Pork Production, 1976
Pig Herd,   Breeding Stock,  Annual  Pig Slaugh-    Pork
Beginning 1976 Beginning 1976  Pig Crop    tered    Production
Belgium/Luxembourg       *               1            6           4           4
DenmArk                 -2               3             4         -2          -1-
France                   1               1            7           2           2
West Germany            -2               2             1          *           *
Ireland                 11              25           14          14          20
Italy                    2               1            5           2           4
The Netherlands          2               5             6          5           4
United Kingdom          -2               6             9          5           6
*   Negligible.
Source: USDA Foreign Agricultural Service, Foreign Agricultural Circular:
Livestock and Meat, FLM 3-76, Washington, April 1976.
The US Market
4.10      The US is a net importer of pork.  While exporting mainly fresh and
frozen pork as well as live pigs for slaughter, the US imports pork, over 95%
of which is in the form of canned hams and shoulders. Commercial production
of pork declined from a 1971 level of 6.7 million tons (carcass basis) 1/ to
6.2 and 5.8 million tons in 1972 and 1973 respectively in response to falling
pig prices during the 1969-71 period. Production of pork increased in 1974
to 6.3 million tons reflecting higher 1972 to mid-1973 hog-corn price
1/   Unlike in Europe where head is retained on the carcass, the head is
removed in processing in the US, implying a carcass-live-weight ratio
of about 0.65 in the US, vs. 0.75 in Europe. Therefore, 5.5 million
tons carcass basis in the US tr.anslates to 8.46 million tons live-weight.



ANNEX 2
Page 18
ratios I/ and an earlier buildup of the breeding herd. With substantial in-
crease in world grain prices and generally low hog prices in 1974, the hog-
corn price ratio dipped to an annual average of 11.3, down from 19.3 the
previous year, resulting in a decrease in 1975 pork production to 5.1 million
tons.  Production in 1976 was expected to increase about 8% with improvement
in the general economic climate, reductions in grain prices from 1974 highs,
and an increase in 1975 through mid-1976 in the hog-corn price ratio (1975
annual average: 16.9). With relatively large pork supplies in 1976, farm
prices for pigs demonstrated significant decline after the second quarter
of 1976. Because of a relatively large number of farrowings reported during
summer and fall 1976, sharp gains in pork production should continue through
mid-1977. In response to generally lower prices, breeding herd curtailment
began September and October 1976 with a relatively large number of boars,
gilts, and sows sold for slaughter. Minimal increases in prices are expected
in early 1977 as a large number of pigs move to slaughter and feedlot beef
inventories could be further reduced. Pork production is anticipated to
increase during the second half of 1977 but at a slower rate than that pro-
jected for the January-June period.
4.11      US trade in pork over the 1967-75 period can be summarized as
follows:
US Pork Exports and Imports
Carcass Equivalent, in Tons
Exports (A)         Imports_(B)          (A)/(B)
1967            26,800              177,800            .151
1968           44,100               188,700            .234
1969            74,500              185,500             .402
1970            33,500              203,700             .164
1971            34,100              207,700            .164
1972            51,800              230,400            .225
1973           80,100               233,100            .344
1974            49,100              213,200             .230
1975 IL         99,300              194,600             .510
/1 Preliminary.
Source: USDA, Livestock and Meat Statistics: Supplement
for 1975, Bulletin No. 522, Washington, June, 1976,
pp. 161-2.
1/   Number of bushels of corn equal in value to 100 lbs of pork, live-weight.



ANNEX 2
Page 19
Exports of pork have generally been in fresh and frozen form with Japan and
Canada representing the major foreign markets for US pork. Preliminary es-
timates for 1975 indicate that Canadian imports of US pork for that year in-
creased 39% over the 1974 level of 26,500 tons (carcass basis). Over the same
period, Japanese imports rose from 11,200 tons in 1974 to 52,500 tons in 1975.
4.12      Imports of pork have mostly been in the form of canned hams and
shoulders. As demonstrated above, imports have remained rather insensitive
to changes in US supplies and have shown rather steady growth over the 1967-
1973 period. Imports over these years rose a total of 31.1%, or by a compound
rate of growth of 4.6% per annum. Reflecting general economic conditions,
imports of pork declined to an estimated 194,600 tons in 1975, a 16.5% drop
from 1973 levels. Denmark and the Netherlands have been traditionally large
suppliers of pork to the US. In 1971, for example, Denmark and the Netherlands
provided 35.9 and 23.1% respectively of total pork imports. In response to
world-wide recession and internal reductions in the pig herd size, Denmark
reduced pork exports to the US by 34.3% (1973-75), the Netherlands by 25.5%,
and Canada, by 45.3Z. Poland, providing 30,200 tons in 1972, attempted to
gain a larger share of the US market by increasing exports to 36,400 tons in
1975. Polish hams and shoulders in 1975 represented 24.5% of US pork imports.
Romanian canned hams and shoulders shipped to the US totalled 4,887 tons
(carcass equivalent) in 1974 and 4,271 tons in 1975, representing only 2.2%
of total pork imports in each year.
4.13      Increasing awareness of the dangers of high fat and cholesterol
consumption, economic recession, and traditional preferences for beef have
doubtless constrained growth in pork consumption in the US. USDA statistics
presented below show that while total per capita red meat consumption in the
US fell by 7.21, 1971-75, pork consumption decreased 25.0% over the period.
This in part reflected substitution by consumers in response to a change in
relative retail prices of meat; comparing prices in 1971 and 1975, the average
retail price of beef was about 33% higher in 1975, while that for pork had
risen 90%. With an improvement in the economic climate and slightly lower
retail prices, preliminary USDA estimates for 1976 indicate a 6% growth in
per capita red meat consumption 1975-76, including a six percent increase in
pork intake.



ANNEX 2
Page 20
US Per Capita Red Meat Consumption
Kg/Yr /1
All Meat      Beef     Veal      Lamb and Mutton       Pork
1971         71.0        37.9       1.0            1.3            30.8
1972         69.5        39.0       0.8            1.3            28.4
1973         64.5        36.8       0.7            1.1            26.0
1974         69.0        39.2       0.9            0.9            28.1
1975         65.9        40.3       1.6            0.8            23.1
1976 /2      70.0        43.3       1.4            0.8            24.5
/1 Fresh meat basis.
/2 Preliminary.
Sources: USDA, Livestock and Meat Statistics: Supplement for 1975,
Bulletin No. 522, Washington, June 1976, p. 119; USDA,
Livestock and Meat Situation, LMS-212, December 1976.
While per capita consumption of pork has declined until 1976, the composition
of this dietary component might be undergoing change in preference for leaner
cuts and products. American consumers seem to view imported hams and
shoulders as leaner and generally of superior quality compared to American
substitutes. Although the latter remains a moot point, the mission did
observe the leanness of Romanian canned hams and shoulders during visits to
processing facilities.
4.14      There are presently no quotas placed on pork imported into the US;
however, a system of import tariffs is in effect. Since Romania was granted
Most Favored Nation status on August 2, 1975, it is eligible to pay "Column 1"
rather than "Column 2" rates which are generally higher. With regard to canned
hams and shoulders, however, there is at present minimal difference between
the two tariff rates (products entering less than or equal to three lbs in
weight, no difference: 3U/lb; products entering over three lbs: Col 1, 3d/lb
and Col 2, 3.25U/lb). Higher rates are placed on pork sausages imported into
the US from Column 2 countries. However, since all major pork exporters to
the US have been issued similar status, this distinction gives Romania no
comparative advantage. When meat imports become overly abundant and threaten
the stability of the domestic market, US producers, through their various farm
organizations, lobby for increased controls. These generally take two forms:
first, negotiation of voluntary restraint agreements to hold imports to his-
torically average levels and as a last resort, quotas issued by presidential
order. Foreign processing plants and entering products, lastly, must meet
stringent USDA sanitary and purity standards.
4.15      Propsects for further Romanian entry into the US pork import market
can be summarized as a function of the following variables: (a) price com-
petitiveness with other major competitors, notably Poland, Denmark, and the
Netherlands; (b) continued American consumer preference for imported canned
hams and shoulders; (c) the general economic climate in the US; and (d) US
producer tolerance for competition from imported commodities.



ANNEX 2
Page 21
Prospects in Other Markets
4.16      Although no precise information was supplied to the mission, indica-
tions are that Romania has begun to ship fresh and frozen pork to Poland as
well as to the USSR. Pork production in Poland declined in 1976, principally
due to private producer response to low farm prices established by the State.
Unlike in Romania, an estimated 80% of total pork output in Poland is produced
on small private farms which in turn sell animals to State enterprises for
processing. Faced with relatively low supply prices, Polish producers have
reacted by substituting more profitable production activities and by curtailing
area planted with feed potatoes, the major feedstuff for pigs in Poland. Pork
production was expected to drop in January 1977 10% below levels observed one
year previously. Exports to the US were also expected to decline by about 2%
during 1976. Polish consumers have likewise faced rising retail prices as a
result of domestic shortages. To confront these shortfalls in production,
Poland has reportedly raised domestic farm prices for pigs and concurrently
imported pork for domestic consumption to protect export quantities. hedium-
to long-term prospects for continued Romanian pork exports to Poland are un-
certain.
4.17      In the USSR the national pig herd was reduced significantly during
the second half of 1975 when the results of the poor 1975 grain harvest became
apparent. Pig numbers on State and collective farms were down 17% as of June
1976 from those observed in June 1975. Faced with sizable 1975 slaughters and
an improved domestic grain situation in 1976, the Soviets are attempting to
rebuild the national breeding herd. As a result, pig numbers increased 9% over
the January-June 1976 period and by October were down only 1% from the previous
year. The future prospects of Romanian pork exports to the USSR will be deter-
mined in large part by the ability of the feedgrain sector to support the
national herd, the chances of Government sanction for external pork purchases,
and potential competition from other potential Eastern European suppliers.
4.18      In Japan, following a 5% decline in pork production, 1974-75, a 2%
recovery was forecasted for 1976. In response to strong consumer preference
for pork as well as improved economic conditions, pork imports in 1976 were
expected to reach 165,000 tons. Romanian prospects in the Japanese market
seem a function of (a) potential competition from EC and US suppliers; (b)
established bilateral trade agreements with Western countries for exchange of
Japanese manufactures for agricultural goods, and (c) possible balance of pay-
ments constraints in future years because of growing imports of foreign oil.



APPRAISAL OF
ANNEX 2
PIG PRODUC'ION AND lOCESSI110 PR?RECT                                           Tble 1
ROMANIA
Incremental Pork Produced Under Project and Total 1976-80 Plan Commitments, and Pmjected Pork Consumption
A
Unit           1975       1976      1977       1978      1979      1980       1981      1982       1983
Number of fattened pigs and
cnalled breeding animals
produced under ProJect             1,000 need         _          -         -          15.3     524.3   1,557.0   1,674.9   1,874.9   1,374.9
Pork generated from Project-
live-weight basis /1               tons                     -              -       1,684    70,783   173,229   208,104   208.104   205,104
Number of fattened pigs and
culled breeding animals
from 1976 co,rmitments            1.000 head          _          _          6.1      548.o     824.4    824.4       824.4      824.4     824.4
Pork generated from 1976
commitments- live-weight
basis /                            tons                                   668    61,940    92,342    92,342    92,342    92,342    92,342
Number of fattened pigs and
culled breeding animals
from 1979 and 1930
commitments                        1,000 head                                                                       472.7      998.6   1,144.9
Pork generated from 1979
and 1990 commitments-
live-weight basis /1               tons                                                                          53,368   112,000   128,089
Total number of fattened
Pigs and culled breeding
animals produced under
1976-19°0 Plan commitments         1.090 C 'ad                              6.1      563.3   1,448.7   2,381.4   3,172.0   3,697.9   3,844.2
Total Pork generated under
1976-1980 Plan cmmmitments
livewemight                       tons                                    668    63,824   163,125   265,571   353,814   412,446   428,535
Population /2                        1,000          21,240    21.240    21,670    21,880    22,100    22,320    22,550    22,770    23,000
Planned per capita consumption                                /4                                                   4
fresh meat basis /3 j5            kg                  23.00      24.09     25.22      26.41   27.65        29.00     29.00     29.00      29.00
'7otal planned consumption
live-weight basis                 tons           814,200   861,218   910,862   963,o85 1,018,442 1,078,8S0 1,089,917 1,100,550 1,111,667
Incremental planned consumption
over 1975 level - live-
weight basis                       tons                      47,018    96,662   148,885   204,242   264,600   275,717   286,350   297.467
Excess incremental pork pro-
duction over planned
consumption - live-weight
basis                                                                                                     971    78,097   126,096   131,068 '6
/1  Assumptions: lulled Sows: 175 kg; culled boars: 200 kg; and fattened pigs: 110 kg  (live-weight).
72 Population grovth rate of 1.00 percent assumed over period; this rate of increase was observed over the
1960-75 period.
/3 Compound rate of growth of 4.7 percent assumed to achieve planned 26 percent growth in per capita pork
consumption over the 1975-80 period.
/4 Source: Ministry of Internal Trade.
7g vresh meat basis assumed D0 percent of live-weight.
_   If allocated to home market, would enable increase In per capita coniumption level to 32.4 kg per annum.
February, 1977



ANNEX 3
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
PIG PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING PROJECT
ROMANIA
The Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
I. The Banking Structure in Romania
1.1       The role of banks within a centrally planned economy with socialist
proprietorship of the means of production differs considerably from that in
a market economy with private property. Net income from economic activity
accrues to society. National income, production, and investment are distri-
buted, channelled, and allocated according to decisions incorporated in the
national plan, not in response to market forces, including profits, prices,
or risks. The main role of banks in Romania consists of implementing the
plan, evaluating plan proposals, and funding and supervising operations and
investment projects. Banks in Romania are State-owned, and each financial
intermediary fulfills a definite task (Chart 1):
a.   The National Bank (NB) sets guidelines for credit policy
and grants short-term production credit to industry and
commerce;
b.   The Investment Bank (IB) grants long-term investment
credit to industry and commerce;
c.   The Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade (RBFT) deals with
foreign exchange operations;
d.   The Insurance Administration (IA) deals in all types
of insurances for State and cooperative entities as
well as private individuals;
e.   The Savings Bank (SB) accepts savings and grants consumer
credit and loans for the purchase of private homes; and
f.   The Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI) finances
production and investment in agriculture and agroindustries.
RBFT, NB and BAFI hold ministerial rank, depend directly on the Council of
Ministers, and operate with their own funds. IA, IB and SB are institutions
within the Ministry of Finance and obtain their resources from the Ministry's
budget. Among these financial institutions, there is neither competition nor
overlapping of responsibility.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
II. Tasks and Responsibilities of BAFI
2.1       In recent years Romania has emphasized the development of agricul-
ture as expressed by Party Chairman and President Ceausescu: "Agriculture--a
basic branch, decisive for ensuring a good supply of the population--will be
at the core of the preoccupations of the Party and government". 1/ In 1968,
Decree 55 established BAFI as a separate State entity to finance and supervise
production and investment in agriculture and agroindustries. The principal
tasks of BAFI are to:
(a) grant short-term production credit;
(b) approve investment proposals of socialist organizations 2/;
(c) grant long-term investment credit to socialist organizations,
individual coop-members, and private farmers;
(d) maintain checking accounts and accept deposits;
(e) exercise financial control and supervision over execution
of financial and investment plans;
(f)  act as fiscal agent for operations financed from the
budget and collection of State revenues; and
(g) cooperate with foreign institutions and international
organizations having similar tasks.
III. Organization and Management
3.1       The Administrative Council is the policy-making body of BAFI.  It
is composed of the BAFI President, Senior Vice President, Vice President,
Directors of BAFI departments in the head office and some BAFI branches,
economic and agricultural experts, representatives of several ministries and
other central State organs, and a delegate designated by the General Trade
Union of Romania. BAFI's senior officers belong to the Council ex-officio,
whereas the remaining members of the Administrative Council are appointed
by the Council of Ministers upon the recommendation of the BAFI President.
The Council meets at least once every quarter.
3.2       Between the sessions of the Administrative Council, the Executive
Bureau acts as the decision-making body. Its seven members are the President,
the Senior Vice President, Vice President, three Department Directors and the
representative of the trade unions. The Bureau meets weekly.
1/   Nicolae Causescu, Report to the 11th Congress of the Romanian
Communist Party.
2/   State enterprises and cooperative complexes.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
3.3       The BAFI President, who is the chief executive officer, is appointed
by State decree. The Senior Vice President and the Vice President are ap-
pointed by the Council of Ministers. The BAFI President implements the deci-
sions of the Administrative Council and the Executive Bureau.
3.4       The respective functions of BAFI's six departments are (Table 2):
(a) crediting and financing of IASs;
(b) crediting and financing of the agricultural cooperative sector;
(c) crediting and financing of food and agroindustries;
(d) coordination, planning, and external relations;
(e) accounting and auditing; and
(f) economic matters, administration, legal affairs, and personnel.
3.5       BAFI has a branch office in each of the 39 districts of Romania.
In addition to these, there are 92 sub-branch offices, 57 of which are direct
BAFI branches. The remaining 35 are NB agencies which perrorm operations for
BAFI. The branch offices and sub-branches are responsible for the agricul-
tural sectoral activities in their respective areas; there is no geographical
overlapping. The three operational departments of the head office (paras.
6(a), (b), (c)) service the entities within agriculture and agroindustries
established on a national basis (centrals, trusts, research institutions).
On the local level, about 800 Credit Cooperatives effect payments, disburse-
ments, and collections under BAFI's mandate. The Credit Cooperatives are
awarded a commission by BAFI of 0.4% of payments for this service.
3.6       BAFI employs about 210 persons at the head office in Bucharest and
approximately 3,500 in its field offices. Within the total staff, there are
about 112 engineers and technicians, 706 university graduates with degrees in
economics and finance, 2,672 specialists with secondary school training mostly
in banking and accounting, and 202 auxiliary personnel. In order to provide
the in-service training of staff required by law, BAFI offers courses appro-
priate for the various levels of responsibility. The courses include Romanian
agriculture, project planning and evaluation, credit operations, recovery of
loans, and marketing. BAFI staff appears to be dedicated and well-qualified.
Judging from the quality of sub-project evaluation, reports, and supervision
measures, BAFI staff seems capable, well-informed, and efficient.
IV. Lending Policies and Procedures
4.1       In order to realize the targets set by the five-year and annual
plans, the socialist organizations in agriculture and agroindustries submit
financial plans and investment proposals for BAFI review. If BAFI requires
additional data, borrowers have to provide any information to facilitate
project appraisal. If BAFI objects to the Borrower's plan, the organization
has to submit a revised version in order to obtain credit. Disbursements are
made against presentation of documents.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
4.2       BAFI-financing is primarily secured by "credit engagements" of
borrowers who commit all present and future income to debt service and who
are obligated to maintain all their revenue in BAFI accounts. Furthermore,
short-term credit must not exceed 60% of the value 1/ of production to be
financed. Repayment risk is extremely low within the Romanian politico-
economic framework. To date no bad debt has been recorded with BAFI. However,
should a liquidity problem arise with a debtor, BAFI's claims have the second
priority (after salaries) in the financial obligations of State enterprises
and first in those of cooperatives (Legea Finantelor 9/1972; art. 137 and 138).
4.3       Each branch, sub-branch, and operational head office department is
responsible for the supervision of its clients. BAFI exercises strict control
over both annual production activities and the disbursements for and progress
of investments. BAFI inspectors visit projects at least quarterly (but on
average once every six weeks) and prepare supervision reports. Delays and
infractions in current payments and project execution are penalized in accord-
ance with BAFI's authority under the law (e.g., temporary or permanent reduc-
tion in pay or requested replacement of an erring official). BAFI may recover
loans if proceeds are not used in accordance with the loan agreement in BAFI's
judgment. The financial situation of borrowers is examined monthly and re-
ported to the head office. In addition to the normal supervision procedures,
there is a central supervision division which ensures that this activity is
carried out properly.
V. Lending and Investment Operations
5.1       The following table shows the volume 2/ and relative importance of
production and investment credits granted by and/or through BAFI:
1/   The value is calculated on the basis of the selling price.
2/   Data refer to the total sum of credits granted during a fiscal year
which differs from the amount of credits outstanding at the end of
a fiscal year as shown in the balance sheet. In the case of short-
term loans, the volume granted over a one-year period is much higher
than the amount outstanding at any point in time.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Production                   1970            1971           1973           1975
Financing               Lei M      X     Lei M    Z    Lei M    z    LeiM M
a. Short-Term Loan    115,225    77   202,182   81  248,261   83  302,074   79
Investment
Financing
a. Short-Term Loans      7,074      5      7,682    3   11,484    4   16,137    4
b. State Equity
Contributions        27,077    18    38,511   16   39,471   13   62,593   17
Subtotals            34.151    23    46,193   19   50,955   17   78,730   21
Total Financing    149.376   100   248,375. 100  299,216  100  380,804  100
Over the 1970-75 period, total financing more than doubled, with short-term
lending (although already accounting for 77% of total BAFI financing in 1970)
growing at the highest rate. After a period of relative stagnation, invest-
ment financing (23% of total BAFI-lending in 1970) expanded rapidly in 1974
and 1975 so that it also increased as a percentage of BAFI-financing between
1973 and 1975.
The evolution of the structure of the BAFI portfolio is shown in the
following table (1970-100):
Production Financing            1971       1973      1975
a.  Short-Term Loans            175        215       269
Investment Financing
a.  Long-Term Loans             109        162       228
b. State Equity
Contributions             142       146        231
Subtotals                135        149        230
Total Financing          166        200        250
Investment Financing
5.2       Investment projects are generated either at the production unit
level or in the MA.  Production goals quantified in the planning process
as well as financial resources available are taken into consideration when
incorporating projects into the annual investment plan. Once a project is
included in the annual plan, the production complex staff prepares a technical
and financial proposal with the help of the district General Directorate for



ANNEX 3
Page 6
Agriculture and often with assistance from a State-run design institute.
These studies are usually very comprehensive. Proposals are then submitted
to a technico-economic commission which provides detailed assessment. If its
conclusions are positive, the proposals are then sent to the proper authority
for approval. The following tables show the various bodies that act on
investment proposals:
a.   For investments in the cooperative sector
Advice by
Technico-Economic
Investment            Commission in:        Approving Authority
Less than Lei 10 M   Production Unit        Management
Lei 10 to 30 M        Central and Gen.      General Assembly
Directorate of MA    of the CAP
Lei 30 to 70 M        MA                    Council of MA
Over Lei 70 M         MA                    Ministers' Council
b.   For investments in the State sector
Less than Lei 5 M    Enterprise             Workers' Council of
the Enterprise
Lei 5 to 10 M         Trust of the LAS      Managing Council of
at the District       the Trust
Level
Lei 10 to 70 M        Dept. of LAS in       Council of the Dept.
MA                    of IAS
5.3       Once a proposed investment is approved, it is submitted to BAFI
for review. In addition to a financial and economic review, investment
proposals are thoroughly scrutinized on technical grounds by the engineering
group of the respective BAFI agency. From information obtained in the field,
it appears that BAFI's "compulsory advice" on an investment proposal quite
often calls for substantial reductions in investment costs.
Financing of Investments in the Cooperative Sector
5.4       BAFI finances up to 70% of the total cost of a given investment 1/.
The maximum loan repayment periods are set by law. Examples of repayment
terms are as follows:
1/   Exceptionally bigher percentages must be approved by BAFI's President.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
Maximum          Maximum
Type of Investment                      Grace Period    Repayment Period
On-farm irrigation                             5                25
Vineyards and orchards                         7                10
Dairy farming                                  3                20
Feed mills                                     2                12
Transport equipment                            1                 8
Pig complexes                                  3                18
Poultry complexes                              3                15
Beef complexes                                 3                20
Greenhouses                                    -                20
Borrowers are charged 3% p.a. interest (6% p.a. penalty rate).
Financing of Investments in the State Sector
5.5       Investments in the State sector are normally financed by equity
contributions from the State budget channelled through BAFI. Although
theoretically non-reimbursable, these contributions flow back in the form
of "depreciation payments" collected by BAFI. Contributions by State enter-
prises out of their, own funds for investments have been minimal. Long-term
lending to State enterprises started on a small scale under the "Small
Mechanization Program" and on a regional basis under the IBRD-financed
Sadova-Corabia Agricultural Credit Project. This policy adjustment reflects
a relatively recent decision to require increased financial responsibility
within the State agricultural sector. This trend would continue under the
proposed project. Interest rates for long-term investment credit would be
as follows:
-    during construction period 2% p.a. (penalty rate 6% p.a.)
-    after construction period 4% p.a. (penalty rate 6% p.a.)
Financina of Investment Outside the Socialist Sector
5.6       The terms applicable to the cooperative sector are also applied
for long-term loans to individual coop-members (who are charged a penalty
interest rate of 10%) and to private farmers who may use long-term credit
only for investments in plantations and breeding stock.
Short-Term Financing of Production
5.7       The interest rates are fixed by Financial Law 9/1972 and vary
according to the borrower:



ANNEX 3
Page 8
Borrower                                      Interest Rate (p.a.)
State Units                                           4%
Mechanization Stations                                3%
Cooperative Sector                                    2%
Individual Coop-members                               2%
Private Farmers                                       2%
State Retail Organizations for Fruit
and Vegetables                                      3%
Agroindustries                                        5%
Enterprises for Construction in
Agriculture and Agroindustries                      2%
Repayment terms depend on the due date of the revenue resulting from the
operation financed; however, repayment should not exceed 12 months.  Credits
are granted upon presentation of marketing contracts and are limited to 60%
of the contracted value in the case of the cooperative sector and to 45% for
private farmers and individual coop-members.
VI.  BAFI - Lending for Pig Production and Processing (Table 1) 1/
6.1       Available data suggest that short-term financing for industrial-
type pig production and processing accounted for less than 10% of all out-
standing BAFI short-term credits at the end of each year, 1969-75. Investment
financing for pig production and processing amounted to about 5% of total
State funds channelled through BAFI per year.
6.2       Aggregated data for financing investments in pig production and
processing show no dramatic changes over the 1969-75 period. However, a con-
siderable increase was expected after the initiation of the 1976-80 investment
program totalling about 12 billion lei. The average annual slice of the cur-
rent five-year plan investment program in this subsector would equal about 15%
of the total 1975 investment volume in agriculture and agroindustries financed
by the State and channelled through BAFI.
1/   Data obtained concern only the industrial type system, i.e State enter-
prises for pig breeding and fattening and inter-cooperative pig complexes.
Financing of pig production and processing by the traditional sector of
socialist organizations, individual coop members, and private farmers
is not covered by data since these units are engaged in mixed farming;
information on their financial operations is aggregated and not broken
down by activity. The following section therefore covers only the
industrial type system, which accounted for about 39% of the pig
production in 1975.



ANNEX 3
Page 9
6.3       Short-term lending for industrial-type pig production and processing
at the end of each year, 1971-75, totalled between 2.4 billion and 3.7 billion
lei, or between six and ten percent of total outstanding BAFI short-term credit.
Fluctuations of this kind are characteristic of current account balances.
Since one borrower, MIT, receives approximately 50% of BAFI short-term lending
to this subsector, sizable variations in total short-term BAEI lending have
been caused mainly by shifts in the balances of MIT (1974: 2.3 billion lei;
1975: 1.1 billion lei). Short-term lending for pig production has remained
fairly stable with a large and increasing percentage being channelled to
cooperatives. In 1975 ICAs received 87% of BAFI's outstanding short-term
loans for pig production, compared to only 67% in 1973. This was due to the
fact that State enterprises finance their operations mostly out of equity
contributions from the State budget and, in terms of total assets, operate
with a very low percentage of bank liabilities. 1/ Cooperatives rely much
more on BAPI lending since its sources of generating and increasing equity
capital are more limited.
6.4       Investment financing for industrial-type pig production and process-
ing takes the form of either long-term BAFI loans or State budget contributions
channelled through BAFI. Overall investments in the sector increased in
absolute terms over the 1973-75 period, but at a growth rate lower than that
of total BAlI operations. Therefore, financing of investments in this sub-
sector decreased as a percentage of total BAFI long-term financing. This
was due to a decline in investments for pig production facilities reflecting
the phasing fixed in the 1971-75 Plan. Increased short-term lending with
decreased long-term financing of ICA pig complexes suggests that after the
bulk of investments were completed, complexes initiated production and
required infusion of short-term capital. Past patterns of investment allo-
cation within this subsector indicated that greater emphasis was given to
processing plants toward the end of development plan periods. Processing
investments represented 31% of the sector total in 1973 but 87% in 1975.
6.5       To date, long-term investment lending by BAFI for pig production
and processing has been confined to cooperatives; no such investment loans to
date have been made to State enterprises or to private farmers or individual
coop-members. BAFI lending to borrowers other than cooperatives has been
limited to short-term financing.
VII. Source of Funds (Tables 2 and 3)
7.1       The various sources of BAEI funds are its statutory capital, reserve
fund, funds from the State budget, short-term borrowings from NB, and deposits
from socialist organizations.
1/   Balance sheets of State complexes seen in the field showed liabilities
being less than 5% of total assets on average.



ANNEX 3
Page 10
7.2       The increase in the statutory capital of BAFI from 300 million
to 800 million lei in 1971 was financed by contributions from the State budget.
In addition, BAFI disposes of a reserve fund of 800 million lei equal to the
statutory capital. Under BAFI's charter, reserve fund accumulations cease
when the reserve fund is equal to the statutory capital; therefore, all net
income of BAFI now accrues to the State budget. BAFI's net worth has been
equal to about three percent of total assets, a ratio similar to those of
Western commercial banks.
7.3       Investments in State enterprises are mainly financed from a special
fund allocated from the State budget and administered by BAFI. BAFI's long-
term loans are financed by the "Fund for Long-Term Credit" which has been
equal to about 30% of BAFI's total assets.
7.4       Short-term borrowings from NB are the most important source of
finance and have corresponded to about half of BAFI's assets. NB funds
are on-lent by BAFI as short-term loans. BAFI pays 1.5% per annum on these
borrowings. BAFI requires that its borrowers maintain revenues in BAFI deposit
accounts. BAFI pays 1.5% per annum on such deposits. Total deposits have
remained fairly stable since 1969, between 4.0 and 5.1 million lei. Due
to the growth of total BAFI lending, deposits as a percentage of total assets
declined from 15% in 1969 to less than 5% in 1975. This mainly reflects the
limited capacity of the cooperative sector (whose deposits were about 14% of
total BAFI assets in 1969) to increase and retain substantial funds.
Financial Condition (Tables 2, 3 and 4)
7.5       Total assets in 1975 were about 150% higher than those in 1970, and
267% higher than those in 1969. Income expanded at an even higher rate:
Total Income    Total Expenses    Net Income
% of               X of             % of
Lei M   1970    Lei M       1970    Lei M   1970
1970         720.8   100       460.3     100      260.5   100
1973        1789.1   248       648.0     141    1141.1   438
1974        1909.6   265       676.4     147    1233.2   473
1975        1941.7   269       698.1     152    1243.6   477
Costs grew more slowly than total income, resulting in a 400% increase in
net income over the 1970-75 period. Because net income grew much faster than
total assets, net income also rose as a percentage of total assets from 0.5%
in 1969 to 2.1% in 1975. General and administrative expenses (GAE) are
relatively low and under tight control. These costs equalled 16.7% of total
income in 1970 and 7.8% in 1975 (Table 4). As a percentage of total financing,
GAE also declined from 0.08 (1970) to 0.04 (1975). Net income as return on
capital is shown in the following table:



ANNEX 3
Page 11
Year             Net income as percent
of net worth
1969                       30.6
1971                       48.9
1973                       14.1
1974                       77.0
1975                       77.7
Net income grew to an impressive level despite considerable capital increases
in 1971 and 1973 which pushed BAFI's net worth on December 31, 1975 to 1,600
million lei, more than four times that recorded on December 31, 1969.
7.6       Because of BAFI's control over the accounts of borrowers, its strict
surveillance of disbursements, use of loan proceeds, as well as its rigid
inspection of operations at the project level, there has been no reported loss
due to bad debts.  BAFI is protected against foreign exc!=nZ- `-snos.  Foreign
exchange operations are beyond BAFI's terms of reference as defined by Decree
55/1970. Responsibility for such dealings lies with RBFT as well as NB.
Under the Romanian system, any effect on the servicing of the IBRD loan (or
any other foreign indebtedness) resulting from a change in the exchange rate
of the leu vis-a-vis other foreign currencies would be addressed in the
State's financial plan., Since BAFI is well protected against risks resulting
from its portfolio or lending operations and since BAFI management maintains
strict control over operational costs, BAFI is expected to continue to remain
in good financial condition.



APPRAISAL OF
PIG PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING PROJECT
ROMANIA
Financing of Pig Production and Processing through BAFI and State Budget
1973            1974 L21975
________________       __Borrower/Investo                    2_ _    _       __ _                      L _ _   2
Type of Financing              Borrower/Investor                        Le    J 2_  H Lef            M Lei   Z-
Short-Term Credits             Meat Central
at End of Fiscal                                                  1,560   4.2    2,346    6.3    1,178   2.9
Year (FY)/L
by BAFI
State owned pig complexes              466   1.2       317    0.8       162   0.4
Intercoop pif complexes                975   2.7    1,005    2.7    1,065   2.6
Total -                         3,001   8.1    3,668    9.8    2,405   5.9
Long-Term Investment           Pig complexes of cooperative
Loans Granted by               sector                               179   1.5X       98    0.5/3      82   o.43_
BAFI During FY
Total  Westments during                                                       %Lk              x               XL4 
FY -  (including own        State owned pig complexes               340   2.7        89    0.5        28   0.1
funds and State con-
tributions)
Pig complexes of cooperative
sector                              231   1.8       133    0.8        96   0.5
Pig processing plants of Meat
Central                             254   2.0       646    3.8       810   4.2
Total Investments /L              825   6.5       868    5.1       934   4.8
/1 Does not include the traditional sector.
/2  Of total BAFI short-term lending.
/3  Of total BAFI long-term lending.
/4  As percent of State budget contributions channelled through BAFI.
/5  Purchases of pigs and modernizations not included.
F31



A1I 3
Table 2
APPRAISAL Of
PIG PRODUCTZION AID PIOCO SIUG PIOJECT
RUK&
Coswraeti Balance Sheets of
Bak for Agriculture eNd FoWd Idutrr
1969         IV97               1973                1974                 1975
*i H    Li e    C1han"  / Let 1t  Change        tei I4  Change    Lri ll  Change 
A S S E T S
Crah ...        ,....                                         -        9(1)             31        23.        58       27         56       (2)-
loan:
1.  Short-Ter   .    ..657                                    30748   .080       36727      4075     36845       118      40297      3452
2.  lXdiua  and L oTm.          ..   ..       .       5649    929       2300    11585       1469      16621     5036      18719      2098
Other Assets                                             *fl         1.65     69        201    ( 56)       1124      923      31107       (17J
Total Ascts .......5 -.........................                                  4 4                 546148     6104      60179
L T A D I L T T I g S A N D I g T w o R T S
Overdraft with the ltiotnl Btnk .1.          .2  2893    9138    28165                          3064      23280    (4885)    2S441       5161
Deoelt oft
1. State Eoonoedc Units -
(a)  opeatio       o          -- .1023                  10.47    3*       1154       181       2399     1245       2180      (219)
(b)  rn tmente. .11i2                                    152      48       249        14        144      (105)      246       102
2. Coopertives
(a)  Operetione ................30..                    2626   ( 435)    2653        152       2271      (382)     2378       107
(b) Investmnts .105   141  ( 57)  227    90    300    73    319    19
3.  Othrb r titice                                       43      128       92       570       468          6     (564)         6         -
Da to the Statc Bipvt thr:
L   Collection fer Account of State BS tget              60      134       13       292        70          -     (292)        22        22
2.  BAlI 'Deprciation' ea  Other Pat ..                    -        I       .         -    (   1)          -        -          -         -
3.  RAFI Net Benfits Dt  to stete Budget                11.9     581      354       227    ( 34)       1233      1006       1244        11
L.4bilities and IbatI:
1.  rand tor Log-TerO Ceit   .           .5880                  9366    2309    11926        14       17270      5354      19296     2026
2. Other     .            ..      ..                      6    2    .                 2         -   2597  2595   2063  (534)
Otbor Liabltie                   . . .                      is   20    2    26                     4    4°°  374   389  (11)
Scepem    Aceouns:
1   Deocailiation Accownte - BAFr Branches                -      674      674       303         7      1573      1270        727      (846)
2.  Other Transitory Accout    .        .330                    1024      4        1160       12§)    _ 7         415      -126.      (307)
Total icAbilitieo. .21..               .1                       3889 12674    944  ,                        6104 5S579
Bet Worth:
1.  Statutory bpitL .................. .......          300      800      300       800         -                  800 _     80o
2. Surplus Rere ...............8........                  8          §    195       800         -                    0  _  800_
Total  et  orth. ...........................                3i8               1600         -       1600         -      1600
Total L.abitioe  and Net Vorth-..     . .       .                g0       ak. 44"                                   6104    60179       Ml
FUNDD STATE NWUIeITS WDIT  BAFI AS FISCAL A4T ....             7711   12   3            . 12510       440     16601       190         86
I acroee or decrese    ) from preous year.



APPRAISAL OF
PIG PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING PROJECT
ROMANIA
Comparison of Balance Sheet Structures
Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
.969                 1971                  1973                  1974                  1975
% of Total           % of Total            9 of Total            % of Total            % of Total
A S S E T S                                                                  alet-   assets    assets                                         assets                assets
Cash ...... .. ............                                                              -                     -                             0.1                   0.1
Loans:                                                             .
1.  Short-Term ..................... I ....                           74.3                  76.8                  75.7                  67.4                  67.0
2.  Medium-and Long-Term ........................,.,,,,..              25.3                 22.8                  23.9                  30.4                  31.1
Other Assets                                                                0.4                   0.4                   0.4                   2.1                   1.8
Total Assets.. .................,,,.,,,.,,                   .       100.0                 100.0                100.0                 100.0                 100.0
L I A B I L I T I E S A N D N E T W O R T H
Overdraft with the National Bank                 .      .       .          49.8                  57.3                  58.0                 42.6                  47.3
Deposit of:
1. State Economic Units
(a)  Operations ...................................            4.5                   2.6                   2.4                   4.4                   3.6
(b)  Investments ...................................           0.8                   0.4                   0.5                   0.3                   0.4
2.  cooperatives
(a)  Operations ....................................          13.8                   6.7                   5.5                   4.2                   4.0
(b)  Investments ..............., 0.5                                                0.4                   0.5                   0.5                   0.5
3.  Other Entities                                                      0.2                   0.3                   1.2                     -                     -
Due to the State Budget for:
1.  Collection for Account of State Budget           .      .0.3                    .         0.3                   0.6
2.  BAFI "Depreciation" and Other Payments           .       .-
3.  HAFT Net Benefits Due to State Budget ..................            0.5                   1.4                   0.5                   2.3                   2.1
Liabilities and Funds:
1.  Fund for Long-Term Credit ..............................           26.4                  23.5                  24.5                  31.6                  32.1
2.  Other Funds             .....................                         -          -                     -                              4.8                   3.4
Other Liabilities .         . .................,.,,,,,,.......,,...         0.1                      -                     -                  0.7                   0.6
Suspense Accounts:
1.  Reconciliation Accounts - BAFI Branches        .       ......          -                  1.6                   0.7                   2.9                   1.2
2.  Other Transitory Accounts          ...............                  1.3                   2.5                   2.4                   2.9                   2.1
Total Liabilities ...                                              98.2                  97.0                  96.8                  97.2                  97.3
Net Uorth:
1.  Statutory Capital .....................................             1.3                   1.9                   1.6                   1.4                   1.35
2.  Surplus Reserve .....................,.,,.,.,,.,.                   0.4                   1.0                   1.6                   1.4                   1.35
Total Net Worth ............... , . ,.,                             1.7                   3.0                   3.2                   2.8                   2.7
Total Liabilities and Net Worth ...............................            100.0                 100.0                100.0                 100.0                  100.0
5¶tnTb5n qTATP jNVUTFNTq WTTH RBETAFT AR  TqVrAi A........34.6                                         30.3                  257330.4                                    .31.7



APPRAISAL OF
PIG PRODUCTION MAD PROCESSING PROJECT
ROHANIA
Comparative Statements of Income and Expenses
of the
Bank for Agriculture and 'Food Industry
1970              1971              1973              1975
Z of Total        Z of Total        Z of Total        x of Total
I N C O M E                                    M Lei   Income   M Lei   Income   M Lei   Income   H Lei   Income
1.  Interest from Short-Term Loans            568.6    78.9   1016.3    82.7   1358.4    75.9   1539.6    79.3
2.  Interest from Medium- and
Long-Term Loans  a.  Sadova-Corabia        -        -        -        -         -       -         0.1      0.0
b.  Others              99.8    13.8    139.0    11.3    224.2    12.5    315.8    16.3
3.  Commissions Received                        42.4     5.9      58.5     4.8      58.2      3.3     81.7      4.2
4.  Miscellaneous Income                        10.0     1.4      14.5     1.2    148.3       8.3      4.5      0.2
Total Income                         720.8   100.0   1228.3   100.0   1789.1   100.0   1941.7   100.0
E X P E N S E S
1.  Interest on Overdraft with National                                                 /1
Bank                                    246.1      34.1    342.3    27.9    423.0L ~ 23.6    418.7    21.6
2.  Financial Expenses on IBRD-Loan            -         -         -       -         -        -         7.4     0.4
3.  Interest on Deposits                      68.9       9.6      41.9     3.4      69.9L1   3.9    106.9       5.5
4.  Commissions Paid                           22.0      3.1      18.0     1.4      12.1      0.7     13.6      0.7
5.  Miscellaneous Banking Expenses              2.7      0.4       2.3     0.2       1.9      0.1      0.8      0.0
6.  General and Administrative               120.6      16.7    127.8    10.4    141.1        7.9    150.7      7.8
Expenses                            460.3      63.9    532.3    43.3    648.0    36.2    698.1    36.0
N.E T   B E N E F I T S                         260.5     36.1    696.0    56.7   '.141.1    63.8   1243.6    64.0
/1  Total of Lei 492.9 million allocated to the items on the basis of average balances during FY73.
1:|



APPRAISAL OF
PIG PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING PROJECT
ROMA0NIA
Financial Institutions
Oouncil of Ministers
Bank for
Ministry                            Romanian Bank                              Agriculture and                        National Bank
of Finance                          or Foreign Trade                             Food Industry
Inves,ment                         State Insurance                              Savings Bank
Bank                            Administration



APPRAISAL OF
PIG PROWCTION AND PtiOCESSX    PROJEC?
ROMANIA
Or t4atonaChnrt
Bank for Agricu1ture rnd Food Industry
~~~~~~
Administrstive Council
President
|Senior Vice-President  |r                                                                                                    Vice PresidenLt      l
Credit and  inane                                              dt an   ince o            Coordination, Planning           Credit and Pinanee             Rconoaic Matters,
Or State Agricultural            Accounting and               the Agricultural                     and                         of Food and              Administration, Legal
Enterpriees                         Auditing                 Cooperative Sector             External Relations              Agro-.Indiuatrie             Aff Tirs, 1'Teounel



ANNEX 4
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
PIG PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING PROJECT
ROMANIA
Pig Production
The National Herd
1.        The 1975 national pig herd was estimated at about 8.8 million head
including about 820,000 sOws. Herd size increased rapidly from about 2.2
million in 1950 to about 5.4 million in 1965, and to about 8.6 million in
1974. Over this period, emphasis was placed on increasing production in the
socialist sector. In 1950, 1.8 million pigs (about 80% of the total) were
recorded in the private sector compared with about 0.6 million (about 7%) in
1975. In 1975 about 3.6 million pigs (about 40%) of the total were recorded
in large scale commercial production units either on mixed State enterprises
or on specialized State enterprises for pig production. About 3.0 million
pigs (34%) were recorded in large scale units on cooperative farms or inter-
cooperative pig complexes (specialized pig production units owned by two or
more cooperatives).  Another two million pigs (23%) were produced by members
of cooperatives in small individually operated plots, and the remaining 0.6
million (7%) on privately run farms.
Breeds and Breeding
2.        All the major breeds are present in Romania including Largewhite,
Landrace, Duroc, Yorkshire, Hampshire, and Cornwall. The important breeds are
Landrace, Largewhite and Duroc, and these breeds, either pure or crossbred,
account for a large proportion of pigs produced. Landrace x Largewhite sows
are used whenever possible, and by 1985 it is proposed that they constitute
a large segment of the breeding herd. The latter is being achieved through
the establishment of specialized farms to produce Fl Landrace x Largewhite
gilts for use in both the State and cooperative sectors. Purebred Duroc
boars are favored for mating with crossbred sows, and by 1985 it is expected
that a large proportion of pigs produced will be progeny of Fl hybrid sows and
Duroc boars. The number of pigs born per farrowing is about 10-15% higher for
Fl sows (Landrace x Largewhite) than for purebreds; therefore this strategy
is soundly based. The number of finished pigs produced per sow per year is an
important economic trait and an extra pig/sow/year would increase the finan-
cial rate of return by about 2.4% (Model: Pig Breeding/Fattening--32,000
pigs/year--State Enterprise).
3.        A national breeding program for improvement of purebred pigs is
in progress and will be further developed during the 1976-80 Plan period.
This program, based on performance and progeny testing, identifies and selects
superior boars and sows. Use of superior genetic material at the top of the



ANNEX 4
Page 2
breeding pyramid ensures genetic improvement throughout the population. The
main breeds--Landrace, Largewhite, and Duroc--are included in the program.
Feed conversion efficiency is a highly inherited characteristic; an improve-
ment of 10% would increase the financial rate of return by 6% (Model-Pig
Breeding/Fattening--32,000 pigs/year--State Enterprise). With an efficient
breeding program, a feed conversion efficiency improvement of at least ten
percent could be achieved within ten years.
Diseases
4.        All the common diseases that affect pigs are present in Romania.
The last outbreak of Swine Fever was recorded over three years ago. All pigs
are compulsorily vaccinated twice yearly against Swine Fever and Erysipelas.
Swine Fever vaccine costs 3.30 lei/dose and Erysipelas vaccine 0.045 lei/dose;
vaccination service for these diseases is free to all producers other than
State farms. E. Coli infections in young pigs is a problem similar to that
found in large piggeries everywhere. Prevention is emphasized through vac-
cination on large pig farms with vaccines prepared by the Pasteur lnstitute
(para 29) from bacteria isolated on the affected farm. Leptospirosis is not
a serious problem and if an outbreak occurs, the farm vaccinates for two years
with generally good results. Aulesky's disease (a viral disease like rabies)
causes abortion in sows and nervous disturbance and death in young pigs.
Vaccination with a live vaccine is practiced on farms where an outbreak has
occurred usually with good results. Vaccination against Salmonellosis- is
carried out on farms where it is a problem. Antibiotics are used to control
viral pneumonia. In summary, although all the common diseases that affect
pigs are present in Romania, these are satisfactorily prevented or controlled
by vaccination, hygiene, and appropriate veterinary medication.
5.        Pig vaccines used in Romania are produced by the Pasteur Institute,
a large veterinary research institute located in Bucharest. All the common
antibiotics used for pigs are produced in a plant located at Iasi. Competent
veterinary services are available to pig producers through the district
veterinary service; and in addition, large pig complexes employ full-time
veterinary staff. All drugs, vaccines, antibiotics and medicines for pigs
are supplied through the MA Central for Veterinary Materials. This system
has proven satisfactory.
Feeds and Feeding
6.        Pigs are fed domestically produced maize, sorghum, and barley.  About
50% of the soybean meal (the predominent protein food), and 100% of the fishmeal
included in pig rations are presently imported. Meat, bone, and blood meals
included in rations are produced domestically. Other ingredients for feed
concentrates include wheat offals, sunflower meal, fats, sugar, minerals and
vitamins. Energy feeds (maize, sorghum, barley) account for about 80% of the
total pig feed, and high protein feeds (soybean meal, fishmeal and meat meal)
account for the remainder. Romania is therefore well supplied with high
quality feeds needed for formulating good pig rations. Pig farms usually buy
mixed feeds from large feedmills at controlled prices. Feedmills procure



ANNEX 4
Page 3
energy feeds (maize, barley, sorghum, etc.) from the Cereal Marketing enter-
prises and buy sunflower meal and soybean meal from sunflower and soybean
processing plants. Fishmeal and imported soybean meal are procured through
Romagrimex, a State enterprise in charge of importing agricultural inputs.
Rations are formulated by computer on a monthly basis at the Nutrition
Institute based on a national inventory of available feeds. The Nutrition
Institute provides feedmills with directives for vitamin-mineral premixes
appropriate for different ration formulations. About one percent vitamin-
mineral premix is incorporated in the six standard rations formulated for
pigs and designated 01 to 06.
7.        The overall strategy for providing livestock feeds is centered on
locating large feedmills throughout the country to supply formulated feeds
to livestock producers within a radius of about 50 km. Government plans to
construct four or five plants throughout the country to provide sufficient
vitamin-mineral-protein premixes to the feedmills in the future. One such
plant is being financed under the Sadova-Corabia Agricultural Credit Project
with a capacity for about 100,000 tons of premix per year.
8.        An alternative strategy for supplying feeds to large pig complexes
would be worth considering in the interest of the economy. If pig units
were to buy ingredients and grind and mix their own feeds, considerable cost
savings could be achieved, and in addition, the pig unit manager would have
greater control over feed quality. The advantages associated with on-farm
mixing include:
(a) economies resulting from the elimination of double handling
since grains would be moved directly to the pig farms with-
out going to a feedmill; and
(b) economies in the cost of producing feed which presently
runs about 200 lei/ton at the feedmill (10% to 12% of
the average cost of pig feed/ton).
Disadvantages include the costs of storage, grinding and mixing on the farm.
Furthermore, unless this approach were given official approval and encourage-
ment, the supply of ingredients to the pig farms might not be assured. How-
ever, since vitamin-mineral-protein premixes could in time be purchased from
the specialized plants, supply of these ingredients at the local level should
not constitute a problem.
9.        Some pig complex managers favor home-compounding in order to provide
cheaper and better feeds. At present, some piggeries formulate rations, par-
ticularly in ICAs where the energy feeds are grown by and provided to the
piggeries by participating CAPs. Although the present system at first seems
rigid, it appears that the directors and managers of large pig complexes enjoy
considerable freedom of action, enabling the industry to evolve sensibly
within the context of fairly rigid overall planning. This flexibility should
be encouraged.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
10.       Problems arise from time to time in the quantity and quality of
feeds available. For example, protein feeds are sometimes in short supply,
and when this happens, the protein content of rations is reduced across the
board resulting in reduced animal performance. Furthermore, in periods of
protein scarcity, priority is sometimes given to the production of poultry
rations (particularly for layers). It is difficult to assess the impact of
these constraints on pig production except to point out that they do exist but
probably are not too serious. The protein quality of soybean meal of US origin
is considered better than that of the domestic product because considerable
denaturing of protein is caused by extraction techniques used in Romanian
plants. However, this problem is fully appreciated and progress is being made
to upgrade the quality of Romanian soybean meal. Feed quality problems are
also associated with bad harvest conditions when high moisture in maize causes
damage associated with fungal growth and with high drying temperatures. This
difficulty was especially serious in 1975 and 1976 when wet weather at harvest-
ing resulted in moisture content as high as 24% in maize. To cope with these
moisture levels, dryers were operating at maximum temperatures and capacities.
In addition, maize was dried in alfalfa driers which operate at higher tem-
peratures causing serious denaturing of proteins. Again, the latter problem
is fully appreciated. In summary, although Romania has problems relating to
the supply and quality of feeds, particularly protein feeds, these difficul-
ties are similar to those experienced in other countries and do not represent
a serious consraint on Romanian pig production. However, improvement is
possible and should be promoted.
11.       On-farm feeding systems vary from the extremely simple to the
sophisticated. On-floor feeding is commonly practiced; although this system
is satisfactory when sufficient care is exercised, it can result in high
levels of feed wastage should care not be taken. Mechanized conveyor systems
for dry feeds are commonly used in Romania. They work well and are strongly
favored at present. These systems are efficient, enabling an operator to
feed a large number of pigs; when properly adjusted, feed wastage is reduced
to a minimum. However, these systems are fairly capital-intensive; and given
the large numbers employed on Romanian pig complexes, even when conveyor systems
are in operation, it is sometimes difficult to justify their use on the basis
of improved labor productivity. Liquid pipe line feeding involving the pump-
ing of a mixture of meal and water from a central mixing station throughout
the piggery is sometimes employed in Romania; however, this system now tends
to be viewed less favorably. Feed conversion efficiency is generally better
with wet feeding than with dry feeding, and therefore efficient pipe line
feeding should be encouraged.
Feed Conversion Efficiency
12.       Present levels of feed conversion efficiency in growing pigs (1-110
kg) allow for considerable improvement. For example, in planning production,
a total of 396 kg of feed per finished pig at 110 kg live-weight is allocated.
With good pig rations based on high energy feeds (maize, sorghum, and barley)
and high protein feeds such as soybean meal and/or fishmeal, a target of 330
kg feed per 110 kg finished pig would be realistic, assuming good management.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
In fact, conversion efficiencies of this order are commonplace at present in
well managed piggeries in Western Europe, although the average is much worse.
This improved level of conversion would represent a saving of about 20% in the
quantity and cost of feed required to produce a finished pig. Feed conversion
efficiency is influenced primarily by feed quality and the genetic potential
of the pig; however, in Romania it is difficult to partition the relatively
low conversion performance between these two factors. It is probable that
feed quality is the main factor associated with inadequate amounts of soybean
meal and fishmeal incorporated into rations (para 10). Since feed costs
account for about 72% of the annual operating costs in pig production (Model:
Pig Breeding/Fattening--32,000 pigs/year), an improvement in feed conversion
efficiency is directly related to improved profitability. Apart from the
factors mentioned, conversion efficiency is often influenced by feed wastage
due to inefficient feeding systems, overfeeding, and carelessness. This can
only be minimized by efficient management based on careful recording and moni-
toring to establish a data base for management decisions.
Sow Fertility
13.       The number of marketed pigs produced per breeding sow per year is an
important coefficient in determining overall profitability of a pig production
operation. This coefficient is relatively low in Romania, probably averaging
about 10 or 11 per sow. On the ten large piggeries visited during appraisal,
the number ranged between about 11 and 16 pigs per sow per year. Apart from
the genetic factor discussed (para 2), the main casual factors include manage-
ment, nutrition, disease, and environment. It is extremely difficult to
quantify the relative contribution of these factors to the overall problem.
High summer temperatures are considered an important cause in Romania because
fertility is relatively low during the hot summer months. However, this does
not explain the broad range encountered across farms since production systems,
nutrition, and housing environments are much more standardized in Romania than
elsewhere. The one important factor that is not standard is the level of
management which probably accounts for the broad range encountered. It is
difficult to detect oestrus in sows especially when dealing with large numbers.
Careful observation by skilled operators is required several times daily
including careful identification, recording, and monitoring for repeats.
These duties are particularly difficult when large batches are being mated as
in Romania and when the batch, and not the individual sow, is the unit (see
para 18).  Or soa co-p'1-r'2'  -iF4tted, recerding and monitoring procedures were
inadequate.
14.       The most important consequence of low fertility is sub-optimal use
of production capacity giving rise to serious inefficiencies and increased
overhead costs per pig produced. For example, if a complex were planned on
the basis of a breeding sow herd producing 15 pigs per sow per year and only
ten were realized, the piggery would be operating at only 67% of capacity.
This can be largely counteracted in practice by increasing the number of sows
to ensure that the planned number of pigs are produced. Under Romanian con-
ditions the principal incremental costs associated with the larger sow herd
would be for feed and medicine (because accommodation allowances for dry sows



ANNEX 4
Page 6
are usually adequate for the increased numbers required); these additional
costs are small relative to the benefits realized by operating closer to full
capacity. During appraisal a number of pig production complexes were observed
operating below capacity; therefore, the strategy of increasing the number of
sows should improve profitability considerably. This strategy has been adopted
in constructing the project model (Model: Pig Breeding/Fattening--32,000
pigs/year) in which 2,500 sows are used to produce the numbers projected (vs.
2,130 sows in the model presented to the mission). The number of marketed
pigs produced per sow per year in Romania was observed to average about 12.5.
This latter figure was employed in the modeling exercise.
Labor Productivity
15.       The number of pigs produced per year per person employed ranges
from about 200 to 450 on the farms visited. This is about 1/3 the number
produced per worker on some well run farms in Western Europe.  Managerial and
technical personnel account for about llZ of total sLdfi ou pig cvmplexes
in Romania; and auxiliary workers, including those that work on the manure
disposal systems and in the waste water treatment plants, account for another
38%. Only about 50% of the total employed work directly with pigs (see Model:
Pig/Breeding and Fattening--32,000 pigs/year, Table F--Staffing and Wages).
There is considerable scope for improvement in labor productivity in Romania
through reductions in the number of managerial and auxiliary workers. The
present practice of expressing output in terms of pigs produced per worker
directly employed in pig operations tends to be misleading; it is recommended
that output per employee would be a better criterion of efficiency. The
latter index is generally employed when measuring improved productivity
resulting from the introduction of new technologies such as mechanized feeding
systems.
Manure and Waste Disposal
16.       On modern pig production complexes in Romania, combined solid and
liquid manure is channelled to a central pumping station to be pumped to a
disposal system usually located about 1/2 to 1 km from the pig complex. The
disposal process first involves sedimentation and a separation of liquid and
semi-solid materials. The semi-solid materials, having about 10% dry matter
(DM), are pumped to large concrete pits about 1-1/2 meters deep for evapora-
tion and drying out. After about 20-30 days of drying, the material has a DM
content of about 30%. This substance, now in solid form, can be easily
handled with farm equipment (i.e. loaders, trailers, muck-spreaders, and manual
forks) and transported to farms for use as fertilizer. The average chemical
composition of this material is about 30% DM, 0.9% N, 0.5% P, and about 0.1% K.
A pig produces about 800 grams of solid manure each day which is equivalent
to about 690 kg per pig space/year. On this basis, the Model: Pig Breeding/
Fattening--32,000 pigs/year produces about 7,400 tons of pig manure per year
containing about 2,220 tons DM, 77 tons N, 39 tons P and 7 tons K, equivalent
to about 378,000 lei if the N P K content were valued at international fer-
tilizer prices. The value of manure produced from the Model: Crossbred Gilt
Production--960 gilts/year, is about 21,000 lei per year.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
17.       The waste liquids are pumped to a treatment plant where they undergo
oxidation treatment before being discharged into waterways. Before entering
the treatment plant, Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD) is about 3000 ml per
liter; during treatment, BOD is reduced to about 100 ml per liter. The Model:
Pig Breeding/Fattening--32,000 pigs/year, produces about 640,000 liters of
waste water per day, and the Model: Crossbred Gilt Production - 960 Gilts/year,
produces about 37,000 liters per day.
Husbandry System
18.       Production is based on a batch system.  Sows are formed into groups
of 50 to facilitate mating of a group every three days. Out of the total,
one batch of 32 sows is projected to farrow every three-day period. Subse-
quent to mating, the group is handled as a batch. During gestation, sows are
individually penned if facilities permit. A group of 32 sows are moved to a
farrowing house where one discreet compartment can handle this number. About
2.1 m2 is allocated per sow in the farrowing house. Piglets are weaned at
33 days and moved to a growing house. They are kept in batteries (steel mesh
cages) during the 78-day growing period. During the first 33 days, eight pigs
are allowed about 0.125 m2/head; thereafter this space allowance per head is
increased to about 0.25 m2. Pigs are moved to the fattening house at about
111 days and remain there until they are sold at about 110 kg live-weight.
After each batch has departed, houses are washed, disinfected, and rested
for three to six days depending on the group size. Although the size of pig
production complexes varies significantly from a few thousand to as many as
300,000 pigs per year, the system of production utilized in Romania is remark-
ably standardized. The larger production units are different from smaller
ones generally only in terms of scale of operation. At present about 6.5
million pigs are produced on large scale production units in Romania, implying
that the technology employed is well understood and well tested. The proposed
project (paras 19-24) would utilize this well established and proven system of
production.
Proposed Investments
19.       The project would finance (a) about 39 large scale breeding/fatten-
ing units; (b) about 106 farms for the production of crossbred gilts, (c)
modernization of existing pig production complexes, and (d) facilities for
expanding the national breeding program for purebred pigs based on performance
and progeny testing.
Model: Pig Breeding/Fattening - 32,000 Pigs/Year
20.       Under the project, financing would be provided to establish an equiv-
alent of 39 large-scale pig breeding/fattening farms. About 67% of these would
be owned and operated by ICAs and about 33% would be owned and operated by IASs.
The model would be used to develop farms producing 16, 32, 48, and 64 thousand
pigs per year by halving or multiplying the model by 1.5 or 2 respectively.
It is expected that farms producing 16, 32, 48, and 64 thousand pigs per year
would be developed by IASs, and that farms producing 16 and 32 thousand pigs



.ANNEX 4
Page 8
per year would be developed by ICAs. The main items financed would include
pig buildings and ancilliary buildings, installations, and services; vehicles;
and incremental working capital for two years to cover the purchase of breeding
stock and start-up capital for pig feeds, drugs, labor, and other short-term
inputs. For ICAs, the total investments for the model would be about 64.3
million lei (US$3.2 million). About 42.7 million lei (66%) would be for
buildings and constructions; 21.3 million lei (33%) for incremental working
capital, and about 0.37 million lei (0.5%) for vehicles and equipment. For
IASs, the total investments per model would be about 60.2 million lei (US$3.0
million); incremental working capital would be lower by about 4 million lei
due to lower input prices paid by IASs particularly for feeds.  Investments
per model would be phased over three years, and full production would be
reached in the fourth year. Commitments would be phased over two years,
1977-78. Model details are in Tables 1-10.
Model: Crossbred Gilt Production-960 Gilts/Year
21.       Under the project, credit would be provided to establish equivalent
of 106 farms for the production of crossbred gilts to be used as breeding
stock for the breeding/fattening farms in and outside the project. Total
production of crossbred gilts would be about 101,000 per year at full develop-
ment (1981), which is about 10% of the total crossbreds required if the
national breeding herd were to comprise only crossbreds. About 34,000 cross-
breds (34% of project total) would be required annually for the breeding/
fatteni;ng farms included in the project. About 15% of these crossbred gilt
production farms would be owned and operated by IASs, and about 85% would be
owned and operated by ICAs. The main items financed under this component
would include pig buildings; auxiliary buildings, installations, and services;
vehicles; and incremental working capital for one year to cover acquisition
of purebred breeding stock and start-up capital for pig feeds, drugs, labor,
and other short-term inputs. For ICAs, the total investment per gilt produc-
tion farm would be about 10.3 million lei (US$0.51 million). About eight
million lei of this total (82%) would be for pig buildings and other struc-
tures; about 1.6 million lei (16%) for incremental working capital; and about
230,000 lei (2%) for vehicles and equipment. For IASs, the total investment
per gilt production farm would be about 10.15 million lei (US$0.50 million);
incremental working capital is lower for IASs by about 122,000 lei reflecting
lower input prices particularly for pig feeds. Investments per farm would be
phased over two years, 1977-78. Full development would be reached in the
fourth year of the project (1981). Commitments would be phased over two
years, 1977-78. Model details are in Tables 11-20.
Renovation and Modernization of Existing Pig Complexes
22.       Under the project, financing would be provided to renovate and
modernize existing large-scale piggeries which had been constructed over the
past 10-15 years.  The main objectives would be to increase the stocking rate
of existing houses which presently have old-fashioned, inefficient, internal
layouts but which are well-constructed with many years of useful life remain-
ing. Such investments would include:



ANNEX 4
Page 9
(a) internal remodelling of gestation houses to permit the penning
and feeding of each sow separately compared with the present
practice of penning in batches. Individual penning and
feeding arrangements are strongly advocated in modern pig
husbandry and should result in improved sow performance.
The area required per sow would be reduced from about
2.7 m2 to about 2.1 m2, or by about 21%;
(b) internal remodelling of farrowing (maternity) houses allowing
reduced area per sow and litter. The area per sow and litter
would be diminished from about 7.47 m2 to about 5.66 m2 or by
about 24%;
(c) installation of batteries (steel mesh cages) in growing houses
thereby reducing the space required per pig by about 29% (from
0.594 m2 to 0.424 m2) and thus enabling improved production
performance (reduced mortality);
(d) installation in fattening houses of mechanical conveyor systems
for dry feeding with associated bins, feeding troughs, and
complementary equipment. The system of feeding is well estab-
lished in recently constructed complexes, and its adoption
should reduce the level of feed wastage associated with the
existing system of floor feeding;
(e) additions and/or improvements to electric, heat, ventilation,
and sewerage systems, and improvements in and extensions of
manure disposal systems and waste water treatment plants; and
(f) incremental working capital for increased stock numbers that
can be carried, covering pig feeds and drugs.
23.       One or a combination of the investment possibilities listed above
would be provided for a particular complex as required. The main works
involved would include tubular steel work, welding, concrete work, plumbing,
and electrical work. It is expected that most of the work could be carried
out by maintenance staff based on production complexes. This component would
require careful evaluation and monitoring by BAFI to ensure that the proposed
investments are financially sound. BAFI should ensure that in each case
(a) incremental pig space provided through modernization would ultimately be
cheaper than construction of new, equivalent capacity; or (b) modernization
would be supported by realistic cost-benefit analysis.
National Breeding Program for Purebred Pigs
24.       Under the project, financing would be provided to extend and develop
further the national breeding program for purebreds. Through this program
superior sows and boars would be identified for economically important traits
(e.g. fecundity, feed conversion efficiency) through performance and progeny
testing (paras 2 and 3). Genetically superior purebred sows and boars would



ANNEX 4
Page 10
then be supplied to crossbred gilt production farms to maintain purebred
lines. An efficient selection program would facilitate constant improvement
throughout the national pig herd thereby substantially benefiting the entire
industry. Project-financed investments would be made in production units and
supporting facilities to enable implementation of an efficient selection and
improvement program. Accommodation would be provided for about 1,200 sows
in one or more such units, based on the requirements of the entire breeding
program. Before investments would be made for this component of the project,
detailed proposals, together with their justification, should be submitted for
the Bank approval. A specialist in pig genetics should visit Romania for one
or two weeks to examine their ongoing breeding program and to recommend to
Romania how the proposed investments should be utilized to achieve maximum
benefits.
Pig Research
25.       Pig research is mainly concentrated in the Peris National Pig
Research Station near Bucharest and in the Nutrition Institute in Bucharest.
The Peris research station has about 80 technical staff members including
about 25 resarchers with university-level training (about ten with doctoral
training). It owns and operates a large pig production unit with about 1,500
sows that produces about 22,000 fattened pigs per year. The main areas of
investigation at Peris include (a) nutrition and feeding; (b) environmental
research; (c) production technology (e.g. different types of pig cages); (d)
reproduction and fertility; and (e) breeding research with Landrace, Large-
white, Duroc, Hampshire, and Yorkshire breeds. Peris is applied research-
oriented with the objective of developing production systems that could
stimulate production throughout the pig industry. Reflecting emphasis placed
on inter-disciplinary research, multi-disciplinary teams are organized at Peris
to carry out ongoing research projects. The following procedure is utilized
for introducing newly developed technology into the pig industry:
(a) the new technique or practice is investigated at Peris and
recommendations are made;
(b) further tests are performed on pilot stations owned and
operated by MA;
(c) additional testing is conducted on large IASs; and
(d) adoption by the industry in general is sanctioned by MA if
the practice has passed all three screening stages satisfac-
torily.
26.       There appears to be scope for improvement in the quality of research
carried out at Peris. The production facilities, including pig houses, feed-
ing arrangements etc., are designed to meet the needs of a large commercial
pig farm rather than the needs of a pig research station. In particular,
nutrition research seemed to be poorly organized and serviced. For example,
Peris apparently maintains neither individual feeding facilities for growing



ANNEX 4
Page 11
pigs nor facilities for conducting digestability studies on pig feeds. Part
of the problem seems to stem from the division of responsibility between Peris
and the Nutrition Institute for Nutrition Research (para 27). The recording
systems, measurement, general levels of accuracy, care, and control exercised
in carrying out operations do not appear to reflect the high standards nor-
mally associated with quality research. The size of the farm (too big for
research purposes) and the separation of piggeries and laboratories (about
1 to 2 km apart) would also account for many of the deficiencies observed.
27.       The Nutrition Institute is part of the National Academy of Agri-
culture. It has responsibility for conducting nutrition research for pigs,
poultry, cattle, and sheep. It is a specialized institute engaged in more
basic research having the following functions:
(a) analysis of mineral-vitamin-protein premixes for all
animal feeds utilized in the country;
(b) monthly computer formulation of all rations to be fed
to livestock in Romania on the basis of the inventories
of available feeds;
(c) improvement of feed preparation technology for such products
as soybean meal, and investigation of feed quality problems
associated with processing; and
(d)  analysis of the nutritive value of feeds and formulation
of rations and feeding systems based on animal experimenta-
tion.
28.       The Nutrition Institute employs a high caliber professional staff
and maintains good laboratory facilities. Pig feeding work is carried out
in cooperation with the research station at Peris. This arrangement is not
satisfactory because (a) Peris is located about 15 km from the Institute and
(b) shared responsibility has not proven a good mechanism for conducting
research. Consideration should be given to strengthening applied pig nutri-
tion in the Nutrition Institute by providing it a separate breeding herd and
production facilities as well as additional staff. A herd of about 200 sows
would be adequate. An alternative approach would be to strengthen pig nutri-
tion at Peris by transferring appropriate technical staff and removing pig
nutrition from the terms of reference of the Nutrition Institute. Overall,
the latter would probably be the best solution since it would be almost
impossible for Peris to develop in a meaningful way without responsibility
for pig nutrition. Another alternative would be to strengthen Peris and the
Nutrition Institute accepting some measure of duplication. However, shared
responsibility should be terminated.
Veterinary Research
29.       The Pasteur Institute in Bucharest is the main center for veterinary
research as well as principal coordinating agency for all veterinary research
carried out in Romania. It is responsible to the MA through the Agriculture



ANNEX 4
Page 12
Academy of Science. The Institute has extensive, well equipped laboratories
in Bucharest and owns three farms on which experimental animals are maintained.
In addition, it operates three smaller field stations at Iasi, Clug, and Arad.
University veterinary faculties are also located in these towns. The Insti-
tute has two main functions:
(a) Production of all the biological materials (e.g. vaccines)
required for veterinary use throughout the country; and
(b) Conduct of research on infectious and nutritional diseases
of animals, including pigs.
30.       The Institute has about 120 research staff members and employs about
1,500 persons in total. Most of the general staff time is spent in producing
biological materials (e.g. about 25 million doses of Swine Fever vaccine are
produced each year). About 40% of the professional staff spend about 80% of
its time on the production of biological materials and about 20% on research.
Sixty percent of the staff spend about 80% of its time on research and about
20% in providing technical assistance to the veterinary services on specialized
veterinary problems. The Pasteur Institute is a research organization of high
caliber providing useful service in an efficient manner.
Veterinary Service
31.       The MA Central Veterinary DiaRnostic Laboratory in Bucharest pro-
vides a specialized diagnostic service to the district veterinary services,
covering 39 districts and Bucharest. Ilfov District Veterinary Inspectorate
is described below to illustrate the country-wide district veterinary organi-
zation.
32.       Ilfov Veterinary Inspectorate is responsible for implementing the
Sanitary Veterinary Law (1964) which specifies the agency's duties and respon-
sibilities. These main responsibilities include:
(a) Operation of a veterinary diagnostic laboratory for the
District as well as two small field laboratories. The main
laboratory located outside Bucharest has a staff of about
14 including four veterinarians, one chemist, and two bio-
logists. It handles about 20,000 diagnostic samples per
year;
(b) Provision of services to private farmers and cooperative
members who maintain small livestock operations. Ser-
vices are free and include the provision of medicines,
drugs, advice, and on-farm animal manipulations and
treatments;
(c) Performance of all inoculations required by law;



ANNEX 4
Page 13
(d) Provision of specialized services to large State and
cooperative animal production complexes, including
back-up laboratory services; and
(e) Sanitary inspection and control of slaughterhouses and
meat shops.
33.       Veterinary staff assigned to large animal production complexes are
technically and functionally responsible to the Veterinary Inspectorate but
are paid directly by the production unit. The Inspectorate maintains a total
staff of about 305 out of which about 200 are employed on these large animal
complexes. Veterinarians are likewise posted throughout each district to
provide field service for small producers. A horse and buggy are provided to
enable on-farm visits at the village level within a radius of about 15-20 km.
Risk
34.       From a pig production standpoint the project is relatively risk
free. The system of production in Romania is well established, and on the
basis of 10 to 15 years satisfactory experience, can be considered proven.
Since all prices are controlled by law, the risks associated with fluctuating
feed and pig prices, normally found in market economies, do not exist in
Romania (see Annex 2, Part II; economic risk discussed in Annex 10, para 7).
Likewise, the risk of increased construction costs are virtually absent
because of centralized price controls. In addition, model investment costs
are based on the actual cost of establishing pig production units similar
to those already constructed over the last few years. Satisfactory back-up
veterinary and supply services are available. Although the financial rates
of return (5 to 8%) are lower than those normally acceptable for pig projects,
these do not indicate high risk since their level remains a function and
product of the centrally controlled pricing system. The farm-gate price
received for pigs in Western Europe (about US$0.90/kg live-weight) is about
50% to 70% higher than in Romania (US$0.53/kg live-weight for LASs and
US$0.60/kg live-weight for cooperatives). Romanian production would therefore
remain extremely competitive internationally even if producer prices were in-
creased substantially. For example, an increase of 10% in the price received
for pigs (Model: Pig Breeding/Fattening--32,000 pigs/year--Cooperative) would
improve profitability (net income) by about 85%. Furthermore, the financial
rates of return projected or achieved do not govern the level of investment in
pig production which is established by law under the national planning system.



AM=EX 4
Table 1
A?RAISAL OF
PnG PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING PROJECT
ROMANIA
Model: Pig Breeding/Fattening - 32,000 pigs/year
A. Prolected Income Statement - State Enterprise
YEJAR
1             2           3            4-20
-    -   -Ldi 'O000                -
REVENUES
Cull sows/I                                 -              -         1,606         1,606
Cull boar72                                                -            78            78
Finished jigsL/                                                      2.7          3.7
Subtotal                                               -        24.558        376756
Operating Expenses
Salaries - Professional and Technical/4   -                239         312           312
- Worksrs/4                                       661       1,983         1,983
Subtotal.                                              900       2,295         2,295
Social Security FundL5                                      160        319           319
Feedm  - Concentrates/b                     -            2,736      19,576        21,Z1W
- Green alfalf`/7                                   104         208           208
- Fodder beet/7-                                     78         156           156
Feed carrot e7                                    162         325           325
Subtotal                                -            3.080      20.265
Drugs and aedicinas/8                       -              240       1,00         1,180
Maintenance and repairs/9                   -              -                       1.222
Overheads  - Electricity                    -              536       1,072         1,072
- Boiler fuel                     -              235         469           469
- Lnsurance                       -              236         472           472
- Children's allowance            -               81         162           162
- Protective clothing             -                5          10            10
- Telephone and postage           -                8          15            15
- Travel and subsistence          -               10          20            20
- Tractor diesel and oils         -               14          28            28
Subtotal                                -            1,125       2,248         2,248
Livestock - Gilts/10                        -            5,793       2,025         2,025
- Young boars/11                  -              139          70            70
Subtotal                                -            5,932       2,095         2,095
Total                                   -           11.437      29,444        31.069
Net Incoue/12                                          (11,437)    (4,886)         6.592
/I   Liveweight 175 kg/sow; price 10.5 Lei/kg.
7-2  Liveweight 200 kg/boar; price 10.5 Lei/kg.
/3   Liveweight 110 ks/pig; price 10.5 Lei/kg.
/4   See Table  5  for details.
75   0.8Z of total value of gross production including pig manure.
76   Pigs 0-33 days - 2 kg 01 ration/head; pigs 33-111 days - 10 kg 01 ration + 42 kg
02 ration/head; pigs over 111 days - 70 kg 03 ration + 272 kg 04 ration/head.
Sows - 310 kg 05 ration + 630 kg 06 ration/head/year;
Boars - 1,100 kg 05 ration/head/year; replacement gilts and boars - 200 kg 05 ration/head.
Ration 01 - 3,212 Lei/ton; ration 02 - 1,988 Lei/ton; ration 03 - 1,414 Lei/ton; Ration 04 -
1,268 Lei/ton; ration 05 - 1,253 Lei/ton; ration 06 - 1,253 Lei/ton.
/7   2,597 tons Green alfalfa, 1,298 t. fodder beet and 1,298 t. carrots fed per year mainly to
breeding' stock and including a small quantity fed to weaners (33-111 days).
/8   Sow or boar 46 Lei/head; pigs 0-33 days 9 Lei/head; pigs 33-111 days 15.5 Lei/head;
over 111 days 7.6 Lei/head.
/9   3Z of fixed investments.
0  Liveveight 95 kg/head, price 2,317 Lei/head.
a 1 Liveweight 85 kg/head, price 1,878 Lei/head.
/12  Deficit for years 2 and 3 represents incremental working capital and is financed
as part of the investment - See Annex 4, Table 3.
February, 1977



APPRAISAL OF
PIG PRODUCTION AND PROCESSImI PROJECT
ROMSNIA
Model. Pig Breeding /Fattening - 32,000 Pigs/year
B:  Projected Cash Flow Statement - State Enterprise
1         2         3         4          5         6         7                    9        10         3         12         13        14         15        16        17         ii        19         20
C.ank. Inflw
Revenu al                                                  --    24,558    37,656    37,656    37,656    37,656    37,656    37,656    37,656    37,656    37,656    37,656    37,656    37,656    37,656    37,656    37,656    37,656    37,656
Long-tern  Pnude (RAF1 Loan)                29,078    25,974      5,320        __         __   -                          _        __        __         __   --        _-   --                    __        -_         __        __        __         __
Sbort- and  .dlwu.-term Loans L                290       853      1,193        __         __        -_        __         --        __        _-         --        -_         _-        --         __        -_         __        __        _ 
Sale Value of Herd                              __          __                                                                                                                                                                                    17.680
Total Infloo                            29,368    26,827    30,876    37,656    37,656    37,656    37,656           37,656     376656    37.65.5    37,656     37656    37,656    37,656    37,656    37,656    37,656    37,656    37.656    5
Caoh Out flow
Ia-e5t-net                                  29,078    25,9-                                                     -        - --  --  --                            350 -_                -          --        --         --        --         --        --
Operating E.pensee                              --      5_       24,558    31,064    31,064    31,064    31,064    31,064    31.064    31,064    31,06        31,064    31,064    31,064    31,o064    31,064    31,064    31,064    31,06        31,064
Interest                                                                                  1          0         2
Short- and Medium-ter.  Loan.                 25                 46         2         s 43 1,971 1,79                   1, 67         l.431      1,32      l,3A0 54  82 663                            49'7       33i                  - _ 
- Long-ter loane                             290                '.l15     2.4u      2,20,      2,UI3
Loan Repaysente
_ Short/Hedium_ter-  Loanj                    --        --         --       400       600        650a      691         --        --         --        --
- Long-term  Loans                            --                   --     3 600      3,600     3,700     3,700      4,143     4,143     4,143      4,143     4,1)43     4,143     4,43       4.143     4,143      4,143     4,142         __        __
Total Outflow                       29,368    26,827    30,876 37,563    376F   37,586    37,454    36,939    36,4    36,69F               33'F   5                        3b,U`5     35 7      35,7054    355OT     35,7        Tl      -i
Conh flow                                        -                            _____      9    3    ,57202                              0     _                      9 202   1,455      1.621     1,786      1, 9   ,     118    32O5       6,590    24,472
Canh Flow f.0 Fino.nial  alte of Return       (29,o78)  (25,974)  (5,120)     6,592      6,592     6,592      6,592     6,592     6,592      6,592     6,592      6,592     6,532      6,592     6,592      6,592     6,592      6,592     6,592    24,472
C. Projeeted Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return:   7.7%
LI7 - during construction, 4% after conatruotion (after 3rd year), disbursements are ansuned to be distributed equally over the year,
rCpOyeolnt to be made on June 30.
4    ncpng' ent  Det-,  31     gtr   ..ad..   e .              1
/   Fanoln  of interest on long-term loans due on Decesb  31, plus  uapltalioed interest during year 2 and 3, during construction period.
H 4y   paywent  Deceber 31.
May 1977



APPRAISAL OF
PIG PRODUJCTiON AND PROCESSING PROJECT
ROM?NIA
Model: Pig Breeding/Fattening.- 32,00S pigs/year
D. Investments - State Enterprise
Year I                  Year 2                  Year 3                         TOTAL
Unit Cost    No. of          Foreign                 Foreign                  Foreign                              -Foregn.
Unit       Lei '000       Units         Exchange    Total       Exchange    Total        Exhae        Total      Local          Exchange   Total
-   -                ~~~~~------------------------------------------- Le   00-----------------------------------------------
Investment Items
Buildings and Constructions:
Roads, site levelling ard fences/                        --            --           -               102         682         26          171         --          --           725            128       853
Boars/Sows mating and gestation houseL2                2,175m2       2,158         2                863       4,316                     --          --          --         3,451            B63     4,316
Farrowing house2                                        -do-         4,522         1                905       4,522        --           --          --          --         3,617            905    4,522
Growing houseL2                                         -do-         2,356          l*               424      2,120        263        1,414         --          --         2,827            707     3,534
Finishing house/2                                       -do-         1,565.8       6                 752      3,758      1,127        5,637         __          __         7,516          1,879     9,395
Concrete platforms                                       --             --         --                 44        297         45          297         --          --            505            89        594
Pig loading ramp and scales                              --            --         --                  15         98        --           __          __            _            83            15        98
Electrical installationsa/                               _             -_          --                290      1,320        290        1,320         --          -_          2,060           580    2,640
Heating installations /4                                 --             -4 --                        '40      2,000         85           390         --          --         1,865           525    2 390
Water supply and drains5                                 --             --         --                338      1,690        225        1,127          --          --         2,254           563    2,817
Manure and waste disposBi system/6                       --             --         --                525      2,626        131          657          __          __         2,627            656    3,253
General service building and fac3Iities7                 --             --         --                 66        332        --            _           __          __           266             66       332
Veterinary building and facilities/8                     --             --         --                  9         4          38           189         __                       189             47       236
Feed storage facilities69                                20o0m3        612          1                 49        245         73          367          --          --           490            122       612
Subtotal                                                                                      4,822  '               271ZT-                                  -7t5S __                   _
Physical contingency 10                                                                                       2 4           33        1 157--                               2 847            715       562
--55s-~~~~~ 12 726                                  --   --  -i
Layout of construction work                                                                         --        1,017        --            __          __                     1,017            _       1,017
Deaign and technical supervision                                                                    --          271        --            271         --          __           542           --         542
Subtotal                                                                                       5,304                 F V         12,7                        -         32,883    7,60 4    0,743
Vehicles and Equipment:
Tractor                                               Tractor          51           2              --           __           52          102         __          __             50            52       102
Trailers for feed transport                           Trailer         80            2              --           __           80          160         --          --             80            80       160
Truck (3 tons)                                        Truck            70           1                           --           35           70         --          --             35            35        70
Mobile pressure sprayer                               Sprayer         18            1              --           --           10           18          _                          8            10        18
Base Price Adjustment /10                                                                          255        1,322          4                                  234                          550    2,75
Incremental Working Capital /                                                                           --           --       2.40P      1437           1 026      4,886        12,895         3,428   16,323
Total                                             s                                                 5,5           5,381        _J         T7W                                     1,075   60.17
AI   Access roads, site preparation, grading and finishing, peripheral and other fencing.
2    Including (a) electrical, heating, ventilation, sewerage, water, and feeding services and installations;
and (b) appropriate sub-divisions and facilities for swine husbandry and management.
a Transformer house; transformer end generating set, transformer point, high and low voltage networks.
Boiler room, coal house, boiler and pipe network.
Including well, plumbing equipment, storage tanks and water reticulation.
Includes pumping station, unit for partial separation of solids, concrete storage and drying pita for solid manure
and oxidation system for waste liquid phase.
/7 Administration offices, canteen, toilets and showers, and laundry facilities.
Including veterinary diagnostic room, laboratory, drug and medicine store, emergency slaughter room and butchers'
equipment.
Steel bins (3 x 47m3 and 3 x 20X3), meal elevator, two screw conveyors, reception hopper and concrete service platform.
@   Base price adjustment calculated from information presented during nesotiations reflecting price increases affected December 1976 of 4.8%
_   From Annex 4, Table I - Projected Income Statement - State Enterprise.
May, 1977                                                                                                                                                                                            1!



AIOII 4
APPRAISAL OF                            Table 4
PIG PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING PROJECT
ROMANTA
Model: Pig Breeding/Fattening - 32.000 pigs/year
E. Herd ProJection /1
Without                      End of Year--------
Herd Comosition              Project       Year 1       Year 2       Year,3       Year 4-20
Sows and Replacements                                    2,500        2,500        2,500
Boars                                                       74           74           74
Pigs (0-33 days)                                         3,157        3,157        3,157
Pigs (33-111 days)         .                             6,838        6,838        6,838
Pigs (over 11l days)                                     1,715       13,056       13,056
Total Pigs                                             14,284       25,625       25,625
Total Births                                -          13,254       36,984       36,984
Purchases
Gilts                                                    2,500          874          8T4
Boars                                                       74           37           37
Total Purchases               -             -               4          911          911
Mlortaity /2
Pies (0-33 da.ys)                                        1,234        4,258        4,2 58
Piss (33-111i.d as)                                        310        1,581        1 581
Total Mortality                                         1,544        5,839        5,83g
Sales
Culled So'-s                                              -             874          874
Culled Boars                                              -              37           37
Finished Pigs                                             -          1i.q804     22.145
Tutal Sales                                 -            -          20,715       2,075
Tecbn)ics 2 1Coeffricients
Con!eDOtion Rate ,                                        71.            71           71
wuuel bon/Ierro\Jing                                       9.5            9.5          9.5
Average Number o.
Farrowincs /F~,-ale in
Breeding Hierd.                                           1.55           1.55         1.55
SoW Cull1izg Fate/Year %                                  35             35           35
Boar Cull'ing Rate/Year %                                 50             50           50
Mortality7 %
Pics (C- 33 d3yrs)                                       31.5           11.5        11.5
Pigs (33-111 days)                                        5              5            5
JL  State euterpri se or coc,erative.
,- 0ot incluwL.: i Ar ncows, boar.S or pigfo> !* .ii dw i; becuse unnirif'ty pi-s qrte
Feb-uary  l 9o7s7miticn
Februisry 1977



ANNEX 4
APPRAISAL OF                                Table S
PIG PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING PROJECT
ROMANIA
Model: Pig Breeding/Fattening - 32,000 pigs/year
lable F. Staffing and Wages .V
Wage per Month   Total per Year
Category                                           No.         (Lei)           ('000 Lei)
1. Manageent Staff
Director                                       1         4,250                51
Chief Accountant                               1         3,900                47
Economist                                      1         2,700                32
Cashier/Accountant                             1         1,750                21
Lawyer                                         1         2,000                24
Marketing and Purchasing Officer               1         1,600                19
Storeman                                       1         '.,:0                17
Subtotal                                   7           -                211
2. Technical Staff
Veterinarian                                   1         3,850                46
Veterinary Technician                          1         2,350                28
Artificial Insemination Technician             1         2.250                27
Subtotal                                   3                      -     101
3. Pigmen
Pigmen (Breeding House)                        8         2,180               209
Pigmen (Gestation House and Boars)             4         2,180               104
Pigmen (Farrowing House)                      12         2,180               314
Pigmen (Fattening Houses)                     12         2,180               314
Shift workers                                  8         2,180               209
Night stockman                                 1         2,507                30
Subtotal                                  45           -              1,180
4. Auxiliary Workers
Veterinary service                             1         2,120                25
General services                               2         1,905                46
Mechanics (installations)                      3         1,978                71
Plumers                                        3         1,978                71
Stokers                                        3         1,978                71
Electricians                                   3         1,978                71
Veterinary workers (dosing, etc.)              3         2,307                83
Tractor drivers                                3         1,978                71
Mechanic (power station)                       1         1,978                24
General maintenance and sewerage               2         1,978                47
Butcher                                        1         1,709                21
Laundry                                        1         1,360                16
Technician (Waste water treatment plant)    1            2,801                34
Laboratory (Waste water treatment plant)        1        1,978                24
Mechanics (Waste water treatment plant)        3         1,978                71
General (Waste water treatment plant)          3         1,580                57
Subtotal                                  34           -                 803
Total                                     R9                           2,295
1/ Same staffing for State Enterprise or Cooperative.
February 1977



ANNEX 4
Table 6
APPRAISAL OF
PIG PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING PROJECT
ROMANIA
Model:  Pig Breeding/Fattening - 32,000 pigs/year
A. Prolected Itcome Statement - Cooperative
YEAR
1            2           3       4 - 20
Lei '~~~000 - - ---__
REVENUES
Cull sows/l                                     --           -_        1,835        1,835
Cull boars2                                     --           --           89           89
Finiahed pigsL                                  --           -_       24,821       41,111
Subtotal                                   --           --       26,745       43,035
Operating Expenses
Salaries - Professional and Technical4          --           239         312          312
- Workersj4                           --           661       1,983        1,983
Subtotal                                    --           900       2,295        2.295
Social Security Fund/5                          --           123       1.290        1.627
Feeds - ConcentratesTh6                         --         3j,m       24,374       26,692
Green alfalf&L                         .-            104        208          208
Fodder beet/7                          --            78         156          156
Feed carrotsL7                         --            162        325          325
Subtotal                                   --          3,515     25.063       27,381
Drugs and medicines8                            --           240       1,000        1,180
Haintenance and repairs--                                              1.222        1.222
Overheads - Electrcity                          --           536       1,072        1,072
Boiler fuel                        --           235         469          469
Insurance                          --           236         472          472
Children's allowance               --            81         162          162
Protective clothing                --             5          10           10
Telephone and postage              --             8          15           15
Travel and subsistence             --            10          20           20
Tractor diesel and oils         _   -            14          28           28
Subtotal                                   --          1,125      2,248         2,248
Livestock - Gilts/LO                            --         5,793       2,025        2,025
- Young boarsL M_                                 139          70           70
Subtotal                                   --         5,932       2,095        2,095
Total                                                 11,835     35,213       38,048
Net Income/12                                   --       (11,835)     (8,468)       4,987
1   Liveweight 175 kg/sow; price 12 Lei/kg.
42   Liveweight 200 kg/boar; price 12 Lei/kg.
7F   Liveweight 110 kg/pig; price 12 Lei/kg.
74   See Table  10 for details
75   3.5% of total value of gross production including pig aanure.
76   Pigs 0-33 days - 2kg  01 ration/head; pigs 33-111 days - 10kg 01 ration + 42kg 02
ration/head; pigs over 111 days - 70kg 03 ration +272kg 04 ration/head.
Sows - 310kg 05 ration + 630 kg 06 ration/head/year;
Boars - 1,100kg 05 ration/head/yeas; replacement gilts and boars - 200kg 05 ration/head.
Ratibn 01 - 3,482 Lei/ton; ration 02 - 2,307 Lei/ton; ration 03 - 1,783 Lei/ton;
ration 04 - 1,675 Lei/ton; ration 05 - 1,594 Lei/ton; ration 06 - 1,594 Lei/ton.
/7   2,597t. Green alfalfa, 1,298 t. fodder beet and 1,298 t. carrots fed per year mainly
to breeding stock and including a small quantity fed to weaners (33 to 111 days).
/8   Sow or boar 46 Lei/head; pigs 0-33 days 9 Lei/head; pigs 33-111 days 15.5 Lei/head;
over 111 days 7.6 Lei/head.
/9   3% of fixed investments.
/10  Liveweight 95kg/head, price 2.317 Lei/head.
/11  Liveweight 85kg/head, price 1,878 Lei/head.
/12  Deficit for years 2 and 3 represents incremental working capital and is financed
as part of the investment - See Annex 4, Table 8.



JAP1'9ATSAL OE
PIG PiODMICTll AIM   CESSINC P3gJECT
1o1l:  fti  Ernar/fttantnn  - 32.000 gtaalygar
11 Cash flay roiactioa CooMaxtiw  GCo  l
1        2        3        4        5       6       7       8        9      10      I_       12      13       14      15      16       17      10      19       20
Cash Inflow     -----------------------------_-------------_--_-__--------___------          -     -      -     -       Lai__ 
Hevenuns                                      -. -F    26,745   43.035  43,035  43,035  43,035  43,035  43,035  43,035  43,035  43,035  43,035  43,035  43,035  43,035  43,035  43.035  43,035  43,035
Long-ret., Funds /Li
- Coop's own contribution                   8,723    7,918    2,662       --      --       .      --                --     --
- BAFI Loan                                20,355   18,473    6,212       -.      --       --    --        --              --
Short-and Medium Team Loans   5               305      894    1,282       __      __       __     __
Sale Value of Hard                            --       --        --                                                                                                                                         20 434
Total Inflow                          29,383   27,285' 36,901   43i035 43 035 43,035  43.035  43,035  43,035  43.055  43,035  430035 43.35  43,035  43,035 43,035 43,035  43,035 43,035  63,69
Cash Outflow
Investments                                29,078   26,391    8,874       __      __       __      __      __       __      _       __      350       _      __        __     __       __      __
Operating, 3xpenses                           _              26,745   38,048  38,048  38,048  38,048  38,048  38,048  38,048  38,048  38,048  38,048  38,048  38,048  38.048  38,048  38,048  38,048  38,048
Interest is
- On Short/Hadiu a TerT Loans                 --         6       24        50      3        lh     --      --       --      --      _-       --      -_       __      __      __       _ 
- On Long Term Loans  a2                      305      888    1,258    1,351   1,270   1,18f   1,102   1,010       918      827     735     643      551     459      367     275      184      92     --      __
Loan Repayments
- Short-and Medium Term Loans                 --        --       --       800     800     881
-Lons-Term Loans                              --        --      -       2,700   2800   2,8C    3062   3062   3,062          02   3062        062      62      62   362        062    ,62   3,058 
Totel Outflov     29,38-3- 27,2E5   36,901   42 942  42,95~~~1  42 93t 4,1 42120  42,02V  41,91   4185210   hlN 651'  41,5609  41,1    41,A    its.411H3d083L0l
Total Outflow,~                                                                     23_    .221       1       0          7   13                        1       1                1       11    3
Cash Flow                                           _                           86      84     102              91t 1,009  1119            0 8   L               1 .466   1      1,649    3    4        9 L2LZ    4
Cash Flow for Financial Rete of 11eturn /4    (29.07&) (26,397)  (8,874)   4,987   4,987   4,987   4,967   4,987   4,987   4,987   4,987.  4,637   4.987   4,987   4,987   4,987- 4,987   4,987   4,987  25,421
Ct    Proiected Financial Rate of Retursk
Financial Rate of Return:   5.0,
LI  RAFI 707 of invest_nt co.t, Coop 307.                  --r
/2  Due on December 31.
/3  27, on Short-Ter  Loans. 37 on Long-Tern Loans.
t Al -(Sl + S2) x A4.
L Financing of interest on long-ters loans and capitaltzed interest during years 2 and 3.
May 1977



APPRAISAL OF
PIG PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING PROJECT
ROMANIA
Model:  Pig Breeding/Fattening   32,00) pigs/year
D. Investments - Cooperative
Unit Cost    No. of         Foreign                 Foreign                 Foreign                             Foreign
['nit     Lei '00,       iJnits        Exchange    Total       Exchange   Total        Exchange   Total       Local        Exchange      Total
Investment Items
Buildin s and Constructions
Roads, site levelling and fencesa/l                                       --                        102         682           26        l1          --          _         725             128        853
Boars/Sows mating and gestation l        2use/2         2175-2         2,158          2             863      4,316            --        __          __          __      3,453            863       4,316
Farrowing house/2                                       -do-           4,522          1             905      4,522            --  .    __           __                  3,617            905       4,522
Growing houseA                                          -do-           2,356          II            424       2,120          283      i,41          --i                 2,827             707
Finishing house/2                                       -do-           1,565.8        6             752       3,758        1,127      5,637         __          __      7,516           1,879       3,5
Concrete platforma                                       --               --         -.              44         297           45        297         --                                     89 505  89
Pig loading ramp and scales                              --               --         --              15          98           -         --          __                     83            5i8
Electrical installations3                                         --                 --             290       1,320          290      1,320         --          --      ?                 5           64O
Heating installations/4                                   __              __         __             440       2,000            85       390                             1,865             52        2390
Water supply and drains5                                          --                 --             338       i,690          225      1,127                             ?,?54             563       2,817
Manure and waste disposal syatem/6                       --               --         --             525       2,626          131        657         -,627                                 656       3,283
General service bailding and facilities                  --               --         --66                       332                    _--          __           _          66             66         332
ieterinary building and facilitie8_                                       --         --               9          47           38        189                               4909             47        236
Feed storage facilitiesL/                                200,r3           612         1             -49         245           73        367                               490             12612
Subtotal                                                                                     CM         2i05           2,323       ,56-9                           2_ i_ _ 2 7 - 7,145 61Z02
Physical contingency 10                                                                            482       2 405          213      1 157         --          --      2,847             715       3 552
05304                  -I-,        12 ,726o       -- 1 , n                                  33184
Layout of constra,ction work                                                                         --       1,017                                                      1,017                      1,017
Design and technical supervision                                                                     --         271            --       271                --              54P                        542
Subtotal                                                ,                                                 Z2w1;     2,5          12,997          -          --      ?747
Vehicles and Equipment
Tractor                                                  Tractor           51         2                          --           52         102                     --         50              52        102
Trailers for feed transport                             Trailer            80         2              --         __            80        160          --                     80             80         160
Iruck (3 tons)                                          Tr-ack             70         1                    --                35          70          --          --         35             35          70
Mobile pressure sprayer                                 Sprayer            18         1              -          -             10         18                                  8             t0          18
Base Price Adjustmnt /1--                                                                          177         350                      -         T7              7     
Base Price Adlustment 1X                                                                                 225      1,332          285       1,209         85          406    2,357             590       2,947
Incremental Working Capital L1                                                                                    __ -                     ,740,                                                       20,303
Total                                                                                          --          -        24_85    21!83~~        1,779       8,468   16,039            4 264      O 30
5.559      29078        5468       26,391                   8        51542           12.891      64.343
S Access roals, site preparation, grading and finishing, peripheral and other fencing.
2    Including (a) electrical, heating, ventilation, sewerage, water, and feeding services and installations;
and (b) appropriate sub-divisions and facilities for swine husbandry and management.
j    Transformer house; transformer and generating set, transformer point, high and low voltage networks.
Boiler room, Coal house, boiler and pipe network.
;    Including well, plumbing equipment, storage tanks and water reticulation.
Includes pumping station, unit for partial separation of solids, concrete storage and drying pits for solid manure
and oxidation system for waste liquid phase.
L    Administration offices, canteen, toilets and showers, and laundry facilities.
Including veterinary diagniostic room, laboratory, drug and medicine store, emergency slaughter room and butchers'
equipment.
/9   Steel bins (3 x 47m3and 3 x 20m3), meal elevator, two screw conveyors. reception hopper and concrete service platform.
/18   Base price adjustment calculated froa information presented during Negotiations reflecting price increases effective
December 1976 of 4.8%
/11   From Annex 4, Table 6 - Projected Income Statement - Cooperative.
May 1977



ANNEX 4
AFPRAISAL OF                           Table 9
PIG PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING PROJECT
ROMANJIA
Model: Pig Breeding/Fattening - 32.000 pigs/year
E. Herd Projection /1
Without             ----End of Year-----
Herd Composition             Project       Year 1      Year 2       Year 3       Year 4-20
Sows and Replacements                                   2,500        2,500        2,500
Boars                                                      714           T4          714
Pigs (0-33 days)                                         3,15T       3,15T        3,157
Pigs (33-111 days)                                       6,838       6,838        6,838
Pigs (over 111 days)                                    1,715       1.ju56 1u5056
Total Pigs                                            14,284                    25,625
Total Births                  -             -         13,254       36,984       36,984
Purchases
Gilts                                                   2,500          874          874
Boars                                                       74          37           37
'Total Purchases               -             -          2,5            911          911
Mortality /2
Pigs (0-33 days)                                        1,234        4,258        4,258
Pigs (33-111 days)                                         310       1,581        1,581
Total Mortality               -             -          1,544        5,839        5,839
Sales
Culled Sows                                              -             874          874
Culled Boars                                             -              37           37
Finished Pigs                                            -          19,804       311145
Total Sales                  -              -           -          20,715       32,056
Technical Coefficients
Conception Rate %                                        7T             71           71
Number Born/Farrowing                                      9.5           9.5          9.5
Average Number of
Farrowings/Female in
Breeding Herd.                                           1.55           1.55         1.55
Sow Culling Rate/Year %                                   35            35           35
Boar Culling Rate/Year %                                  50             50          50
Mortality %
Pigs (0-33 days)                                        11.5           11.5         11.5
Pigs (33-111 days)                                        5              5           5
/1 State enterprise or cooperative.
72 Not included for sows, boars or pigs over 111 days because unthrifty pigs are
slaughtered for consumption.
February 1977



APPRAISAL OF                               ANNEX 4
Table 10
PIG PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING PROJECT
ROMANIA
Model: Piz Breeding/Fattening - 32,000 Digs, year
Table F. Staffing and Wages 1/
Wage per Month   Total per Year
Category                                           No.         (Lei)           ('000 Lei)
1. Management Staff
Director                                       1         4,250                51
Chief Accountant                               1         3,900                47
Economist                                      1         2,700                32
Cashier/Accountant                             1         1,750                21
Lawyer                                         1         2,000                24
Marketing and Purchasing Officer                1        1,600                19
Storeman                                       1         1,400                17
Subtotal                                   1           -                 211
2. Technical Staff
Veterinarian                                   1         3,850                46
Veterinary Technician                          1         2,350                28
Artificial Insemination Technician             1         2,250                27
Subtotal                                   3           -                 101
3. PigMen
Pigmen (Breeding House)                        8         2,180               209
Pigmen (Gestation House and Boars)             4         2,180               104
Pigmen (Farrowing House)                      12         2,180               314
Pigmen (Fattening Houses)                     12         2,180               314
Shift workers                                  8         2,180               209
Night stocl-man                                1         2,507                30
Subtotal                                  45           -               1,180
4. Auxiliary Workers
Veterinary service                             1         2,120                25
General services                               2         1,905                46
Mechanics (installations)                      3         1,978                71
Plumers                                        3         1,978                71
Stokers                                        3         1,978                71
Electricians                                   3         1,978                71
Veterinary workers (dosing, etc.)              3         2,307                83
Tractor drivers                                3         1,978                71
Mechanic (power station)                        1         1,978               24
General maintenance and sewerage               2         1,978                47
Butcher                                         1        1,709                21
Laundry                                         1        1,360                16
Technician (Waste water treatment plant)        1        2,801                34
Laboratory (Waste water treatment plant)        1        1,978                24
Mechanics (Waste water treatment plant)         3         1,978               71
Genern1 (Waste water treatment plant)           3         1,580               57
Subcotal                                  34                             803
Total                                                                  2,295
f/ Same staffing for State Enterprise or Cooperative.
February 1977



AMN=. 4
S bl.e 11
A?PRAZSAL OF
PIG PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING PROJ
Model. Crossbred Gilt Production - 960 Gilts/year
A. Proi-cted Incom  Statement - State Efterprise
1           2                           4
Lai '000 -
Culled dovel                                            -                   149           149
Culled boar%                                     -             -             11            11
Male weaners 3                                   -              142         810           810
Female wanars                                    -              14          216           216
Culled gsiltsj4                                                -             48            54
Crosebred giltef5                                -             -          2.099         2.220
Subtotal                                     -             156        3.333         3,460
Op.ratina Expenses
Salaries - Profesional and Technlcalt6           -              83          142           142
- Workers/6                             -             157          371           371
Subtotal                                                   _240         513           51
Socila Security FundL7                           -39                         77            77
Concentrate feed/                                -             367        1,018         1,031
Drugs and mdicinesi9                                            42           92            92
Maintenance and repairs/10                       -              19U2 L21
Overheads - Electricity                          -                           99-           99
Fuel                                 -              25           55            55
Insurance                            -              36           36           36
Children's allowance                 -             -           -             -
Protective clothing                  -               2            2             2
Telephose and postage                -               5           10            10
Travel and subsistence               -               3            6             6
Tractor diasel and oils              -               3            6             6
Subtotal                                                   124         -214           214
Livestock - Gut5/li                                            545          219           219
Young boars/12                       -              30           15            15
Subtotal                                     -             57s          234           234
Total                                        -           1.606        2.367         2.380
Net Incom                                                      (1,450)        966         1,080
/1  Liveveight 175 kg/so;  price 10.5 Lai/kg.
v Llveveight 200 kg/boar; price 10.5 Lei/kg.
3 LiveWeight 37 kg/head; price 16 Lai/kg.
/4 Liveweisht 110 kg/head; price 10.5 Lai/kg.
/ Liveweight 95 kg/head; price 2,317 Lei/head.
/ See Annex 4, Tsble 15 for details.
7  2.5S of total value of gross production including  mure.
/8 Pigs 0-40 days - 3 kg 01 ration per head; pigs 40-120 days - 10 kg 01 + 45 kg 02 ration/hed;
gilts over 120 days - 70 kg 03 + 212 kg 04 ration/heed; culled gilts over 120 days - 70 kg
03 + 272 kg 04 ration/heed; replacement gilts and boars - 200 kg 05 ration/head; save 300 kg
05 + 700 kg 06 ration/head/year; boars - 1,100 kg #6 ration/head/year.
Ration 01 - 3,212 Lai/ton; ration 02 - 1,988 Lei/ton; ration 03 - 1,414 Lei/ton; ration 04 -
1,268 Let/ton; ration 05 - 1,253 Lei/ton; ration 06 - 1,253 Lai/ton.
/9 Sow or boar, 46 Lei/head; pigs 0-40 days - 9 Lei/head;plgs 40-120 days - 15.5 Lei/head; gilts over
120 days - 7 Lei/head.
10 31 of fixed investments.
/11 Liveveight 95 kg/head, price 2.700 Lei/head.
/12 Liveweight 85 kg/head, price 3,000 Lei/head.
February 1977



APPiItISAL OF
PIG PRODUCTION AJND PROCESSING PROJECT
ROMANIA
Model: Cross Broed Gilt Production - 960 Gilts/vear
B: Projected Cash Flow State,ent - State Enterprise
YEAR
1        2         3        4        5       6        7        8       9       10      11       12       13      14       15       16      17       18       19      20
------------------------------------______- -__-_-_-__-_------_----------------- Let'OODO--------- ------- --------- ------ ----- - ------ ---- -------- ---------- ----- ------ ---- ------_
Cash Inflov
Revenue                                         __       156    3,333    3,460   3.460   3.460   3,460   3,460   3,460   3,460   3.460   3.460   3.460   3.460   3.460   3.460   3.460   3.460   3.460   3,460
Long-Term Funds (BAFI Loan)                  8,1402    1,7149      __        __       _
Short-and Medium Tern Loans                     84       189       --       -- g-                                               -- ::  __  _
Sale Value of Herd                              __--                   --       --   __        __      __      __      _-                                _.2
Total Inflow                                      2.094    3.333    3,460-  3.460.  3.460'  3.460   3.460   3.460   3,460   3.460   3.460   3.460   3.460   3.460   3.460   3.460   3.460   3.460   4.670
Cash Outflow
Investments                                  8.402    1,749        --       --       _-       __      __       __      __       __       __      219      --,      --      --       --       --       __
Ope:ating Expenses                             2- 156    2,367    2,380 - 2,380.  2,380   2,380   2,380   2,380   2,380   2,380   2,380   2,380   2,380   2,380   2.380    , 380   2.380   & 380   2 380
Interest
- Short-and Medium Term Loans                              3        10               --       --      --       --               --       --      --       --
- Long Trm Loan  /I                             84       186       406      393      366      339     311      284     257      231      203     173      149      122      gb       68       40       9      __       __
Loan Repayments
- Short-and Mledium 'erm Loans                   -           -     273      __       __       __      __       __       __      __       __      __       __        __      __       _                __      _        __
-Long,Tera  Loans L3                                               -        Ml      677     677       v       1       617      617     677      677      677     67       677      677     67'7     677      --       -
Tot    utflow l,4w                                  ,4    3,G5      3,447   3,4 3   3,39    3,3        ,34    3,3 4   3,288   3260   3,449   3,206   3 179   3,151   3,125   3 097   3 066   2               2
Cash Flow                          --       --       ~~~~       ~~~     ~~~     ~~~~~277  13  37  64  92  119  1146  172    200 __      l 1   25       25      309    ~335      33               ,00 2  9
Cash Flow for Financial Rate of Return            (8,402)  (1,749)      966    1,080   1,080   1,080   1,080   1,080   1,080   1,080   1,080           861   1,080   1,080   1,080   1,080   1,080   1,080   1,080   2,290L
Ct     projected Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return:   8.1%
Lj 2X doting construction. 47 afterwards (after 3rd year), disbursements are assumed to be equally distributed over the year, interest due December 31.
/3 3 years grace; repayments on June 30.
A   Including sale value of Herd.
May 1977



APPRAISAL OF
PIC PRODUCTION AM PROCESSING PROJECT
ROMANIA
Model: Croasbred Gilt Production - 963 gilta/ye r
D. Investments - State E2terprise
Year 1                 Year 2                  Year 3                         TOTAL
Unit Coat    No. of            Foreign                 Foreign                 Foreign                               Foreign
Unit   1 ei '000        Unita             Etchange    Total      Ecchange    Total        E            Total       Local        Pechange   Total
---------------------------------------Lei  000------                  -------------------
Investment Items
Buildings and constructions
Roads,  ite levelling and fences/i                    --            --        --                   40         267                                 -- __                   227           40         267
Boar /owa mating and gestation houseL                 760m2         973        1                  195         93          __          __          __                      778           195        973
Farrouring house/2                                    533.2         909        1                  182         909         __          __          __           __         727          182         909
Frrowing houae/2                                      6292          908        1                                                                  - 908  __ __            727          182         909
Gilr  house/                                          668m2         745        1                   lb9        745         --          --                 --               59            149        745
Concrete platforms                                    --            --                             40         267         __                                              227            40        267
Pig loading ramp and scales                           --            --        --                    6          38         __          __          __           --          32             6         38
Eleatrical installation/3                             --            --        --                  157         714         --          --          --           --         557          157         714
Heating inatallstion/14                               --            --        --                   18          80         _-          _-          __                       62            18          80
Manure disposal systei5                               --            --        --                  148         742         --          --          --           --         594           148        742
Waste water treatment p   nt/                         --            --        ---                 136         660         --          --           --          --         544           136         680
Boiler rooa                                            87.2        312         1                   62         312         --                                              250            62         312
Coal store                                            120.2         90         1                   15          90         --          --          --           --          75            15          90
Ash store                                              6O.2         12         1                     2         12         __                                               10             2          12
Veterinary building and facilities/7                   99102       209         1                    42        209         --          --           __          __         167            42         209
Toilets and wash up facilities                          9,2         13         1                    2          13                     --           --          --          10             2         12
General service building facilities                   162.2        240         1                    48        240    4- -_                                     __ --                     48         240
Suototal                                          1,424- 7T;M   --y --                                                                                     __ __ 14   -Ia
Thysical contingency 5%                                                                             71        360          _          __                                  289            71         360
Leyout of construction work                                                                        --         196         --          __           __          __         196            --         196
Design and technical supervision                                                                    --        263         --          --           _-          --                        --         263
Subtotal                                                                                    1,49        lg            --2 ---
Vehicles and equipent
Traetor     qu p                                     Tractor        51         1                  __          --           26          51          __          --          25            26          51
Trailer for feed tranaport                           Trailer        80         1                  --          --           40          80          _-           _-         40            40          so
Truck (3 tons)                                       Truck          70         1                 --            --          35          70          --           --         35            35          70
Nobile pressure sprayer                              sprayer        18         1                 __          -_            10          18                                   8            10          18
Subtotal                                                                                     --                                  219                                  ME _ -        m           2
Bame Price Adjustment /8                                                                             71           385        21           80         --           -92                                  465
Incremental working capitalL9                                                                       --.4*                             1-  ,150
1.£67       8.403         436       1749           _            __     8.149          2,003      10,152
/1 Access roads site preparation, grading and finishing, peripheral and other fencing.
Including (a5 electrical, heating, ventilation, sewerage, water, and feeding services and installations;
and (b) appropriate nub-divisions and facilities for swine husbandry and managment.
L   Transformer house; transformer and generating set, transformer point, high and low voltage networks.
Boiler and pipe network.
Pumping station, unit for partial separation of solids, concrete storage and drying pits for solid manure.
oxidation system for waste liquid phase.
Including veterinary diagnostic rooms, laboratory, drug and medicine store and incinerator.
Base prfce adjustment calculated from Information presented durLnn Nesotiations reflecting price
increases effective December 1976 of 4.8%.
/9  From Annar 4, Table 11 - Projected Incom  Statement - State Enterprise.
May 1977



APPRAISAL. 0                          AN     4
Table 14
PIG PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING PROJECT
ROMANIA
Model: Crossbred Gilt Production - 960 Gilts/Year
E. Herd ProJection /1
- - ---------End of Year----------
Year 1          Year 2          Year3            Year 4-20
Herd Composition
Sows and Replacements          -               202             202              202
Boars                                           10              10               10
Pigs (0-40 days)                               338             338              338
Pigs (40-120 days)                             615             615              615
Gilts (over 120 days)                          216             2T5              275
Total Pigs                    -               381                            1   0
Total Births                                1 6                     3,285
Purchases
Gilts /2                                       202              81               81
Boars 7                                         10                5
Total Purchases                               212              7                86
Mortaliy /4
Pigs (0-40 days)                               184             410              410
Pigs (40-120 days)                              39             137              137
Total Mortality                               223             547              54T
Sales
Culled Sows                                                     81               81
Culled Boars                                                     5                5
Male Weaners                                   240           1,368            1,369
Female Weaners                                  24             365              365
Culled Gilts                                   -41                               46
Crossbred Gilts /- 905                                                          958
Total Sales                   -                             21 52
Technical Coefficients
Conception Rate ;                               80              8o               80
Number Born/Farroving                            9                9               9
Average lhumber of
Farrowings/Female in
Breeding Herd                                   1.8             1.8              1.8
Sow Culling Rate/Year %                                         4°               4o
Boar Culling Rate/Year %                                        50               50
Gilt Culling Rate % (includes
female weaners and culled gilts)                30              30               30
Mortality %
Pigs (0-40 days)                               12.5            12.5             12.5
Pigs (40-120 days)                              4.8              4.8             4.8
/1 State Enterprise or Cooperative.
72 Purebred Landrace or tLargewhite.
/3 Purebred Landrace or Largevhite.
LE  Not included for sOws, boars or gilts over 120 days because unthrifty pigs are
slaughtered for consumption.
LI Landrace x Largewhite or Largevhite x Landrace
February 1977



ANNEX 4
Table 15
APPRAISAL OF
PIG PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING PROJECT
ROMANIA
Model: -Crossbred Gilt Production - 960 Gilts/year
F. Staffing and Wages IL
Wage per month Total per Year
Category                                     No.             (Lei)        ('000 Lei)
1. Management and Technical
Manager                                1             3,734            45
Economist                              1             3,074            37
Pig breeding specialist                1             2,801            34
Artificial Lnsemination Technician   1               2,202            26
Subtotal                           4                             142
2. Pigmen
Pigmen (Breeding and gestation)        3             2,180            78
Pigmen (Farrowing)                     1             2,180            26
Pigmen (Weaning)                       1             2,180            26
Emergency (stand-by relief worker)   1              .2,500            30
Subtotal                           6                -            160
3. Auxiliary Workers
Hygiene and sanitation                 1             1,905            23
Veterinary work (dosing, etc).         1             2,356            28
Night stockman                         1             2,391            29
Electrician                            1             1,978            24
Plumber                                1             1,978            24
Butcher                                1             1,770            21
Electrician/Mechanic (Waste
treatment plant)                     1             1,978           24
General (Waste treatment plant)        2             1,580            38
Subtotal                           9                -           2311
Total                             19                            513
1/ Same staffing for State Enterprise or Cooperative
February 1977



ANNEX 4
Table 16
APPRAISAL OF
PIG PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING PROJECT
ROMANIA
Model:  Crossbred Gilt Production - 960 Gluts/year
A.  Projected Income Statement - CooPerative
YEAR
1            2              3          4-20
Lei O00 -  -             --
REVENUES
Culled sows ll                                                 -             170          170
Culled boars2                                    --            -              12           12
Male weaners/3                                                 159           911          911
Female weaners/3                                                16           243          243
Culled gilts /-                                                --             54           61
Crossbred gilts/5                                ----                      2,099        2.220
Subtotal                                                   175        3,489        3,617
Operating Expenses
Salaries - Professional and Technical/6          --             83           142          142
- Workers/6                                          157           371          371
Subtotal                                                   240           513         513
Social Security Pund/7                                          54           108          108
Condentrate feedL8                               --            472         1,256        1,273
Drugs and medicines/9                                           42            92           92
Maintenance and repairs/10                                     219           219          219
Overheads - Electricity                                         50            99           99
Fuel                                --             25            55           55
Insurance                                          36            36           36
Children's allowance                -              15            29           29
Protective clothing                 --              2             2            2
Telephone and postage               -               5            10           10
Travel and subsistence              -               3             6            6
Tractor diesel and oils             -               3             6            6
Subtotal                                    -              139          243          243
Livestock - Gllts/l1                             -             545           219          219
Young boars/12                      -              30            15           15
Subtotal                                    -             575           234          234
Total                                       -           1,741         2,665        2,682
Net Income                                         --         (1,566)          824          935
/1   Liveweight 175 kg/sow; price 12 Lei/kg.
/2   Liveweight 200 kg/boar; price 12 Lei/kg.
/3   Liveweight 37 kg/head; price 18 Lei/kg.
E   Liveweight 110 kg/head; price 12 Lei/kg.
/5 Liveweight 95 kg/head; price 2317 Lei/head.
/6   See Annex 4, Table 20 for details.
/7   3.5% of total value of gross production including manure.
78   Pigs 0-40 days - 3 kg 01 ration per head; pigs 40-120 days - 10 kg 01 ration + 45 kg 02 ration/head
gilts over 120 days - 70 kg 03 + 212 kg 04 ration/head; culled gilts over 120 days - 70 kg 03 +
272 kg 04 ration/head; replacement gilts and boars - 200 kg 05 ration/head; sows - 300 kg 05 +
700 kg 06 ration/head/year; boars - 1,100 kg 06 ration/head/year;
Ration 01 - 3,482 Lei/ton; Ration 02 - 2,307 Lei/ton; ration 03 - 1,783 Lei/ton; ration 04 - 1,675
Lei/ton; ration 06 - 1,594 Lei/ton.
/9   Sow or boar, 46 Lei/head; pigs 0-40 days - 9 Lei/head; pigs 40-120 days - 15.5 Lei/head; gilts over
120 days - 7 Lei/head.
/10 3% of fixed investments.
/11 Liveweight 95 kg/head, price 2,700 Lei/head.
/12 Liveweight 85 kg/head, price 3,000 Lei/head.
February, 1977



APIPRAISAL Of
FIC PRODUJCTION AND POIRCKSING PROJECT
Kodel: Crops broad Gilt Productigo - 960 Cllts/yser
3: Cash Flow Pr2lectton/Cooperstives Complex
YRUR
1         2         3         4        5        6        7        8        9       lo       it.      12        is      14        15       lb       17       is       19       20
Cash inflow
RonglmeruF.naL                                       -       175    3,489      3,617   3,617   3,617   3,617   3,617   3,617   3,617   3,617   3,617   3,617   3,617   3,617   3,617   3,617   3,617   3,617   3,617
- Coops Own Coutribution                        2,520       562         -                  --                         --                                  --                                                     -       -
- 8kP3 Loan                                     5,882    1,309---                                            -       -         --                                  --                          .       -         -       -        -
Short-and Medium Term  Loans                        88       198        -         -       -         -       -         --                                                     -       -         -       -                  -        -
Sate Value of Hard                                                                                                                                                                                                                  at --  - -  --  -  --  --  . ~ ~ LQ
Total Inflow                              8,.0       2.2,      3489    3T617  3-6I    3.617   3,6617  317 3617                 3.61617   17                           6 7  ~.6J&17   3,   7            ~.       .L.L    &2
Cash Outflow
Investments                                     8,4.02    1,871                  --       -         -       -                  -       -         -        219--                                -                          -
Operating Expenses                                 --        175    2,665    2,682   2,682   2,682   '2,682   2,682   2,682   2,682   2,682   2,682   2,682   2,682   2,682   2,682   2,682   2,682   2,682   2,682
Interest
- On Short/Medium Terbi oans La2                                         S 5-                       -       -         -       -         -        -         -       -         --                                            -       -
- onLong-Tora LueneLa                              88        196       216       209      191      179      165      15D      136       12i      1.08      93       79       65       50        36       22        7      -
Loan Repayments
-  hort/Meduium Tor.  Loans                       -        -         286        -        ---                                                              -
-LonA-Term Loans Lf                              --       -          -         '8o      4.9      179      1.79     '479     '479     1.79   - k72       1.I79    479~i    479      4.79      79      J9       17             ___
Total Outflow                             LM                                                                                                     -_ .- 3,83 ___2___2
Cash Flow                                                 --       --        37        21.0     262      277               306       M        IL       3418.    1W       377      II          _      1.20'                      --9
Cash Flow for Financial Rate of' Return              (8,h.02)  (1.'871)      821,      (-       93.      935      93,      935       935      931      935      71(      935      935      935      935       935      935    935   2,216
C:    Projected Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return:   6 31
RIAFI 702 of Investment cost, Coop 302.
/3 37..
/4 3 years grace.
May 19fl



APPRAISAL OF
PWa PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING PROJECT
ROANlA
Model: Crossbred Gilt Proluction - 960 gilts/year
D. Investments - Cooperative
Year 1                  Year 2                   Year 3                           TOTAL
Unit Cost    No. of             Foreign                 Fbreign                  Foreign                                 Foreign
Unit      tei low       Units              Exchange    Total       Exchange    Total        Exchne        Total         Local       EKchange   Total
----------------------------------------- Lei 0-----------------_____________________
Investment Items
Buildings ard Constructions
Roads, site levelling and fence/.-                                   --          --                  40          267         --          --           --           __            227         40         267
Boars/Nov  mating and gestation houoeL2                700m2         973          1                 195          973         --           -                                      778        195         973
Farrowing house/2                                      533m          909          1                 182          909         __          __           _                          727        182          909
Growiug h-uuse2                                        629m2         908          1                  182         908         --          --           __           __            727        182          908
Gilt houseL2                                           668m          745          1                  149         745                                                              596       149          745
Concrete platforms                                     __-- -_                                        40         267         --          --           --           --            227          40
Pig loading ramp and scales                                   --                 --                    6          38                                                               32          6          38
Electrical installationLZ                              --            --          --                  157         714         --          --           --           --             557        157         314
Heating inistallations/4                               --            --          __                   18          80         __          __           _                            62         18
Manure disposal systei.-                                      --           --                        148         742         --          --           --           --            594        148         742
Waste water treatment plant6                            -            --                              136         680         -544                                                            136         68o
Boller room                                             87m2         312          1                   62         312         --          --           --           --             250         62         312
Coal store                                             120a2          90          1                   15          90          _                                                    75         15          93
Ash store                                               60m2          12          1                    2          12         --          --           --           --              10          2          12
Veterinary building and  2acilities/7                                209          1                   42         209         --          __           __           __             167         42         209
Toilets and wash up facilities Bm                                     13          1                    2          13         --          __           __                           10          2          13
General service buildlng and facilitieL                162a2         240          1                   48         240         --          --           --           --             192         48         240
Subtotal                                                                                         4N        7                                       - 199                   5,775      1,424         I
Physical contingency 5%                                                                               71         360         __          __                                       289         71         360
Layout of construction work                                                                           --         196         --                                                   196         --         196
Design ard technical supervision                                                                      --         263         --                                                   263         --         263
Subtotal                                                                                       ,1;         ,O18 T- -I T                                        --          6,523      E,I95          g
Vehicles and equipment
Tractor                                               Traitor         51           1                  __                      26          51           __           --             25         26          51
Trailer for feed transport                            Trailer          30          I                  --                      40           80                                      40         40          80
Truck (3 tons)                                        Truck            70          1                  --                       35          70          --           --              35        35          70
Mobile pressure sprayer                               Sprayer          18          1                  __                       10          18                                       8          10         18
Subtotal                                                                                                                   1          T           --           -- 21                g -17M  _          9
oase Price Adjustment /                                                                               72        384           22          86                                      376         94         470
Incremtental working capital9                                                                          -- 157  84            329       1,566          __237                                  329        566
Total                                                                 ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~~~1.567  8 4_02  462  1.871-                    -           8.244      2,029      10.273
1 Access roads site preparation, grading and finishing, peripheral and other fencing.
,2 Including (a5 electrical, heating, ventilation, sewerage, water, and feeding services and installations;
end (b) appropriate sub-divisions and facilities for swine husbandry and management.
/3  Transf-ormer house; transformer and generating set, transformer point, high and low voltage networks.'
boiler and pipe network.
5 Pumping station, unit for partial separation of solids, concrete storage and drying pita for solid manure.
Oxidation system for waste liquid phase.
7 Including veterinary diagnostic rooms, laboratory, drug and medicine store and incinerator.
Ease price adjustment calculated from information presented during tegotist4ons reflecting price
increases effective December 1976 of 4.8$.
a From Annex 4, Table 16 - Projected Income Statement - Cooperative.
May 1977



APPRAISAL OF                          ANNEX 4
Table 19
PIG PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING PROJECT
ROMANIA
Model: Crossbred Gilt Production - 960 Gilts/Yeagr
E. Herd Projection /1
--------End of Year- -----
Year 1          Year 2          Year 3          Year 1-20
Herd Composition
Sows and Replacements          -               202             202             202
Boars                                           T0              10              10
Pigs (0-40 days)                               338             338             338
Pigs (40-120 days)                             615             615             615
Gilts (over 120 days)                          216             27               a
Total Pigs                                 1         1,403 1,0
Total Births                       3,285                                    3W
Purchases
Gilts /2                                       202              81              81
Boars /3                                        10               5
Total Purchases                               212             -4
mortait /4
Pigs;    0 days)                               184             41o              410
Pigs (40-120 days)                              39             13              13
Total Mortality                               223             54              5
Sales
Culled Sows                                                     81              81
Culled Boars                                                     5             ,5
Male Weaners                                   240           1,368           1,369
Female Weaners                                  24             365             365
Culled Gilts                                   -                41              46
Crossbred Gilts                                                905               8
Total Sales                 -                              :2 TM
Technical Coe ffi cients5
Conception Rate %                               80              80              80
Number Born/Farrowing                            9               9               9
Average Number of
Farrowings/Female in
Breeding Herd                                   1.8             1.8             1.8
SoW Culling Rate/Year %                                         4o              4o
Boar Culling Rate/Year %                                        50              50
Gilt Culling Rate % (includes
female weaners and culled gilts)                30              30              30
Mortality %
Pigs (0-40 days)                               12.5            12.5            12.5
Pigs (40-120 days)                              4.8             4.8             4.8
/1 State Enterprise or Cooperative.
G Purebred Landrace or Largewhite.
/   Purebred Landrace or Largewhite.
Not included for sows, boars or gilts over 120 days because unthrifty pigs are
slaughtered for consumption.
/5 Landrace x Largewhite or Largewhite x Landrace
February 1977



ANNEX 4
Table 20
APPRAISAL OF
PIG PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING PROJECT
ROMANIA
Model: Crossbred Gilt Production - 960 Gilts/year
F. Staffing and Wages -
Wage per month Total per Year
Category                                     No.            (Lei)         ('000 Lei)
1. Management and Technical
Manager                                1             3,734           45
Economist                              1            3,074            37
Pig breeding specialist                1             2,801           34
Artificial Insemination Technician  _1               2,202           26
Subtotal                          4                -            142
2. Pigmen
Pigmen (Breeding and gestation)        3             2,180           78
Pigmen (Farrowing)                     1            2,180            26
Pigmen (Weaning)                       1            2,180            26
Emergency (stand-by relief worker)   1              2,500            30
Subtotal                          6                -            160
3. Auxiliary Workers
Hygiene and sanitation                 1             1,905           23
Veterinary work (dosing, etc).         1            2,356            28
Night stockman                         1             2,391           29
Electrician                            1             1,978           24
Plumber                                1             1,978           24
Butcher                                1            1,770            21
Electrician/Mechanic (Waste
treatment plant)                     1            1,978            24
General (Waste treatment plant)        2            1,580            38
Subtotal                          9                -            211
Total                            19                             513
1/ Same staffing for State Enterprise or Cooperative
February 1977



ANNEX 5
Page I
APPRAISAL OF
PIG PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING PROJECT
ROMANIA
Livestock Slaughtering and Meat Processing
The Meat Industry
1.        Romania has an established livestock slaughtering and meat pro-
cessing industry which includes both small, simple rural abattoirs in which
animals are slaughtered daily for local consumption fresh, as well as larger.
industrial-type slaughterhouses and processing facilities (meat packing
plants). Existing facilities vary from small, old, inefficient slaughter-
houses to large, modern, efficient plants which meet international sanitary
standards. By the end of 1975, about 86% of the total slaughtering capacity
nationwide existed in industrial-type facilities. Some of the specialized
industrial facilities are designed with provisions for slaughtering only one
type of livestock, usually pigs. Other processing units specialize in pro-
ducing a wide variety of processed meat products such as sausages and smoked
and canned meats made from purchased beef and pork carcasses.- The more con-
ventional type of slaughtering and processing facilities contains separate
killing lines for cattle and pigs as well as refrigerated coolers for chilling
and holding carcasses for shipment either to retail outlets where butchers
cut the carcasses into retail cuts, or for transferal to cutting and boning
rooms where the carcasses are processed into fresh and frozen cuts. These
facilities usually include provisions for processing meats into smoked,
salted, and canned products and sausages. Byproducts are processed into
edible fats; meat, blood, and bone meals; and raw materials such as inedible
fats for making soap, hides and skins for the preparation of leather, intes-
tines for use as sausage casings, and glands for producing pharmaceuticals.
2.        The 1976-80 Plan proposes not only to increase slaughtering and
processing capacities through new investments but also to modernize existing
facilities where technically and economically feasible. Specialized, modern,
efficient, and economically sized new facilities are being constructed in
close proximity to large industrialized livestock production complexes which
would supply the major portion of livestock inputs needed to operate at full
capacity. Most existing plants currently operate on a single shift basis
and may be able to increase throughput by extending the workday or, where
chill storage capacity exists, by adding a second shift for livestock killing.
Adding a second shift for processing meat could be limited by thermal, curing,
and smoking facility constraints within a given plant. Under the 1976-80
Plan, provision has been made to increase total slaughtering capacities for



ANNEX 5
Page 2
all livestock from 927,000 tons carcass-weight 1/ in 1975, to 1,750,000 tons
annually by 1985 when the investments made in 1980 would be fully operational.
This would yield an incremental slaughtering capacity of 88% over 1975 levels.
Pig killing capacities for the same period would be increased from 474,000 to
862,000 tons which would be sufficient for slaughtering the additional pigs
produced as a result of investments made during the 1976-80 period. Processed
meat production capacities for the period would be increased from 170,000 to
281,000 tons to provide the necessary facilities to process the incremental
meat production generated as a result of investments in livestock production
during the Plan period.
3.        Under the Food Industry Department within the MA, the MIT is respon-
sible for the slaughtering and processing of livestock and wholesale distribu-
tion of meat and meat products produced from beef, pork, and lamb. The MIT
has 39 district enterprises and four specialized enterprises throughout the
country. The district MIT enterprises purchase livestock from IASs, ICAs,
CAPs, consumption cooperatives, and private individuals. Annual delivery
contracts are made between suppliers and MIT enterprises in order to spread
out delivery to better meat demand and minimize wide fluctuations in plant
operating schedules. The contracts are used as a basis for obtaining produc-
tion credits from BAFI. These contracts are especially important to private
producers as a basis for re'ceiving cash advances, BAFI loans, as well as
control-priced feeds. Of the total livestock slaughtering capacity existing
in Romania at the end of 1975, 89%, or 821,000 tons, was operated by the MIT.
As a result of investment commitments made during the 1976-80 period, MIT
capacity would be increased to 1,480,000 tons by 1985. Further discussion
of MIT operations is provided in Annex 2, Part I.
Meat Inspection Service
4.        In Romania, there is a well organized, internationally accepted Meat
Inspection Service within the MA. Its main responsibilities include:
(a) Enforcing meat inspection regulations;
(b) Providing inspection services at all approved slaughterhouses
and processing facilities to ensure that only wholesome and
hygienic meat products are .made available to consumers;
(c) Ensuring that facilities are constructed to meet sanitary
standards; and
(d) Collecting information on such topics as the number of
animals slaughtered by type and weight range, number of
animals condemned including cause, tonnage of meat products
produced, and tonnage of fresh and processed meats leaving
the plant.
1/   Carcass basis equals 0.75% of live-weight basis for pigs and 0.55%
for cattle.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
5.        Inspection services at a slaughtering and processing facility in-
clude ante-mortem inspection involving isolation and separate slaughter of
any suspect animal found unfit for human consumption. Post-mortem inspec-
tion is conducted of the carcass of each animal passed for slaughter to
eliminate it or any part if at that stage found diseased or otherwise unfit.
The post-mortem inspection procedures specify that the carcass, visera, and
head of each animal must be identified so that if a diseased part is found
requiring condemnation of the total animal, all the parts can be isolated for
disposal. Possible sources of contamination which attend a dressing operation
are eliminated or controlled. Carcasses are stamped to signify that the meat
is wholesome and free of disease. Continuous inspection and supervision are
conducted to ensure that the meat remains clean and wholesome during subse-
quent handling and processing into a wide variety of meat products. This
supervision includes control of thermal processing and subsequent storage
of canned products. The inspection services are also responsible for the
elimination of any meat found to be unfit, adulterated, or misrepresented.
6.        Pork is the host for the parasite Trichinella spiralis which presents
a special meat hygiene problem because it represents a serious health hazard
to man. Examinations to detect it by unaided eye are impossible. Although
Romania has a very low incidence of trichinosis, the Meat Inspection Service
conducts extensive, time-consuming, microscopic examination of muscle tissue
from each carcass to ensure the absence of this parasite prior to approving
the carcass for human consumption.
Scope of the Project
7.        The slaughterhouse and meat processing component of the project
includes (a) construction of new industrial-type meat packing facilities;
(b) modernization of existing slaughterhouses and processing plants; and
(c) construction of specialized sausage processing facilities. Provision
have been made for investments in new capacity equivalent to 4.5 investment
models for meat packing establishments (Tables 1-3) and equivalent to 3.5
investment models for specialized sausage processing facilities (Tables 4-6).
Also included is provision for modernization of existing slaughterhouses
equal to US$8.4 million (annual killing capacity for about 130,000 head
of pigs).
Meat Packing Plants
8.        An investment model has been included for a typical, industrial-
type slaughterhouse and meat processing facility which has slaughtering
capacity for 100 pigs and 25 cattle per hour on a single shift basis. The
annual output capacity would be about 42,000 tons of meat, meat products,
canned and semi-canned (pasteurized) pork products. The facilities in
which products for export are to be produced would be designed, built, and
equipped to meet international sanitary standards (mainly those of the EEC
and the US). This would apply particularly to the layout and product flow
which determine shapes and locations of various processing areas. Inedible
products would be processed in separate areas away from the slaughtering



ANNEX 5
Page 4
line and processing locations for edible products. Loading of edible products
would take place at the end of the building opposite to the livestock pens
and the loading area for inedible products. All exterior surfaces adjacent
to the plant would be hard surfaced to enable easy cleaning and washing.
9.        Sufficient livestock pens equipped with watering troughs would
be provided to keep animals for the required 24-hour holding period prior
to slaughter. Pens would have pitched, hard surface floors with drains and
sanitary curbs. A suspect pen would be included with a runway to the emer-
gency slaughter room having facilities for conducting autopsies. Storage
space for byproducts, skins, and hides would have capacity for several days'
production. The investment projections in Table 3 indicate the major com-
ponents of construction.
10.       Buildings would be single-story and of masonry type construction
with flat ceilings and finished interior walls having an impervious, washable
surface.  Concrete floors, equipped with drains, would have pitched and
finished, abrasive, impact-resistant surfaces. All openings to the building
would be screened. Standard levels of illumination in work and inspection
areas would be provided. Both the working and auxiliary areas would be
designed to allow for daily washing, disinfecting, and standard maintenance.
11.       All equipment coming in contact with edible products would be made
of stainless steel or an acceptable substitute. Pigs and cattle would be
killed, bled, and dressed on separate lines which would include the on-the-
rail dressing system. Provision would be made for identification of viscera,
head, and carcass until final inspection. Washbasins and sterilizers would be
carefully located for quick and easy use. Access to the processing area would
be confined to controlled points of entry using a strict hygiene routine.
Thermal processing retorts for canned meat products would be automatically
controlled to ensure that the internal temperature of the product reaches the
required level for the specified time. Each retort would contain recording
devices to provide a permanent record of processing time and temperature for
future reference.
12.       Water and electric power would be supplied from municipal sources.
Effluent treatment involving primary separation of fat and solid materials
would be included. Provision would be made for secondary waste treatment
to ensure that Romanian environmental standards are fully met. In fact, sur-
face rain water would be removed in a separate system from the one handling
plant waste.  Thermal energy would be produced by boilers which would supply
stream at 12 atmospheres to all departments.
13.       Complementary facilities would include offices, canteen, labora-
tory, store-rooms, maintenance facilities, laundry, gate house, scale house,
employee locker rooms and sanitary facilities, boiler and refrigeration
equipment rooms, and truck washing facilities.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
Modernization
14.       Modernization of existing slaughterhouses would include the renova-
tion of interior layouts, resurfacing of walls and floors, replacement of
unsanitary and obsolete equipment, increasing refrigerated storage space,
installation of on-the-rail dressing lines and other provisions which would
enable the renovated facilities to meet sanitary standards. These investments
would be primarily for pig slaughtering facilities.
Meat Processing Facilities
15.       An investment model has been included (Tables 4-6) of a specialized
sausage processing facility designed primarily to produce salami. The annual
output capacity of the facility would be about 2,200 tons of salami, meat
products, and byproducts. The facility would be designed to receive carcass
meat from slaughterhouses in refrigerated trucks. The totally enclosed area
adjacent to the plant would be hard surfaced for easy cleaning and washing.
One access gate would be provided to not only control vehicular and personal
movement but also to ensure that sanitary regulations are followed.
16.       The main plant would be a three-story masonry building constructed
to meet sanitary standards. Ceilings and walls would be of smooth, impervious
materials which could withstand 830C cleaning water and sanitizing compounds.
Floors would have a concrete base with impact-resistant, impervious surfaces
pitched to allow quick, efficient draining. The ventilation and air condi-
tioning installations would be designed for easy maintenance without the
danger of contaminating exposed meat products. Smoke houses would be con-
structed of suitable materials to enable cleaning. Processing and storage
areas would be ventilated and adequately illuminated. Curing rooms would be
designed for easy access to products for inspection and subsequent removal.
They would have automated control systems where temperature, humidity, and
air flow would be carefully controlled. The ground floor would have chilled
storage space for meat processing areas and packaging rooms. The first and
second floors would have curing rooms and raw material storage areas respec-
tively. High capacity elevators would service all floors. After curing,
the salami products would be returned to the ground floor for packaging
and shipping.
17.       Equipment which would come in contact with fresh meat and meat
products would be made of stainless steel. Boning tables, meat grinders,
mixers, silent cutters, stuffing equipment, meat pans, and handlng carts
would be designed and constructed of suitable material that could be easily
cleaned with 830C water and sanitizing compounds.
18.       Electric power and potable water would be supplied from municipal
sources. Boilers would supply steam for internal needs. Effluent from the
facilities would be treated prior to discharge into municipal sewerage systems.



ANNEX 5
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
PIG PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING PROJECT
ROMANIA
Model: Slaughterhouse and Processing Facility
A. Prolected Income Statement
YEAR
1-3           4             5         6-20
Revenues
Meat /                                                  -       568,250      631,390      701,544
Meat products /2                                        -        82,300       91,440      101,600
Canned meat products /3                                 --       36,870       40,100       44,560
Pasteurized canned meat /4                              --      103,247      114,720      127,465
Total                                               -      790,667      877,650       975,169
Operating Expenses
Salaries - Management and Technical /5                  --        1,987        1,987        1,987
- Workers /6                                  -        19,208        19,208       19,208
Subtotal                                                    21,195        21,195       21,195
Social Security Fund /7                                 --        3,179        3,179        3,179
Livestock purchases /8                                  --      495,878      554,481      616,090
Other raw materials                                     -       195,330      217,030      241,145
Maintenance and repairs /9                              --        7,000       12,180       13,535
General expenses /10                                    -        14,420       16,020       17,805
Utilities
Electric power /11                                    -         4,000        4,345        4,830
Water /12                                             --        1,500        1,645        1,827
Steam /13                                             -         3,500        3,855        4,287
Subtotal                                            --     724,807       812,735      902;698
Total                                                      746,002       833 930      923,893
Net Income                                                 -       44 665       43 720       51276
/1 Beef 25.9 Lei/kg 3,582T; veal 26.4 Let/kg 7,544T; pork fresh 20.8 Lei/kg
13,796 T; fat 10.4 Lei/kg 3,988 T; tallow 14 Lei/kg 786 T; inedible fats
6.1 Lei/kg 218 T and byproducts 8,080 T.
/2 Sausages, smoked meats, special cuts, smoked-salt cured specialities, and
salami.
/3 Commercially sterile canned meats pasteurized.
/4 Canned pork hams,
/5 Staff of 61 with average salary of 2,714 Lei per month.
/6 957 workers with average wage of 1,675 Lei per month.
77 Includes provision for pension, sick,benefits, hospital and physicians,
calculated at 15% of annual salaries and wages.
/8 Cattle 18,000 @ 3,989 Lei/animal, calves 42,000 e 5,413 Let/animal, and
pigs 240,000 @ 1,320 Lei/animal.
/9 Includes spare parts, routine maintenance and minor repairs.
/10 Miscellaneous expenses including insurance, expendable supplies, small
items and fuel.
/11 Electric power 9,290,000 Kwh per year @ 0.52 Lei/kwh.
/12 Water 1,260,000 m3 per year @ 1.45 Lei/m3.
/13 Steam 64,480 Tons per year @ 66.5 Lei/Ton.
14 Slaughtering and processing capacity:
Cattle  -   60,000 head annually single shift.
Pigs    -  240,000 head annually single shift.
February 1977



APPRAISAL OF
PIG FRODUCTION AND PROCESSING PROJECT
Nodel: Slaughterhouse ond Process1n Facillty
A. Projected Cash Flow
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ ___                                             TEaR                                                           _     
1                                4          1          L          L 6                    L 8   9                        1 1J 13  16
Cash tn-flov L-1--000                              -.---------------                                                     -.       -        la ____                1_._
Revenue                                 --         --         -     1790,667    877,650    975,169    975,169    975,169, ..975,169    975,169    975,169    975,169    975,169    975,169    975,169    975,169
Loan Long-term                      91,956    122,943    168,891         --         --                                - 
Loan NSdium-term                    _919        31         61--                                 --         --6--
Total in-flow                   92,875    126,057    175,078    79Q.667    877.650    975.169    975.169    975.169    975.169    975,169    975.169    975.169    975.19    95169         975.169_    975169
Cash out-flov
Operating Expanses                      --         --         --    7468OOJ   833,930    923,893    923,893    923,893    923,893    923,893    923,893    923,893    923,893    923,893    923,893    923,893
Investment                          91,956    122,943    168,891         --          --         --         --                 6,396         ..         ._      20,000         --         -.      6,398
Interest
Hedlue-ter                            --        147        201        571         186         --         --         --         --          __         __         __         __          _ 
Long-tem                             919      3,067      5,986     15,352      14,472     13,472     11,992     10,432      8,832       7,432      5,832      4,232      3,192      1,592          --         --
Loan Repayment
HIedLun-term                               --          -- _         6,500       3,720          _         __         __         __          __         _          __         __          __         __         __
long-term                           _-  __                         222000      25 0       37,        39,000     40,000     35,000      40,000     40,000     26.000     4           37           1
Totel out-flow                  92,875    126,057    175,07o    790,365    877,308    974,365    974,885    974,325    974,123    971,325    969,725    974,125    967,085    965,275    930,291    923,693
Cash flow v0                                                                          3142       80 4       2814       81414     1,         3,844      5.444      1044       8                     __48      52,276
Cash flow for Ptnanctal
Rate of Return       (91,956)  (122,943)  (168,891)   44,665      43,720     51,276    51,276      51,276,   44,878       51,276      51,276     51,276     51,276     51,276     44,878      51,276
C. Ftrnancia  Rare of Return
May 1977



APPRAISAL OF
PIG PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING PROJECT
ROMNAIA
Model:  Slaughterhouse and ProcessinR Facillty
D_ Investment
Year I                     Year 2                     Year 3                          TOTAL
Unit        Foreign                    Foreign                    Foreign                                Foreign
Unit          Cost        Exchange        Totsl       Exchange       Total      Exchange        Total       Local      Exchange        Total
ovestisent  atems    ts2                                                    Li '000        ------------_         ------------       Lei '000 -------------------------------------------------------
Buildings and Construction                                     -          _
Site preparation                                           91,800           0.2          2,481        16,540           75          500            75          500      14,909         2,631       17,540
Fencing and grounds                                         1,260           0.4                                        75           300           35          140          330          110          440
Main buildinga                                             31,875           2.7          10,750       43,000        5,000       20,000         5,198       20,790      62,842        20,948       83,790
Processing equipmentL2                                                                                             14,000       55,338        17,100       59,574      83,812        31,100      114,912
Stock pena/3                                                4,870           1.0             200        1,000          680        3,400           136          682       4,066         1,016        5,082
Emergency zlaughterhouse                                    1,338           2.5                                       566         2,262          275        1,100       2,521           841        3,362
Gatehouse, truck washing and scales4                          792            1.5             --           __            __           __          236        1,180          944          236        1,180
Warehouse, Laundry/5                                        1,120            2.1             __           __           175          700          421         1,682       1,786          596        2,382
Offal incinerator                                              S0           2.7              --           --            --           --           35           138         103           35           138
Roads and ramps                                            29,720           0.1             520        2,600          200         1,000          172          858        3,566          892        4,458
Telephone service                                             --             --              --                                                  164           820         656          164           820
Electric power system/6                                       --             --             392        1,450          945         3,500        1,625         6,022       8,010        2,962       10,972
Boiler roomL,t                                                872          11.2             135          500        2,160         8,000          349         1,294       7,150        2,644        9,794
Water systemZ                                                 __             __             750        3,000         1,800        7,200         1,219        4,877      11,308        3,769        15,077
Waste disposal systeraL                                       --             --             125          500         1,375        5,500         1,136        4,545       7,909        2,636        10,545
Heating installation                                          __             __              __           __           200          800          145           581       1,036           345        1,381
Equipment/L-                                                                                                           300          300          655         3,223       2,568          955        3,523
Administration building                                       800            1.4             __                         -- __                    277         1,109         832           277        1,109
Canteen                                                       800            1.9              - __         __           __                       383         1,532       1,149          383         1,532
Engineering servicesll                                        __             __              _         7,058            --          530            --          216       7,804             _        7,804
Mobilization and equipment installation2                      --             --               --       8,600            __        2,170            __        1,430      12,200                     12,200
Start-up testing and training1                                _-             _                           121            __        1,300            __        2,440       3,861             _        3,861
Vehicles                                                                                      -            -                                      3199         6,398       3199         3_19'7        6 398
Subtotal                                                                            15,353        84,369       27,551      112,800        32,835      121,131     242,561        75,739      318,300
Physical contingency (4%)                                                                   614        3 375         1,102        4,512         1,314        4845        9,702         3,030       12 732
Subtotal                                                                            15,967        87,744       28,653      117,312        34,149      125,976    252,263         78,769      3,1 ,032
Base Price Adjustment /14                                                                    i66        4,212         1,375        5,631         1,639        7,735      13,797         3,781       e7,5 8
Incremental Working Capital                                                                                                            -35 180                            35_180            _        35,180
Total                                                                                  33 97  956              3            1   943       3168891   301 240                      82 550       3
/i Includes separate slaughtering lines for cattle and for pigs, refrigerated storage coolers, processing
areas and dry storage facilities.
/2  Includes refrigeration system, slaughtering, processing and packaging equipment and control system.
3  Receiving facilities for livestock including holding pens.
Includes gate hoLAse for guards, truck washing facilities for cleaning trucks after unloading livestock and vehicle
scales for determining weight of animle.
L5 Includes storage warehouse for non-perishable supplies, laundry facillties and a maintenance shop for making repairs.
Li Includes high and low voltage electric transformers, master control system, and electric distribution network.
Includes boilero, fuel  supply, fuel prehepting station and tae ster controln
8  Includes potable  fnd industriu   l water rupply, exterior water distribution network tnd connections to water sources, 
Includes waste treatment plant, both rain water and waste water collection and disposal system. 
10  Includes equipment installed in buildings ottbr than those given in 2 above.
1   Includes site surveys and investigations, facility design, and engineering supervision during construction.
12 Includes mobilization costs associated with delivery of raw material, temporary power connections, equipment
and temporary facilities and installation of equipment.
13 Includes training of both new workers and managemerit staff, testing of equiputent and start-up testing of all systems.
/14 Base price adjustment calculated from information presented during negotiations reflecting price increase effected December 1976 of 4.8*.
May, 1977



ANNEX 5
Table 4
APPRAISAL OF
PIG PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING PROJECT
ROMANIA
Model:  Sausase Processing Facility
A. Proiected Income Statement
Full                     ~~~~~~YEAR
Froull ion      1-2        3             4                - 20
Production   _    __   _3_Lei '000-~~~~~~~~~
Revenues                     Capacity
Salami Sibui-type /           525           __      27,684        36,912        46,140
Salami Slanic-type /2         525           --      15,181        20,242        25,302
Meat products /3              818           --        7,050        9,400        11,750
By-products /4                298           --        1182         1576          1.970
Total                                     --      51,097        68,130        85,162
Operating Expenses
Salaries
Workers /5                                --        1,978         2,226        2,473
Management and technical /6               --           78            78            78
Social Security benefits  7                 --          308          346           383
Raw materials /8                            --      39,955        50,607        63,257
Maintenance /9                              --          700           735           915
General expenses /                          --       3,622         4,140         5,174
Utilities
Water  X                            -                  30            35            45
Steam                                      -2        450           492           585
Electric power /13                                    910          955         1.117
Total                                   --      48,031        59,614        74,027
Net Income                                    --        3.066         8.516
L Selling at 88 Lei per kg.
Selling at 48 Lei per kg.
Includes pork filet 37.7 Lei per kg, pork trirmuinpat 24.2 Lei per kg., beef
trimiungs 2&d quality 28.2 Lei per kg, beef trimings 3rd quality at 18.7
Lei per kg, beef brisket 11.14 Lei per kg, spare ribs 4.7 Lei per kg, shoulder
bones with trimming 10.9 Lei per kg.
/4  Includes small bones, excess fat, and trimmings.
126 workers at 1,635 Lei per month.
, 3 management at 2,167 Lei per month.
15% of salaries and wages.
Raw materials include pork and beef chilled sides 47 million Lei and other raw
materials such as spices, boxes, natural casings, at 3.9 Lei per linear meter.
/9 Includes spare parts, routine maintenance and minor repairs.
41  Includes3insurance, expendable supplies, and fuel.
31,,000 m  per year at 1.45 Lei per m
2   8,798 tons at 66.5 Lei per ton.
3   2,148 kwh at 0.52 Lei per kwh.
February, 1977



APPRAISAL OF
PIG PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING PROJECT
ROMANIA
Model: Sausage Processing Facility
B. Proiected Cash Flow
YEAR
1          2          3           g                    -6          7            a           9          10                                 13        14-20
Cash in-flow                           -------------- -------------------------------------------------------- Lei '000 ----------_--------_--__--__--__--____________________--_____________
Revenue                                                     51,097      68,130      85,162     85,162      85,162     85,162      85,162      85,162     85,162      85,162      85,162     85,162
Loan Long-term                       17,253      35,193     20,620          _           __         __ _        __         __
Loan Medium-term                        173         706          - -                                           --          --         -- -                    -- -  -                            - 
Total in-flow                        17.426      35,899     71,717      68,130      85.162     85.162      85.162     85,162      85162      85,162     85.162      85.162      H5J62      85.162
Cash out-flow
Operating expenses                                           48,031    59,614       74,027     74,027      74,027      74,027     74,027      74,027      74,027     74,027      74,027      74,027
Investment                           17,253      35,193     20,620          --          __         __          __        620          --          --       3,000         --         620          __
Medium-term                                         9          44
Long-term                              173        697       1,254      2,922       2,722      2,403       2,075      1,747       1,419       1,091         763        483         186          --
Loan Repayment
Medium-tern,                           __         __         879         --          --          --         --          -      -         --      _          -          --         _           __
Long-term                              --                                 0      8.000       8.200       8 200      8,200      8§200        8,20        7,0        8,200       4,666          __
Total out-flow                  17,426      35,899     70,828      67,536     814,749     84,630      84,302     84,5i4      83,646      83,318     84,790      82,710      79,499      14,027
Cash flow                                  __         __         889        594         413         532        860         568      1,516       1,844         372       2,452      5,633      11,135
Cash flow for Financial
Hate of Return       (17,253)   (35,202)   (17,598)       8,516     11,135      11,135     11,135      10,515      11,135      11,135      8,135      11,135      10,515     11,135
C.  Financial Rate of Return         12%
May 1977



APFRAISAL OF
PIG PRODUCTION ANt PROCESSING ?ROJECT
Model: Sousage Processing Factlity
D.  Tnvetmentts
Year 1                   Year 2                  YeSr 3                                Total
Unit Cost        Foreign                 Foreign                   Poe ign                            Foreign
Unit          LeiUit           Zjgjg         Tota      Excha          Total      Exchange    TotAl       Local      Exchange       Tor4l
_ __  _*                                     Le   ----------------- Lei '000 ----------------- ------------------------
investment Items
Site preparation                                    8,270m3          310                 30         200           8          57          _                       219          38         257
Fencing                                               460e           223                 12          SO          13          52                                   77          25         102
Msan building It                                    8,800w2        2,564              2,100       7,000       1,571       8,570       2,100       7,000       16,799       5,771      22,570
Refrigeration plant Zg                              2,400.2        2,517              1, 'OO      4,000         512       2,040                               4,328        1,712       6,040
Processing equipment LI                                                                  -- -3                2,100      10,000         587       2,550        9,863       2,687      12,550
Refrigeration equipment /4                                                               --          --       1,415       8,000         407       2,035        8,213       1,822      10,035
Warehouse f5                                          60OW2          616                  -          --          68         300           17          70         285          85         370
Gatehouse and scale Li                                 24n2                              --                      38         ISO            8          36         140          46         186
Roads and ramps                                     3,71982 150                          80         400          20         100           12          58         446         112         558
Electric power system /7                                                                216         800         244       1,200         148          550       1,942         608       2,550
Water supply systeto /8                                                                 175         70(           88        350           42         170         915         305       1,220
Sewerage system  9                                                                      188         750          88         350           37         150         937         313       1,250
Heating system /1L0                                                                      30         120          20           80          --          --                                 200
Engineering services .-                                                                             850                                                        1 250  75  1175         1,075
Equipment installation and mobilization                                                  __         900           --        650           --         150       1,700          --       1,700
Start-up testing and tratiting /t3                                                       --          60          __         140           --          65         265                     265
Subtotal                                                                         4,031       15,830       6,185      32,289       3,358      12,909       47,454      Ti,54       61,028
Physical contingency 4%                                                                 161         633          247      1,292          135         517       1.899         543       2,442
Base Price Adjustment /l4                                                            4,192      16463        644        3351         3493        131426      49,353      14,117      63 470
incremental working capital                                       201~~~~~~~~~;Ra  790    309       1,612          168         94        2,668          678
Incremencal wox0rking capitsl                                                                                                                     - _   _   _  -  6.250  6.250         6Z00
Total                                                                             4,391      17 253          791    35,193        3,661      20,620       58,271      14,795      73,066
4     Includes refrigerated meet storage rooms, boning, grinding, mixing and staffing areas, curing and raw material storage rooms.
Facility for refrigeration compreesoras, controls, condensors and ancillary equipment.
f3    Includes boning tables, saws, grinders, m.xers, choppers, stuffers, curing bins, haudling equipment and packaging units.
Includes compressors, condensors, evaporators, controls, receivers and motors.
Nlonrefrigerated storage.
includes facility for guards and scales,
i Includes high and low voltage electric transformers, master control system and electric power distribution system,
Includes water distribution network and connections to taunicipat water source.
Includes vaste creatment system.
10 Includes boiler, fuel supply canks, and waster controls.
Il  Includes site surveys and investigation*, facility design and engineering supervision during construction.
Includes installatton of equipment and stArt up coscs connected with construction.                                                                                                    t
l13   Includes training of both new workers and management staff, testing of equipment and the system prior to releasinv' the contracror.                                                    M,
114   8sse price adjustment calculated fromA information presented during r,egotiations reflecting price increases effective December 1976 of 4,81.                                          c 
MHy 1977



ANNEX 6
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
PIG PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING PROJECT
ROMANIA
Project Procurement Projections
1.   List of Construction Materials to be procured under International
Competitive Bidding.  Romanian suppliers expected to win contracts:
Amount
U/M    Quantity      US$ Million
Steel reinforcing rods for concrete          ton      34,000            12.0
Electric cable                               km        2,900            14.0
Asbestos sheets                              m2   5 million              4.0
Steel pipe                                   ton      13,000             2.0
Structural steel                             ton      18,000             9.0
41.0
2.   Slaughterhouse and Meat Processing Equipment to be procured by ICB.
(a)  Equipment not produced in Romania:                      US$   9.4 million
Automatic controls for refrigeration systems,
Controlled atmosphere, and thermal processing
equipment,Canning line items, sausage produc-
tion units, packaging line components,
Specialized meat processing items.
(b)  Equipment which is produced in Romania:                 US$  20.6 million
Boilers, scales, refrigeration system compo-
nents, killing line equipment, boning and
processing tables, meat conveyor systems,
pumps, pickling tanks, mixers, grinders,
retorts, smoke and curing house equipment,
motors, electric saws, handling equipment.
US$ 30.0 million
US$ 41.0 million
Total:      US$  71.0 million
May 1977



ANNEX 7
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
PIG PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING PROJECT
ROMANIA
Total Project Cost and Investments by Year
Year
1977       1978        1979        1980         Total
- - Lei '000
Pig Fattening Complexes
Cooperatives                 252,958    693,513    508,350    147,248    1,602,069
State Enterprises            222,929    448,428    265,298       45,265       981,920
Pig Breeding Farms
Cooperatives                 412,662    438,515       79,297                  930,474
State Enterprises             85,970      97,636      16,920         --       200,526
Pig Farm Modernization         171,337    155,643       29,020          --      356,000
Pig Selection Farms             34,000      58,400      12,600          -       105,000
Slaughterhouse and Heat
Processing Facilities        252,604    596,410    827,040    430,126    2,106,180
Slaughterhouse Modernization   68,355       79,480      19,165          -       167,000
Total                    1,500,815  2,568,025  1,757,690    622,639    6,449,169
May 1977



ANNEX 8
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
PIG PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING PROJECT
ROMANIA
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
(US$ '000)
Bank Fiscal Year      Disbursements         Cumulative Disbursements      Outstanding Balance
and Quarter.         during Quarter.        at end of Quarter             at end of Quarter
1978
I                    --                         -                          71,000
II                    500                        500                        70,500
III                  3,000                      3,500                        67,500
IV                  4,000                      7,500                         63,500
1979
X                  4,100                     11,600                        59,400
II                  4,400                     16,000                        55,000
III                  6,000                     22,000                        49,000
IV                  6,300                     28,300                        42,700
1980
I                  7,000                     35,300                        35,700
II                  7,600                     42,900                        28,100
III                  6,600                     49,500                        21,500
IV                  5,400                     54,900                        16,100
1981
I                  4,400                     59,300                        11,700
II                  3,500                     62,800                         8,200
III                  2,500                     65,300                          5,700
IV                  2,300                     67,600                         3,400
1982
I                  2,000                     69,600                         1,400
II                  1,400                     71,000
May 1977



APPRkAlfL oF
PIG PRMWCTION AND PROCES8ING PROFXCT
EstimStes of project RecDipts and Diaburaments
Y E A R
1977      1978        1979       1980     1981      1982      1983      1984      1985      1986      1987       198       1989      1990      1991      1992      1993       1994      1995
pAceipto~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e~O
IBTlD Loan                                  298.200    552,380    413,220    156.2o0            --        --        --        --        --        --      -o  --                                -- --                --        --        -
BMI - Fund for lWg-ters Lo-ns               995,305  1.666,760  1.166,500    422,304       --        --        --         --       --        --              --        --        --             --              --             --
Cooperative' Ow.k runds                     207,310    348,885    177,97f'    44,135       --        __        __        __         __        __        __        __        __         __       __         __
Indireet Transfer from BSdget L              10,179      8.098      5,267      3,316    2,535     2,316     2,081     1,843      1,612     1,379    1,142        923       703       523        392       279       165        51        _
Me.al  tern Borroving  from  National Bank    14,677   54,819     58,566          --       --        --             --        --        --        --              --        --        --        --        -- --                          - -
SMb-Lam, Feuonta L2                              -.         --         --   209,707  390,942   438,047   470,335   474,789   463,655   465.882  473,676   437.178   440,329  360,689  262,592   226.491   226,491   226,491   103.576
Interest on Long-term Loma /L                15,362     56,983    103,207    170,483  2o0,865   186,435   170,123   152,588   134,7140   117,404    99,979    82,242    65.965    45,562    36,345    27,051    19,201    11,358      3.'(9
Interat on lMedls-teu Loans                      --        612      1.944      5,271    4,151     2,006       751        134        -         -_        __        __        __         __        __
Repaent on Medl-tem Lonns                        _      1         17.673     47,842   59  366    40,472    2.1410     3,387                                                                                                         - --_  _
Total Inflow                          1,541,033  2,688,537  1,944,347  1,059,258  657,859   669,276   664,70o   632,741   600,007   584,665   574,797   520,343   506,997   406,774   299,329   253,021   245,857   237,900   107,0
Disbursemnts
tong-term Loans                           1,293,505  2,219,1140  1,579,720    578,504      --        --         --        --        __        --        --        __         __        __        __        __        __        __          _
Cooperative Equity Capital                  207,310    348,885    177,970     44,135                 --        -_         __        __        __        __        __         __        __        __        __
Adinterative Cost                               647      1,756      2,546      2,730    2,535     2,316      2,081     1,843     1,612     1.379     1,142       923        703       523       392       279       165         51
Interest on rBRD Loan (8.5)                  12,226     47,100     86,690    110o036  1o6,737    97,033    87,330    77,627    67,923    58,220    48,517    38,814    29,110    19,407       9,704        __        __         __        __
Coitment Fe. (IDRD Loan) L                    9,532      6,342      2,721        586       --         --       ,_         __        __        -_        __         __        __        __        __        __         __
Repayment of TBRD Loan L--                                  -          --    118,333  118,333   118,333  11.333   118,333   118,333   118,333   118,333   118,333   118,333   118,333   118,333            --        --         --        --
Ilnterest o0 Dorrowings from National Bankic     --        220      1,043      1,921    1,870       979        372        50        --        --             --        __    __        __        __         __        __
Repaymwnt of Borrowing to
Rational BankE (1,5%)                          --         __         __      3,428   59,366    40,472    21,,410     3,387        --        --        --         __        __        __        __         __        __        __
Medliu-term Loans                            14,677     54,819    76,240      44,414       __         __        __        __        __        __        __         __        __        _ 
Collsctiona rturned to Fand for
Long-term Loans                                       10 000     17000    154 000368000   409 000            434,000   430,000   411   0  16o00   4o6,0oo   361,D    358,000   268,0           170,000    45,869  ___ 
Total Outflow                         1,540,897  2,688262  1943,930  1,058087  656,841   668,133  663,526   631.2o40   598868  5392   573,992   519,070   506.146   406,263   298,429    16,2                    165        51_
Net Cash Flow Returned to Budget                                      1417     1.171    1.018      1.113     1.1714    1 501     1.139                  M     33   851 z1                              206 287      3         .2459692    =31  107,080
/  For Adinieatrative Coata and Comnttnt Fee on 1SM0 Loan.
On Deceas r 31.
2S durtng construction and 4% afterwards (State Eaterprise); 3A(Coop"ratives).
0.05% of Loans outstanding.
0.75% per year on undisburaed BRD Loan.
1.5%5 per annum.
May 1977



ANNEX 10
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
PIG PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING PROJECT
ROMANIA
Economic Rate of Return of the Project
1.        The proposed project represents a two-year tranche from Romania's
1976-80 national development program for the pig production and processing
subsector. Through credit to finance investments in pig production, slaughter-
houses, and meat processing facilities, the project would make a major contri-
bution toward fulfillment of planned increases in domestic meat supplies and
generation of increased exports. Specifically) project output would total
208,100 tons of pork (live-weight) by 1981, representing 76% of the estimated
requirements needed to boost annual per capita pork consumption from 23 kg
(1975) to 29 kg by the end of the 1976-80 Plan period. The project would (a)
facilitate increased intake of this preferred dietary commodity, (b) enable
greater consumption of high-grade proteins, (c) make additional provision for
consumption needs of an expanding and increasingly urbanized population, and
(d) improve the geographical distribution of pig production and processing
complexes and resulting goods for retail. As part of the larger investment
program (1976-80) the project would contribute,to a total incremental pork
output reaching 428,500 tons live-weight by 1983. Project processing plants
would have sufficient capacity to handle 148,000 tons of pork, 32,400 tons of
beef, and 71,820 tons of baby beef (live-weight) per year at full production
in 1983. Maintaining per capita pork consumption at 29 kg in that year, an
excess incremental supply of 131,100 tons of pork would be produced. Incre-
mental exports would permit additional foreign exchange earnings, principally
in convertible currencies, and an improvement in the country's balance of
payments situation. Export earnings f::om sales to the EEC and the US would
especially be sought to help finance development of the industrial sector,
primarily involving capacity expansion and technological upgrading.
2.        Calculation of the economic rate of return of the project was based
on the following assumptions:
(a) Construction of project works would begin in 1977. The pig
production component would reach full production by 1981,
meat processing facilities by 1982, and slaughterhouses by
1983.
(b) The project life would be 20 years.
(c) Investment costs were estimated using 1976 prices and
reflect a 15% increase in construction costs enacted in
Romania that year. While physical contingencies have been
included in the calculation, those contingencies to cover
price escalations have been omitted.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
(d) Operating costs and benefits were likewise evaluated based
on constant 1976 prices.
(e) Costs covering insurance, social security, and payments to
children's funds were excluded from the analysis.
(f) No special shadow pricing was considered necessary for labor
employed in project complexes. Artisanal laborers and manage-
rial staff utilized in these units would receive wages and
salaries comparable to counterparts throughout the Romanian
economy. Other laborers employed in operational production
activities would however receive wages and salaries relatively
high to those received in crop production activities. It is
expected that much of the operational manpower required on
project units would be drawn from surplus labor employed, but
underutilized, on crop production complexes or from labor dis-
placed by increased mechanization on these facilities (See
Annex 1, para 1.1).  These resun ra_ic.. dIff-reatials aLe
considered to reflect the following factors: (i) relocation,
(ii) retraining (See Annex 1, para 6.4), (iii) the full-time,
production-line nature of their new duties, and (iv) assumption
of additional tasks and responsibility in livestock activities.
The importance of the last item should not be minimized. As
discussed in Annex 4, paras 12 and 13, the level of technical
efficiency achieved in a pig production complex is to a great
extent a direct function of the skill and competence of the
operators, or pigmen, working in the pig houses. Detecting
oestrus in sows, breeding in a timely manner, observing the
health of the herd on animal-specific and daily bases, assisting
in deliveries, protecting piglets in farrowing pens, and careful
monitoring and recording are but some of the important functions
of house operators. The cruciality of significant skill levels
for these activities becomes especially pronounced in Romania
due to the sizes of herds maintained on production complexes.
On large units, treating each animal as a separate unit becomes
difficult; however the consequences of improper detection of
health abnormalities would be enormous (See Annex 4, para 4).
Similarly, with regard to the semi-skilled and the few unskilled
workers employed in processing facilities, the international
hygiene standards maintained in project units require careful
execution of duties and assumption of responsibility. There-
fore, while recognizing that crop production complexes have
traditionally provided a surplus labor pool from which new
livestock production and processing facilities have relied for
labor requirements, utilization of lower farm wage rates was
deemed inappropriate for the analysis. Alternatively, in
order to obtain experienced workers of the caliber required in
operational activities on project units, salaries comparable
to those employed in the financial analyses would have to be
offered. These salaries are assumed to reflect reasonably
foregone marginal productivity of comparable workers.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
(g) Tradeable inputs and outputs were valued according to interna-
tional prices at the Romanian border. Nontradeables were
valued according to domestic prices. Assumptions concerning
technical coefficients, yields, and prices are fully specified
in Table 1.
(h)  BAFI administrative costs equal 0.05% of loans outstanding
(Annex 9).
(i) The official international trading rate of 20 lei equal to
US$1 has been utilized.
3.        The following benefits are attributable to the components of the
project:
(a)  Incremental meat output.  At full development (1981) of in-
cremental pig production capacity financed under the project,
an additional 208,100 tons of live-weight pork would be avail-
able for domestic consumption or exports. Pork consumption
levels could thereby be raised more in line with those recorded
in other Eastern European countries and closer to those of
Western European consumers (See Annex 2, para 3.4). Project
facilities would be geographically placed in order to meet more
suitably the consumption requirements of regional populations.
Additional meat exports to western nations, if feasible (See
Annex 2, Part IV), would allow an inflow of valuable con-
vertible foreign exchange. If total processed output from
the project were valued at international and domestic prices,
as appropriate, the economic value of the meat would reach 7.4
billion lei by 1983.
(b)  Manure.  At full development of project pig production capa-
city, an estimated 428,700 tons of manure would be generated
annually on project complexes. When converted to fertilizer
equivalents and valued at border prices, this commodity has
an estimated value to society of 3.4 million lei per year.
(c) Protein meals. In meat processing, a small quantity of meat
scraps, bone, and blood are converted into meal and recycled
as a high protein animal feed component. This quantity is
approximately equal to 1.8-2.0% of live-weight throughput
tonnage. Under the project, an estimated 5,600 tons of
by-product meals would be produced by 1983. When valued
according to international prices for soybeans (3,900 lei/
ton) with upward adjustment for internal transport and
handling, these livestock meals would represent a yearly
savings of 23.6 million lei in foregone soybean meal imports.



ANNEX 10
Page 4
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Tests
4.        The Romanian economy is expected to realize at least an 17.0% rate
of return from total project investments inclusive of physical contingencies
(See Table 1). No separate rates of return were computed for the pig pro-
duction and processing components because of the integrated nature of the
production system. Because the pig production complexes produce live pigs
for the slaughterhouses and the slaughterhouses generates carcasses for
sausage processing facilities, the components are not independent. Separate
calculations would merely reflect the impact of price differences within the
subsector (Annex 2, paras 2.4-2.5). Therefore, separate analysis was deemed
inappropriate.
5.        Sensitivity tests were conducted to assess the stability of the
economic rate of return to variation in project cost and benefit streams.
While displaying relative insensitivity to a ten percent in investment costs
(15.4%), the economic rate of return did reveal a high degree of sensitivity
to a ten percent increase in operating costs (7.2%) and to a ten percent
reduction in project benefits (5.0%). Examination of the relative magnitudes
of investment costs, operating costs, and benefits provides explanation for
this observed sensitivity. In the third year of the project (1979), for
example, a ten percent increase in investment costs, represents only 3.8% of
total project costs and 7.6% of project benefits. Alternatively, in the
seventh year of the project (1983), a ten percent increase in operating costs
equals 47.7% of net benefits, while ten percent of benefits represents 58.0%
of net benefits. Such sensitivities are not atypical of livestock production
activities employing grain-intensive feeding systems where operating costs
(chiefly reflecting feed costs) are high relative to income. At the same
time, because of the importance of feed input in livestock production activ-
ity, supply of livestock commodities and feed prices, and hence, prices of
livestock and feeds are correlated, usually involving a lagged adjustment
in output and output prices.
6.        Attention is drawn to discussion of technical efficiency in pig
production in Romania (main text, para 2.20 and Annex 4, paras 12-14).
Achievement of technical efficiencies would improve the economic rate of
return and would reduce sensitivity oscillation. If sow fertility were
increased from a relatively low 12.5 to 13.5 marketed pigs per sow per
year, the base economic rate of return would increase to 19.2%, repre-
senting a 13% change. Assuming this additional marketed pig per sow per
year, a 10% increase in operating costs would cause a drop in the economic
rate of return of 9.4 percentage points (in comparison with 9.8 in the
base case). Similarly, by improving the feed conversion efficiency by ten
percent, i.e. 396 to 356 kg of feed concentrates for a 110 kg pig (live-
weight), the economic rate of return would rise by 19% to 20.2%. With this
higher level of feed conversion efficiency, a 10% increase in operating cost
would result in a decline in the rate of return of only 8.6 percentage points.



ANNEX 10
Page 5
7.        Risk.  The risks associated with project investments would be minimal.
Design of the project has been prepared in detail, and the Government has well
organized and coordinated plans to supply necessary manpower, materials, and
technical expertise to complete project works on schedule. The project
represents a two-year investment program directly from the 1976-80 national
development plan whose directives are obligatory and carry legal authority.
The Government in addition (a) has allocated sufficient grain to support the
project, (b) stands ready to forego grain exports, if necessary, to support
livestock activities, (c) is actively pursuing programs to expand domestic
production of high grade proteins for feed manufacture, and (d) supports the
import of protein materials to supplement domestic supplies. The relatively
long-term nature of project production activities makes it difficult to
analyze export prospects for incremental production of pork or total meat
with any degree of accuracy. However, as argued in Annex 2, paras 3.6 and
3.7, incremental pork production from the project, as well as projected
incremental total meat quantities generated under the 1976-80 Plan, could
reasonably be absorbed through internal consumption. The technology to be
employed in project facilities is well established in Romania, and levels
of efficiency observed are acceptable, but amenable to improvement (See
Annex 4, paras 13, 14, and 15). Project construction is usually completed
within the time schedule specified by Government, and costs overruns are rare.
Construction costs and wages, for example, are fixed for the duration of the
1976-80 Plan period. Economic risk is similarly considered limited due to
the unlikelihood of a future rise international feedgrain prices without a com-
pensatory adjustment through market forces in prices of pork and pork products.
8.        Employment and Distribution of Project Benefits.  The project would
create an estimated 9,000 full-time jobs in project facilities located through-
out the country. This implies a capital investment cost of 895,000 lei
(US$44,700) per full-time job created directly through the project (in con-
stant 1976 prices). As is customary in Romania, the project would include a
detailed education component for all levels of operational and managerial staff
employed in project complexes to upgrade skill levels (Annex 1, para 6.6).
9.        The socio-political system in Romania maintains income distribution
mechanisms (Annex 2, Part II), which would pass on project benefits to a much
wider segment of the population rather than merely limiting them to those
individuals employed in project facilities. Considering the society in toto,
the entire population is expected to benefit from increased availability of
meat and meat products enabling improvement in nutritional balance.



I    2           3            4            5            0                                                  I                                      U            1I-           15                                                   32
ail0-.f    .uao8t-rto.   a12(3         -        271.406    1.,496,235    5,199,1.0   6,792,691    6, 7,~       6,997,287    6,997,287   ,6,997,287    6,9917,287    6,997,2317   6,9927.9    's,99to17    6,9~97,21'    6,j97,21' ~,,)7,267   '6. O97,f    S;9'.2f7    6,997,287    6,997,291
iIna 000dm from Eoa.. mp ollit.aA i                       -          70,2'19     269.2741     351,09.08      9,050      409528       W.9,528      W129520      1.09,528      1.09520     1.09,529      1.59,55 1.528  49.        1.29,526     529,529      1.9,528      529,521        ".09520    1.39,5263
Pongoiaa Soytoon Ma! Import. /6/7          ~127        7,31.6      i6,s01       22,1469      23,200       23,9         23 5%C       23,59        23,3%         23,59'      22,Z9O        23,59,       23.79'       Z3or         23,5971     213,5         23,3%        21   23,397  37
Moor. In FtrOlltooranoi.n.     --           ~~~~27     1,611        3.089        3,41.1       3.41.1       3,1.         3,41.1       3,4111       3.1.91.      3,41.1        3 11.1.) 3 41              ,1.         3,1          3 41.        3 1.11       31.        4        3,111 j,
P0.3.t1 B.-ofit To   l                             fl7       13irU1m    P(1A 57    ii35562~  71W231    Z,4T,1X9    73r315    rQsWm                      rVnM         -    MTirT   T1.IirT9    72453.T1    r.irs           r7i"         rz 43tsrr519'-Ts-n                     1.433M,   r'ww
Projoot Coat.
K, P-d-tit 1.153                       1,53 ;                                                                                                                                                                                                  --           -- -i62  I,-
OP.raOIo  Coat.      L1
Ptg Pno8oto,. /1311  j                     -        235,329    1,0,01    2,686,305    2,8.087967    0,789,967    2.78996        2..967    2.71 9,967    2,789,.967    2,789,967    2,78 9,967    2.7r89,967    2,789,967    2,789,967    2,789,967    2,789.967   2,789,07 279967    2,189,967    2.789,967
uprO A4da.Ia.ti_llc.~.t. A7                  ...- 3 .,.J756              2,.. 46      2.730        2,535         0.316        2.08         1.81.3     1...JI     ...A1379         1.       9....A       ......3~  .......E         .....Jt    ... 2          ......2             It.......
rjool coat noa1                              1.168018 2,.1.6933    3,3.56258    5,02,376   75,872,698    6,069,533    6,131,11.    6,132,527    6,198,676         6,1t67,201   6.138,o62    6,198,859    6,22,1.5     ,10,6        6,156,1357    6.166,101    6, 11.9,33    6,19,1ni    6,11.9,068    6,11.9,00
Pooj.oO  Wa Bamo fit.                       (1,1.68,.O8a)2.299.373) (1,387,1377     356,9911   1,287,014    1, 286,6%o    1,289,678e   1,281,252    1,27311.3    1,266,618    1.275,737    1.23k,960    1,208,1.06    1.282,937    1.277662    1.267,ne    1,28,591       1.284.708    1,284,739    2.048,01
900,0m   Mtt. of Balor,  ad Oaoaltloty Anoints fr.  Total Proiso.t
0B-0  Tn9Oflt0967                 t0549309999'10   voaf%t.-10  10% IflfoVAWtto SI.   dC-nvoejo  Ffflotny  A. Additlotol l4Mtka,d '-IoS/Y-/o
t P,*P"-tt.'u                                     .-  -lmh-O        s 190),toal-t  2,W   -   att.  2  .4 t197t-A2 133                 23.2.ty~    b03   -.)P.-4(i- 19.2                     ')I       ii.t   .k
poodont d. o alana0ttr1.0a-  Inaorao  wt   nn.   Ildo:   lotr-    oamo .ooaIr4  rlilty. A. Po3oot.8 boom  Stat mn.
NtI... ottllno:   a Boat o-raona  25,100 1.1/ta, trdal   T;C)10.  oforaaa                         400 1.1/ton (T); Cc) pork caro-.a, 23,1.8  1.1/too CT); 4) oAtl. fto, 10.1.0 1.I/Xg,  (otm,aO Wt); CI) tal.  1.o11t   W) 11odbetn,  .0114(f)   s  ysdo.  5
3.14,w (AT); (b.) noaoA sodsta  otta, 54.30 MA1/a   (Ti C) noso  metta, 29.71 lo t/t  (S; (5) o-..oo  baa, 55.60 3.1/43 (T),
/ Pnj.ot aaoaaa  Taolitta. aapllod .100 pork aw  boot naoaoa  tao pnj.t aiotr ta;Prodoot mla of Projaot ----03  f-.ottlta  It oonntaro  .1t8 An-  3, 003.0:  Ba.-M   P-.o.s.In  F4olOlt, A.  Pnjao.td I-oo  6ut-s.oa
7 Wi.. .111.0 :  Cm) 011.8. *a Lo1±8.40 t.at/t  Ct)  Ct) Shasta -UlaIs, 78.h(1.0 atk  (Ti; Co) troth pork an  bof otto, 11.36 1.1/A& (or); Cd) 1.yprndot., &6.6  to/t  (wrC.
Ura.Aoa  ,Tba1 002.0. masi Prlna: US t%, tip p0tt.0.A.. 03195/too (3,970 IIIttlot.
ft Sning  of Importod aoytao o1 trnopart an  ta,1dlIo  forgp. 8 296 13to
At ful  aminps.nt of pig podootim ..opsoty (1981),  8.28700 tons of                             -ho.sss.t8ys mo ton of   nooctta     1.04 kg II, 0.53 kg P, sod 0.09 kg t;  -or  anal.. Inorootd typtt of .:trotooo  -A8 phoaphtot.rttI -.is.r   owl r..oo  impot of pVtoaalo  f.art-loso
Polo.. otilltnd: lire, 2,71A1 1.1/too CT); TSP, 2,080 1.1/ton (T); MOP, 1,800 3./tan; t-Ifaot and MA,.llni     otM Ioro  to tortn  for Sa  nod TIP, t.t aa-d  ,tnt  08 296 1./to..
Maf An.- 4,  ojontod Ca, noon:  (I) MooS:  PIg ors.dlNgJtt.ning-.52.000 p1g./"-9tat.                       (b.pla;C) Md.l,  C-o.trod 0111 P-odaotln--960 Gilt./yr--Stto  fStonpnln.
Oaf. Ano,aa 41. o.t=n  tabl..; -Xanlg onpit.1 sooldod.
Oa.r  Atot 4 Ooa Statants; cot. foI Aotokprtaao   nit    otyfot  notno  2ouit,afodoIoA;okodro±to  Ioods 3.6o..,0   l./rft..lnadl olllo  o   roI                                                                                 00   200   laorrtai,kmdlM
ton-nlo cooikla  of faad,  8% foro tad. (60% a1.A  A0 2.0% arlay); 19% aoYtaon m.a; ot 18 yitoolo-.dtln.1onla
vsaootboa of" Ma!omoat;ot-, fob 80111 USoM. 2,2,103 31/ton; barhy., foodia  MD. 2 Si. Roo, Tondor 9ay. 1.967 1.1/to; aoyt.a   -s  Cons L); ntsl-ia.1pol,5 oftnol0oa  f Iod  oo.tsta
Ref. An.. 3   om  statant.; aootol .oooty food amttad.
V.I. Aoo 91 1.05% of a.- ootato.Alng.
lOot 1977



C)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
s~~~ ° 9za         ~                  
Je >                                                   I> *  ) ,.-,
r O \, >   Jl ' P   !; f=  f E j   S                   z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, 
. .,..                                     C              c



