              Document of
           The World Bank


                                      Report No: 67009 v1




       RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                ON A

  PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                OF
HEALTH SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT
               LOAN


           MARCH 14, 2006


               TO THE

        REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA


          FEBRUARY 15, 2012
            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




 Regional Vice President:    Philippe H. Le Houerou
        Country Director:    Jane Armitage
Sector Manager / Director:   Daniel Dulitzky
       Task Team Leader:     Lorena Kostallari
                                Extension of Closing Date




         ALBANIA — HEALTH SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT
            CREDIT NO. 4154 AND GRANT NUMBER TF055804




1. This memo seeks your approval to extend the Closing Date of the Albania Health
   System Modernization Project, (Credit No 4154 ALB) and the related PHRD Grant (TF
   055804) from March 31, 2012 until June 30, 2012. This would be the second Project
   and Grant extension, for a total of 21 months.

2. The Project was approved by the World Bank Board on March 14, 2006 and became
   effective on July 9, 2006. The Project has twice undergone level two restructurings. The
   first project restructuring was completed in May 2010, and included: (a) the revision of a
   number of Project activities and the results framework; and (b) an 18-month extension
   of the original Closing Date from September 30, 2010 to March 31, 2012. The second
   restructuring was approved in October, 2011, and included: (a) the revision and
   cancellation of certain project activities and (b) a reallocation of credit proceeds.

3. The Project’s Development Objectives is rated as Moderately Satisfactory. Project
   implementation has overall shown good progress. This progress is positively supporting
   the achievement of project development objectives (DOs), specifically: (i) improving
   access to and use of high quality primary health care services - PDO 1, and (ii)
   improving hospital governance and management – PDO 3. While the PDO 2 –
   improving client capacity for formulating and implementing health policies and reforms,
   is already achieved. Likewise, most project intermediate indicators are met.

4. The Project’s Implementation Progress is also rated as Moderately Satisfactory. Most
   project activities are completed. Disbursement level has reached 70% of the total credit.
   Commitments (contracts signed) account for 80% of the undisbursed balance, including
   two large procurement for contracts for medical equipment estimated at USD 3.2 million
   that are at the final stage of the evaluation process.

5. The Project’s Financial Management is currently rated as Satisfactory, reflecting overall
   appropriate financial management arrangements and adoption of all previous
   recommendations for further system strengthening. There are no outstanding audit
   reports for the Project and the last one presented an unqualified opinion.
6. The proposed extension is necessary to allow sufficient time for the delivery of the large
   medical equipment mentioned above. In November 2011 the Bank team carried out an
   implementation support mission of the Project and reached agreement with the Ministry
   of Health on the action plan for the implementation of the remaining project activities.
   This short extension would also ensure a successful completion of all project activities,
   including installation and testing of the purchased medical equipment. In addition, the
   proposed extension of the Grant will ensure completion of the only remaining TA
   activity, which supports the Health Insurance Institute in developing the secondary
   legislation for the Health Financing Law.

7. If you are in agreement with this request, please sign the attached notification letters to
   the Borrower.
