Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3066 CHA
(Hubei Phosphate Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 8, 1989
LOAN NUMBER 3066 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 8, 1989, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
Parts A and B of the Project will be carried out by Jinxiang Phosphate 
Chemical Company (the Jinxiang Company) and the Huangmailing Phosphate Chemical 
Company (the Huangmailing Company), respectively, with the Borrower's assistance, and 
as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to each of the Companies 
a portion of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"MCI" means the Borrower's Ministry of Chemical Industry or any successor 
thereto;
(b)
"Jinxiang Company" means Jinxiang Phosphate Chemical Company, a state 
enterprise of the Borrower established and operating pursuant to its Charter, dated 
March 2, 1988; 
(c)
"Huangmailing Company" means Huangmailing Phosphate Chemical Company, a 
state enterprise of the Borrower established and operating pursuant to its Charter, 
dated November 20, 1987; 
(d)
"Companies" means the Jinxiang Company and the Huangmailing Company, and 
"Company" means either of the Companies; 
(e)
"Charters" means Charters of the Jinxiang Company and the Huangmailing 
Company, referred to in sub-paragraphs (b) and (c) above, collectively;
(f)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and the 
Companies of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(g)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the agreements to be entered into 
pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time 
to time, and such term includes all schedules to such agreements, and "Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement" means any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements;
(h)
"Special Account" means the account to be opened and thereafter 
maintained pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(i)
"tpy" means metric tons per year.
 
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred thirty-seven 
million dollars ($137,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the 
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project  described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars, a special account in a bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1995 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Page  3
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding 
each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest 
Period in which this Agreement is 
signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank 
drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as 
the Bank has 
allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's Investments; and (B) loans which may 
be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%). On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, 
calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
 
"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank shall 
notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect 
of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 
or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
(e)
Notwithstanding the provisions of  paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
interest rate for the Interest Period commencing in the first Semester of  1989 shall 
be seven and sixty-five hundredths percent (7.65%).
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 
1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
Page  4
(a)
shall carry out Part C of the Project through MCI with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project; and
(b)
without limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under 
the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall cause each of the Companies to perform all its 
obligations set forth in the Project Agreement, shall take or cause to be taken all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable each of the Companies to perform such obligations, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend, through Hubei Province, out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the equivalent of ninety-four million one hundred fifty thousand 
dollars ($94,150,000) to the Jinxiang Company and forty-two million eight hundred 
fifty thousand dollars ($42,850,000) to the Huangmailing Company under Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and Hubei Province, and Hubei 
Province and the Jinxiang Company and the Huangmailing Company, respectively, under 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and which shall 
include, inter alia, those specified in paragraph (b) of this Section.
(b)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the relending terms and 
conditions shall include, inter alia: (i) interest payable at 105% of the variable 
rate payable under Section 2.05 of this Agreement; (ii) commitment charge calculated 
in accordance with Section 2.04 of this Agreement; (iii) repayment period of 20 years, 
including a grace period of five years; and (iv) each of the Companies shall bear the 
foreign exchange risk for its subsidiary loan.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements to affect the provisions of paragraph (b) above.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain the Project Coordination Unit 
established within MCI to coordinate implementation of the Project, with staff and 
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and employment of engineering firms and consultants required for the Project, to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports and 
maintenance, respectively) in respect of Parts A and B of the Project, shall be 
carried out by the Jinxiang Company and the Huangmailing Company, respectively, 
pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part C of the Project. 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, and 
those for the Special Account, for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Bank;
Page  5
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
accounts and the audit 
thereof and said reports as the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such separate accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report thereof contains, in respect of 
such separate accounts, a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
proceeds of 
the Loan withdrawn in respect of such expenditures have been used for 
the purpose for which they were provided.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall allow the Companies to sell their entire output 
of fertilizer and phosphate concentrate outside the state allocation plan at 
negotiated prices. 
Section 4.03. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall cover any cash flow deficits 
of any of the Companies during its first three years of operations, provided such 
deficits do not result from inefficient management or operation, as determined by 
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
either of the Companies shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project Agreement; 
(b)
as a result of events which occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that either of the Companies will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement; 
(c)
either of the Charters shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the 
respective Company to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement; and 
(d)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of either of the Companies or for 
the suspension of any of its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
Page  6
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and the respective Company; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower's State Council has approved the Loan Agreement; and
 
(b)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower, Hubei Province and the Companies.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, executed 
and delivered on behalf of each of the Companies, and is legally binding upon each of 
the Companies in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
each of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the parties thereto and is legally binding upon the parties thereto in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  7
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhao Xixin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Equipment and            88,700,000        100% of foreign
     materials                                  expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory)
                                                and 75% of
                                                local expen-
                                                ditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured
                                                locally
(2)  Engineering,             14,200,000        100%
     licensing and
     technical
     services
(3)  Training                  1,400,000        100%
(4)  Project manage-           4,500,000        100%
     ment
Page  8
(5)  Unallocated              28,200,000
                            ____________
          TOTAL              137,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$2,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) on account of payments 
made for expenditures before that date but after February 5, 1989.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (a) implementing 
the integrated development of phosphate mines and fertilizer plants; and (b) 
strengthening central government staff capability for project  management  and for 
identifying and analyzing potential safety hazards and plant operability in chemical 
plant design and operations.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Dayukou Phosphate Mine and Fertilizer Development
 
1.
Construction and equipping of: (a) an open-pit mine at Dayukou, Hubei Province, 
to produce 1,500,000 tpy of phosphate rock; (b) a beneficiation plant to produce 
650,000 tpy of phosphate rock concentrate; (c) a 560,000 tpy triple superphosphate 
plant, in combination with a 560,000 tpy sulfuric acid plant and a 200,000 tpy 
phosphoric acid plant; (d) a 12,000 tpy aluminum flouride plant; and (e) related 
infrastructure, including workshops, stores, offices, laboratories, effluent treatment 
plant, power and water supply and housing.
2.
Strengthening the management and staff capabilities of the Jinxiang Company, 
through: (a) training of staff; and (b) provision of consultants' services.
Part B:
Huangmailing Phosphate Mine and Fertilizer Development
 
1.
Construction and equipping of: (a) an open-pit mine at Huangmailing, Hubei 
Province, to produce 1,000,000 tpy of phosphate rock; (b) a beneficiation plant to 
produce 240,000 tpy of phosphate rock concentrate; (c) a monoammonium phosphate plant 
of 180,000 tpy capacity, in combination with a 280,000 tpy sulfuric acid plant and a 
93,000 tpy phosphoric acid plant; (d) rehabilitation of the ammonia plant at Dawu; and 
(e) related infrastructure, including workshops, stores, offices, laboratories, 
effluent treatment plant, power and water supply and housing.
2.
Strengthening the management and staff capabilities of the Huangmailing Company, 
through: (a) training of staff; and (b) provision of consultants' services.
Part C:
Institutional Development
 
Strengthening the capabilities of central government staff and staff of the 
Companies in project implementation, mine maintenance, sub-sector planning, and plant 
operation, through training of staff (including a workshop on modern methodologies for 
hazard and operability analysis), and provision of consultants' services and 
Page  9
equipment.
**
*
 
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1994.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
October 1, 1994
2,515,000
April 1, 1995
2,610,000
October 1, 1995
2,720,000
April 1, 1996
2,815,000
October 1, 1996
2,920,000
April 1, 1997
3,035,000
October 1, 1997                  
3,150,000
April 1, 1998                   
3,270,000
October 1, 1998                  
3,395,000
April 1, 1999                   
3,525,000
October 1, 1999                  
3,660,000
April 1, 2000                   
3,800,000
October 1, 2000                  
3,945,000
April 1, 2001                   
4,095,000
October 1, 2001                  
4,255,000
April 1, 2002                   
4,415,000
October 1, 2002                  
4,585,000
April 1, 2003                   
4,760,000
October 1, 2003                  
4,945,000
April 1, 2004                   
5,130,000
October 1, 2004                  
5,330,000
April 1, 2005                   
5,530,000
October 1, 2005                  
5,745,000
April 1, 2006                   
5,965,000
October 1, 2006                  
6,190,000
April 1, 2007                   
6,430,000
October 1, 2007                  
6,675,000
April 1, 2008                   
6,930,000
October 1, 2008                  
7,195,000
April 1, 2009                   
7,475,000
 
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of 
withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below.
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The interest rate (ex-
                                         pressed as a percentage
                                         per annum) applicable to
                                         the balance outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
     before maturity
Page  10
More than three years but                          0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not                         0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                          1.00
     maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference 
in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Equipment for which there are only a limited number of suppliers, as determined 
by the Bank, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $22,000,000 may 
be procured under contracts awarded through limited international bidding procedures 
on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of qualified 
suppliers, to be agreed with the Bank, eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance 
with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding 
paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of not more than 
$200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$5,700,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of 
price quotations solicited from at least three qualified suppliers from at least three 
different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of more 
than $1,000,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank, pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d), shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
Page  11
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract required together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the 
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) shall not 
apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the 
Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist in carrying out the Project, the Borrower and the Companies 
shall employ engineering firms and consultants, whose qualifications, experience and 
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank 
in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or 
Page  12
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said 
documents and other evidence to have been made out of 
the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to 
the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
