Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No.: AB2904  
Project Name 
Third Poverty Reduction Support Operation (PRSO III) 
Region 
Europe and Central Asia 
Sector 
General public administration sector (40%);General energy sector 
(20%);Other social services (20%);General industry and trade 
sector (20%) 
Project ID 
P099882 
Borrower(s) 
Government of Georgia 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
March 15, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 21, 2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 14, 2007   
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Georgia has achieved significant progress in political stability and transition to a market economy since 
the peaceful “Rose Revolution” in 2003.   Key economic and structural problems had been, among 
others, pervasive corruption; very low revenue collections, wasteful/inefficient public expenditures, 
weak institutions, and unsustainable levels of debt.  With a strong and clear mandate to fight corruption, 
improve governance, and raise standards of living, the new Government took decisive actions under the 
general umbrella of the PRSP (or Economic Development and Poverty Reduction Program (EDPRP) as 
it is known in Georgia).  More recently the Government issued the PRSP (EDPRP) Update (August 
2006) which was distributed to the Board together with the Bank-IMF Joint Staff Advisory Note.  The 
Government has implemented major reforms to curb corruption, which were well complemented by the 
implementation of tax reform, substantial improvements in public finances which allowed to safeguard 
stability while eliminating wage and pension arrears inherited from previous administration; major 
reforms in social sectors (particularly education; and important basic repairs and maintenance of basic 
infrastructure is underway.   
 
The results and overall economic performance to date have been impressive. Despite unusually severe 
shocks, domestic and external, over the last three years have seen strong growth, macroeconomic 
stability, and a sound mix of fiscal and monetary policies.  As a result of prudent macroeconomic 
policies and implementation of structural reforms, growth remained strong at a rate of 9.3 percent in 
2005 above 7 percent in 2006.  The inflation rate has remained within single digit, and the fiscal deficit 
on a cash basis has averaged 2.4 percent in 2005-06.  Revenue collection increased dramatically from 
just over 14 percent of GDP in 2002 to 18 percent in 2004, 20 percent in 2005 and 22 percent in 2006.  
The government also cleared all wages and pension arrears accumulated over several years prior to 
2004. Investment has been strong and rising, mainly reflecting gas pipeline construction, but also public 
road projects and growing private investor interest in other areas. Reflecting a positive outlook of 
Georgia by foreign investors, non-oil foreign direct investment has more than tripled since 2003 and is 
estimated at $320 million in 2006. 
 
Over the next few years Georgia faces the challenge of translating these early gains into lasting 
institutional change. In addition to further fiscal consolidation and sustaining the drive to eliminate 
Page  2
corruption, the Government faces serious challenges to create functioning administrative systems, build 
a
professional civil service, enhance the business climate, and improve social services.  The centerpiece 
of the assistance strategy is the Poverty Reduction Support Operation Program which seeks to deepen 
and broaden the structural reform agenda. The Bank also plays an important role in providing technical 
support to the reform program of the Government particularly in bringing to bear the international 
experience of economic reforms o
n
policy makers in Georgia, and supporting the Government’s efforts 
in strengthening institutional capacity. 
 
2.  Proposed objective(s) and preliminary description 
The proposed Third Poverty Reduction Support Operation (PRSO III) is the third in a series of 
programmatic operations; the first and second operations were presented to the Board in September 
2005 and October 2006 respectively.  The proposed (PRSO III) is intended to continue to support the 
reform program of the Government of Georgia described under the framework of the PRSP Update of 
August 2006 (or EDPRP Update as it is known in Georgia) in the implementation of policy reforms to 
fight corruption, reduce the burden of the state on the economy, move the energy sector towards higher 
efficiency and sustainability lay the basis for higher employment and rising standards of living of 
Georgians, and develop a fiscally-sustainable social safety net.  The content of the PRSO program and 
its alignment with the Government’s own program remains unchanged around the following four pillars: 
Pillar 1: Strengthening Public Sector Accountability, Efficiency, and Transparency 
·
Public budgeting and expenditure management 
·
Public procurement 
·
Public financial management 
·
Intergovernmental fiscal relations 
·
Public Administration 
Pillar II: Improving electricity and gas sector services 
·
Improving service and financial viability in the electricity and gas sectors 
Pillar III: Improving the environment for private sector development 
·
Simplifying tax legislation 
·
Inspection Process, permits and licensing requirements 
·
Customs & border processing 
·
Standardization 
Pillar IV: Improving social protection, education and health care services 
·
Social protection: Reduce poverty by improving protection of the poor and vulnerable 
·
Education: Improve equity of access, financing and quality of general and higher education, 
including the systematic use of information to strengthen accountability, policymaking and 
management capacity 
·
Health: Improving equity and access to essential quality health services especially for the poor 
and vulnerable 
 
IDA’s support through the third PRSO is also designed to safeguard the pace of the medium-term 
reform program from the effects of recent external shocks which have led to some interruptions in trade 
and an unexpectedly rapid increase in energy prices.  It would be made available once agreed triggers of 
policy and institutional reform are satisfied.   
 
3.    Environment Aspects 
Page  3
In accordance with the Association’s operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01, 
Annex E), the operation is proposed to be placed in Category “C” and does not require an environmental 
assessment, as the envisaged reforms should not have a direct impact on the environment.  However, 
particular attention would be paid to the environmental impact of the energy sector restructuring.  
Capacity building technical assistance is also underway to support the Government efforts in addressing 
the environmental issues related to the new Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan oil and South Caucasus gas pipelines. 
 
4.    Tentative financing 
Source:  
($m.) 
IDA Total 
20.0 
 
5.    Contact point   
Rosalinda Quintanilla 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-7673 
Fax: (202)-614-7778 
Email: rquintanilla@worldbank.org 
 
wb22233 
P:\GEORGIA\PREM\GENERAL\PID - PRSO3 Concept Stage 03 15 07.doc 
03/22/2007 1:34:00 PM
 
