 IEG
                                                                                                 Report Number: ICRR14785

                    ICR Review
                    Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 06/26/2015

               Country: Vietnam
             Project ID: P082295                                                     Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Coastal Cities                Project Costs (US$M):                       172.1                229.5
                         Environmental
                         Sanitation Project
  L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                       124.7                185.5
      Sector Board:      Water                         Cofinancing (US$M):                         9.6                  8.6

           Cofinanciers: Policy and Human           Board Approval Date :                               12/19/2006
                         Resources                          Closing Date:           11/30/2014          11/30/2014
                         Development Fund;
                         GEF
          Sector(s):     Wastewater Collection and Transportation (60%); Flood protection (18%); Solid waste
                         management (12%); Sub-national government administration (7%); Sanitation (3%)
          Theme(s):      Pollution management and environmental health (29%); City-wide Infrastructure and Service
                         Delivery (29%); Other social development (14%); Water resource management (14%);
                         Municipal governance and institution building (14%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                  Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Victoria Alexeeva          Kavita Mathur           Christopher David           IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

The project objective was to improve the environmental sanitation in the project cities in a sustainable manner,
thereby contributing to an enhanced quality of life for their residents (Development Credit Agreement dated March 19,
2007, p.21; Project Appraisal Report (PAD), p.5).

The project included a Grant provided by the Global Environment Facility (GEF) (P090374) with a Global
Environmental Objective (GEO) "to pilot and promote the replication of a new, more efficient wastewater treatment
technology, which would contribute to improving in an integrated manner the health and habitat conditions of globally
significant marine and coastal ecosystems along the coastline of Vietnam" (GEF Grant Project Document, p.4).

Following IEG procedures, this ICR Review is based upon IEG’s assessment of the achievement of the project
objective as formulated in the Development Credit Agreement. It does not rate the achievement of GEF’s grant
objective, as while technically separated into two projects, they are considered integral parts of a package of activities
designed together to achieve the development objective (GEF Grant Project Document, p.2).

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

Component 1. Flood control, drainage and wastewater collection (costs without contingencies and TAX/VAT:
appraisal US$64.99 million; additional financing US$32.16 million; actual US$118.91 million) was intended to improve
the collection of sewage by building new sewers and interceptors, rehabilitating existing sewers, and transporting the
wastes to new treatment plants. Drainage would be provided by rehabilitating existing drains, constructing new drains
where regular flooding occurs, and enhancing the capacity of flood retention ponds. Existing combined sewer system
were to be used to the greatest extent possible in the central urban core areas with high population densities.
Interceptor sewers would be constructed to pick up flows that currently discharge at a number of locations along the
seafront or into rivers.

Component 2. Wastewater treatment plant (costs without contingencies and TAX/VAT: appraisal US$33.09 million;
additional financing US$5.97 million; actual US$42.74 million). Construction of a new Waste Water Treatment Plants
(WWTPs) according to the Vietnamese national effluent standards. In Nha Trang, two plants would be constructed,
one to serve the urban core and a second to serve the southern residential area. In Quy Nhon, two WWTPs would
serve the old city area and a third would serve the southwestern area some 15 km from the city core. In Dong Hoi, a
single new treatment plant serving the city would be constructed and the existing plant at the city hospital would be
rehabilitated.

Component 3. Solid Waste Management (costs without contingencies and TAX/VAT: appraisal US$12.84 million;
additional financing US$11.80 million; actual US$18.34 million). In Nha Trang, a new sanitary landfill would be
constructed at Luong Hoa and the existing Ru Ri dump would be safely closed. In Quy Nhon, the existing landfill at
Long My would be rehabilitated and expanded. In Dong Hoi, a sanitary landfill was under development with bilateral
funding and the project would provide additional equipment or functionality as determined during implementation.
Solid waste management collection equipment would be financed for all cities and transfer stations/collection points
were planned for Nha Trang and Quy Nhon. In Dong Hoi, the facilities for safe disposal of medical waste would be
constructed.

Component 4. Resettlement (costs without contingencies and TAX/VAT: appraisal US$10.78 million; additional
financing US$5.29 million; actual US$22.28 million). Construction of services (roads and utilities) to new housing plots
for relocation of project affected people in Quy Nhon and Nha Trang.

Component 5. Household Revolving Fund and School Sanitation Program (costs without contingencies and
TAX/VAT: appraisal US$1.83 million; additional financing US$0.41 million; actual US$2.63 million). Revolving funds
would be established in each city to provide small loans for construction of household sanitation facilities. The funds
would be managed by the Women’s Union according to the procedures set out in the household revolving fund
manual. Water supply and sanitation facilities would be built at city schools in response to demand from those
schools.

Component 6. Capacity Building and Project Implementation (costs without contingencies and TAX/VAT: appraisal
US$22.71 million; additional financing US$4.66 million; actual US$24.61 million) included: (i) support to Project
Management Unit (PMU) in project implementation; (ii) capacity building for the service providers and city departme
nts; (iii) capacity building for design and implementation of a Healthy City Partnership.

GEF Grant: The GEF activities (appraisal US$4.95 million; actual US$4.34 million) were added in 2009 under
Components 2 and 6: (1) to construct and operate a chemically enhanced treatment plant in the City of Quy Nhon; (2)
communication to raise public awareness and replication of this pilot; and (c) monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of the
outcomes on the water quality and reduction in pollution in the Ha Thanh river and the Thi Nai marine lagoon.


The following modifications were made during AF to reduce the scope of works in Nha Trang and Quy Nhon: i)
reduction in treatment capacity of the main wastewater treatment plant and in the original number of the landfill cells in
Quy Nhon; and ii) in Nha Trang, the elimination of some drains and the wastewater collection and treatment plant
originally proposed for the north of the Cai River which accounts for about 20% of population in the city.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
Project cost: The total project cost was US$229.5 million, about 30% higher than the appraisal estimate of US$172.1
million, due to increase in costs resulting from high inflation in Vietnam's construction sector in 2007-2008.

Financing: The IDA original credit was in the amount of US$124.7 million that increased in 2011 with Additional
Financing (AF) of US$65.3 million to total US$190 million. At closure, the credit was disbursed at US$185.5 million.
The IDA credit was co-financed by a grant of US$4.6 million from Japan's Policy and Human Resources Development
Fund (PHRD) to support capacity building and technical assistance (disbursed at US$4.3 million). GEF grant of US$5
million was approved in 2009 to finance the waste-water plant in one of the cities supported by the project. The plant
was to be connected to a sewerage system financed under the project, and is described by the ICR as a parallel
financing, though it was included both under the appraised and actual project costs. The GEF grant was disbursed at
US$4.3 million and closed on December 31, 2014.

Borrower contribution : The Borrower initially committed US$37.8 million at appraisal. The amount was increased by
US$14 million during Additional Financing in 2011. At project closure, the total Borrower contribution constituted
US$35.4 million.

Dates: The project implementation period was about eight years; it closed as scheduled on November 30, 2014. The
project was restructured once during Additional Financing, which was approved on March 29, 2011 to cover the
financing gap, i.e., cost overruns resulting from steep price increases of key construction inputs in Vietnam (steel,
cement, and labor) in 2007-2008, and due to the initial underestimation of costs.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

High.
The project development objective was consistent with the Vietnam development goals, in particular the National
Strategy for Environmental Protection to 2020 and Strategy for Management of Solid Waste in Vietnamese Cities and
Industrial Parks to 2020, which focus on legal reform, increased awareness and training, increased privatization and
cost recovery, use of appropriate and modern technologies, and promotion of public and civil society involvement. The
objective remains relevant to the main priorities of the Country Partnership Strategy FY12-16, which supports
strengthening of environmental protection and management, and improving basic infrastructure and public service
delivery.

b. Relevance of Design:

Substantial.
The project was designed to support integrated urban environmental sanitation infrastructure and services in three
cities along the coast of Vietnam: (1) Nha Trang, the capital of Khanh Hoa Province with a total population of 350,000
in 2002; (2) Quy Nhon, the capital city of Binh Dinh Province with a total population of 252,000 in 2003; and (3) Dong
Hoi, the capital of Quang Binh Province with a total population of 98,000 in 2003. The three provinces were to
implement its own investment program in the three respective project cities, through Provincial Project Management
Units (PMUs), following the decentralization policies of the Government of Vietnam. The causal chain between
outputs and intended outcomes was logical. The project comprised similar sub-projects in three cities focusing on
sanitation, including drainage, wastewater collection and treatment and solid waste management. These investments,
accompanied by capacity building and hygiene education, were expected to improve access to sanitation and solid
waste collection, and help reduce incidence and severity of flooding. Sustainability was to be pursued through cost
recovery from user fees. A PHRD co-financing grant was utilized to build the capacity of service providers and raise
public awareness of the project.

The Global Environment Fund (GEF) was supporting the demonstration of a new treatment technology in Quy Nhon.
The wastewater plant financed by GEF was to treat the household liquid wastes collected by sewers financed by the
project in the city. The works were intended to help reduce the discharge of pollutants from the city of Quy Nhon into
the Ha Thanh river and the Thi Nai marine lagoon, thereby contributing to improving the health and habitat conditions
of the marine and coastal ecosystems of Vietnam.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

To improve the environmental sanitation in the project cities in a sustainable manner , thereby contributing to an
enhanced quality of life for their residents . Rated Substantial.

Outputs
  The civil works were carried out as per restructured scope in the selected cities. This included construction of
    new sewers and interceptors, construction of four new waste water treatment plants and rehabilitation of existing
    sewers, construction of sanitary landfills, and construction and rehabilitation of drains and canals.
  Sanitation facilities were improved in public areas (beach, riversides, and markets) and for 66,516 pupils in sch
    ools (target was 44,000).
  104,839 people were connected to the piped waste water network, bellow the target of 476,690. The ICR notes
   that the rate of connections was slow in the initial years of implementation and picked up in the latter years with
   intensified outreach and communication campaigns.
  183.4 kilotons of solid waste was disposed to sanitary landfills. This was below the target of 321.5 kilotons, which
   was overestimated, as per ICR p.vi.
  The household revolving fund allowed about 8,236 households to access loans to improve household sanitation,
   installing toilets or getting connected to the tertiary sewer lines (target was 5,600). The loans were fully repaid.
   There is experience in Vietnam regarding revolving funds under the Vietnam Social Policy Bank through the
   facilitation of the Women’s Union, and the project supported the activity through information and education
   campaigns on the impact of sanitation on health, family well-being, and productivity (and the impact on poverty)
   in general.
  Promotion campaign and outreach activities were implemented under the project.
  Capacity building and technical assistance activities were carried out, including PHRD- supported institutional
   building for service providers, city and provincial departments, and community groups.
GEF outputs:
  A chemically enhanced primary treatment plant Nhon Binh was constructed with the capacity of 14,000 m3 per
   day in Quy Nhon City and formally handed over to the service provider in October 2014.
  13,000 m3 per day of wastewater were treated in the GEF-financed "Nhon Binh" wastewater plant in Quy Nhon.
  The plant in Quy Nhon was connected to a sewerage system financed under the project, and about 13,330
   households were connected to the plant (target was 12,000).

Outcomes
  456,247 people benefited from reduced incidence and severity of flooding (target was 153,346).
  821,056 people have their solid waste collected (target was 729,898).
  821,056 people gained access to improved sanitation (target was 768,000).
  On average, 176% of waste water service providers’ costs, including loan repayments, were recovered from user
    fees in three cities (target was 100%). Dong Hoi and Nha Trang substantially exceeded the target (221.5% and
    222%, respectively); the cost recovery in Quy Nhon is 84.6%.
  On average, 90.4% of solid waste providers’ costs, including loan repayments, were recovered from user fees in
    three cities (target was 100%). In Dong Hoi, the cost recovery is 105%, in Nha Trang -110%, and in Quy Nhon-
    56.2%. The ICR (p.30) reports that the combined costs of water supply, wastewater, and solid waste charges in
    2013 account for 3.1–3.4% of the monthly income of poor households in the three cities, which remain around the
    affordability level of 5% of household income.
  376.3 tons per year of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) are removed by treatment plants. This was below the
    target of 1072.5, which, as per ICR p.vi was overestimated as assumptions on the composition of waste water
    were not accurate. The effluent quality, however, meets the Vietnamese standard.

GEO outcomes:
    65% of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) were removed by the treatment process (target was 95%). The ICR
     notes that this is in the range of 50-80% of BOD removal identified for chemically enhanced primary treatment.
    85% suspended solids were removed by the treatment process, as per target.
    13,000 m3 per day of nutrient (N and P) were removed by the treatment process, as per target.

Overall, it is reasonable to assume that improved sanitation and solid waste collection and disposal, as well as
reduction of untreated waste water effluent discharges to the ocean achieved through the project contributed to the
achievement of the overarching project objective of enhanced quality of life in the selected cities.

5. Efficiency:

Economic analysis
The ex-post Economic Rate of Return (ERR) at project closure was estimated at 29.3% as compared with 18.5% at
project appraisal. The ex-ante and ex-post ERRs were estimated through the same methodology. Main estimated
benefits were reduced flood damage (67% of total annual benefits at the ICR stage compared to 60% at the project
appraisal stage) and health benefits (21% at the ICR stage compared to 10% at appraisal). However, the benefits
from tourism decreased from 18% at the appraisal stage to 5% at the ICR stage due to the conservative estimate as a
result of lack of quantitative evidence on the contribution of sanitation to tourism growth).

Financial analysis
At appraisal, the financial rates of return (FRRs) varied between 18.6% and 28.2% (waste water) and between 25.9%
and 32.6% (solid waste) and were higher than the weighted average cost of capital of between 10-12% (PAD, Annex
9). The actual FRRs for waste water varied by cities, ranging from 25.5% for Quy Nhon to 43.7% for Nha Trang, and
are higher than the discount rate (10–12%). The FRR for solid waste is also higher than the discount rate, 21.6% for
Dong Hoi and 19.5% for Nha Trang. However, the solid waste in Quy Nhon shows a negative FRR (-0.7 %), mainly
explained by a smaller proportion of O&M costs covered from revenue collected from tariff.
There was significant increase in implementation costs due to: (a) exogenous factors (increase in construction costs
in 2007/2008); and (b) underestimation of costs. The underestimated costs were the result of using insufficient original
cost norms officially set by the Ministry of Construction and subsequent technical design changes not anticipated at
the time of project appraisal. The project delivered the outputs with a reduced the scope, partially achieving several
indicators (e.g., connection to the waste water network) due to the initially slow rate of implementation as a result of
procurement delays

Efficiency is assessed as modest.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                  Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                        Yes                                     18.5%                                    100%

     ICR estimate                     Yes                                     29.3%                                    100%
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   Relevance of objectives is rated high, and that of design is substantial. The project substantially achieved its
development objective, albeit with modest efficiency. The overall outcome is Moderately Satisfactory.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

Financial risk. The actual tariff set for waste water was sufficient to fully cover O&M costs in all the three cities from
2008 and sustain the tariff through 2014, covering more than twice the O&M costs. The actual tariff for solid waste
was increased to achieve full cost recovery by 2014 in two out of the three cities.

Institutional risk. The Government's commitment to the environmental agenda appears to be strong. Two
environmental decrees were issued, i.e., Decree 80/2014 allows a city to charge for a service that it provides, and
Decree 25/2013 allows a penalty for causing environmental pollution. The decrees encourage and allow the revenue
collected through penalty and user fee to be used by the cities to cover O&M and operational costs. This legal
framework would help strengthen the institutional set-up of environmental sanitation in Vietnam, with clear mandates
and a source of revenue.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The project design was built on the previous Bank urban sanitation projects in Vietnam (e.g., the Three Cities
Sanitation Project- P051553) and similar projects in other countries. The lessons from these projects included the
need to enhance technical and managerial capacity of service providers and increase in benefits from sanitation
infrastructure from information, education, and communication programs. The risk assessment and mitigation
measures defined at appraisal proved adequate. The most substantial risk was the local government’s failure to
implement agreed tariff increases in a timely manner. Consumers’ possible refusal to pay for services was an
associated risk. The risks were mitigated by linking charges to affordability, phasing increase in tariffs over time,
and raising community awareness about the benefits of improved sanitation. Implementation arrangements
(having three PIUs at the city level) were relevant as they reflected the government’s strategy of decentralization.
The costs at appraisal were however underestimated (due to the use of national construction cost norms that were
lower than market reference); this was exacerbated by high inflation in 2007-2008 leading to a significant increase
in implementation costs and reduction of the project scope.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                          Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    Supervision missions were carried out twice a year. As most team members were based in Vietnam, it was
possible to carry out supervision continuously. The project benefited from a high level of continuity within the
project team and co-financiers throughout preparation and supervision. The task team leader for the project was
also leading the predecessor IDA project (Three Cities Sanitation Project - P051553). The project team focused
its attention on the implementation of the civil works, proper functioning of the revolving fund, and raising of
awareness on hygiene and sanitation issues among the community at large and women and students in particular.
All the bidding documents and bid evaluation reports (subject to prior Bank review) were reviewed and approved
by the Bank in a timely manner. The revised cost estimates were based on actual detailed engineering designs for
the remaining work using actual market prices, including price contingencies. While M&E was adequately
implemented, progress data was not updated regularly. The project team consistently raised areas of concern,
such as cost recovery and delays in procurement, and site compensation. For eleven households, the money was
not yet been disbursed at project closure (but transferred to the treasury account).


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                 Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    The Government demonstrated commitment to the project through the timely provision of counterpart funds,
the establishment of capable PMUs, and willingness to issue legislation to take forward the cost recovery agenda
and the institutional set-up of environmental sanitation. The early preparation of pre-feasibility studies for each city
and approval by the Prime Minister’s office were strong signals right from the beginning of ownership of the project
by the national and provincial authorities. The three participating provinces took a decisive lead on tariff reform by
issuing provincial decisions for increase of waste water and solid waste tariffs.

   Government Performance Rating                                 Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

The implementation arrangement was largely decentralized to the three project cities, with oversight and
facilitation from the center. The start-up activities were slow, as this was the first project to be decentralized at the
city level. The participating provinces performed active project management functions throughout the
implementation, with the Project Management Units making significant efforts to designate necessary resources
for component execution. The low turnover of the implementing agency staff in the course of project
implementation helped maintain institutional memory. All the major physical components were completed by the
original project closing date. The measures taken to strengthen the PMUs and the service providers and the
progress toward cost recovery varied by city. There were however some delays in site compensation in Quy Nhon
(see section 11a below on safeguards) as well as procurement that led to partial achievement of several indicators
(see section 11b below).


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                      Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                         Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   There were five outcome indicators: three of them were capturing the number of beneficiaries from reduced
incidence and severity of flooding and improved sanitation and solid waste, and the other two measured cost recovery
for financial sustainability. The outcome indicators reflected the results from the project's six components. A number
of targets and baseline values were to be determined during implementation. The PMUs in each city were responsible
for monitoring the key performance indicators and collecting data related to each of the intermediate PDO indicators.
 b. M&E Implementation:
    During AF, the scope of works in Nha Trang and Quy Nhon were reduced (see section 2b above). The
intermediate indicators for the Results Framework were slightly reduced to reflect the changes. The ICR's Results
Framework shows that the outcome targets were scaled upwards; this is not consistent with the reduced scope of the
project and is not explained in the ICR.

Data collection activities were carried out on a contractual basis by provincial authorities and local departments. In
Dong Hoi and Nha Trang, a computerized Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system was installed
both for the waste water treatment plants and the landfill sites, which allows streaming of live data feeds to the control
room. The system provides actual readings on temperature, pressure levels, effluent quality, functionality of pumps,
and air blowers. This system allows automatic ‘on and off’ function for different devices and can work in conjunction
with mobile phones. In Nha Trang, the waste water plant also has an automatic inlet and outlet sampling device,
which allows taking and reading samples on a daily basis without physically going to the outlets and inlets.
Comprehensive social safeguards data that were collected regularly, however M&E progress information was not
updated regularly.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   Data collected on the number of beneficiaries provided a useful gauge of the project coverage, tariff revision, and
cost recovery roadmap. The computerized SCADA system allows the service providers to have a 24/7 monitoring of
the plant, early detection of problems, and quick rectification. The system also allows automatic recording and filtering
of data, which is useful for management decisions on plant operation.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

This was a category A project that triggered three Bank’s safeguard policies: Environmental Assessment (OP/OB/GP
4.01); Involuntary Resettlement (OP/OB 4.12); and Cultural Resources (OP 4.11).

Environmental Assessment. An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) was completed for the major works (WWTPs
and landfill sites) before commencement of the work. The environmental and social impacts observed during the
construction phase included increased levels of dust, noise, and vibrations around the construction areas; traffic
disruptions; disturbance to daily domestic and business activities of roadside households (HHs); and safety risks to
local communities from deep excavations, electrical wires, materials and fuel storage, and temporary disposal of
excavated materials along the road. To address these impacts, the project applied a systematic environmental
management system to manage negative environmental impacts during construction. Independent consultants were
engaged to build the environmental management capacity of the PMUs and carry out periodic environmental
monitoring. Generally, construction impacts were under control, and safety risks during the construction phase were
minimized. The ICR p.9 find the environmental safeguards aspect of the project to be satisfactory.

Involuntary resettlement. Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) was prepared following local laws and the Bank’s
policy. Ten RAPs for all three cities, including for activities funded by the GEF, were prepared in accordance with the
RPF. The RAPs included a detailed impact inventory, a socio-economic survey, and an extensive consultation
process with the affected population as well as with relevant government agencies.

The project acquired around 189.4 ha of land in all three cities, with 1,247 affected HHs, of which 223 HHs had to be
resettled. The actual number of resettled HHs was 223, lower than the appraisal estimate of 245. A total of about
US$11.1 million was paid to the affected people. The project received complaints in 2014 from 11 HHs in Quy Nhon
City related to their compensation and resettlement prior to project closure. According to the ICR p.7, "based on the
last report submitted by the Quy Nhon sub-project at the end of March 2015, the compensation plan was endorsed by
the Binh Dinh Provincial People’s Committee and the approved budget of US$0.14 million has been transferred to the
state treasury accounts for the mentioned 11 households in Quy Nhon City".

A total of 259 land plots in five different resettlement sites were provided to households to be relocated, among which,
one site in Quy Nhon City was built by the project. While one resettlement site in Nha Trang was also developed by
the project to satisfy the requests of the affected people to be relocated in the vicinity, the city allocated existing
available sites to them. According to the independent resettlement monitoring consultant reports, all of the project
affected people have been able to restore or improve the lost assets and livelihood. The ICR p. 10 finds that the
project RPF and RAPs were implemented satisfactorily.

Cultural Resources. The ICR does not discuss separately the compliance with this policy.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

Financial Management. The ICR p. 10 reports that annual audited financial reports were submitted on time to the
Bank, with mostly unqualified audit opinions in all the three cities. Quarterly financial reports of acceptable quality
were also submitted on time. The project accounting systems were observed to be in order. Verification and payment
for contracts were timely and accurate, consistent with the provisions of the Vietnamese government and the Bank.

Procurement. The procurement performance was found to be consistent with the Bank’s Procurement Guidelines and
the Legal Agreements. There were some delays in procurement primarily due to the lack of efficiency and
effectiveness in the procurement management of a few complex packages and in dealing with price fluctuations. The
Bank provided support to accelerate the process, including further technical training on procurement to the PMUs and
joint development of the bidding documents. Complaints were raised during the bidding processes of different
packages, and as reported by the ICR p.10, they were dealt to the satisfaction of the Bank and there was no
mis-procurement. The PMUs were staffed with qualified procurement staff who were familiar with the Bank’s
procurement procedures. The bidding processes for civil works were considered to be effective, resulting in savings
compared to the pre-bid cost estimates.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                 Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

A number of lessons were adapted from the ICR:

    Cost recovery is key for financial sustainability. This requires commitment both at the central and provincial
     level. The Government of Vietnam issued revised Decrees 80/2014 and 25/2013, that clearly state the cost
     recovery principle. The tariff schedule under the project was designed to achieve gradual and full cost recovery
     at project closing while ensuring affordability.
    It is important for the local authorities to have necessary tools to charge customers for sanitation services, and
     it is equally important that the customers themselves be aware of the benefits and be willing to pay for those
     services. Public awareness and communication campaigns could help foster behavior change for greater
     benefits and impact in public health.

    Urban environmental sanitation could be addressed through a programmatic or city-by-city approach. The
     selection of tools for intervention is highly contextual and varies widely from city to city, i.e., characteristics of
     waste, differences in urban economy, land, and sources of waste.

14. Assessment Recommended?                    Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is concise and outcome oriented. It covers well the major issues during implementation, though without
substantial depth of discussion and detail. This is though compensated in the section on lessons, which are useful and
evidence based. The ICR's Results Framework shows that the outcome targets were scaled upwards; this is not
consistent with the reduced scope of the project and is not explained in the ICR. Several indicators in the Results
Framework are said to have been added at the additional financing (AF) processing (i.e., intermediate indicators 2, 4)
however they appear in the PAD's Results Framework at the appraisal stage in Annex 3). The percentage of solid
waste cost recovery in Quy Nhon is not consistent (56.2% on p.v and 30% on p.13).

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
