Report No. 301a-OM
Appraisal of an                                                                 FILE GOPY
Education Project
in the Sultanate of Oman
March 5, 1974
Eclucation and Manpower Development Division
Europe, Nlicidle East andl North Atri(a Reglion
Not for Public Use
Document of International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorizatton The Bank Group does not accept respon-
sibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report



CURRENCY QUIVALE3NTS
1 US Dollar            =            Omani Rial (RO) 0.345
RO 1                                US$ 2.9
RO 1,000                            US$-2,900
RO 1 million           =            US$ 2.9 million
MEhSURES
1 m7                                10.764 sq. ft.
1 km2                               0.38 sq. mile
1 hectare                           2.47 acres
FISCAL YFAR
Januapy 1 - December 31
Note: In view of generl' uncertainty about future world price
and government revenue increases, nll financinl assumptions
made during appraisal have been left unchanged, except for
computation of contingencies.



SULTANATE OF OMAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ..........................    i-iv
I. INTRODUCTION  .............. @eco**ee*****v@*@**e@***o@**0*@..........  .................X
LI  SOCIO-ECONOMIC SETTING  .. .....................  -...                  ...... a d.         I
Background  .................. 0-0 ........... O..                * .....                  I
Economic Development and Manpower  ........... ........... ...                             2
III. EDUCATION SECTOR ..              ...................   .......  . e .   .  .....             3
Present Status and Overall Educational Development Strategy  ...                           3
Primary Education ,.............. .    ee¢o¢eeere+@*....................                   5
Primary Teacher Training              .   .a#. .  .*  . . . .    . ...........      *      7
Secondary Education  ...  ........                .. . . . . . . . . . .                   8
Higher Education  ..........                 ....... ...0*^¢ ......... -                   8
Technical Education and Vocational Training  ........  .. ...                              8
Agricultural Education and Training  ..........................                            9
External Aid *.......... fl*6.0 . @*........                                              1Q
Edummary  ...Fnce... ........               ..   ...* ...........*... *.....#             10
IV. THE PROJECT  .... ............   . .. .....                       .*     *    *            11
General  ..............             .....a.........  . ........... . ....                 11
Primary Teacher Training Institute - National Education Center.                           12
Basic Education/Skill Training Centers  ....o ......... ......ad13
Agricultural School  .. . . . .  -  . *       ..... . .. ... ....                         15
Staff Housing  ...... bee*Xeeso¢@eove.0.......0..... .     .......                        16
Technical Assistance  . ......................... * ......... ... *16
Cost of the ProJect  ........................................                             19
Financial Plan  .......    ................ ,4  ..........                               20
Recurrent Costs  .. . ............... 0. . .   , ,       ...   ...   ........ .           21
V. IMPLEMENTATION  ..............              . .      ... . ..0   * .....       . ...       22
VI. BENEFITS ..................,,,...  eow* ..................                                 23
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   .................. ...                              24
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited the
Sultanate of Oman in May/June 1973. The mission consisted of Messrs. A. Salmon
(General Educator), A. Andonyadis  (Architect), J. C. Jones  (Technical Educator,
Consultant), R. Savas (Agricultural Educator) and J. Smyth (Economist, UNESCO).






ANNEXES
1. Comparative Education Indicators
2. Modern Sector Employment 1971/1985
3. Technical Assistance Program
4. Primary Enrollment Projections
5.  Primary Teacher Training Projections
6.  Government gecurrent Expenditure and Revenue 1967-1973
7. Projected Recurrent Education Expenditure 1972-1985
8. Recurrent Education Expenditure 1972
9. Government Capital Expenditure 1971-1973
10.  Recurrent Education Expenditure in Relation to Total Recurrent
Expenditure 1972-1985
11.  Enrollment, Output, Student:Teacher Ratio and Use Factors in
Project Institutions
12. Staff Requirements for Project Institutions
13. Bank-Financed Project Component Costs by Type of Expenditure
14. Contingency Allowance
15. Unit Capital Costs
16. Financial Plan
17. Implementation Schedule
18. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
CHARTS
I. Structure of the Education System
II. Organization of the Ministry of Education
III. Education Pyramid 1972-1973






BASIC DATA
(Annex 1)
1. General ( l971) i
Population                              600,000
Annual Growth Rate                      3% (from 1966 to 1771)
Rural Population                        510,000 (85%)
Urban Population                         90,000 (15%)
Economically aptive population          150,000 (50% of total labor force)
Modern sector employment                 31,000
Traditional sector employment           119,000
GDP growth rate (annual)                    36%
(1967-1971)
GNP per caplta                          US$ 444
2.  Education (1972-1973)
Levels of                 Enrollment                 Enrollment  Ratio
Education         Qman      Abroad     Total         Oman      '' 6Total
Primary          24,335        775    25,110         23.7%          24.5%
Junior
Secondary          190       203       393          0.4%           0.9%
Senior
Secondary           0        294       294           -            0.8%
Sub-total secondary 190        497        687         0.2%           0.9%
Higher                 0       225        225          -             0-4%
Total            241,525     1,497    26,022
Public Expenditure on Education and Training (1972)2/
Recurrent expenditure:        R.O.    984,000 = US$ 2.85 million
Capital expenditure:          R.0.  1,663,000 = us$ 4.82 million
Total:                        R.0.  2,647,000 = US$ 7.67 maillion
Recurrent expenditure on education as % of GDP:                          0.6%
Recurrent expenditure on education as % of total recurrent
expenditure:                                                           2.5%
Total expenditure on education as % of 0DP;                              1.7%
Total expenditure on education as % of total government expenditure:  3.8%
Total expenditure on education ap % of government revenues:              4.7%
2,/ Mission eitiuiats.
2/  Oil exports commencing in 1967 gave rise to the exceptionally high growth
rate recorded.
j  Except for thq 1971 QNP per capita, compuqted on the basis of the 1971 exchange
rate R.0.1 = US$2.43, all currency conversions have been rade at the current
exchange rate of R.Q.1   U$$2.90.
S/ Adjusted from Census results for the Trucial States, 1968 aud Population estimates
in "The Economy of Oman", IBRD, EMA, September 12, 1972.






SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
This report appraises an education project in the Sultanate of Oman
for which a loan of US$5.7 million is proposed to assist the government in ex-
panding and modernizing the education system and in training the staff required
by the developing economy.
ii.       Oman is just entering the industrial age.  Although it has drawn
considerable revenues from oil exports which began in 1967 and which changed
development perspectives dramatically, the country is still one of the least
developed in the world. The governmentts strategy consists of employing oil
revenues for the development of infrastructure, agriculture, and human re-
sources. The heavy investments made so far have been directed principally
toward infrastructure; efforts to develop modern agriculture have only re-
cently been initiated and have concentrated unon research and experimenta-
tion programs; and the first human resource development efforts have not yet
reached fruition. The critical development constraint is the shortage of
qualified manpower, which is being partially compensated in the short term
by the massive employment of expatriates who domvinate the modern sector labor
force at skilled and higher levels.
iii.      These shortages are directly due to an education system which is
one of the least developed in the world with 24% and 0.2% of the relevant age
groups in primary and secondary education respectively. Primary education,
in the modern sense, was initiated only in 1970, and junior secondary educa-
tion was started only in 1972. Technical education consists of only very
limited training schemes carried out by the defense services and oil indus-
try, and a trade school enrolling some 45 students, mostly of foreign origin.
Although 80% of the population is expected to continue to draw its livelihood
from agriculture, agricultural training is non-existent.
iv.       Following the present Sultan's accession to power in JulY 1970, a
decision was made to modernize and expand education facilities at primary
level. The demand for education quickly resulted iTn enrollments which out-
paced the capacity of a system already lacking in qualified teachers, admin-
istrative and planning staff, instructional equipment and adequate facilities.
Combined with o'itmoded curricula, these deficiencies have resulted in an edu-
cation system of poor quality and little relevance to the national needs.
As there has been no teacher training institution thus far, the expansion
of education has been possible only by employing expatriate teachers with
highly variable backgrounds, who teach different and often irrelevant pro-
grams, or unqualified Omanis with rote learning as their basic methodology.
Sixty-eight percent of the teaching staff is unqualified and 44% is expa-
triate. As trained local personnel hardly exists, Oman will have to con-
tinue to rely on expatriates for the next 10 years to sustain the growth
of primary and basic education - and probably 20 years in any other sector -
until the pupils who entered the newly exnanded primary system after 1970
have graduated in sufficient numbers from secondary and higher education.



v.        Yet the situation presents encouraging features.  The Ministry of
Education, itself hampered by insufficiently educated staff (in 1972 only two
staff members had university degrees and five had completed secondary education),
is aware of the many problems besetting the present education system, and has
set some broad educational goals to correct the situation. Financing of the
related programs to achieve these targets is not likely to be difficult be-
cause of expected oil revenues and assistance from Oman's neighboring coun-
tries. Expert guidance in the more refined formulation and implementation of
these programs will be a more serious constraint, one which this project would
assist in alleviating.
vi.       The most pressing needs of the education system are (i) to reor-
ganize and strengthen the Ministry itself, (ii) to develop modern, practical
curricula, methods and teaching materials, (iii) to train sufficient numbers
of Omani teacners to replace unqualified and expatriate teachers, and (iv) to
initiate the tvpes of training to produce the numbers and kinds of trained
personnel required by the nation's economy.
vii.      While neighboring countries will assist, mainly through capital in-
vestment, in developing primary, secondary and technical education, this proj-
ect would concentrate on providing assistance for: (i) improving the manage-
ment, planning and educational services of the Ministry of Education, (ii)
initiating teacher training and agricultural training, (iii) establishing a
new type of basic education which would be combined with practical training
for overage youths and adults; and (iv) developing national expertise in edu-
cation. Another innovative feature of the project would be the introduction
of nutritional instruction into the programs of primary, overage youth and
adult education, and into primary teacher training through appropriate exper-
tise and fellowships.
Viii.     Specifically, the project would comprise:
(a)  the construction and equipping of:
-    the country's first primary teacher training
institute, which would also operate as the
national education center;
-    two pilot basic education/skill training centers
for overage youths and adults; and
-    the country's first agricultural secondary school.
(b) techinical assistance which would include:
-    the principal officers of the project implementa-
tion unit and education consultants, financed by
the proposed loan;



- iii -
project institution staffing and counterpart training,
financed by the UNDP and the British Overseas Develop-
ment Administration; and
an advisory group of eight Unesco specialists for a com-
bined total of about 23 man-years, financed by the U14DP,
to advise the Ministry of Education on (i) the manage-
ment of the Ministry of Education and of the education
system as a whole, (ii) school building design and con-
struction, and (iii) the improvement and planned devel-
opment of the educatioin system to meet in the most ap-
propriate manner the nation's projected needs for trained
manpower.
ix.       The above project is oriented towards quality improvement and in-
stitution building, and woula assist the government in initiating the above
three types of education and training corresponding to the most critical areas
of the sector. It would contribute to increasing the proportion of the Omani
people with a basic education or rudimentary knowledge of a useful skill who
would thereby be enabled to take advantage of a wider range of job opportuni-
ties.
x.        Because of the acute shortage of qualified Omanis, project insti-
tutions would require a significant input of expatriate teachers and admin-
istrators. Under the proposed UJNDP project, Unesco would provide 15 spe-
cialists, for a total of 39 man-years. In addition, the British Overseas
DevelopsLent Administration would provide 6 specialists for the Agricultural
School, for a total of 12 man-years.  The remaining required expatriate per-
sonnel (59), comDrising chiefly teachers, would be provided by neighboring
Arab states - principally Egypt and Jordan - until qualified Omanis were
available to replace them.
xi.       The proposed Bank project and the above U14UP project are inter-
dependent inasmuch as (i) the provision of teachers and counterpart training
are vital for the proper operation of the project institutions; and (ii) the
recommendations of the UNDP advisory group regarding curriculum development,
and teaching methods and rmiaterials would be incorporated into the project in-
stitutions.  These recommendations, which would affect the form and rate of
educational developr,ment, would provide the basis for possible further Bank
assistance in subsequent education projects.
xii.      A project implementation unit, responsible to the Minister of Educa-
tion for overall supervision anid management of the project, would be established
within the Ministry of Education.  Two of its principal officers, the Project
Architect and the Procurement Specialist, and the education consultants would
be financed under the loan. Contracts for all civil works, furniture and equip-
ment would be awarded in conformity with the Bank's guidelines for international
competitive bidding. For the purpose of comparing foreign and local bids, ma-
nufacturers in the Sultanate of Oman would be accorded a margin of preference
of up to 15% of the c.i.f. price or existing level of customs duties, whichever
is the lower.



- iv -
xiii.     The proposed project is estimated to cost about US$11.1 million
with a foreign exchange component of about US$7.8 million (about 70% of the
total cost). Subject to the provisions of paras. 7.01 to 7.03, the project
forms a suitable basis for a Bank loan to the Government of the Sultanate of
Oman of US$5.7 million, equal to 51% of the total cost of the project. The
financing of technical assistance by the UNDP and by the British Overseas
Development Administration would represent 22% of the total project cost.
T'he balance (27% of the total cost of the project) would be financed by the
government.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      An IBRD Reconnaissance Mission visited the Sultanate of Oman in
December 1971, to discuss with the government the possibility of an education
project suitable for Bank Group financing. This mission was followed in
March/April 1972, by an IBRD Project Identification Mission which was part
of the Economic Mission to Oman.  A Unesco mission assisted the government
in November 1972, in preparing this project for submission to the Bank. The
project was appraised in May/June 1973, by an IBRD mission comprising Messrs.
A. Salmon (General Educator), A. Andonyadis (Architect), J.C. Jones (Techni-
cal Educator , Consultant), R. Savas (Agricultural Educator) and J. Smyth
(Economist - Unesco).
1.02      During appraisal, the proposed project was modified (a) to delete
the originally proposed technical training center, junior secondary schools
and prevocational training centers which are to be financed instead by bilat-
eral sources; (b) to reduce the size of the primary teacher training insti-
tute and of the agricultural school due to the introduction of accelerated
training programs which reduce the need for the originally requested number
of student places; (c) to include an advisory group for the Ministry of Edu-
cation in the technical assistance component; and (d) to introduce a new type
of instruction and training for overage youths and adults.
1.03      The proposed project, as modified, would finance (a) the construc-
tion and equipment of a primary teacher training institute, two basic education/
skill training centers, and an agricultural secondary school and (b) technical
assistance for the project implementation unit, the project schools, and the
Ministry of Education.
II. SOCIO-ECONOMIC SETTING
Background
2.01      The Sultanate of Oman covers a strategic area of about 260,000 sq.
kn. at the eastern end of the Arabian Peninsula facing the Arabian Sea and
the Gulf of Oman. It is essentially divided into: (a) the desert, with its
oil deposits, in the central and western parts of the country, (b) the Hajar
mountains in the north, (c) the Batina coast between the mountains and the
sea, and (d) the Dhofar mountains in the south. Significant rainfall occurs
particularly in the Hajar region - one of the main areas of potential agri-
cultural development - from which it drains underground to the Batina coast
to support an agricultural productive coastal strip (Map).
2.02      Although the first census is not planned until 1974, the population
is estimated at about 600,000, and believed to be increasing by about 3% per
annum. The population is located mainly on the coast from Muscat, the capital
of the country, northwards to Sohar, and on the western slopes of the Hajar
mountains centered around Nizwa. The fastest growing urban area is the cap-
ital complex (1973 population approximately 50,000), containing the towns
of Muscat and Matrah. Provision of centrally coordinated social services and



-2-
education over the whole countrv to-date has been difficult because of the
geographic dispersion of the population. Omani society is somewhat tribal in
structure, but all share the Arabic language and Islamic religion.
2.03      The government is centered around the Sultan, who assumed power in
July 1970. The present regime has pursued a liberal and ambitious development
policy, which has been made possible by oil export revenues.
Economic Development and Manpower
2.04      Prior to 1967, the country's economy was entirely dependent on agri-
culture and fisheries; national income per capita probably was no more than
$60-$70. Exports of limes, dates and fish were the main sources of foreign
exchange, supplemented by annual British government grants which were dis-
continued xwhen oil exports began. Two agricultural experimental stations
established in the early 1960's, three secular primary schools,-and a mis-
sion hospital constituted the only development activity and social services.
W4ith the exception of traditional artisan shops, there was no industry. The
advent of oil revenues in 1967 changed the development perspective dramati-
cally. Government revenues increased from 2.8 million Omani rials in 1967
to 52 million in 1972, and the national income per capita rose to over $440.
A construction boom started in ports (Sea and air), roads, public buildings
,and housing; government administration rapidly expanded; alnd the goverment's
military effort in Dhofar congiderably intensified.
.2.05     Although defense expenditures remain high (about 40 percent of total
,overnment expenditure in 1972), civil development is assuming increasing im-
portance. The government's general objective is to use oil revenues to develop
infrastructure, hurian resources, and agriculture (including fisheries), but
the absence of a comprehensive development plan has resulted in some uncer-
tainties regarding actual development priorities and coordination.
2.U6      As over 80% of the population will continue to derive its liveli-
hood from agriculture and fisheries, the development of these sectors is par-
ticularly important. The governmtent is concentrating on increasing (a) trad-
itional export crops (para 2.04), and (b) food production for the home market,
thus reducinig present levels of food imports (36% of total imports in 1971).
This prograu is dependent upon efforts to iniprove the )roductivity of exist-
in4 lands and to open new lands for cultivation.  Consequently., as part of
this program, a Departmenit of Agriculture was established in 1971 to imple-
rent programs to increase agricultural productivity, and to conduct soil and
,water surveys. At present, the Department administers five experimental and
production farvs, and 16 extension cetters.  Four additional extension cen-
ters are being estahlisheci this year.  Further researchi is also conducted on
the potential development of fisiheries.  Althlough heavy investment iii infra-
structure is expected to continue to dominate development expenditures in the
immediate future, important projects in agriculture and fisheries have already
been initiated.



-3 -
2.07      The critical development constraint is the lack of qualified man-
power and administrative/management capacity. Investment in education and
training is therefore crucial. Development of industry, water resources and
power, construction, administration and social services, commerce, and agri-
culture will require by 1985 an estimated 24,300 professionals, sub-professionals,
and skilled and semi-skilled workers. This would represent about four times as
much trained Omani manpower (including six times as much skilled and higher level
Omani personnel) as is now available (Annex 2).
2.08      In the public agricultural and fishing sector, a total of about 450
skilled workers, technicians and professionals are presently required in re-
search, crop management, fertilizers, new seeds and plants, irrigation, and
animal husbandry; an additional approximately 900 will be required in the
mid-1980's to meet the demand generated by the expected development of the
modern private sector and by the increase of cultivated land. Despite the
magnitude and importance of this needed manpower, no agricultural training
facilities are available in Oman.
2.09      The present modern sector labor force is dominated by expatriates
with 500 professionals, 1,700 sub-professionals, and 5,300 skilled workers
representing 83%, 74% and 69% of the respective manpower categories (Annex 2).
The expanding education system itself would require about 2,900 expatriate
teachers in the early 1980's if national teacher training facilities are not
established sufficiently early to produce trained Omani teachers before then.
2.10      Increased manpower demands in the modern sector required by attri-
tion of Omani trained personnel, by desired replacement of expatriates, and
by expected economic development are estimated, from 1984, to average annually
about (i) 50 professionals and 170 sub-professionals in oil, industry, com-
merce, management, health and agriculture; (ii) 1,000 skilled workers and 300
semi-skilled workers in industry, administration and commerce; and (iii) 50
secondary teachers and 230 primary teachers. As the educational system is in
its initial stage, heavy dependence on expatriates will continue for approxi-
mately another two decades until the Omanis who entered the newly-expanded
primary system after 1970 have graduated from secondary and higher education
in sufficient numbers.
III. EDUCATION SECTOR
Present Status and Overall Educational Development Strategy
3.01      With only 24% and 0.2% of respective age groups in primary and sec-
ondary education, the Oman education system (Chart I) is among the least de-
veloped in the world and has the lowest percentage of students in secondary
schools of any of the 60 countries for which education statistics are pro-
vided in Annex 1. A modern system of primary education was initiated only
in 1970 and junior secondary education was started only in 1972. A trade
training school was opened in 1967, but most of its 40 to 50 students have
been of foreign origin because the courses have been directed to examinations



- 4 -
of the City and Guilds of London Institute and, consequently, English has
been used as medium of instruction. There are no teacher training or agri-
cultural training institutions. It is necessary to go outside the country
for higher forms of education. An estimated 80% of the population is il-
literate.
3.02      Prior to 1970, education was basically religion-oriented.  Only
6,000 children were enrolled in primary schools, but 4,800 of these were in
some 50 Koranic schools operated in mosques, private houses, huts, or under
trees. Wealthy families often sent their children illegally abroad to foreign
schools.
3.03      The decision to modernize and expand educational facilities fol-
lowed the accession to power of the present Sultan (para. 2.G3). The demand
for education was immediate and far exceeded the capacity of a system already
lacking qualified teaching staff and experienced administrative and planning
personnel: In 1972, in the Ministry of Education (Chart II) only two staff
members had university degrees and five had completed secondary education.
In the absence of effective planning, social pressures have resulted in an
indiscrirpinate expansion of the system, particularly at primary school level,
with about 90% of the present school population being "overage", an imbalance
between the enrollment of boys and girls, with girls representing only 17% and
21% of primary and secondary enrollment respectively (Chart III), a disparity
between the types and standards of physical facilities, and an uneven develop-
ment among the different regions. Student:teacher ratios have been maintained
at about 33:1 throughout the expansion, but at the expense of the quality of
the teaching force. Combined with the lack of modern curricula and teaching
materials, these deficiencies have resulted in an education system of poor
quality and little relevance to the needs of Omani society.
3.04      There is no comprehensive educational development strategy, as such,
to overcome these deficiencies and to provide a blueprint for the rational
development of the education system; this must await the advice of experts
who will be provided under a UNDP project, which is expected to become effec-
tive in October 1974. This expertise would comprise (a) an advisory group
which would improve the management, planning, school construction, and educa-
tional services of the Ministry of Education, and (b) subject specialists
(Annex 3) whose initial assignment would be to assist the advisory group in
developing and experimenting with new curricula, and teaching methodology and
materials for primary, secondary, overage youth and adult education, and for
teacher training programs. The subject specialists would operate in the
National Education Center integrated with the proposed Primary Teacher Training
Institute.  In a second stage, the subject specialists would, in addition to
their teaching and counterpart training assignments within the Institute,
evaluate the new curricula, methodology and materials utilized in project
schools.
3.05      The government has, however, developed some broad educational
goals but even these will be subject to the study of the advisory group and
may be modified significantly to fit within the framework of the study's
recommendations. These targets include at present, (a) improved planning,



-5-
administration, and supervision at local and central levels; (b) develop-
ment of modern national curricula, introducing prevocational agricultural
and practical subjects into general education; (c) development of adequate
teaching methods and materials, and building standards; (d) introduction of
universal primary education based on the above innovations by the mid-1980's;
(e) establishment of non-formal education together with prevocational and
craft training, not only to provide instruction to students who cannot at-
tend formal schools but also to rneet specific manpower training requirements;
(f) introduction of primary teacher training to provide the numbers of qual-
ified teachers required by the above programs; and (g) development of second-
ary education and training (with priority to agricultural and technical edu-
cation), with a view to replacing expatriate manpower within the next two decades.
3.06      The above targets are inter-related and, except possibly for uni-
versal primary education, reflect the proper priorities at this stage of de-
velopment.  The importance given to the qualitative improvement of the system -
especially in terms of practical curricula - and to the development of the basic
levels through formal and non-formal types of instruction is commendable.  The
phasing and costs of the above measures will require much additional study, but
it is already clear that the availability of qualified experts to provide sound
advice and guidance for the developing education system, and qualified teachers
and administrators to operate the burgeoning system will be the principal con-
straints, rather than the availability of funds. Until Oman can meet its own
staffing requirements, teaching and adrainistrative personnel will be recruited
from neighboring states.
Primary Education
3.07       In 1970, there were only three government schools with a total en-
rollment of 900. Since 1970, the government has assumed leadership in the
provision of primary schooling, and now enrolls 24,300 in government primary
schools, compared with 2,000 in 20 Koranic schools and 500 in six foreign
community private schools. As the number of government primary schools has
increased, enrollrment in Koranic schools has been rapidly decreasing. i-n-
rollment in government schools represent 24% of the primary school age group
of 6 to 11 years corresponding to the 6 grades of primary education. Some
additional 800 Omani pupils are registered in the primary schools of Abu
Dhabi and Qatar.
3.08      Primary school enrollmient was permitted to increase over 55% between
1971/72 and 1972/73. To accommrodate this increase, the number of schools was
increased from 39 to 60, but 50% of these schools are in tents or in rented
buildings unsuitable for use as schools, and nost schools lack adequate furni-
ture and equipment; the blackboard and unadapted foreign textbooks are frequently
the only teaching aids available. The supply of qualified teachers has not been
able to keep pace with enrollment increases, and in 1972/73 over 68% of the
total teaching staff of 735 were unqualified teachlers, with rote learning as
their basic methodology; 44% of the teachers were expatriates.



- 6 -
3.09       Indiscriminate student admission has resulted in about only 10% of
the pupils being of the proper age, while about 40% are four or more years
overage. The resulting mixture of age groups, ranging from six to fifteen,
is educationally unsound and wasteful, because many overage students will
not complete the full six years of primary education or even sufficient
years to achieve permanent literacy, while denying places in primary schools
to school age students.
3. 10      In the knowledge that present deficiencies at primary level may
jeopardize the future development of the education system as a whole, the
government has given highest priority to the improvement of primary educa-
tion. The action which is to start progressively in 1974 includes: (a)
development of new curricula and textbooks related to the Omani environment
aLnd the introduction of agriculture and practical arts; (b) transfer of the
overage youths from primary schools to separate institutions to be shared with
adults; (c) establishment of an adequate teacher training program; (d) construc-
tion of sufficient numbers of properly designed school buildings; and (e) pro-
vision of modern instructional equipment. Twenty-five primary schools are al-
ready being constructed by the governmenit and nine more are to be included in
the 1973/74 program.
3.11      While primary schools will continue in the imLumediate future to
admit pupils who are up to three years overage, the students who are four
or more years above the proper age of admission will be enrolled in basic
education/skill training centers where they will attend a four year course
which will allocate about 75% of the course work to general education in
Arabic, religion, arithmetic, general science, social studies, English and
physical education, and about 25% to prevocational skill training, includ-
ing either the essential of technical drawing and technology, general agri-
culture, and practical arts for boys, or domestic sciences for girls.
3.12      The basic education/skill training centers will offer the above
courses to overage youths in the morning, and literacy classes and vocational
training at semi-skilled level to adults in the afternoons and evenings.  The
literacy courses will be of variable duration and will be established on an
non-formal basis. The vocational training course will provide both end-on
courses for graduates from the overage youth shift, and initiation courses
for others. Two such basic education/skill centers - the first of their kind
in Oman - would be financed by the proposed project to reduce the pressure of
overage students in the primary school system and to demonstrate a viable al-
ternative to formal primary schooling.
3.13       In addition to the initiation of non-formal basic education and
skill training, the government intends to implement universal primary edu-
cation by 1985, witlh an estimated 145,000 school age pupils enrolled, of
whom 71,000 would be girls. An estimated additional 5,000 pupils would be
repeaters, only allowed in the last three grades according to an instruc-
tion to be progressively implemented from 1973-74. All other overage youths
would be oriented towards informal on-the-job training or non-formal voca-
tional training centers.



- 7 -
3.14      The government's stated objective to achieve universal primary edu-
cation by 1985 would correspond to an enrollment of 145,000 - not much in
absolute numbers - but a five fold increase over the present primary school
enrollment. Sufficient financial resources will be available to meet the
capital and recurrent costs of such an ambitious program.  To achieve universal
primary education, however, age-old social attitudes, especially those concern-
ing girls (49% of the targeted enrollment), would have to be drastically al-
tered. Moreover, competing claims by the various economic sectors for the
relatively few who will have completed even junior secondary schooling within
the intervening years is likely to reduce the number of qualified teacher
trainee candidates, and therefore force a reduction in size of the primary
school system from that presently envisaged (Annex 4). The optimum size of
the primary education system would be examined by the UNDP advisory group
within the context of the desirable relative sizes of the other levels and
types of education and training, and the economic and educational merits of
the four year basic education centers which would provide students with more
practical knowledge.
Primary Teacher Training
3.15      A pre-requisite for the expansion and upgrading of the primary
school system is an adequate supply of qualified teachers; yet, at present,
there is no teacher training institute in Oman. Upgrading courses of two
hours per week are held in five "field centers" under a program prepared by
the UNRWA/Unesco Institute of Education, but deficient organization, lack of
instructional equipment and inadequate qualifications of the instructors have
reduced the impact of what is at best an unsatisfactory stop-gap measure.
To meet the requirements of expatriate and unqualified Omani teacher re-
placement, attrition of qualified teachers and a rapidly expanding primary
system, some 300 teachers should be upgraded and about 2,000 to 2,800 new
teachers (depending upon the percentage of the primary school age group ac-
tually enrolled) should be trained by 1984/85.
3.16      Due to the narrow basis on which the education system was recently
established (para. 3.02), the output of the junior secondary schools, from
which qualified teacher trainees will be recruited, will be insufficient to
provide an adequate supply of teacher trainees until 1978. It will be neces-
sary to continue to employ an increasing number of expatriate teachers, mainly
from Egypt, up to a maximum of about 1,450 in 1978/79 (Annex 5).
3.17      Until a primary teacher training institute, proposed for financing
under this project, can begin operations, the government intends in 1974, as
an emergency measure, to offer a teacher training option in the last year of
junior secondary schooling. Basic pedagogical principles will be taught six
periods per week. Graduates from these sections will be assigned to schools
with nearby "field centers" (para. 3.15) where they will receive pedagogical
training in two-hour courses per week over a period of three years. The pro-
posed primary teacher training institute would make possible the replacement
of all expatriate and unqualified Omani teachers by 1982/83, and would be
capable of producing, if required, a total of 3,130 qualified Omani teachers,
of whom 1,230 would be women, by 1984/85.



-8-
Secondary Education
:3.18     Junior general secondary education, covering Grades 7 to 9, was
iLnitiated in 1972/73. It consisted of a total of seven classes accommodated
within three existing primary schools. Of the total enrollment of 146, rep-
resenting 0.2% of the secondary age group, 40 were girls. Those enrolled
iLn Grades 8 (26) and 9 (13) had completed their earlier grades abroad.
There were, additioually, 203 junior and 294 senior secondary pupils at-
tending schools abroad. The teaching staff, conisisting of nine expatriates
promoted from teaching in primary schools on the basis of their university
background, had not received adequate pedagogical training for this level of
teaching, and two tnirds of the teachers had never had any pedagogical train-
iLng. Present accommodation is unsatisfactory. Curricula are essentially an
extension of the primary course and are not adequate to prepare students for
employment or for senior secondary education.  No senior secondary education
course existed in Oman in 1972/73.
3.19      To meet the immediate need, on a crash program basis, for middle-
Level staff (one of the major constraints upon development), the government
intends to expand secondary education enrollment to about 13,000 by 1980/81
and 19,000 by 1984/85 with the financial assistance of Saudi Arabia, Abu
Dhabi and Qatar, and the technical assistance of principally Egypt and
Jordan. These figures, representing respectively 13% and 17% of the age
group, are optimistic because of teaching staff conszraints and organiza-
tional problems.
3.20      These constraints and organizational problems would be examined by
the UNDP advisory group (para 3.04) which would assist the government in plan-
ning the development of the secondary school system (Chart 1). The UNDMP group
would evaluate possible alternatives to the traditional six years of secondary
education such as a shortened cycle, diversified streanms, technical schools,
and vocational training centers.
hiigher Education
3.21      No higher education is available in Oman, but 225 students were
studying abroad in 1972/73. Thus far, about 50% of students graduating
abroad have returned to Oman. Bilateral agreements ensur4no the return of
graduates as requested by the government will be implemented in 1973-74.
T1he government intends to continue to send students abroad as the most
economical way of providing higher education to a limited numiber of stud-
ents in the various subjects required.
Technica__Ac-icatim and Vocational Training
3.22      The lack of government policy and the essentially a_ademic curric-
tila of primary and junior secondary education. offer little guidance or incen-
tive for students to enroll in the limited available technical education or
vocational training programs.  The proposed introduction of handicraft ard
.industrial arts into general education curricula (para. 3.05) should assi-st



-9-
in the identification of latent manual skills and perhaps promote more interest
in their further development. At present, skill training programs are few in
number and small in size: (a) The Oman Technical Trade School, established in
1967 in Matrah, provides a one-year general preliminary course, and two-year
courses in mechanical and automotive engineering, directed to the skilled
level examination of the City and Guilds of London Institute. Enrollment is
only 44 (mostly of Zanzibar and Pakistani origin) though the school has a cap-
acity of about 120 places (para. 3.01); (b) the Defense Services provide li-
teracy classes to all illiterate recruits and trade training in mechanical,
electrical and construction engineering crafts to 150 selected recruits
annually; and (c) Petroleum Development (Oman) Ltd. offers a few selected
erployees (12 in 1973) a 1000-hour technical training course, possibly fol-
lowed by higher technical training abroad and further training in senior man-
agement. On-the-job craft training and upgrading is also provided by the
company to an estimated 100 Omani workers out of a total of 970 employed at
lower levels.
3.23      The government intends to develop technical education and vocational
training principally with Saudi Arabian financial and technical assistance.
By 1974, the first measures will be (a) the opening in Muscat of a branch. of
the Matrah Technical Trade School, offering a one-year course in typing and
bookkeeping, and (b) the introduction into the Trade School of (i) skill
training in construction and electrical engineering trades, and (ii) semi-
skill training and upgrading classes in general and automotive mechanics,
construction trades and electricity, with Arabic as a medium of instruction.
The UNDP advisory group (para., 3.04) would assist the  Einistry of Education
in developing a comprehensive policy for technical training expansion. The
two pilot basic education/skill training centers (para. 3.12), to be included
within the proposed project, would offer adults a one-year semi-skilled worker
training course in either agriculture, woodwork, metalwork, electricity or
masonry for men, or tailoring, cookery or nursing for women.
Agricultural Education and Training
3.24      Despite the econc,mic importance of agriculture (para. 2.06), Oman
has no agricultural training institution.  Of the 13 professional staff in
government agricultural se.rvices, 11 are expatriates. Only seven Omani
students are enrolled in professional and nine in medium-level agricultural
courses abroad. The 16 employees presently running the extension centers
(para. 2.06) have been given only six months practical training on experi-
mental farms and are oth.erwise unqualified.
3.25      In recognitioin of the importance of agricultural development, the
government plans to inrtroduce agricultural subjects into primary and junior
secondary education (para. 3.05), and to establish an institution for agricul-
tural training at seeondary level. The proposed project would assist in pro-
viding (a) training in practical agriculture in one of the pilot basic educa-
tion/skill training, centers, and (b) an agricultural secondary school at Nizwa
to upgrade existing farm personnel and to meet (i), by priority, the demand
for 190 middle-leNrel technicians and 250 skilled workers required by the de-
velopment of agri,culture on present cuX.ivation acreage, and (ii), in a second



- 10 -
stage, the demand generated by the development of the private modern sector
and by the increase of cultivated land (para. 2.08). At higher levels, agri-
cultural specialists and veterinarians would continue to be trained abroad.
Education Finance
3.26      Except for the 20 Koranic and six private schools established
respectively by local religious and foreign communities, for which the
central government is not responsible, public recurrent education expend-
itures are corapletely financed by the Ministry of Education. There are
no fees.  Expatriate teachers are paid by the Rinistry at the same rates
as Omani teachers, but some receive supplementary payments from their
governments. The travel costs to and from Oman for expatriate teachers are
also paid by the Ministry which, in addition, provides free housing. Omani
teachers do not normally receive housing or housing allowances, but this
matter is currently under discussion as part of a general review of civil
service salaries and allowances.
3.27      Current education expenditures increased from R.0. 8,000 in 1967
to nearly 1.0 million in 1972 (Annex 6), and still represented only about
2.5% of government current expenditures in 1972. About 70% was allocated
to prirmary and junior secondary education, 4% to technical education, and
26% to miscellaneous expenses including administration, personnel upgrading,
and scholarships and grants-in-aid, mainly for students abroad (Annex 7).
Salaries account for about 60% of the total (Annex 8). Accurate records
of government capital expenditure before 1971 are not available, but in
1971 and 1972, education's share was R.0. 700,000 and 1,663,000, respec-
tively, representing 3.4% and 5.6% of the total capital budget (Annex 9).
Due to the shortage of adequate housing, teachers' housing will become an
increasingly significant component.
3.28      Because of the proposed educational development described previously,
recurrent education expenditures are expected to increase to about R.0. 19.0
million by 1985 of whlich, 56% would be allocated to primary and basic educa-
tion, 25% for secondary education, and 3% to primary teacher training (Annex
7). This would represent about 17% of total government recurrent expendi-
tures (Annex 10). Though considerably higher than the present 2.5%, this
would constitute a feasible amount which the government is prepared to pro-
vide, and which reflects the degree of priority attached to the development
of human resources.
External Aid
3.29      Thus far, external aid for education has comprised only a gift of
Arabic textbooks from Qatar ($110,000 value in 1972) and approximately $60,000
in 1972 from Unesco/Unicef for educational planning and equipment, and train-
ing of supervisors. Recently, however, agreements have been reached with
near-by countries for substantial educational assistance concentrating upon
provision of experts and fellowships for higher education abroad, and finan-
cing of buildings and equipment for primary, secondary and technical educa-
tion. These agreements include a Saudi Arabian grant of $6.8 million for



- 11 -
the period 1973-1975, and an Abu Dhabi grant of $2.3 million for 1973 and
about $2.5 nillion per annum beginning in 1974, for the next 10-year period.
In addition, Qatar is financing the construction of a secondary school for
600 students in the capital area, and will continue to provide textbooks as
long as Onman cannot produce them. Other prospective external assistance for
education includes the UNDP which has allocated $1.0 million for the period
1972-76, and Unicef, which has allocated $240,000 for the period 1972-75.
Summary
3i30      The education system of Oman, still in its very initial stage, is
one of the least developed in the world: Primary education, in the modern
sense, is barely three years old; general junior secondary education has just
completed its first year of existence; and technical education consists mainly
of one trade school. Only students trained abroad have been a useful source
of educated manpower, but they no longer constitute a sufficient supply. With
24% and 0.2% of the relevant age groups in primary and secondary education
respectively, the system has been unable to provide even a basic education to
the personnel required by the rapid economic development. Eighty percent of
the population is illiterate. In a country where 80% of the population draws
its livelihood from agriculture, agricultural training is non-existent.
3.31      Due to the lack of qualified administrative and planning staff,
the rapid expansion of primary education since 1970 has developed without
adequate planning with overage pupils representing about 90% of the enroll-
ment. Combined with outmoded curricula and totally unqualified or foreign
teachers of variable levels and backgrounds (there is no primary teacher
training institution in the country), this has resulted in a system of poor
quality with little relevance to the national needs.
3.32      With the assistance of neighboring countries mainly for capital
investment, the government is prepared to allocate the required budgets (a)
to develop an overall educational strategy together with modern, practical
curricula, teaching methods and teaching materials, (b) to train sufficient
numbers of Omani teachers to replace unqualified and expatriate teachers,
and (c) to initiate the most economical and appropriate types of training
required by the nation's economy, including agricultural education and a
flexible system of basic education and skill training, for overage youths
and adults.
IV. THE PROJECT
General
4.01      The project would aid the government in initiating its broad plans
for educational improvement by (a) providing assistance in the reorganization
and strengthening of the Ministry of Education; (b) establishing the first
primary teacher training institute and the first agricultural school in the
country; (c) introducing basic education and skill training for overage youths



::12 -
and adults; and (d) developing national expertisea through a program of fellow-
slhips. An innovative feature of .:the- iproject would.;be the introduction of
nutritional instruction into.primary, o-verage youth.kAnd adult- education, and
into primary,.teacher training :through.the provision.of teaching expertise and
fellowships.  The-project would.-include:
(i) :construction and--equipping of. : thefollowin ..institutions
(Annex 11):
.Additioaal.Accommodation
Student   Annual    Student          _Staff
Type of Institution   Grades       Places   .Output    Boarding    Housing Units
..    .         ~~    ~    ~~~~~~~~~~.. .....
One Primary Teacher
Training Institute -
National Educat-ion
Center               10 & 11        300       640 /     150               3
Two Basic Education/
Skill Training
Centers              Ungraded       576   .. 260 /2    -                6
One Agricultural
School               7&10-12        180       100       180              3
TOTAL             J1.;056    1,000    3330                           12
)1   Including 230.e-from                  tihetone- Sand -yearpre-service.  ng courses
and 410 from; the. partttime>. upgr4ading..course.
/2   Including 130: youths. in basic, prevo ational education (morning shift)
and 130 semi-skilled :adults ,(-fafternoon s.hift).
(ii)  construction: and eequippi-ngi.of::55 Xnew .housing units:.for.the
project staff,..£to.abe:' f.inanced.by the government; and
(iii)  related technical-, assistance. .for .nthe Project -Unit, the project
schools, and the6:Ministry of :Education.
'Primary TeachernTraining - Ins:.titut-e-National Education Center-at-Matrah
4.02      This center would provide .pre-service =:and in-service. teacher training,
and curriculum and teaching material. desQi.gn.  The pre-service..training section
(morning shift) would have a capacity:of.- 300.places.of whi;ch. '240 would be al-
,located to a one-year course Dtraining teaachers for: Grades 1 to'4.  The 60 best
students completing this course would: take . a isecond year course -which would
qualify them to;teach.in Grades 5..and 6. 'The curriculum of both- courses would
include about 40% of.. professionalltr:kining 2and practice, including community
development and adult:education methods, .and would' be geared to the comprehensive
curriculum to be introduced.into primary .<education (para. 3.10). I-In science,
emphasis would be put on nutrition so that p.rimary' teachers could.give the



- 13 -
instruction required by children and parents to correct diet imbalances. As
the Institute would recruit on a national basis, with 50%O of the trainees ex-
pected to come from outside Matrah, 150 boarding places would be provided.
In order to increase the attractiveness of the profession, and to ensure that
graduates will remain teachers for at least five years upon graduation, the
government has agreed that teacher trainees, upon admission into the Institute,
would be granted civil service status with full salary and would be provided
with a binding contract to serve in government schools for at least five years
upon graduation.
4.03      The in-service training section (afternoon shift) would offer pro-
fessional training, and courses in agriculture, home economics, woodwork,
metalwork and community development to junior secondary school leavers who
had taken the teacher training elective in grade 9 (para. 3.17). About 420
trainees would be provided with four periods of instruction per week in the
above program for one year.
4.04      The curriculum and teaching material design section would develop,
experiment with and evaluate new comprehensive, environment-oriented curric-
ula for primary, secondary and adult education, and teacher training, and
the related teaching methods and materials. The new curricula would include
prevocational agriculture, homecraft and handicraft. The section would be
assisted in the above tasks by 13 UNDP subject specialists who would also teach
in the above training sections (para. 3.04). The operations of the section
would be coordinated by the curriculum development expert of the UIDP advisory
group (Annex 3). Before the completion of the Institute, the section would be
accommodated in the Ministry of Education.
4.05      As the new curricula for primary, overage youth and adult educa-
tion, and primary teacher training are essential for the achievement of each
project school's objectives, the government has agreed that these curricula
would be furnished to the Bank for approval at least nine months prior to the
commencement of operation of these institutions to provide sufficient time for
consideration of the Bank's comments.
Basic Education/Skill Training Centers at Sohar and Muscat
4.06      Both centers - the first of their kind in the country - would be
forerunners of similar institutions to be constructed within the near future.
Their major objectives would be (a) to reduce the pressure of overage youths
in primary schools and to demonstrate a valid alternative to formal elemen-
tary schooling, and (b) to establish a viable pattern of adult education
which would provide general education, practical training, and community
development programs for different levels and types of students.
4.07      One center for boys, would be at Sohar, and the other, for girls
would be at Muscat.  Both centers would provide:



- 14 -
(a) in the morning, a four year program for overage youths, with
an annual intake of two groups of 36 in each center:  one group
for 10 to 12 year olds, the other for 13 to 15 year olds. About
three quarters of the curriculum would be allocated to general
education, and one quarter to prevocational training (para.
3.11). The weekly schedule would include 36 and 38 periods
for girls and boys respectively.
(b) a one-year adult craft training course of 35 periods per week,
offered in the afternoon to 96 male adults at Sohar and 54
female adults at Muscat. This course would provide semi-skill
training (70% to 85% of the weekly schedule), and basic educa-
tion, comprising Arabic, arithmetic, and general science, with
emphasis on nutrition especially for female trainees (para. 3.23).
(c) literacy courses of variable duration, and other community
activities offered in the afternoon and evening on a non-
formal basis. As the craft course mentioned in (b) would be
mainly restricted to the workshops, the classrooms, totalling
216 and 252 student places at Muscat and Sohar respectively,
would be available for literacy and community activities.
4.08      In the overage youth program, while all the girls would take needle-
work, health science, home nursing, cookery and nutrition throughout their
four-year program, all boys would take introductory courses in agriculture
and woodwork in the first two years, and either agriculture, or metalwork
and electricity in the final two years>.  In the adult craft courses, men
would be trained in agriculture, woodwork, metalwork, electricity, or
masonry and women in tailoring/needlework, cookery/nutrition, or home
nursing.
4.09      Upon completion of the course for overage youths, a primary school
leaving certificate would be awarded which would enable graduates to enter
junior secondary education, non-formal or on-the-job vocational training.
Youths who are four or more years above the relevant primary school age would
be directed into this program. The adult courses would offer training at
semi-skill level both to graduates from the overage youth course, and to un-
trained adults passing entrance tests to be developed by the UNDP specialists
(Annex 3). A certificate would be given upon completion of the course, qual-
ifying graduates to apply for semi-skill employment. Students leaving the
overage youth course before completion could re-enter either of the above
courses, depending on their age and the duration of their absence from the
centers at the time of their re-admission.
4.10      Students would be recruited from the areas where the centers are
to be located (para. 2.02). These areas were selected in view of their pro-
jected development, particularly in agriculture and construction.at Sohar,
and in social services at Muscat. The expertise required to establish these
centers would be provided as follows: (a) two principals under the UNDP
technical assistance program, (b) 35 teachers under bilateral aid, and (c)
12 administrators and clerks from within the country (Annex 12). Expatriate



- 15 -
general education specialists would be replaced progressively by graduates
from the Primary Teacher Training Institute and practical subject specialists
would be replaced by graduates of the technical trade schools (para. 3.23)
to be assisted by Saudi Arabia.
4.11      In order to make adult craft training attractive, the government
has agreed that a salary incentive structure in the public sector would be
established by June 1977 at the latest, which would award to technical and
vocational education graduates a salary increment, beyond the normal salary
scale applicable to graduates from general education at equivalent levels.
Tc ensure that sufficient qualified staff would be available to guide the
development of this highly specialized type of education, the government has
agreed that adequately staffed divisions in charge of (i) Technical Education
and Vocational Training, and (ii) Adult Education and Community Development
would be established in the Ministry of Education as early as possible and by
September 30, 1976 at the latest (one year prior to the expected operation of
the project institutions).
Agriculture School at Nizwa
4.12      The school would offer the following three types of programs:
(a)  a three-year general agricultural course (Grades 10-12) with
emphasis on agricultural extension methods to train middle-
level technicians for employment by the Department of Agri-
culture in agricultural extension centers, state experimental
and production farms, animal husbandry and plant protection
services, and in cooperative and marketing organizations. The
output from this program would be about 34 graduates per year;
(b)  One-year post-primary course (Grade 7) to train semi-skilled
young farmers in horticulture (36 trainees), animal husbandry
(18 trainees), and farm machinery (18 trainees). Candidates
for this course would be recruited from overage primary school
leavers from the rural areas. The graduates would be employed
either by the Department of Agriculture in the extension serv-
ices and state farms or by private enterprises; and
(c)  ad hoc upgrading sessions of one to two weeks to an annual
total of 80 to 100 staff members of the Department of Agri-
culture and other agencies related to agriculture at skilled,
sub-professional and professional levels.
As the school would recruit on a national basis, 100% boarding would be pro-
vided. Six teachers would be provided by the British Overseas Development
Administration and the remaining seven teachers required would be provided by
bilateral assistance, mainly from Jordan. The Department of Agriculture, the
Ministries of Education and Finance, the General Development Organization, the
governorates and the private sector would be represented on the advisory board
of the school.



- 16 -
4.13      To enhance recruitment prospects, the government has agreed that,
until the government's needs for agricultural technicians have been met,
agricultural technician trainees would be granted civil service status with
Full salary upon admission to the Agricultural School.  As the justification
I[or the three-year agricultural technician course is a function of the number
cf extension service posts which would be established, the government should
present to the Bank for comment its plans for expanding its agricultural ex-
tension service. These plans are under preparation and are expected to be
completed by early 1975 with the assistance of an expert in agricultural re-
search and extension who is expected to arrive in Oman in mid-1974 under the
proposed Bank financed Oman technical assistance project. The Bank's concur-
rence with these plans would be a condition of disbursement for this project
item, and the accommodations to be provided within this institution would be
l3ased upon these plans.
Staff Housing
4.14      In view of the exceptionally severe shortage of adequate accommoda-
i:ions, the government has adopted the practice of providing housing to ex-
patriate teaching and administrative staff of all schools and is discussing
the extension of this measure to Omani teachers (para. 3.26). Because three
administrators would be required in residence on each of the four project
school campuses and their houses would be part of each school entity, the
project would finance the construction of 12 staff houses. The government
has already agreed to provide the balance of required housing for the proj-
ect. Part of this government-financed housing would be rented, and the
remainder would have to be built.  As this remainder cannot be accurately
known, only 55 new staff housing units, meeting 100% of the staff housing
requirements in the critical areas of Nizwa and Sohar, together with the
housing requirements for the expatriate staff of the advisory group and
Project Unit in Matrah, have been considered an integral part of the proj-
ect, as they constitute a basic prerequisite for staff recruitment in the
above areas.
Technical Assistance
(a) Project Institution Staffing (Annex 12)
-".15     Because of the acute shortage of qualified Omanis, the project
would need a large input of expatriate teachers and administrators. Under
a proposed UNDP project, Unesco would provide 13 specialists for the Primary
Teacher Training Institute and two specialists for the Basic Education/Skill
Training Centers, for a total of 39 man-years. The British Overseas Devel-
opment Administration would provide six specialists for the Agricultural
School, for a total of 12 man-years. The remaining required expatriate
personnel (59) would comprise chiefly teachers who are provided at present
by neighboring Arab states - principally Egypt and Jordan. These Arab states
have had no difficulty in recruiting the 314 teachers employed in 1972-73 in
Omtan and do not anticipate difficulties in recruiting the required numbers
fcir the project schools. Neither does Unesco anticipate any difficulties
irL recruiting the specialists to be provided by the UNDP, as over half could



- 17 -
be recruited on a regional basis. The British Overseas Development Adminis-
tration (ODA), likewise, probably would not have much difficulty in recruit-
ing qualified agricultural training experts because of the limited number
required, six. The government has agreed that: (a) a sufficient number of
qualified and experienced teachers would at all times be assigned to the proj-
ect schools; and (b) the timely provision of the required expatriate teachers
would be requested from available foreign assistance programs at least one year
before the scheduled commencement of operation of the schools.
4.16      The content, phasing and general objectives of the technical assist-
ance programs, as shown in Annex 3, were agreed with representatives of ODA,
UNDP and the government. However, the latter emphasized the urgent need for
new curricula independently from implemeutation of project schools. UNDP will
consider possible advanced provision of the required specialists which would
not disrupt the general technical assistance program as delineated in Annex 3.
(b) Advisory Group (Annex 3)
4.17      The UNDP advisory group (para. 3.04) would comprise eight experts,
totalling 23 man-years. It would advise the Ministry of Education in (a)
management and planning, so that the education system could develop in accord-
ance with the country's actual needs for trained manpower and with available
financial resources, (b) school building design and construction, to develop
educational facilities in the most economical manner best adapted to the spe-
cific pedagogical and climatic conditions in Oman, and (c) curriculum, method-
ology and teaching material development, to improve the learning process.
In addition, the advisory group would provide assistance in the preparation
of a comprehensive educational development plan, based upon its study of avail-
able financial resources, manpower requirements and the most appropriate forms
of education for Oman including non-formal basic education and skill training
for youths and adults of varying ages. The advisory group would operate in
close cooperation with the General Development Organization and the team of
experts in charge of planning the general economic development of Oman. These
experts would be provided under a Bank-financed technical assistance project
appraised in August-September 1973. The advisory group's recommendations
would affect the form and rate of development of the education system, and
would provide the basis for possible further Bank assistance in subsequent
education projects. The composition and general objectives of the advisory
group have been agreed with the government.
(c) Counterpart Training (Annex 3)
4.18      The proposed UNDP and British ODA assistance programs would also
include the training of local staff to replace the specialists provided under
the same technical assistance programs. For this purpose, 31 man/years of
fellowships would be provided to train 29 university and 2 technical sec-
ondary graduates who would be recruited over a period of four years. Six
man-years of these fellowships would be financed by the ODA. This training
would be followed by a period of internship in Oman under the supervision
of the expatriate specialists. University graduates returning from abroad
(para. 3.21) would be the main source of counterparts. As this training



- 18 -
program is essential for the future operation of the project institutions
and for the development of the education system as a whole, the government
has agreed that qualified counterparts would be recruited in accordance with
a plan to be prepared by the Ministry of Education in consultation with the
Bank (Annex 3), and that their national salaries, when applicable, would be
paid during the term of their training.
4.19      The US$1.0 million allocated to education from the UNDP IPF funds
for 1972-76 would be sufficient to meet the estimated costs (US$0.75 million)
of the UNDP technical assistance program during this period. Continued UNDP
support for the balance of the project (US$1.25 million) which would occur
within the next IPF period is considered to be assured because of the UNDP
commitment in the initial phase of a project which is considered as top
priority by the government. The-government has already requested technical
assistance from UNDP which is reviewing the request in the light of the pro-
gram delineated in Annex 3. Because of the vital importance of the UNDP proj-
ect to the success of the Bank project, the government has agread that the
UNDP program's plan of operations, and the teachers and specialists would be
acceptable to the Bank, and their terms of reference and duration of assign-
ment would be satisfactory to the Bank.



-19 -
Cost of the Project
4.?O      The estimated cost and foreign exchnnge component of the various
project items are summarized below:
R.O. (million)        US$ (million)       I of
Local  Foreign  Total Local Foreign Total   Total
One Primary Teacher
Training Institute        0.12   0.28      0.40   0.36  0.81    1.17    13.6
One Basic Education/Skill
Training Center
for Boys                  0.00   0.19      0.27   0.24  0.56    0.80      9.3
One Basic Education/Skill
Trnining Center
for Girls                 0.07   0.14      0.21   0.19  0.40    0.59      6.9
One Agricultural School      0.13   0.30      0.43   0.38  0.87    1.25    14-.5
Consultant Architects' Fees  0.01   0.10      0.11   0.03  0.23    0.31      3.6
Project Unit                  0.04  0.10      0.14   0.12  0.29    0.141     1.7
Sub-Totnl                 0.45   1.11      1.56   1.32  3.21    h.53    52.6
Government-Financed
Staff Housing -55 Units       0.19  0.39      o.58  o.53  1.12   1.65    19.0
Technical Assistnnce
(a) Project Institution
StAffing                 o.16   0.37      o.53   0.46  1.07    1.53
(b) Advisory Group           0.10   0.22      0.32   0.27  0.65    0.92
Sub-Total                 0.26   o.59      o.85  073  1.7?    P.45    28.h
Total Project Cost Without
Contingencies                 0.90   2.09     2.99   2.58  6.05    3.63   100.0
Contingencies:
(s) Physical Increase        0.06   0.12      0.18   0.16  0.35    0.51      5.9
(b) Price Increase           0.90   Q.J6    0.66   0.60   3.q    1.95    22.6
Sub-Total                 0.26   0.5b      0.84   0.76  1.70    2.46    28.5
Total Project Cost            1.16   P.67     3.63   3.34  7.75   11,09
Interest during construction is estimited to be US$ 1.04 million.



- 2U -
4.21      The cost estimates for the project institutions were developed on
the basis of recent school building costs obtained from public and private
sources; unit costs thus gathered were reduced by 6% to reflect:  (i) im-
proved unloading and handling of construction material expected from the
future Port Qaboos, and (ii) deletion of import duties (7%) from materials
to be used for project facilities. Construction costs were estimated for
each geographic area, reflecting different transportation and labor costs.
The basic unit cost of building construction is equivalent to US$193 per m2
of gross floor area. Although this unit cost is high in comparison with
international standards (Annex 15), it is acceptable because about 90% of
building materials and skilled labor must be imported.
4.22      The foreign exchange component of about $7.8 million has been cal-
culated as follows: (i) building construction, site development and furni-
ture 65%, (ii) equipment 100%, (iii) professional services 90%, and (iv)
project administration 70%. The foreign exchange costs represent about 70%
of the total project cost (US$11.1 million).
4.23      The project cost would include a contingency allowance for unfore-
seen physical increases equal to 10% of the estimated cost of civil works
(including site development), professional services and furniture and 5%
for equipment.   Price increase estimates are based on average annual increases
over the last three years. An additional percentage has been included to re-
flect further price increases expected to result from recent increases of pe-
troleum prices. The government has agreed to finance all project cost in-
creases. For 1974, 1975 and the following years respectively, the price in-
crease contingency includes provision for annual price increases equal to 12%,
10% and 8% of the costs of civil works and professional services, 9%, 7% and
5% of equipment and furniture costs, and 3% of Project Unit costs. Total con-
tingencies would represent about 41% of the IBRD-financed project costs without
contingencies and about 29% of these costs including contingencies (Annex 14).
Financial Plan (Annex 16)
4.24      The proposed loan of US$5.7 million would have a term of 20 years
and a grace period of five years. The loan would equal 51% of the total cost
of the project, would finance 55% of the foreign exchange component and 42%
of local costs. The technical assistance to be provided by the UNDP and by
the ODA would represent 22% of the total costs. The balance (27% of the total
cost of the project) would be financed by the government. The distribution
of the Bank-financed project costs by category of expenditure would be as
follows: academic and communal facilities would account for 40% of the proj-
ect cost, boarding 13%, staff housing 7%, site development 8%, furniture 5%,
equipment 11%, professional services 7% and project administration 9% (Annex
13). Accommodations would have economic use factors ranging from 71% to 86%
(Annex 11). The proposed financial plan is summarized below:



- 21 -
(US$ Millions).
Government      Bank       UNDP        ODA        Total
Amount  %  Amount   %  Amount  %  Amount  %  Amount   %
1. Construction
(i) Schools    0.15    3   2.58    56   -       -      -    -   2.73    59
(ii) Staff
Housing    1.63   36   0.24       5   -                      1-    -    .87    41
(iii) Sub-Total  1.78   39   2.82    61   -       -           -   4.60   100
2. Professional
Services     0.14   31   0.31    69   -       -      -    -   0.45   100
3.  Furniture        -    -   0.23   100   -       -     -    -   0.23   100
4.  Equipment        -    -   0.49   100   -       -     -    -   0.49   100
5.  Technical                      /1
Assistance       -    -   0.41'-  14   2.00  70   0.45  16  2.86   100
Baseline Cost    1.92   22   4.26    50   2.00  23   0.45   5  8.63   100
6. Contin-
gencies       1.05   43   1.41    57      -   -      -    -   2.46   100
TOTAL       2.97   27   5.67    51   2.00  18   0.45   4 11.09   100
Interest during
Construction    1.04
/1   Project Unit.
Recurrent Costs
4.25      The annual recurrent cost of the project institutions at full ca-
pacity would be about R.O. 555,000 (US$1.6 million equivalent) at 1972 prices.
This would include the financing of all local staff, counterparts of tech-
nical assistance specialists, boarding, allowances and operating expenses.
These costs would represent about 8% of prospective total public recurrent
expenditure on education in 1980 at 1972 prices. These estimates are re-
garded as tentative and only give an order of magnitude because of the ex-
pected effect of the UNDP advisory group's recommendations concerning the
degree and direction of educational expansion. As the government considers
the project to be an essential basis for the improvement of the education
and training system, it plans to give priority to recurrent expenditures of
the project.



- 22 -
V. IMPLEMENTATION
5.01      Administration:  A Project Unit, responsible for the implementation
of this project, would be established within the Ministry of Education. It
would operate in close collaboration particularly with the Public Works Depart-
ment which is responsible for the design and construction of all government
buildings in Oman. The principal officers of the Project Unit would be the
Project Director, Project Architect, Project Educator, Procurement Specialist
and Quantity Surveyor. The required accounting services would be provided by
appropriate government agencies. The services of the Project Architect,
Procurement Specialist and educational consultants - all expatriates - would
be financed by the proposed loan. In addition to providing overall direction
of the Bank financed portion of the project, the Project Unit would provide
liaison with the UNDP advisory group and governmental agencies, and would
assist in the subsequent identification and preparation of a possible second
education project. The Bank-financed cost of the Project Architect, Procure-
ment Specialist and education consultants, totalling eight man-years, is
estimated to be about US$400,000. In addition, furniture and office equipment
for the Unit, estimated at US$10,000, would be included in the proposed loan;
all other Project U7nit costs would be borne by the government. The government
has agreed that the Project IJnit Director would be directly responsible to
the Minister of Edducation.
5.02      All five officers of the Project Unit (para. 5.01) would be acceptable
to the Bank and would be appointed on a full time basis upon terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Bank. The appointment of the Project Director and
the Project Architect would be a condition of effectiveness of the Loan Agree-
ment. The other principal officers would be appointed within three months
of the date of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement.
5.03      Design and Construction Standards.  Design and construction standards
would be developed by the Project Architect and the consultant architects.
The objective would be to produce school buildings with sufficient functional
and cost advantages over existing schools that the project schools would serve
as prototypes for subsequent school building construction. The high unit cost
of construction in Oman will be compensated in part by already agreed austere
space standards and by conscious efforts to adapt the types of structures and
mode of construction to local building materials and practices to the extent
feasible; "foreign" designs will be eschewed.
5.04      Professional Services:  Professional services in Oman and in the
neighboring countries are available to design and supervise the construction
of the proposed project facilities. Architectural consultants, acceptable to
the Bank, would be appointed upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
5.05      Sites.  The sites selected for construction of the four project in-
stitutions are government properties. The government has agreed that these
-ites, or suitable alternatives acceptable to the Bank, would be transferred
'o the ministries responsible for these institutions prior to the scheduled
Si)itiation of construction. The value of land is not included in the project
-st.



- 23 -
5.06      Procurement.  The Project Unit would be responsible for the award
of contracts for construction ($4.6 million) and for supply of furniture and
equipment ($0.9 million) in conformity with the Bank's Guidelines for Procure-
ment. Contract documents would be acceptable to the Bank. Detailed furniture
and equipment lists would be prepared during the design stages of project
implementation and would be reviewed by the Bank prior to procurement.
Description of items whose unit cost or aggregated cost would not exceed
$2,000 would not be included in these lists. Such items could be purchased
on the basis of three requested price quotations. The total value of items
purchased in this manner would not exceed a total of $160,000. Items would
be grouped to the extent practicable to form sizeable bid packages and to
permit bulk procurement. For the purpose of comparing foreign and local bidsi,
manufacturers of furniture in Oman would be awarded a margin of preference
equal to the existing rate of customs duty generally applicable to competing
imports or 15% of the c.i.f. prices, whichever is lower. None of the instruc-
tional equipment will be locally manufactured.
5.07      Implementation Period.  The period of implementation would be about
5 years; construction would be completed within about 3-1/2 years from the
date of signing of the Loan Agreement (Annex 17). Locally-based firms prob-
ably would win all construction contract awards. Total building construction
annually under the project would correspond to about 5% of the value of ex-
pected annual building activity in the country, well within the capacity of
Oman's construction industry.
5.08      Disbursements.  The proposed loan would be disbursed on the basis
of 100% of the salaries of the Project Architect, Procurement Specialist and
Project Unit education consultants, 100% of the c.i.f. or ex-factory cost of
furniture and equipment and 90% of the total costs of civil works, exclusive
of the government financed staff houses (Annex 16). The estimated schedule
of disbursements is shown in Annex 18.
VI. BENEFITS
6.01      The project described above affects the fundamental elements of the
education system in Oman in its initial phase of development and includes two
main components. One part is diagnostic and institution building; it comprises
the UNDP advisory group which would advise the Ministry of Education in (a)
management and planning, (b) school building design and construction, and (c)
curriculum, methodology and teaching material development. The advisory group's
assignments would be: (i) development of general guidelines for educational
development expected in about one year, (ii) preparation of a comprehensive
education development plan expected to be completed in about three years, and
(iii) training Ministry officials to replace the UNDP experts after completion
of the technical assistance scheme.



- 24 -
6.02      The second part of this project - proposed for Bank financing -
is designed to initiate three types of education and training corresponding
to the basic and most critical areas of the sector: (a) the first primary
teacher training institute, with 300 student places, to train and upgrade
Omani teachers required to replace all expatriate and unqualified teachers
in the early 1980's and to meet the demands for additional qualified teachers;
(b) two pilot basic education/skill training centers for overage youths and
adults, which would introduce a new type of education and training to assist
the government in finding a flexible and functional solution to the present
critical problem of (i) overage school youths and (ii) the illiteracy and
lack of skill of 80% of the population; and (c) the first agricultural school,
with 180 places, to train and upgrade middle-level technicians and skilled
workers urgently required by the expected development of the agricultural
sector, one of the government's top priorities.
6.03      The qualitative improvement which is expected from the project is
as important as the urgently needed quantitative expansion of the system.
The quality and relevance of the education system will be improved by (a)
the increased employment of qualified national teachers trained in the
project teacher training institute, and (b) the development, through the
UNDP technical assistance program, of modern curricula, methods and in-
structional materials. The new curricula would be related to Omani en-
vironment and would introduce into general education courses in agricul-
tural, vocational, and homecraft subjects including particular emphasis
upon nutrition. The quality of education would also be improved through
the project buildings which would constitute models for the future expan-
sion of the system.
6.04      As the project principally affects the basic levels of education
and training, it would contribute to increasing the proportion of the Omani
people with a basic education or rudimentary knowledge of a useful skill
who would thereby be enabled to take advantage of a wider range of job op-
portunities.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      Agreement was reached on the following principal points, as recorded
in the Loan Agreement:
(i)  Civil service status will be granted to primary teacher
trainees and agricultural technician trainees (paras. 4.02
and 4.13);
(ii)  The new curricula to be developed for project institutions
will be furnished to the Bank for its approval (para. 4.05);
(iii)  A salary incentive structure will be established in the public
sector in favor of graduates from technical education and
vocational training programs (para. 4.11);



- 25 -
(iv)  Adequately staffed divisions for (a) technical education
and vocational training, and (b) adult education and commu-
nity development, will be established in the Ministry of
Education (para. 4.11);
(v) Qualified staff in sufficient numbers will be assigned to
project schools at all times, and timely provision of the
required expatriate teachers will be requested from foreign
assistance programs at least one year prior to the scheduled
commencement of operation of these schools (para. 4.15);
(vi)  Qualified counterparts to technical assistance experts will
be recruited in accordance with a plan to be prepared in
consultation with the Bank (para. 4.18);
(vii)  The technical assistance programs will be subject to Bank's
approval (para. 4.19);
(viii)  Conditions of appointment of Project Implementation Unit
officers (paras. 5.01 and 5.02).
7.02      A condition of effectiveness is the appointment of the Project
Director and the Project Architect (para. 5.02).
7.03      A condition of disbursement for the Agricultural School is the
Bank's concurrence with the government's plans for the expansion of the agri-
cultural extension service (para. 4.13).
7.04      Subject to the above conditions, the project would provide a satis-
factory basis for a Bank loan of US$5.7 million to the Sultanate of Oman for
a term of 20 years including a grace period of five years.






. -"a.  a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a2~~~~~~aaaZa~~~~~ 
.3            a,aa,a                     a         a. a                     aaaaaa               aa-a,                aaaaZa                                  a         a     ,a 
a     a                     a                                  <a               a<aa               a        a           a~~~~~~~M 
-  aa--.a  a aa a    a a a a  a a  aa aaaa-aaaaaaa-<a   aaaa                          aaaaaaaaaaaaa,a   aaaa~ta                           a        a 
a  a aa -aaa  .  a a a  a a a a a a a a a a a aaaaaaaa'-,aa a    aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa     aaaaa a             a -<a a        a        a at 
Z811l29ll;z      Ra                    a                     a                                       - A                   aa               a            a             3
a  a~~~a,aaaa  a     a aaaaaaa.aaaa a.                                                                 aaaaaaaaaa,aa<aa,'.a..a. a.             a  a. .a . .. . 
a  a  a            abaa-            aaaaa                       <a  aa             aaaaa                   <<a 
a  ,    aa  aaa  aa    aa  aa     aa.aaaa a- a  a aa  aa          aaaa<aa              aa,a  aa              aa.a  aaa a ,    aa.aa  aa  a aa   <aaaa     aaaaa.~a<a aa    aaa  a  aa     aa-<aa     aaaa<aaaa  I  a a   
a, a a  aaaaaaaa a a  a .~. a ,a aaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa   aaa,- a a         a    aaaa     
a  a a a   1                                                                                                                                           -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






ANNEX 2
SULTANATE OF CMAN
MODERN SECTOR EMPLOYDENT
1971
Omani      Expatriate      Total         %       % Expatriate
Professional              100            500          600       2%            83%
Sub-Professional          600          1,700       2,300        7%            74%
Skilled                 2,400          5,300       7,700       25%            69%
Sub-total            3,100          7,500      10,600       34%            71%
Semi-skilled            2,800            800        3,600      12%            22%
Sub-total
Trained Personnel  5,900           8,300      14,200       46%            58%
Unskilled              17,000            -        17,000       54%             0%
T 0 T A L          22,900          8,300      31,200      100%            27%
1985
Projected Requirements
Total         %
ProfessionalJ                      1,000         2%
Sub-Professional                  4,600         9%
Skilled                          13,300        26%
Sub-total                    18,900        37%
Semi-skilled                       5400         1%
Sub-total Trained
Personnel         24,300       48%
Unskilled                         26,900       52%
T 0 T A L                   51, 200      100%






.ICXAEO   CXX  - ,'CCCDCUAINCCCC                                                                                                               N 
NNN~~~~~~~XXN0  Type SNX Na,,,,                                            C ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3                                                                                       6
=iXSNNCf          XNSX,  CCX,N                L,NNN                NNNP"N1                                               3     4      1     2    3     4      I N        C     1      1     NN                            -
XN,~~~~~~~~~~~~rCN NX  "1  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~                   3 1          1     2 3        4                 3            I     1     3     4                             1C2        3           NI,N-N,,N    C      -NN    MC,,'Y--  N   b
XXIX               -N,X...     '              HaN--h           IX---l,  oN'>    ...XC                                    CCX'CX    X,IC XX'C CCC"                          C C,'X            C               1C X            '                                     
X~~~~~~'XIA,=ll~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,C  IpX ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  XXX  CCXX  CXCCC  AlA  CXIX  CAC  'A'.  CXX                                   -           C            -          -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX                                                                                                                                         C          1
GOO  XXX  XOO  DOO                                                                                                                                         I          1
XX- ...IO                                               XX    XIXXX   XXX             XX ICXIX  CXX..   CXIX  CXXll~I XX   XXX 
XXX AX    X    X 
.-b.             116CX.k'XCA    CI    X                                      X   X    CI  C',' -ip  IIC                    IC,' xC                                                                1           1
XXX   XXX  lAX   XXI                                                                                                             1          1~~~~~ - -   - = 
ONION ,,,1,,, CXXX XX C  CCNN1,CXN,,N                           XXXI  XXXI  CXI  XXXI  CXXI  XXXI  XXXI  XXI  13'AC  CXXI  XXIII  'XX
XXX   XXI  XXX   XIX                                                                                       1          1 oo  oo
XNNIII,WDNXINNNICXXAN,XIXX                                                     ""'I  XX'  'CCCX   XX   336136   CXXXIX   CXX .   ...X...   .                                        I
Ed.-i-  11                                                                                        I           X-          ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I~X  ;XX  XXX  XX I                  3 
GOG  IGG  G.,  GOO ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~  
XXXXCI~ICN,aaca  NONANNIX Ia~,,ha~  NININIX    Id-,L -.r  TN -bNX    i?rCXoXpli  fhXX331    XX                                                                                          CIm  XXX  =3C   13CC   CC  X        Ku 3CC                            I
~~~~h-i-                                                                          )U~~~~~~~~   m             ,   m~C  CI   =XX  XX     CIA                                                         1          1
XXIXa~,, La~,Tyaga IXXXINN  (CNl11Nh~                                    CXI  XXX  XXXI  CCXI  CXX   CXXI  11CC  CXX,  C,XI  CXXIoXXGooXXXIG3o
I~~~~~i-                                                                 ..    M   1-                         ml~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~XX    X    CC   CXX                                      1          1m
NINNXXXINXCI                                                             XXXI  XXXI  XXX'  CCXI  13CC  CXXXI  XXXI  CCIX  CXXI  CXXI  CXCI  XXGoX                3            1ooo  ou
T-h-l                                                                                           o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~XX XX,XX'CCXX   XXXII  CXC   CII  CXIX   CXI XC  XXX 
XXX  Xo,  XXX  oCX1 
-ft   od ... li-   IW-d-k ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    XCX   CI   CX   XX                                                                         
.CNN    -kNIN  XXNNN,NC,   mAC  'A    AX   XCM C,CC    X.1l                                                                                                       XI.CX                          3           1
CCCIX   ODX  CXI  ONC                                                                    I 
1A311-l-lNXI E-iCC--N-                                                                                                       -       -   -      -XXN,m 
NCeIIIXXCIINXI                                                         XXXI  XXXI  CCXI  'XXI   XXI  'XXI  XXI,  XXXI  CXXXI  'CXX  13131  CCXXI CGoo                       I
Ed-d-                                                                                     ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~[XI   CXC    CX   ;XC                                             1          1m 
XXX  CCXX  CCXC  CCCII                                               1~~~~~~~~5  T  I  14
4           X           2          2
A~IN,X&N-X6N                                                   A-1,111 XN,Sb-ICXC                                                                                                                MMC  CC       I,i A  A,   'AX   CCCX  CX                         21
IIIK.)                                                                                                                                                                                           XXX  XIX  XCIX  XXXX 
XXI  ACC  CCCX  OGG                                                                      1          1
XX     CX    CX     XXX21 
2           -6           16         6
TO11A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6'           33          3C         C
MMMX~~NI,a,  iIIX,,I 
P.J-II  IXN'LXNTAM'1X  SCIXULE                                                                                                  C
I      XIeN'  N'1XX 111 X    NII   ININNXX  13101NNNN,NN,.1,,NINI    INI    XIICI,XCCXNXXX,IICXXXNCXINXCXI,,  IA,X    ,   CC  C     CXXAIN~N~XXIXN'XC,N,
I - NaXlaaXIIIpa  XpaIXaXXXXXXdpCaNaI,aCdNrXflarNXpII,X1bCC1IIXIXICC~XX~,X    IN1CX,,,,IXNN,ICN,CC"XXNCX~Li- N






ANNEX 4
SUITANATE OF OMAN
PRIMARY ENROLIMNT PROJECTIONS
:R0IOTION RATIOSs                 95%       94%        93%       93%        92%
Increase                                                                    Total        of Age
Years         hLt Intake      G1       G2         03        G4        G5         G6       Primary      Group
1970-1971                   2,290       600         310      130        100         50      3,4801        4
1971-1972         9%       10,110     3,330      1,200       400        180        130     15,350        15
1972-1973                  11,010     8,390       3,230    1,170        340        190     24,330        24
10%4
1973-1974        10%       12,110    1o,460      7,970    3,O40       1,090        320     34,990        33
1974-1975                 13,320    11,500       9,930    7,490       2,830      1,000     46,070        42
10%
1975-1976         9%       14,650    12,650     10,930    9,340       6,970      2,600     57,140        51
1976-1977         9%       15,970    13,920     12,020   10,270       8,680      6,410     67,260        58
1977-1978         9%      17,400    15,170      13,220   11,300       9,550      7,990     74,630        63
1978-1979         8X       18,970    16,530     1h,410   12,430      10,510      8,790     81,640        67
1979-1980         7%       20,490    18,020     15,710   13,550      11,560      9,670     89,000         71
1980-1981         6%       21,920    19,460     17,120   14,760      12,600    10,630      96,490         74
1981-1982         5%       23,240    20,830     18,490   16,090      13,730    11,590    103,970          78
1982-1983         5%       24,400    22,080      19,790   17,380     14,970    12,630    111,250          81
1983-1984         5%       25,620    23,180     20,970   18,600      16,160    13,770    118,300          83
1984-1985                  26,900    24,340     22,020   19,710      17,300    14,870    125,140          86
98%       97%       96%        95%        95%
1985-1986                  25,080    26,360      23,610   21,140     18,730    16,430    131,350          87
j An additional 3,463 children were enrolled in pre-primary clasases which were phased out in 1971-1972.
/ Recruitment for Grade I exclusively from correct age-group.






PRTMARY TEACHER TRAINING PROJECTIONS
A - CONERAI
1972-73 *   1973-74    1974-75          1975-76      1976-77        1977-78       1978-79       1979-80       1990-91       1981-92         1982-93       1983-84    1984-85   1985-86
Onr..lnant                     24,339       34,909       46,070       97,130        67,269       74,630          81,630       99,990          96.799      103,970         111,240       119,300      129,140   131,359
'I ...h- Re .i-oata  (1)          235           990       1,150         1,430         1,680       1,970           2,940         2,230          2,410        2.600           2,790         2,960        3,139      3,290
1.  oA-Ia T-alniso
Sections                       ~~~           ~~~           ~~24  33  53  175           430          430            430          430    -Phased oct
(b)Field Centers
1st year                    304            -           -               
2nd year                     -            293          -             23            32   - Phased net
3rd y-a                       -            -          292            -             23
S.b-total                  3      ~      15          295            23            55
(c)T-eh-r Tr-li.n
csLijtote
(1   Pr-SorvOco
O-r-yr cor-                                                                                                090           090            190          190             190           199          110        190
No-year -o-re
lot Year                                                                                                   60            60            10            60              60            60           69         60
2nd yea                                                                                                 - 7-             60         -60              60              69      0           60          60-10
Sob-total                                                                                               240          790            300           309             309           300         309        309
(ii)  On-Sr-i-e                                                                                      80 (25       170 (3~   420               420           420             420       bha-e  oat30
Sob-total 1eetiLtot                                                                                 90           440           720           220           220             720           30909                    0
(a)Fiold G-cte..                                           280                         20   -    h-cd not
(b)T-h-be  T-ajaie
Oe-peo  ora                 -             -            -                                                       172           172            072           122             172          172          172        172
No-yea   oore               -             -            ----                                                                   59             59            59              59            19          95         5o
Up9r-ding                    -                                                                      0           169 (3)      41      41041                        410                    -           -           -
TOTAL OUTPUT                     -             -            2800                         20            99           340           640            649          640             640           220        30           -05
(i) Field Center.            304           295            285          23             55   - Phased 001
(ii) T.T.0.Upg-ad.oC--e(4) -                 -            -                           -               84           070          420            420           420             420  -Phasd oot
(iii) Sto-k Q-Iilfiad
Te...h-r  (5)          6            5              5            5           290            279           290          330            670         1,220           1,950        2,429        2.970      5.510
(iv) Nan Q..lified
T-coher              -                          -            280            -               20            so          340            649           640             640           640         130         230
Tv)7t11 Q-clfi.d
T-oh-r (6)             6            a              5         293            210            290           360          690          0.310         1,900           2,490         ,1060       3,290      5,349
T-ahe-              -111          190             00          82             75             66            60            0(            40_           30       Phasod_act    __
TOTA    tOMAI  (7)              42 1         400             00          3990           410           449          .590         1 160         1_770          ,3604          2.1  (9)   70860 (9) *3-290 (9) 5.349  (9)
(bEototc(0)           314          490            770        0,040         1,270          1,439         1,450         1,020            649          240    -Pha-d Oct
B - FERMLE 1EAC99R TRAINING
(aG-9 T.T. Oo-ti-s           -             -              19 (10)     26 (10)        39 (11)       105 (127     280 (13)      290            288           290     - Ph-cd cot
(b) Field teser--                                            -          19 (09)        39 (115   Ph-sd out
c)T.T.1!.(4)Upgr-d.
tors             -             --                                         -             59 (1l)     004 (177      207  (13)      270          770             270 - Phasd ooc
()T.T.I.(4)Tevaltsg
tole --                                                                   -             -             -             -              -             -             30 (14)    159 (15)   130            130
11. 00100                         -             -                           -             18 (10)        59 141)    190 (12)    TO0  (13)         760          260             260           115 (155    111         115
Ill. Omolovo-c
Ii) O3n4.ic-t-r                                                         19             39       -Phas..d Oct
9O5efO~~~~~  -  - -  -          -  ~~~~-           -                    59           104           2770           270---       279             279 - Pha-d sot
(iii) Stock Qoollijed
Te-h-e  (5)               -             --                          --170                                                                 1245800                                              1,115      5,190
(lv) N.. Qolifijed
T-ah-e                                                                                           19           57           100            260           260            260           260         115         015
l)Total Qoelified
T-ahe-  (6)               -                             -           -              -             15            75          173            425           675             928        1.130        1.230      1,310
1-Oh-c                    46            43             45          42             41             43            51           27             35             1    - Nosed_Oct    __
TOTAL PF06L0
TEACHERS1 (7)            46            45            45           60             89            120          219           470            710          903           1,190         1 150       L..255     1,13(2
Notes:    (03 Stcdot,Tc...h-r  Uticm    = 4081
(2) 3c-lod- 3900 3.   0 G-de-9 T-oh-o 7T04010  Secti-n t-i-coc   -sd-atrd 0  1976 and 1977  epe-cively.
(3) T-aisic  of  r-de-9 Teaher T-iSod   SecEise g-duate..
(4) Teacher T-atalag I-si-tu   (Project  teot.
(5) 70101 Qoaltiied Teaher  Yee  s-Ii...as  37, tecicin..
(8) Total (80) + (iv),
(7) Total1) -5- +   i) -4 (v  + (vi).
(0) Diff--vc  het ...  "ITotal  O.aeis" sd "T-ah- Rquiran-t." at the top of t(,r tehil-
(9) School diretor  acd eddiaitralt-, ed-io  advi-or  and -pe-is-r  sill h  re-rired fr-  the co1-  fi teachers
(10) 807ofG-eds-g Teache  T-i.ing Section B-r11-.eta.
(51) 707, a  ird.-9 Teeher T-oinic  S-tOino-         rlnco
(12) 605ofUpir-ding Soticc at thn Te...hr Tr-icirg IeatiOte..
(03) 65'  fU0pg-adisg Section at the T-shar T-ai.ieg 1-tcto,
(14) 507 ofFPiet Yos  of the 2-ye at --re  of T-aiciog Secti-n  t the Teache  T-i.isg Isi
(15) 501  fTraining S-ctie at the T-the  r lisicc   I-stit.t,






SULTANATE OF OMAN                       1/                    ANNEX 6
GOVERNMENT RECURRENT EXPENDITURE AND REVENUE - 1967-1973-
(R.O. 000's)
1___________________         _    19657        196d*       1969- -  19T7          1971 - ---               1973
Defense Expenditure             1,200        3,300       4,500       12,400    16,300  _27300            3°0000
Civil E.xpenditure                523          480         593        1,298      9,900     12,742        16,700
of which:
Administration                   51          134         161          208      3,100      6,024         7,180
Central                          ...         ...                       ...       ...       5,070        6,110
Local                           ...          ... ..      *...                    ...         954        1,070
Social Services                  15           L43         75          131      1,600       2,894        5,330
Health                            7           31          52            71     1,100       1,796         3,000
Educa.ion                        8           12          23            60       500         984         2,000
Labor and Social Affairs          -            -           -              _        - _       114          330
Economic Services                            ... .                     ...        ...      1,854        2,290
Agriculture                        -           7          15            57       500         376          310
Housing & Public Works           14           10          17            25       200         268          360
Transportation &
Communications (incl. 
roads and ports)              ... .        ...         ...                     ...         768       1,400
Other                            ...         ...         ...           ...       ...         442          220
Dhofar Province                    -           -           -             1     1,300       11970        1,900
Not Classified         _        443          286         325     |    876      3,200       -  
-T O T A L                   1,723        3,780       5,093     I 13,698    26200        40 042  i46700          1
Education as percent of Total    -             -           - _   |     _ _     1.9         2.5      __4_3 _
Current Revenue                2,800   |  26,700    40,000         45,700      50,100    52,000        61,600
Figures for 1967-1972 are actual; 1973 figures are budget estimates
Source: Department of Treasuries and Accounts; and The Economy of Oman, IBRD, EMENA, September 12, 1972.






SULTANATE OF OMAN
PROJECTED RECURRENT EDUCATION EXPENDITURE 1972-1985
(R.O. 0001s)
Category                     1972                 1980                                1985
Actual    At 1972    With 5% per annum      At 1972         With 5,9 per annum
Prices    Inflation of Costs      Prices        Inflation of Costs
Administration      )                       500             740                750                  1,420
)            682A/
Primary and basic   )
education         )                     4,080           6,040              5,540                 10,480
Junior Secondary                   -      1,010           1,500             1,410                  2,670
Senior Secondary                  -         390             570              1,060                  2,000
Trade School                      40        170             250                170                    310
Primary Teacher Training            3       280             41o                280                    520
Miscellaneous                    259        500             740                750                  1,420
Total                             984     6,930          10,250              9,960                 18,820
Source:  Ministry of Education, and mission's estimates
Primary and junior secondary (which has just been established on a very limited basis in
1972-73 and which utilizes the sane facilities and teaching staff as primary education) have
not been differentiated in the budget.
The UNDP task force would have to make the appropriate distribution between general,
prevocational and vocational education in accordance with the overall education
development plan.
Includes furniture, equipment, vehicles, entertainment, scholarships and grwnts-in-aid
mainly for students abroad, and unclassified expenses.



SULTANATE  OF  OMAN                           ANNEX 8
RECURRENT EDUCATION EXPENDITURE 1972
(R.o. 000ts)
tC ategory                                         Detail            Total
Personnel
'"'eachert  Salaries                                416.2
N;or-Teaching Salaries                              178.4
O:vertime for Auxiliary Staff                         0.9
Recruitment Travel Expenses (Expatriates)                                26.3      2.7
Materials and Suplies
',ohool Books                                         7.5
Sbitr tionery                                        16.7
PRlysical Education and Camping                       6.8
MiLLscellaneous                                       5.6
36.6      3.7
Tra rel (u;
37r Oman                                             9.0
;1.oad                                                1.9
10.9      1.1
Studi.'nts' Scholarships and Grants-in-Aid
In Oman                                               0,9
Abroad                                               65.9
66.8      6.8
Rent,
$<,::hool Buildings                                  11.0
,'lachers' Housing                                    4.9
SGLudentsI Housing                                    3.6
19.5      2.0
Trn:~port                                                                 19.2     2.0
M9i .:Ie.nance                                                             3.4     0.3
Eleztr:icity, Water, Fuael                                                 9.6     1.0
Personnel Training
It'. Oman                                             0.3
AbrDad                                                2.9
3.2     0.3
FurniLture and Equipment                                                  49.6     5.o
Vehi'cl,es                                                                31.4     3.2
Mail and Communications                                                    1.7     0.2
Entertainment                                                              2.7     0.3
UnclLassified and Miscellaneous                                         107.6    10.9
TOTAL                                                                984.0   100.0
Source:  Ministry of Education



SULTANATE  OF  OMAN                        ANNEX 9
GOVERNMENT GAPITAL EXPEINDITURE 1971-1973
(R.O. 000's)
1971             1972             1973
Harbor and Ports                      6,800              7s568            3,860
Airport                               1,500              2,807              _
Roads                                 4,800              4,222            4,000
Health                                1,900              2,531            1,600
Education                               700              1,663            1,250
Public Buildings                      1,300              3,491            2,640
Dhofar                                2,200              5,271            7,820
Other                                 1,200              2,-303           8,500
Total                               20,400             29,856           29,670
Education as percent of Total         3d.4%              5.6%             4.2%
Figures for 1971 and 1972 are actual; 1973 figures are budget estimates,
due to be substantially revised at mid-year.
This figure is the mid-year revised figure for education.
Source: Department of Treasuries and Accounts; and the Economy of Oman,
IBRD, EMMNA, September 12, 1972.



SULTANATE  OF  OIMAN                       ANNEX 10
RECURRENT EDUCATION EXPENDITURE IN RELATION
TO TOTAL RECURRENT EXPENDITURE 1972-1955
(RIO. 000's)
1972(Actual),   1980        1985
(1)  Recurrent expenditures on
education at 1972 prices                    984          6,930       9,960
(2) Recurrent expenditure on
education with 5% per annum
inflation of costs                                      10,250      18,820
(3)  Projected Government Recurrent
Expenditure j                            40,042         76,700     110,000
Recurrent expenditure on education
at 1972 prices (1) as % of total
recurrent expenditure(3)                    2.5            9.0         9.1
Adjusted expenditure on education (2)
as % of total recurrent expenditure (3)                   13.4        17.1
E(.) Projected GDP at 1972 market prices     155,338        276,500     397,700
Recurrent expenditure on education at
1972 prices (1) as % of GDP at
1972 market prices (4)                       0.6           2.5         2.5
Adjusted recurrent expenditure on
education (2) as % of GDP at 1972
market prices (4)                                          3.7         4.7
Source:  Office of the Economic Advisor; Ministry of Education; and mission's
estimates.
Assuming that (i) revenues will increase by an annual 7.5% starting from the 1973
budgeted revenues (R.O. 61.6 million) and (ii) recurrent expenditure will absorb
75% of these revenues.



SULTANATE OF OMAN
EROLIMIT, OUTPUT. STUDENT ;TEACbER RATIO AND USE FACTORS
IN PROJECT INSTITUTIQIS
Course         Student                     Graduates       Boarding   Staff    Weekly   Use Factor          Student/Teacher
Locatior        Level        Grades      Duration        Places     Enrollments    per year         Places     Housina  Periods  Class Lab-workshop    Ratio
1. Priry Teacher
Training Institte( 1)       Nmtrah         Post-Jooior
Pre-Service                              Secondary    10g&1-II    1-2 years         300           300 2         233            150          3       42                              1:14
In-Service                                                                           -           420 -          407             -           -        4       807      71%
Total                                                                       300          720            640            150         3
2 Basic EduaetioalSkill
Trainiag Centers (2)
(I)Basic EdVrtios/Skill
Training Center for
Girls                    lluscat
0verage youth course                    Basic
Educa tion                  4 years        288           288            65             -           3       36       787      77%V          1:25
Adult course                            Adult
Training     ungraded    3-12moonts         -             54            50                                 35        -        -            1:12
Sub-Total                                                                                 342            115
(ii) B sic Education/Skill
Training Center for
Boys                     Sober
Overage youth course                     Basic                                                                                                                            41
Education       1/           4 years       288          288             65             -           3       38       86%      78%           1:23
Adult course                             Adult
Training     ungraded      3-2 months       -             96            80                                 35       -        -             1:12
Sub-Total                                                                                 384            145
Total                                                                       576          726            260             -           6
3. Agricultural School (1)      NiMa
Technician course                       Upper
Secm dary      10 - 12        3 years       108           108            34            108          3       40                              1:15
Skilled worker                                                                                                                                               72%       78%
course,                                 Post-
Primary           7           1 year         72            72             66            72                  40                              1:15
Total                                                                       180           180           100            180          3
GRAND TOTML                                                                     1,056         1,626          1,000           330         12
1/ Four-year accelerated primary course for overage students (with 25% of the time-table devoted to handicrafts),
2J lu-service trainees (14 groups of 30 students - one year course  of 4 weekly periods per group - in the afternoon shift);
3/ Including 175 Grade 10 and 58 Grade 11 graduates;
j Refers to the regular  morning shift, The same facilities would be utiliced for varied nonformal activities including literacy classes, adult craft training
and upgrading, and commity development in the afternoon and in the evening.






ITS IWSTIYTlITOt/
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~210 FklM4A TTTTTN TPAINING                                                                              SITiYTTl  F
1i)  T-Achers
AFoul                                                                                14d1                                     I
..... ....                                                                                       I                            I
221125b                                                                               A                       1                2
Toi.l  ftidi,s                                                                        i                                        I
IIAIF Tthtics                                                                          2                       1               1
C=rlSF55217  (inclAdi g515FiFios)                                                 14                      1                4
ZoAy, Fbilopiy & Zthics of-01oliioi                                                    1                                       1
CIIIicAlS & Syllibi                                                                    1                                       1
TTsiSTllg MThoT s                                                                     3                        1               2
Tes01i', Nesrcln  anA FosAtlutos                                                       1                       1
SF6021 A=ilsoos                                                                       1                                        1
iploslniFy AeeOTTATStO                                                                14                      1                4
1             1~~~~~~~~~~ 
AgTOFIFltuI                                                                           l                        1
T.Woe'  TAisotIlo  bwITS TTFhSSiI oni AutiSFSiAT                                       1                       1
TAb-STill                         25                      11               13
2 55)  Ad- i-iSTOFi AS 
PrLNTechers:    ahr              peilst            
555152552 PFinFipa1                                                                   1 
1                             1~~~~~~~~~~ 
AAIistraS     IveSafT
SAS-SAto             l            U                                                          2
secretaries~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 44 _                                                                         _
taSAl                             36 12                                    16                7
--lab     i- I          (gn _,hb-
llorticulture ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ T-                                          2                                                        6      
U9 ______
Rodgls Froess11b 5515io
E2iThy   Phylliner   ihsilF                                                                                                                                 I
F1TTASFAuh-FOa                                                           1n
TIlTS  250150                                                                         1 2                                                       2
Aub-Total                          6                                        1                4
0SF  6 I7TT                         1                                       1                            6
US)  TeAAooiSo15TlSe 555-
Arablc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 23 2
g-iSFJ.,                                                                                                                                       7 I
c.ene              31                                                                                                         1
soA ia SITAR   sl                                                                                   
TAelgSSA                                                                              I                                        1
2IN  5F                                                                                14 14
sTISIT                                                                               16                                       IS I
25256555 Fdcooi iios    ltrti                                                         1                      1
SAl-lAtsl                        61I
FF5025551                                                       12                                                         5 5
4BASIS EITCSTITS/SSUI.S SkAi12G5 ChTATT
Aosasl                                                                                                                         2
Nf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 114io
SAidASST  4   FAiFentry-                                                              24                                    --2 ½
UcalwnrkF                                                                             --3                                      214
TSb-Thial                         Al                                       22
TFilsipaiI                                                                                
USoal                              27                     1                i0                6
SISAL F2SJCI2 ShROALS                                   lois1                             -J                       15             55                234           6 2/
WDP5S  15525535 GRQQ)?                                    Yital                              21          -                            6                7 
3.  PSOAROS SNTI                                            22551                               3          A           -                 -7                           -         _
G?AbD2 TOTAL                      133                    23               35                37           6
- fwo SFS5SS1AiAF1T74 ecesad2   dlitaoFS andpppoFTII55252t555mmber
-ISIFAOfShm  1tAch,J352     inst2ATAorS  TAlFSIFSehnicFa
4 t/ OfA 550 i tocnersnd0 oAiiUiiisistor ail sAppirtis.o iSta 11libsTA.
51 A' h2OTA5 2FAAFcSFTDd2I 2d i52521trt1T2-R520STF
4Z/ 5025517 sTsioAlsoS  AAd iI27O,AT F il)






ANNEX 13
SULTANATE OF OPIAN
BANK-FINANCED PROJECT COWPONEN'T COSTS BY
TYPE OF EXPENDITURE
R.O. (millions) _             US$ (millions)
Local   Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign    Total   ' of Total
1. Construction
Academic & Comunal
Facilities              0.22      0.41      o.63      o.64      1.19      1.83      404o.1
Boarding                0.07      0.13      0.20      0.21      0.37     o0.8        12.8 1
Staff Housing           0.04      0.07      0.11      0.11      0.21      0.32        7.0M/
Site Development        o.0o      0.08      0.12     0.13       0.23      0.36        8.o /
Professional Services   0.01      0.10      0.11      0.03      0.28      0.31        6.9;o
Sub-total            0.38      0.79      1.17     1.12       2.28      3.40       75.14
2. Furniture                  0.03     0.0<      0.08      o.o8      0.15<      0.23       5.1o
3. 0uipment                            0.17      0.17       -        0.49      0.49       1o.81
Sub-total            0.03      0.22      0.25     0.08       o.64      0.72       _1__94
1. Project Administration    0.0)      0.10      0.14      0.12      0.29     0o41         9.04
TOTAL IBRD-FINANCED
PROJECT COST            0.4L      1.11      l.Y6      1.32      3.21      h.53        1004
(Excluding Contin-
gencies)
4. Contingencies             0.20      0.44      o.64      o.,7      1. 8          5.8,   40.8
TOTAL IBRD-FINANCED
PROJECT COST            0.6      1.,2      2.20      1.89      4.49      6.38
(Including contin-
gencies)
Notes:  R.O. 1.00 = US$2.90



SULTANATE OF OMAN - EDUCATION PROJECT
CONTINGENCY ALLOWANCE
i                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROFESSIONAL  PROJECT                                              'TOTAL CONTIN-
CONSTRUCTION           FURNITURE                 EQUIPMENT              SERVICES                ADMINISTRATION          TOTAL PROJECT COST                GENCIES AS
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _         ST  _  _  _     ~~~~~~~~OF    TOTAL
LOCAL      FOREIGN      LOCAI    FOREIGN        LOCAL!  FOREIGN    LOCAL          F             LOCAL    FOREIGN       LOCAL      FOREIGN        TOTAL
I. CONTINGENCIES (As ' of Project Cost)j                                                              I                       {   F  EIN
1. iUnforeseen                          I   10           10           10          10 l                     5          10           10 l           _
2. Price Escalation                          38-'        382 23                                           23_'-       23           23         12!'         12
3. Total                                     48    i    48            33          33               !      28          33           33         12           12
II. PROJECT COST (Without Contingencies)i                                                                                                                                                                        40.9
Thousands of R.O.                    I  374          691          27           50            -        169          11          96          42          99         454       1.105       1.559
Thousands of US$                      1,084       2,004           78          145            -       490           32         278         122         287      1,316        3.204       4.520
i  Foreign Exchange                                   65%                      65%,                   100%                      90%                    701                     71-
III. CONTINGENCIES (in Thousands of R.O.)
1. Unforeseen (000 R.O.)                     37          69            3           5            _          8            1          10          _                      41           92         133
(000US$)                    109         201            8          15            _         25            3          28           _          _         120          269         389
2. Price Escalation (000 R.O.)              142         263            6          12                      3 19          3          22          5           12        156          348         504
(000 US$)            412         761           18          33            -        113            8          64          14          35        452        1.006       1.458
3. Total Contingencies (000 R.O.)           179         332            9          17            _         47            4          32          5           12        197          440         637
(000 US$)        521          962           26          48            -        138           11          92         14           35        572        1.275       1.847
% Foreign Exchange                                    65%                      65%1                   100%                     g9o"                     70,                    69c
IV. TOTAL IBRD-FINANCED PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                   29.0-
Thousands of R.O.                       553        1,023           36          67            -        216          15          128         47          111        651       1.545        2.196
Thousands of US$                      1.605        2,966          104         193            -        628          43          370        136          322      1.888       4,479        6.367
F Foreign Exchange                                    65",                     65%                    100%                      90-'                    70,                     7 0I
Rate of Exchange: R.O. 1.0   US$2.9
l/ 3.5 years at 12%. 10% and 8% for the years 1974, 1975 and thereafter compounded.
g 3 years at 95, 71, and 5% for the years 1974, 1975 and thereafter compounded.
D 2 years at 12% and 10% for 1974 and 1975 compounded.
/ Average of 3% per year for 4 years.



SULTANATE OF OMAN - EDUCATICN PROJECT
UNIT CAPITAL COSTS
TYPE OF FACILITIES               AREA IN M2        BUILDING          FUENITURE     EQUIPMENT            TOTAL
1. Primary Teacher Training
Institute
- Academic & Communal        9.5 (9*4)          1,870              100            440          2,410  (1,560)
- Boarding                   9.0 (9.2)          2,020              150             -           2,170  (l,346)
2. Basic Education/Skill
Training Centers
(i) Girls
- Academic & Communal      7.3 (20.1)         1,430               80            170          1,680  (2,874)
(ii) Boys
- Academic & Communal    10.1 (20.1)          1,850              100            450          2,400  (2,874)
3.  Agricultural School
- Academic & Commmnal       11.0 (11.6)         2,120              130            970          3,220  (3,756)
- Boarding                    7.5 (9.2)         1,970              130              -          2,100  (1,346)
4. Staff Housing
Primary Teacher Traing
Institute                116.7 (164.0)       34,900               _               -         34,900 (20,690)
Basic Education/Skill
Training Centers - Girls 116.7 (16h.0)        34,900              _                         34,900 (20,690)
Basic Education/Skill
Training Centers - Boys  116.7 (164.0)       36,600               _               -         36,600 (20,690)
Agricultural School         116.7 (164.0)       38,400               _              -         38,hOO (20,690)
High level of previous Bonk Group financed projects unadjusted for dollar devaluation and price
escalation.
Professional fees and contingencies not included.



SULTANATE OF OMAN - EDUCATION PROJECT
FINANCIAL PLAN
(AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS)
Oovern,sent                 ~~~~~~IBRD                           UNDO                                    ODA                                      TOTAL
ITEM                     SOURCE             R,O.          US$         7            R,O.           R0O %.                            USND                     R.O.           US$        %            R.O.            TOTA
1. CIVIL WORKS                  L                0.28          0.79        -           0.28           0.82          -          _         _            _            _             _          _            0.56              1.61        _
F                0.34         0.99        -            0.69           2.00         -                       _         _            _             _                        1.03             2.99        -
T               0.62          1.78        39%          0.97           2.82         61%        _          _           _             _            _          _             1.59             4.60         100%
2. PROFESSIONAL SERVICES        L                0.00          0.01        -           0.01           0.03          -          _         -           _             _             _          _            0.01             0.04         -
F               0.05          0.13        -            0.10          0.28          -          _         _            _            _             _                        0.15             0.41         -
T               0.05          0.14        31%          0.11          0.31          69%        -          _           _             _            _           _            0.16             0.45         100%
3. FURNITURE                    L                -             -           -           0.03           0.08          -          _         _            _            _             _          _             0.03             0.08        -
F                _            -           _            0.05          0.15          -                       _         _            _             _                        0.05             0.15         -
T                _            _            _           0.08           0.23        100%         _        _            _             _            _           _            0.08             0.23         1007.
4. EQUIPMENT                    L                _-                                                                                  -                  -                                                 -                - _
F                -            _           _            0.17          0.49          -          _            _         _            _             _                        0.17             0.49         -
T                -                                     0.17          0.49         100%        _         _            _            _             _           _            0.17             0.49         100%
5. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE         L                -             _           _            0.04          0.12          -          0.21      0.60        -             0.05         0.13        -             0.30             0.85        -
F               _      -                  -            0.10           0.29         _          0.48      1.40         -            0.11          0.32       -             0.69             2.01         -
T                -            -            -           0,14           0.41 V          14%     0.69      2.00       70%             0.16         0.45      16%            0.99              2.86        100%
6. BASELINE COST                L                0.28          0.80        -            0.36          1.05                     0.21      0.60         -            0.05          0.13       -             0.90             2.58        -
., F0.39                      1.12        -            1.11           3.21         -          0.48      1.40         -            0.11          0.32       _             2.09             6.05         -
T                0.67         1.92        22%          1.47           4.26           50%      0.69      2.00       233%            0.16         0.45         5%          2.99             8.63         100%
7. CONTINGENCIES                L                0.14          0.40        -            0.12          0,36          -          _         _           _             _             _          _             0.26             0.76        -
F               0.22          0.65         -           0.36           1.05         -          _         _            _             _            _           _            0.58              1.70        -
T                0.36         1.05       43%           0.48           1,41          57%        -         _           -             -            _           _            0.84              2,46        100%
8. TOTAL                        L                0.42          1.20        -            0.48          1.41           42%       0.21      0.60        -             0.05          0.13       -             1.16             3.34        -
F               0.61          1.77         -           1.47           4.26          55%       0.48      1.40         -            0.11          0.32        -            2.67             7.75         -
T                1.03         2.97        27h          1.95           5,67          51%       0.69      2.00         18%           0.16         0.45         4%          3,83             10.09        100%
Note.s  1/ The British Overseas Develop-ent Administration
2/ Project Admini.tration



SULTANATE OF CHAN - EDUCATION PROJECT
IKPLEENTATION SCHEDULE
PROJECT ITEMS                                                                                                                                                              6 __7
PROJRCT_ITEtl'S_-1                        2      3      4     1     2     3     4      1     2     3     4      1     2     3     4      1     2     3     4      1     2     3                  2     3     4
1. PROWECTUNJIT
2. CML liORKS                                  JIX   XXX   AAX   XXX   ATT   BAS   CCC   CCC   CCC   CCC   CCC  CCC   CCC   ggg    ggg   ggg   ggg                          0
3.  FURNITURE                                               PPP   AAP   PPA   TTT  BRA  SH1   MMM   M4M  191H MNM   III   Igg    ggg   ggg   sgs  S
4.  EQUIPMJ T                                               PP_  A"'  PPA   TmT   BAS   SMM   M9Pf  MN   MMM  MMIM   III   Ig    ggg   ggg   ggg  g                
5.  PROFESSIONAL SERVICES           R    RRR   ASS   .
6. TECDICAL ASSISTANCE                           _               I      _   _   _                                                          I
LEGEND:
*   Survey of sites                                            B   Bid evaluation and awarding                     P   Preparation of preliminary master lists
X   Preliminary designs for construction                       S   Signing of contracts                            P   Preparation of final master lists and bid documents
X   Final designs for construction and bid documents           C   Construction execution                          M   Manufacturing
T   Invitation and tendering of bids                           A   Reviews and approvals                           I   Delivery and installation
R   Recruitment                                                ,  Professional Services                            g   Guarantee and liability
Beeginaig fr   signing date.



ANNEX 18
OMAN
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ MilLions)
Quarter *    Disbursements             Accumulated            Undisbursed
Quarter           Disbursements            Disbursements             Balance
%         Amounts         %       Amounts          %        Amounts
1                                                              100.0         5.70
2                _         _            _                      100.0        5.70
3             -            -             -         -           100.0         5.70
24           2.1          0.12         2.1        0.12          97.9         5.58
1.2         0.07          3.3       0.19           96.7        5.51
6j           1.2          0.07         4.5        0.26          95.5         5.44
'7           1.2          0.07         5.7        0.33          94.3         5.37
83           0.5          0.03         6.2        0.36          93.8         5.34
c)           2.4          0.14         8.6        0.50          91.2         5.20
10           11.6          o.66        20.2        1.16          79.8         4.54
L1-          11.6          o.66        31.8        1.82          68.2         3.88
L,2          19.3          1.10        51.1        2.92          48.9         2.78
:L3          11.6          o.66        62.7        3.58          37.3         2.12
14.          11.6          o.66        74.3        4.24          25.7         1.246
;l!5          5.3          0.30        79.6        4.54          20.4         1.16
1]6           9.4          0.54        89.o        5.o8          11.0         0.62
17            1.8          0.10        90.8        5.18           9.2         0.52
]-8           2.3          0.13        93.1        5.31           6.9         0.39
1.9           0.7          0.04        93.8        5.35           6.2         0.35
20            1.6          0.09        95.4        5.44            4.6        0.26
2:L           0.7          0.04        96.1        5.48            3.9        0.22
22            3.9          0.22       100.0        5.70            0.0        0.00
*
Beginning from signing date.



SULTANATE OF OMAN
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
NON FORMAL
ADULT TRAINING
, Classes expected to be established within
the next iive years.
:  Classes to be established under the
proposed I BR D project.                                                                                                     TEACHER TRAINING
Transitional course for selected                                                                                                              2
1-  students to proceed to higher courses
*SCertificate examination                                                         TC
GENERAC ERCAAL E
Arts
FORMAL PRIMARY EDUCATION                                                         GENERAL EDUCATION                                             _  2 J            3 L
[ 1 1 ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Science
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2  ,                                                         3_
NON FORMAL BASIC EDUCATION                                    AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION                                   AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION
TECHNICAL EDUCATION
PRIMARY LEVEL                                    _________Semiskill_Traning_TECHICAL_AND_OMMERCIALEDUCA____
Semi-skiWr T gJunior Technician Training
_: ~~~2                                8                                _1 __2 
.               r  i ~~~ Senior Technician    |Training
Skill TrainingI                            ,         * 
Preparatory.                                              ,1___ 2_                  -3       _
Course      _                       _
COMMERCIAL EDUCTO
^                    ~~~~~PRIMARY LEVEL                                                             JUNIOR               SECONDARY LEVEL                   SENIOR                                       F H
World Bank-7954






SULTANATE OF OMAN
ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
UNDER-SECRTR
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
DEPARTMENT                               DEPAR-TMENT                             DEPARTMENT                       -        DEPARTMENT                               DEPARTMENT
OF                                       OF                                       OF                                       OFM                                      o                                    SECRETARIAL
ADMINISTRATION                             PE ANNING                        R ARCH AND  FVELOPMENT                  SCHOLARSHIPS ANO CULTURAL                         EDUCATION                      IOFFICE
HELATIONS                              R
PERMINSTRTONNEL                                SATNISTIC                             NSRVC  TECE                              SCHOLRSHIP AND SFEOMN       H   OS|L    EUPC RVIION                                  RELOFICERT       l
_r ,1Al5lcE X 3 -~~~~~~~~~1 E  {X
PI ANNTRI AIIN                                         R
AUDITING                                                     T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAIN~ING
EDUCATIONAL~~~~~~~~~~OCA A
VOCATIOA                                 TEEPON
EDCATION
{ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~World Bank-7956






SULTANATE OF OMAN
EDUCATION PYRAMID 1972-73
GRADES                                                                                                                                                                                              Enrollment   Female
As % of          As % of        As % of        Enrollment as
Education        Age            Age Group    % of Total
JUNIOR                                                         BOYS                                        GIRLS                                                   Enrollment        Group         By se.         Enrollment
SECONDARY                                                                                                                                                                                             Boys Girl    At E-h Level
8 7 .3 5 0... ...... ... .... .. ,.. ... . ...... . . . . .    . . . . . . . . .    . . . . .   .  . . . . . . .  . . . .   , . . . .  . . . . . .. . .   , 050.. . . . .0.8%
~~~~~~~~~.          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .--        :r .  - . -. - . : : ::  . :::::::::. . . . s,  
6 7.9001:: .:::.:::: ::.: ::.:::: ................... . .        :::.     i4 4.. . .. . . .. .. :  :.     :' :.. .. .. .  :':-**. .............7
9                                                                                   ______ f                                                                                                   f
9                                          _     __1 25                       :2                                                          3 
[                                                                                           _     _     _     _     _     _     _             6 0 0                                                    T    I 
10 000       8 000         6 000        4 000         2 000           0           2 000       4 000         6 000         8 000        10 000
Ej Age-group
Enrollment 
Note. The above figures refer only to students enrolled
in Oman and do not include those studying abroad.                                                                                                                          World Bank-7955H
......................  6,825~~~
........  ...... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~






IBRD-10659
I  I                     I                 \                I                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I P  OCTORCR IS'.
52-                               54'                               55   ,l-           K              55'                                d0'd
124    i >,  J   |2 y   Ct                      I   R   A   N                                      '2,
r( kDibo 
AlFuoo
QATAR                                                                                                        C \O
/'/f¶                                                                s<, AbDe     5bh          ono
Or\   U                                                       
AR ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
mi-I~~~~~~
-22'                                                                                                                                                 /                                                       O   r0   .X2-
/  A uo F    r                                                                                      OMAN/              ,.    '=%          h|b
o                                                                                    EDUCATION PROJECT
° g ' /1< ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pr,ma3ry Taochrn Tteoeog fnletsute
s ~~~~~~/                                                            I            r 0                    , Basic Education/Sskitt Tracingn Cerster For Girls
9                          i5  /                                                                                    Re,d   2 r/Bsin Education /Skill Training Center Ton boys
°0                                                                 /ii ?lo ma /  <°                                 |          MASIRA                         Oi perioAs                                   20:
--bpADo                               , / e od                           0   Towns Citin isoo mon   ornd   Wesw
S' A    U                          Monrasar I  A>8/ R  A-               *             'B  I A-ards-   -   Adinisttse Bound=
_  _  _   -- jg   5   \   1 5uJ           i,           i    v ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  - -   tetartetinal Boundosis
.-v ---                                                                |  -
AT IC z \ 0 j ' /~ 1l T U R K  Fesed  Y D           *                      tpFeok.,
52' os:                                                                                                                   MAS 55'                        Oil iioDfi-                                   20': X  >
P.rOr,,rto,Rwr'O
rnurt,,rt,rrrrresyt?i,r
PEOPLES                                                                                                                                       TURK         '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.i, R'~d0 Tb ,M     W rpss.rt 
OF                                                                  50             ste           ste           one                j                                        45%~~~~~~0Adi.Mtl  8d-
YEMENesteer  sertitFRARd
Deous                                                                                                                                                                           0
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
18,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~055                                                                           urSO
REPUBLIC                                                                         0       so4 5 0   050'                                                 ce20.



