E541
Volume 2
SHANGHAI WATER & ENVIRONMENT
1;hJ CONSTRUCTION COMPANY LIMITED
SHANGHAI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
DESIGN, REVIEW AND ADVISORY (DRA) SERVICES
Environmental Assessment
SummaryReport
.A7
w ,< X ~-        r ,,   ,
March 2002
&Binnie        DH               MaHVH
sIcc
FILLCP



Shanghai Urban Environment Project                           EA Summary Report
SHANGHAI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
(SHUEP)
Environmental Assessment
SUMMARY REPORT
List of contents
Page
1.0  INTRODUCTION                                                    1
1.1  Project Background                                              1
1.2  Basis for the EA                                                2
2.0  SHUEP PROGRAM                                                   3
3.0  SHUEP FRAMEWORK ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT                        3
3.1  Compliance with Shanghai Master Plan                            3
3.2  Huangpu Riverside Development                                   4
3.3  Impact Assessment of APL Projects                               4
4.0  PROJECT DESCRIPTION                                             7
5.0  ENVIRONMENTAL BASELINE                                          8
5.1  General setting                                                 8
5.2  Climate conditions                                              8
5.3  Water resources, hydrology and quality                          8
5.4  Vegetation                                                      9
5.5  Aquatic life                                                    9
5.6  Socio-economic environment                                      9
5.7  Water quality                                                  10
5.8  Laogang landfill existing environmental conditions             10
5.9  Minxing WWTP site conditions                                   11
5.10  Old City green belt site conditions                            11
6.0  ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES                                       11
6.1  SSP3 siting and process design                                 11
6.2  Leachate treatment processes at Laogang landfill site          12
7.0  ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND MITIGATION                           13
7.1  Impacts during construction phase                              13
7.2  Water impacts                                                  14
7.3  Air and odour impacts                                          15
7.4  Noise impacts                                                  16
7.5  Sludge disposal impacts                                        16
Shanghai Academy of Environmental Sciences  1                      March 2002



Shanghai Urban Environment Project                        EA Sutmmary Report
7.6  Resettlement and socio-economic impacts                     17
7.7  Groundwater and soil impacts                                18
7.8  Fly control                                                 18
7.9  Cultural heritage                                           18
7.10 Pest management                                             19
7.11  Environmental mitigation measures                          19
8.0  PUBLIC CONSULTATION                                         20
8.1  Public meetings                                             20
8.2  Public opinion survey                                       21
8.3  Public concerns and responses                               21
8.4  Information disclosure                                      22
9.0  ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND MONITORING                     23
PLAN
10.0 CONCLUSION                                                  24
FIGURES
Figure 1    Location of project components of SHUEP - 1
Figure 2    Wastewater management zoning of Shanghai
Figure 3    Service areas of SSP 3
Figure 4    Location of Laogang landfill expansion Phase IV
Figure 5    Layout of Shanghai Old City Greening Project
Figure 6    Locations of WWTP's at Upper Huangpu
Figure 7    Photographs of the existing Laogang landfill site
Figure 8    Aerial view of proposed Minxing WWTP site
Figure 9    Aerial view of proposed Zhuyuan WWTP site
Figure 10   Site of proposed Minxing outfall on Huangpu River
Figure 11   Sampling sections along the Huangpu River
Figure 12   Sampling sections along Chang Jiang estuary
Shanghai Academ.y of Environmental Sciences  ii                 March 2002



ShaSghai Urban Environment Project                                 EA Summary Repot
Shanghai Urban Environment Project
Environmental Assessment
SUMMARY REPORT
Shanghai, People's Republic of China
(March, 2002)
1.0    INTRODUCTION
1.1    Project Background
The Shanghai Municipal Government (SMG) is seeking the World Bank funding for its proposed
Shanghai Urban Environment Project (SHUEP) through an Adaptable Program Loan (APL)
facility of US$700 million in three phases between 2002 through 2010. The SHUEP will support
financial, institutional and policy reforms for urban infrastructure development and management,
and physical investments in wastewater treatment, municipal solid waste, urban infrastructure
upgrading, urban environment and landscaping improvement, and Upper Huangpu river
wastewater management (see Figure 1 for map of project components). The overall objective of
SHUEP is through the effort of environmental improvement and institutional strengthening to
help implement Shanghai's sustainable development strategy and to provide its citizens of over
13 million people and the greater Shanghai area with long and extensive environmental and urban
infrastructure benefits. The specific components in APL 1, including wastewater, solid waste,
urban upgrading, and institutional strengthening, have been identified, while those for the later
phases have a broad framework but details are to be defined.
In 2001, the SMG established and adopted an ambitious and forward looking Tenth Five Year
Development Plan (2001-2005) for the city, with an aim to enhance the economic, financial, trade
and manufacturing stature of Shanghai and to ensure Shanghai's position as a sustainable global
competitive city-region and an international economic, trade and shipping centre at the heart of
one of the country's most developed regions, the Yangtze River Delta. For the five year period,
the Plan aims at maintaining Shanghai's economic strengths and robust growth, promoting
Shanghai's service sector, improving Shanghai's environmental conditions towards a Liveable
City, enhancing Shanghai's innovative capacities, strengthening urban management, and
improving the quality and standard of living for its citizens.
Continued improvements of urban environmental infrastructures and their management through
policy and institutional reforms and physical investments are one of the corner stones for the
successful implementation of the Tenth Five Year Plan and SMG's Long Term Development
Strategy well beyond the Five Year Plan. Sector master plans for wastewater, solid waste and
forestation/landscaping have been completed with specific policy and physical investment targets,
which are expected to be approved by SMG soon. The current SHUEP fits well into the Tenth
Five Year Plan and the Sector Master Plans, and the framework for the three-phased APL is
consistent with and supports the city's long term development strategy and overall development,
environmental protection and urban improvement objectives.
Shanghai Academy of Environmental Sciences  I                             March 2002



Shanghai Urban Environment Project                                  EA Summary Report
An Environment Assessment (EA) was conducted for each of the physical works in SHUEP
Phase I as well as a framework EA for the entire SHUEP. The EA is to identify in early stage of
potential environmental benefits and consequences of the project, propose measures to avoid,
mitigate or otherwise compensate negative environmental impacts during construction and
operation, and allow incorporation of mitigation measures into the project engineering design
where appropriate. On the basis of the component EAs, which are expected to be approved by the
Shanghai Environmental Protection Bureau (SEPB) in March 2002, a project wide environmental
impact assessment (EIA) report and environmental management plan (EMP), collectively known
as the EA documentation, has been compiled by the Shanghai Academy of Environmental
Sciences (SAES), with the assistance from the project Design, Review and Advice (DRA)
consultants, Binnie, Black and Veatch. This document is an executive summary of the EA
documentation.
1.2    Basis for the EA
The basis for the EA is:
*  Terms of Reference (TOR) for Environmental Impact Assessment on various components in
the World Bank Financed Shanghai Urban Environment Project, (December, 2002);
*  Environmental Protection Law of the People's Republic of China (December,1989);
*  Guidelines for Environmental Management of Construction Projects (November 1996);
*  Operational Policies, Bank Procedures, and Good Practices OP/BP/GP4.01: Environment
Assessment, the World Bank, (January, 1999), as well as other World Bank safeguards
policies if triggered following an initial screening, such as pest management, cultural
properties, involuntary resettlement, etc.; and
*  Feasibility study reports for physical works in project components, prepared by Shanghai
Urban Construction Design and Research Institute, Shanghai Municipal Engineering Design
and Research Institute, (December 2001 to January 2002).
The environmental quality and discharge standards applied in this EA are determined based on
the functions and zoning of the impacted area and as designated by relevant authorities. These
standards are:
*  Surface Water Quality Standards, Class II for Yangtze river, and Class II, III, IV and V for
different sections of Huangpu river and its tributaries;
*  Ambient Air Quality, Class II;
*  Urban Environment Noise Standards, Class I;
*  Soil Environmental Quality Standards, Class III;
*  Integrated Wastewater Discharge Standards, Class II;
*  Nuisance Odor Emission Standards, Class II; and
*  Industrial Enterprises Boundary Noise Limits, Class II.
2.0    SHUEP PROGRAM
A preliminary framework S1HUEP program has been developed based on detailed studies of the
priorities of urban environment infrastructure improvement needs and thorough consultation with
relevant SMG agencies to ensure compliance with the city's long term development strategy,
Shanghai City Master Plan, Tenth Five Year Plan and sector master plans. The SHUEP
framework is summarized in Table 2-1.
ShanghaiAcademy of Environmental Sciences  2                              March 2002



Shanighai Urban Environment Project                                        EA Summary Report
Table 2-1 SHUEP Framework
Objective           I      Policy Initiative   |     Physical Investments
SHUEP Phase 1 (2002-2007)
. Support wastewater, solid waste  . Water conservation    * Shanghai sewerage project Ill
and landscaping master plans     . User fees and waste     (SSP 3)
. Protect water resources in Upper  reduction              . Laogang MSW landfill extension
Huangpu river                    * Contract service      * Small scale wastewater treatment
. Improve information management  . Innovative project       plants in Upper Huangpu
financing              . Old City greenbelt
Independent mechanism  . Technical assistance (training,
for price setting        asset management, permit trading,
waste tariff, food waste disposal,
environmental revolving fund)
SHUEP Phase 2 (2003-2008)
* Continue to support solid waste  . Water conservation    * Solid waste disposal phase 11
master plan                       program;                 (source separation, transport fleet
* Support the landscaping and     . Corporatisation of 50%   upgrading, non-hazardous
forestation master plan on outer  of solid waste services  industrial waste disposal)
ring road                        . At least 20% private  * Forestation (outer ring road)
* Protect and upgrade historic areas  participation in     * Upgrading of Old City historical
of the old city                   infrastructure projects  area
. Introduce new approaches for                             . Rural area wastewater treatment
industrial area redevelopment and                        * Redevelopment of a large
project financing                                          industrial community
. Technical assistance (capacity
building, landscape management,
sludge management, etc.)
SHUEP Phase 3 (2006-2010)
. Support industrial community    . Corporatisation of 30-  . Industrial community
redevelopment and restructuring   50% of solid waste       redevelopment 2
. Support CNG program in Shanghai   services               . Landscaping 3
. Upgrade wastewater treatment    . Completion first stage  . Wastewater treatment facilities
facilities                        water conservation       rehabilitation
* Continue attracting    . Technical assistance (capacity
private funding in       building, fuel restructuring,
project financing       issuance of municipal bonds, etc.)
3.0     SHUEP FRAMEWORK ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
3.1     Compliance with Shanghai Master Plan
As a long term development strategy, Shanghai has adopted a City Master Plan (1999-2020)
which has been approved by the State Council, with an objective for Shanghai to become an
international centre for economics, financing, trade and shipping. Shanghai's Tenth Five Year
Plan (2001-2010) is part of the implementation of the long term strategy. SHUEP's goals and
physical investments completely comply with the city Master Plan which calls for centralized
sewage treatment, including centralized wastewater treatment for Upper Huangpu Catchment, to
protect drinking water sources in upper and lower Huangpu areas and to protect the environment.
Shanghai Academy of Environmental Sciences  3                                     March 2002



Shanghai Urban Environment Project                                 EA Summary Report
The solid waste component in SHUEP will not only support the Master Plan's requirements for
environmentally sound disposal of municipal solid waste but also contribute to the protection of
surface water quality and overall environmental and living conditions of Shanghai. The Shanghai
City Master Plan includes greening and landscape in the inner city, ring road, and throughout the
city with an ambitious goal of 35% green coverage by 2020. In all three phases, APL will fund
greening and landscape components. The Master Plan also calls for preservation of the Old City
and historical sites in Shanghai. APL will fund urban upgrading and in particular, the Old City
preservation and improvement.
The policy, financial, institutional and capacity building initiatives are an integral part of SHUEP
and are the assurance for efficient and effective implementation, operation and sustainable
development of urban environment infrastructure and management system. This complies with
the policy spirit and principles of Shanghai City Master Plan as well as the direction of the city's
reform.
3.2    Huangpu Riverside Development
Following the successful development of the Pudong area, SMG has recently launched another
enormous development program along the Huangpu riverside. The program is to convert a total
of 5.83 km2 in four blocks of mostly industrial, dock, and warehouse land into financial, trade,
tourist attractions and upper scale residential prime river side development with a total investment
exceeding RMB100 billion. This is part of the long term development strategy and will help
cement Shanghai position as an international economics, financial, trade and shipping centre in
the 21 century.
The riverside redevelopment program puts high demands on environmental quality, particularly
Huangpu river quality and urban environment infrastructure. The riverside lands will become
more environmentally sensitive. It can be expected that the water quality classification and river
function zoning in the urban reaches of Huangpu river will become more stringent along with the
progress of the riverside redevelopment.
SHUEP will contribute to the improvement of water quality of the Huangpu River and
environmental protection of the Shanghai area including the redevelopment zones. In fact, the
Old City component, as well as urban upgrading and cultural site preservation, will be part of the
redevelopment program.
However, the construction and operation of SHUEP could also result in certain adverse impacts
and the impacted area could extend to the riverside lands. Detailed impacts assessment with
consideration of the sensitivity of future riverside redevelopment and land uses will be needed
during site selection, engineering design, construction and operation of APL funded physical
works, and design of mitigation measures.
3.3    Impact Assessment of SHUEP Projects
3.3.1 Air Quality
Ambient air quality is a high priority issue for SMG. Air quality improvement components have
been included in the later phases of SHUEP. These will include centralized space heating, and
cleaner fuel such as compressed natural gas (CNG) for city buses and taxi, etc. Other components
throughout SHUEP will also contribute to the improvement of air quality in Shanghai, such as
Shanghai Academy of Environmental Sciences  4                            March 2002



Shang1hai Urban Environment Project                                EA Summary Report
landscaping and greening, solid waste collection, transfer and hauilinlg upgrading, industrial
community redevelopment, etc.
Construction of APL funded physical works will have impacts on air quality from such sources as
air-borne dust. Such impacts are expected to be short-term and localized and can be controlled to
acceptable levels with appropriate mitigation measures. Sludge disposal, solid waste collection,
transfer and disposal can also generate nuisance odor affecting the immediate surrounding areas.
3.3.2 Water Quality
The implementation of SHUEP will significantly reduce sewage discharge into the upper
Huangpu River, through the city reaches and to the Yangtze river mouth, as well as Huangpu
River tributaries. Together with the Tenth Five Year Plan, SHUEP is expected to significantly
contribute to significantly reducing the pollutant load to the Huangpu River. As a result,
Huangpu River quality is expected to meet Class IV standards in the middle to lower reaches and
Class III in the upper reaches. The project will also contribute to the elimination of below Class V
water bodies in all major waterways in Shanghai.
While largely beneficial, SHUEP does pose potential adverse impacts to water quality. Large
volumes of wastewater will be collected and, following the treatment, discharged in a single
location. While the effluent will meet the discharge standards, which can still be several times
higher than the surface water quality standards, the large volume of discharge will place
substantial loads on the receiving water body. Careful selection of discharge outfall based on
modeling and sensitive receptors assessment will be required each time such discharge is to be
included in SHUEP. Other potential impacts to water quality include solid waste hauling by
barge, sludge disposal, solid waste landfill leachate infiltration and drainage runoff, pesticide
usage in green and landscaped areas, water front construction activities, etc. These adverse
impacts can be controlled through analysis of alternatives, impacts assessment, and incorporation
of appropriate mitigation measures into engineering designs.
3.3.3 Solid Waste Management
By 2010, Shanghai plans to achieve 98% source separation of municipal solid waste, 20%
recycling, 95% collection through compacted container trucks, 100% disposal in a sanitary and
controlled manner, and 70% of night soil collected and disposed of through the municipal sewer
system and sewage treatment facilities. SHUEP will be implemented in the same period and its
municipal solid waste components will help in achieving these goals.
3.3.4  Ecological Conditions
The urban environment improvement (greening and landscape) components in SHUEP will help
improve the urban eco-environment and the living conditions. The benefits will primarily be
demonstrated in the following areas:
*  Alleviation of the "heat island" effect in the city. The high population density, dense
buildings and development, and industrial, commercial, transport and other major city
activities are all among the cause of the serious "heat island" effect in urban Shanghai.
Vegetation, especially large trees will be used to introduce micro-climates. Studies have
shown that green space is capable of lowering the area ambient air temperature by 0.6°C.
*  Improvement of urban scenery. The greening and landscaping will have positive visual
impacts in the urban area largely dominated by concrete and glass towers. Old Town
Shanghai Academy of Environmental Sciences  5                             March 2002



Shanghai Urban Environment Project                                  EA Summary Report
upgrading, cultural property preservation and industrial community redevelopment will
improve the environmental conditions in these areas.
*  Air quality and noise control. Plants are known to be able to reduce air borne dust, absorb
certain air contaminants, and release healthy ions. Thick trees and woodland can also help
attenuate noise.
3.3.5 Land Acquisition and Resettlement
A certain amount of land will be permanently occupied by physical works in SHUEP. Houses on
the land will be demolished and residents, relocated and resettled. Most of the land is urban land
or sterile land in the suburbs already reserved for infrastructure projects. The redevelopment of
these land, particularly those for greening, landscape, Old City upgrading and industrial
community redevelopment will help improve the impacts areas, including reduction of population
density, increase in land value, and neighborhood environment improvement.
The residents and organizations on the acquired land will be relocated mostly to the outer part of
the city. The impacts will be mixed. The residents will lose their current convenience of being in
the urban center such as public transport, shopping, education, entertainment, and other services
and institutions typically located in the downtown areas. However, the relocated residents will
enjoy much improved living conditions - up to four times more living space than their current
residences, better surrounding environment and ambient surrounding conditions such as much
more green and open space, low noise, better air quality, less traffic congestion, etc.
3.3.6 Cultural Properties
One of the objectives of SHUEP is the preservation of cultural properties through Old City
upgrading and cultural property preservation components. The implementation of the program
will provide better protection of the cultural properties..
However, cultural property preservation and upgrading components require special assessment by
cultural heritage professionals. Any mis-design, even with the intention of preservation, or
inappropriate construction activities could pose potential damage to the valuable historical and
cultural sites or architecture. Professional archaeological screening will also be needed in the
physical works sites to ensure SHUEP projects will not impact currently unknown archaeological
and other cultural sites.
3.3.7 Policy and Institutional Reform
Policy and financial reform, capacity building and institutional strengthening will be an integral
part of SHUEP and critical to its success. Through these initiatives, SHUEP will aim to achieve:
*   Substantial corporatization of municipal services to ensure urban environment infrastructure
will operate efficiently and sustainably;
*  Establishment of reasonable and affordable service tariff system for water and municipal
solid waste so that the municipal services will eventually be financially self-supporting;
*  Effective water conservation program to reduce water usage rates and preserve the natural
resources;
*  Private participation in infrastructure project financing in order to widen funding sources,
optimize capital structure in urban environment projects and balance risks between public and
private parties in infrastructure development;
*   Successful issuance of municipal bonds - another non-government funding source;
Shanghai Academy of Environmental Sciences  6                             March 2002



Shanghai Urban Environment Project                                   EA Summary Report
*   Establishment of an independent price setting mechanisms for municipal services; and
*   Waste management mechanisms, including permitting and permit trading, solid waste
management, wastewater treatment plant operations, etc.
4.     PROJECT DESCRIPTION - SHUEP PHASE I
The first phase of SHUEP has been defined and is to start in 2002. There are four physical
components in SHUEP Phase I and a detailed EA has been conducted for each of these
components. The remainder of this summary is focused on the findings and recommendations of
the Phase I EA. The components of the Phase I EA are summarized in Table 4-1.
Table 4-1 Shanghai Urban Environment Project Components - Phase 1
Components         Description                               Scope of Service
Urban wastewater   * 13.59 km trunk sewerage conveyor and I  * Three urban areas
management           new pump station                        * 163.34 km2 urban area
* 168 km sewer, 9 sewage pump stations    * 2.39 million population
* 12 storm water systems with 83 storm water
pipe lines and 10 pump stations
* a 500,000 t/d wastewater treatment plant
* sludge disposal works
* Two pilot repair schemes for SSP I facilities
Municipal solid    * food waste collection system with 5000  * food waste collection
waste management     collection containers and 200 vehicles    system is for entire
* MSW container berth rehabilitation        urban area
* Laogang landfill expansion Phase IV to  * 4900 t/day
sanitary landfill standards             * landfill disposal is to
* Solid waste management information        service about 45%
system                                    MSW in Shanghai
Old City urban      * 8.96 ha. greening space                * Old City area of
environment         * relocate 5,357 residential households, 254  Huangpu district
improvement          organizations, 175 small businesses, and a
total of 200,000 m2 building space.
Upper Huangpu      * 3 wastewater treatment plants (14,000 and  * 13 villages & townships
wastewater           2xl00,000 t/d, respectively)              for Fengxian WWTP
management         * 9.57 km sewers                          * 5 townships for the
* 6 pumping stations                        Fengjing WWTP
Technical          * Institutional strengthening and training  * Shanghai
assistance         * Pollution permit trading system
* Solid waste management and technology
* Environment infrastructure management
* Water resources management and policy
* Environmental investment revolving fund
Figure 2 shows the wastewater management zones of Shanghai, and Figure 3 shows the service
areas of SSP 3. Figure 4 shows the location of the Laogang landfill Phase IV, and Figure S
shows the location of the Old City Park. Figure 6 shows the locations of the 3 no. WWTP's
proposed for the Upper Huangpu catchment.
Shanghai Academy of Environmental Sciences  7                              March 2002



Shanghai Urban Enivironment Project                                EA Summary Report
5.0    ENVIRONMENTAL BASELINE
5.1    General setting
The project area, Shanghai, is located at the Yangtze river estuary in eastern China at 31°14'
north latitude and 121°29' east longitude. Shanghai is bordered by the Yangtze river estuary to
the north, East China Sea to the east, Hangzhou Bay to the south and Zhejiang and Jiangsu
provinces to the west (Figure 1). The general topography is plain with slight slopes from
northwest to southeast towards the Sea, with the average elevation of 3.87 m. Shanghai has a
total area of 6340 km2 with urban area 3924 km2 and rural area of 2416 km2.
5.2    Climate conditions
Shanghai has a subtropical monsoon climate with four distinct seasons. In general, it is mild and
humid in spring, hot and rainy in summer, clear in autumn and cold and relatively dry in winter.
Average annual temperature is around 15°C with extremes of over 400C and -10°C. The average
annual precipitation is about 1100 mm, 60% of which typically falls between May to September
each year. The most extensive precipitation occurs in a 40 day period known as plum rainy
season between June to July when precipitation can reach 370 mm. The prevailing wind
directions are from southeast in April through August and from northwest from November
through February next year. The annual average wind speed is about 3.0 m/s.
5.3 Water resources, hydrology and quality
Bordering Shanghai to the north, the Yangtze river estuary is an enormous water body with
irregular semi-diurnal tide. The freshwater in the river has an average flow of 29,000 m3/s at this
section. Although receiving large pollution loads from upstream, water quality at the Yangtze
river estuary is generally good due to its vast assimilative capacity. However, the river can carry
with it up to 5 kg/s silt in the flood season and can be saline due to the tide effect during the
drought period. The other bordering water body, Hangzhou Bay, is brackish with generally good
quality except high nitrogen and phosphorus concentrations. Both these water bodies are
ecologically important for being one of the major fish habitats in China.
The Huangpu River flows through the city proper with a drainage area of over 5000 km2 within
the Shanghai municipality and a network of tributaries in the alluvial plain. The Huangpu River
originates from Taihu Lake and is also subject to irregular semi-diural tide. At Wusong Kou,
mouth of the Huangpu, the average tidal level is 3.28 m with maximum of 5.27 m. The
maximum flood tide is 12,100 m3/s and the maximum current velocity, 1.8 m/s. Typically, high
tide lasts 4 hours and 33 minutes while ebb tide, 7 hours and 52 minutes forming a 12 hours and
25 minutes tidal cycle.
The Huangpu River has been suffering severe pollution from human activities along the river.
Due to the tidal effect, especially during high tides, pollutants discharged into Huangpu River
cannot be freely drained into the Yangtze river and are built up in the discharging reaches
resulting in pollution incidents, although the tidal inflow from Yangtze river will alleviate the
pollution in the lower reaches of the Huangpu. As a river flowing through the heart of Shanghai,
Huangpu river is the most important water body to the city. It is a water source for agriculture,
ShanghaiAcademy of Environmental Sciences  8                             March 2002



Shanghai Urban Environment Project                                EA Summary Report
industrial and domestic uses, the navigation waterway to Shanghai port, and the receiving water
of the city's runoff and wastewater discharges.
5.4 Vegetation
Plants in the project area include mainly aquatic vegetation, agricultural vegetation and those
planted together with urban development. At the intertidal zone, vegetation is primarily reed.
Fresh water vegetation further inland includes foxtail alga, goldfish alga, black alga, duckweed,
purple float, water lettuce, etc. Agricultural growth in the rural area of Shanghai includes crops,
vegetables, cole, etc. There are woodland, parks, roadside trees, bushes, lawns, and other green
areas throughout the city. This mostly man-planted vegetation includes Cinnamomum,
Camphora, Magnolia, cedar, Chinese rose, cape jasmine, metasequoia, larch, holly, coral trees,
etc.
5.5 Aquatic life
There are nearly 170 species of fish and 120 species of zooplankton in the project area's fresh
water, semi-saline water and marine water bodies. In the sediment, there are about 100 species of
benthic organisms.
5.6 Socio-economic environment
By the end of 2000, Shanghai had a total population of 16.74 million including 13.22 million
permanent and registered population and 3.52 million transient population. The average
population density city-wide was 2084 per square kilometer while that in the urban area was
2897.
Shanghai's economic systems have been undergoing a restructuring and optimization process.
The city's agricultural sector's total output was RMB 21.65 billion in 2000, mostly vegetable,
fruits, flowers, poultry, diary products and domestic animal breeding. As the most important and
largest industrial base in China, Shanghai's year 2000 industrial output was RMB 6921.5 billion.
About 71.1% of the output was from Shanghai's six pillar industries: automobile, electronic and
telecommunication, iron and steel, petrochemical and fine chemical, power generation equipment,
and home electronics industries. Shanghai has given first priority for development of the city's
service sector, focusing on finance, trade and information technology. The year 2000 total output
in the service sector was RMB 228.3 billion, a 100% increase compared with 1995. By the end
of 2000, the agriculture, industry and service sector outputs reached a ratio of about I to 8.5 to
50.2. Along with the economic restructuring, the industrial employment had dropped to 42.1% of
the total labor force in 2000 while the service sector employment increased to 46%.
Over the past decade, urban infrastructure in Shanghai has had considerable development. Table
5-1 summarizes the main utilities and other urban infrastructure in Shanghai.
Table 5-1 Utility and Urban Infrastructure in Shanghai
Item                  Unit             1990              2000
Purified water supply        million m3/d         4.63              10.48
Water main length                km              3,483             15,943
Gasified coal supply         million m3/d         3.38              9.84
Shanghai Academy of Environmental Sciences  9                           March 2002



Shanghai Urban Environment Project                                 EA Summary Report
Household uses gasified coal    million           1.13               2.56
Road length in the city          km               1,663             5,204
Sewerage pipe length             km               1,892             4,452
Wastewater treatment capacity  million m3/d       0.410              1.890
Green space area                  ha              3,570             12,119
Public green area                 ha              983               4,555
As a result of these rapid developments in urban infrastructure, Shanghai has made substantial
improvement in public services and urban environment. The notorious black colour and smell of
the main stream Suzhou creek crossing downtown Shanghai has basically been eliminated, and
water quality in the Huangpu River has also been improved. TSP and NOx in the ambient air has
dropped by 7.1% and 8.1%, respectively, due partially to the uses of cleaner fuels. The city has
also expanded its green and landscaped area, which is now about 22% of the total urban area.
The standard of living has also been substantially improved. By year 2000, the average salary
was RMB 15,420 per year. There were 55 hospital beds and 38 doctors per 10,000 population. On
a per capita basis, the public green area had reached 4.6 m2.
5.7    Water quality
Based on a year 2000 investigation, Shanghai has 55,979 pollution point sources discharging a
total of 5.04 million m3/d and 1,704 t/d of COD and 123 t/d of ammonia nitrogen. These sources
are 40.6% from industry, 58.7% from municipal ones and 0.7% from animal farm pollution
sources, respectively. Of the total wastewater, 1.45 million m3/d from  15,340 sources are
collected and discharged through centralized outfalls outside the urban area, 0.77 million m3/d
from 6,860 sources are treated at sewage treatment plants and 2.82 million m3/d from 33,779
sources are discharged directly in the area surface water bodies. As a result of these discharges,
main waterways throughout the Shanghai area have been seriously polluted. Almost all the
Huangpu River sections fail to meet their designated water quality standards.
5.8    Laogang landfill existing environmental conditions
The Laogang landfill expansion component is located adjacent to the existing Laogang landfill,
which is about 60 km from downtown Shanghai. The site is bordered by Zhaoyang farm, Binhai
township and Laogang township to the west, Dazi canal to the south and the East China Sea to the
north and east. The nearest residences are located about 1,000 m from the site.
Based on environmental monitoring at the Laogang site, the existing environmental conditions of
the Laogang landfill is described as follows:
*  Air: H2S and NH3 concentrations in the ambient air at the site and immediate vicinity were
about 30-90% and 6-13% higher than their respective standards. The foul smell intensity is
about Class 2.3 and 1.3, respectively.
*  Water: at the solid waste unloading berth, concentrations of total phosphorus and COD
exceed Class V of surface water quality standards. Further away from the site and at a
location near a chemical enterprise, the NH3-N is about three times that of the standard.
Water quality at the Yangtze river estuary is generally good with only total phosphorus and
NH3-N exceeding the Class 11 standards slightly.
Shanghai Academy of Environmental Sciences  10                           March 2002



Shanghai Urban Environment Project                                  EA Summary Report
*  Groundwater: groundwater is brackish with high hardness. Chloride, NH3-N and hardness are
all much higher than their respective limits. Permanganate value and As are 60% and 10%
above the standards. Other parameters, including heavy metals and volatile phenols are
below the standards.
*  Soil: Testing programs show heavy metals in the soil tested are all in compliance with
applicable standards.
Photographs of the existing Laogang landfill site are shown on Figure 7.
5.9    Minxing Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) site conditions
The Minxing site is currently occupied by obsolete factories, surrounded by the Huangpu River
on the east and urban roads in other directions. Traffic is currently the main sources of noise and
air emissions in the area.
Since 1996, there has been a regular water monitoring program in selected sections up and
downstream from the Minxing site. The results show that the water quality at the Huangpu river
origin - Dianshan lake - was excellent or Class I or Class 11 for virtually all water quality
parameters, but starts to deteriorate as the river flows downstream towards the city. At the
Yangpu bridge just passing downtown Shanghai, water quality is at its worst. Further
downstream, water quality starts to recover due to the reduced discharge and natural degradation.
At the Huangpu River mouth, water quality reaches good quality again to Class 11 and III for most
parameters. Water quality parameters which exceed Class V standards include COD, NH3-N,
total phosphorus, and fecal coliform.
5.10   Old City green belt site conditions
Based on the year 2000 statistics, Huangpu District where the Old City is located has ambient air
quality (daily average) of 0.216 mg/mi3 for TSP, 0.0 18 mg/m3 for SO2, and 0.060 mg/m3 for NOx,
respectively. These data represent a Class I standard for SO2 and Class 11 standards for TSP and
NOx, indicating a fairly good ambient air quality in the area.
The area noise levels are averaged at 58.9 dB(A) area wide and 72.6 dB(A) on the trunk roads.
The road side noise levels exceed the applicable standard (70 dB(A)), indicating the poor acoustic
environment due mostly to heavy traffic and narrow streets in the area.
6 ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES
6.1    WWTP siting and process design
There are two alternative sites for the wastewater treatment plant in SHUEP's urban wastewater
management component: Minxing Road which is on the Huangpu River bank and Zhuyuan which
is located on the Yangtze River bank (See Figure 3). Aerial views of the sites are shown
respectively on Figures 8 and 9. The comparison of key environmental factors for the sites is
presented in Table 6-1.
Table 6-1 Comparison of Alternative Wastewater Treatment Plant Sites
Environmental Factors   I     Minxing Road Site              Zhuyuan Site
Shanghai Academy of Environmental Sciences  I I                           March 2002



Shanghai Urban Environment Project                                  EA Summary Report
Receiving water            Huangpu River                 Yan(gtze River estuary
Receiving water quality and  Class IV and moderate       Class 11 and high assimilative
assimilative capacity      assimilative capacity         capacity
Receiving water flow and   318 m3/s, at 22-78 cm/s in flood  14,500 m3/s at 31-102 cm/s in
velocity and dilution      and 35-60 cm/s in ebb with   flood and 59-88 cm/s in ebb
capacity                   moderate dilution capacity    with high dilution capacity
Receiving water sensitivities  No fish habitat but a backup  Fish habitat and migrating
water intake 8 km upstream    route
Impact to urban Shanghai   Potential effect to Huangpu   No impact to the urban area
riverside development
Sludge disposal            Require trucking to the disposal  Pumped to adjacent disposal
site 32 km away               site, 16 km from WWTP site
Resettlement               Relocate factories with more  Relocate factories with less
building space, and resettle  building space, and resettle
some residential houses on site  much more villagers
Sensitivities in the       2 residential areas 250-400 m  5 villages 18-500 m away
surrounding areas          and I park 100 m away
Compatibility with urban   Industry zone but long term plan  Already adjacent to an
zoning and planning        of the region is science and  existing WWTP; No further
education and residential     development plan yet
Visual impact              Closer to the urban area and  Far away from urban area and
some visual impact            no significant visual impact
Cost-excl.      Capital    RMB 771 million               RMB 956 million
land/RAP costs  Operating  RMB 0.31/m3                   RMB 0.39/mn3
With all factors considered, including the engineering, economic and financial comparison of the
different sites, the Minxing site is selected as the preferred site for the wastewater treatment plant.
Two processes have been proposed: chemical precipitation followed by bio-filter, and anaerobic,
anoxic and aerobic (A2/O) process. The chemical precipitation/bio-filtration process has high
loading capacities, better resists shock loads, occupies less land, and can be constructed
underground to minimize impacts to the surrounding area. However there is less operating
experience in China, a need for high dosage of reagents, requires complex operating procedures
and generates more sludge and thus higher operating cost. A2/O on the other hand, is mature and
reliable technology, and a simple operation with low operating cost. But it occupies large land
area and is difficult to seal, resulting in impacts of noise and nuisance odor to the surrounding
area. Considering the Minxing site is selected for the wastewater treatment plant, the
underground, compact chemical precipitation/bio-filtration has been selected as the process to be
applied for the WWTP in SHUEP's urban wastewater management component.
6.2    Alternative leachate treatment processes at Laogang landfill
Three alternatives have been proposed for leachate treatment and disposal at the Laogang solid
waste and sludge landfill. These alternatives and comparison of key environmental factors are
presented in Table 6-2.
Table 6-2 Comparison of Alternative Leachate Treatment at Laogang Landfill
Item              Alternative I       Alternative II       AlternativeIII
Shanghai Academy of Environmental Sciences  12                            March 2002



Shanghai Urban Environment Project                                 EA Summary Report
Description           Meet Shanghai Grade  Meet Shanghai Grade  Meet Landfill Class
lI standard and     Ill standard and     Ill standards and
discharged to the sea  convey to a WWTP  convey to a WWTP
Main processes needed  Biological /       Biological /         Oxidation pond
denitrification /   denitrification /
ultrafiltration/osmosis  ultrafiltration
Effluent quality      COD=58, BOD=23,     COD=240, BOD=92,     COD=963, BOD=358
NH3-N=10 mg/L       NH3-N=20 mg/L         mg/L
Impact to the sea     Low impact          No impact            No impact
(Yangtze river estuary)
Impact to the WWTP   No impact            Water quality        Water quality far
compatible to WWTP   exceeding the WWTP
influent quality     influent quality
Process complexity    Complex             Moderately complex   Simple
Operation skills      High                Moderate             Low
required
Capital investment    RMB 54.9 million    RMB 39.9 million     RMB 15.3 million +
+RMB 5.5 million for  RMB 5.5 million for
sewer network        sewer network
Operating cost        RMB 25.0/m3         RMB 9.6+(0.47 for    RMB 6.0+(0.47 for
sewer line)/m3       sewer)/m3
With all factors considered, alternative II is selected as the treatment process for the Laogang
landfill as on balance it has low impacts to the receiving water and the WWTP and requires
moderate skills and cost for operation.
7.0    ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND MITIGATION
7.1    Impacts during construction phase
The activities during wastewater treatment plant construction, Laogang landfill upgrading, and
green belt construction in the Old City are expected to generate the following adverse impacts:
*  Air-borne dust, mainly due to earth disturbance, construction vehicle movement, land
preparation, and materials handling. At 5 metres from such an activity, the dust concentration
is expected to reach 10.1 mg/m3 while it will reduce to 0.86 mg/m3 100 metres from the site.
Therefore, the impact will be limited to residents located within 100 metres from the
construction sites and along the both sides of construction transportation routes. The most
impacted area will be the Old City area where commercial and residential buildings are
closely located (within 100 m) to the construction site.
*  Noise, from construction/demolition equipment and vehicular movement. The noise, as high
as 110 dB(A) from piling machines, could travel a long distance in the open fields around the
sources, affecting residents of nearby neighbourhood communities and villages. Once again
the Old City area in downtown Shanghai will be most seriously impacted by construction
noise from the green belt sites, especially the first row of buildings facing the sites.
*   Traffic congestion, caused by pipeline construction and Old City upgrading in the urban area.
More traffic will be generated by construction in the already congested streets. The most
serious of such impacts will occur in sewer pipeline construction sites as part of the streets
Shanghai Academy of Environmental Sciences  13                           March 2002



Shainghai Urban Enivironment Project                               EA Summary Report
where pipelines are to be laid will be closed during construction, reducing the traffic capacity
and affecting the egress and access to neighbourhood communities.
*   Waste discharge from construction camps. The discharge of sewage from construction camps
will create new pollution sources to the surface water environment. Such potential impacts
are expected mainly at the SSP 3 WWTP and Laogang landfill construction sites where
utilities services may not be available and construction workers need to camp out in
temporary facilities in the field. Other pollutants from such camps include solid waste and
waste oil from machinery maintenance.
*  Earth materials. The massive demolition at the Old City site and pipeline construction will
generate a large amount of excessive materials/construction waste. While some may be
needed by the earthworks, site preparation and construction of the wastewater treatment
plants, most of the demolition waste will need to be disposed of, occupying landfill or other
land space.
*  Land impact. SHUEP Phase I will occupy 33.8 ha for the SSP 3, 336 ha for the Laogang
landfill and 8.96 ha for the green belt. Except the Laogang site which is on reclaimed land,
the WWTP and green space will require large scale demolition and resettlement. Although
most of the land to be occupied will be in the urban area, some will be cultivated land,
resulting in reduced farm and agricultural output. The lost cultivated land is however a very
small portion compared with the total cultivated land in the suburb Shanghai.
*   Water impacts, are expected to be caused by construction activities near water bodies. The
Minxing wastewater treatment plant will be built at the bank of the Huangpu River and
Laogang landfill expansion will be on reclaimed land adjacent to the Yangtze estuary.
Construction activities close to these water bodies could possibly cause the discharge of
turbid or even oil and grease contaminated surface runoff into the water bodies.
7.2    Water impacts
Due to the tidal effect, both upstream and downstream of the Minxing road discharge outfall will
be impacted by the effluent from the Minxing WWTP which is expected to be 120 mg/L for
COD. Following the discharge into the Huangpu River, the effluent will be gradually diluted,
transformed and degraded to eventually reach the background water quality levels in the
Huangpu. The most sensitive areas of the receiving water are upstream from the outfalls,
including Yangshupu waterworks (a backup water intake which is used only in the event of an
emergency), 8.5 km from Minxing outfall, downtown and urban area which a long stretch of
riverside area centered at the Bund, 11.5 km from Minxing outfall, and Nanshi waterworks, 18
km. A mathematical model predicts that the maximum incremental increase in COD at
Yangshupu waterworks is 3.01 mg/L, in BOD, 0.75 mg/L, that at Nanshi waterworks in COD is
2.86 mg/L and in BOD, 0.7 mg/L. This indicates that the effluent discharge to Huangpu river will
impact the urban area including the two waterworks intakes, but the impacts are moderate and
will not change the water quality classifications for the area. A photograph of the Huangpu River
at the Minxing outfall site is shown on Figure 10.
As described above, the leachate from the Laogang landfill will be contained, collected and
treated by an on-site leachate treatment facility. The effluent from the on-site pretreatment will be
conveyed to another WWTP for further treatment. As such there will be no impact to the Yangtze
river estuary where the landfill is located. In fact, a significant improvement can be expected at
the landfill site. The previous three phases of the landfill have only simple treatment by an
oxidation pond. The high strength leachate still contains very high COD and other pollutants
following the oxidation pond treatment. The current discharge of oxidation pond effluent which is
Shanghai Academy of Environmental Sciences  14                           March 2002



Shanghai Urban Environment Project                                 EA Summary Report
worse thani average sewage to the Yangtze estuary will be intercepted following the landfill
upgrading. The effluent, together with leachate from the new landfill phase, will be treated by the
new leachate treatment facility. There will be no more discharge of high organic content effluent
into the Yangtze estuary and the sea following the landfill upgrading.
From the regional perspective, SHUEP will contribute significantly towards the improvement of
area water quality. Of the total of 2.82 million m3 of raw sewage currently discharged directly
into surface water bodies throughout the service areas, 1.274 million m3 will be intercepted and
collected by SHUEP Phase 1, which is approximately 45% of the total. Either diverted to a more
suitable discharge point (0.44 million m3/d) where there is better environmental assimilative
capacity and less sensitivity or treated by the proposed Minxing WWTP (0.5 million m3/d), this
large portion of wastewater will be completely removed from the service areas. This will not only
improve the water quality, environmental aesthetics and community sanitation within the service
area, but also in the regions downstream from the service areas.
Through the treatment at the WWTP, the total pollutant loads to the environment will be reduced
by 47,552 tons/year of COD, 41,325 tons/year of SS, 3,789 tons/year of NH3-N. Such pollution
load reduction will help achieve and maintain the environmental quality targets and improve the
area surface water quality.
Other potential benefits which would result from the improvement of the area water quality
through the SHUEP include:
*  Improved sanitation and hygiene for residents near surface water bodies, many of which are
now heavily contaminated;
*  Increased property values for land and real estate near surface water bodies;
*  Improved recreation and environmental aesthetics to the communities of the project area;
*  Increased revenue from tourism;
*  Recovery and improvement of bio-diversity and ecosystem; and
*  Strong support to the SMG's massive initiative of re-development Huangpu river banks.
7.3    Air and odour impacts
The primary air emissions from the wastewater treatment plants and municipal solid waste
landfill will be nuisance odours generated from grit removal tanks, primary tanks, sludge
handling processes, and solid waste collection, transfer and disposal. The pumping stations could
also be a source of such odours. The main constituents of such odours are NH3, H2S, and methyl
sulfide.
At the Minxing WWTP, most unit operations and treatment processes will be underground and
air emissions will be collected, treated and discharged via a 16 m stack. An air diffusion model
was used in the EA to predict the concentrations of the air emission constituents which cause the
odour. The modeling results are compared with the residential and Japanese control standards
shown in Table 7.1. The results show that under the normal climate conditions, the ground
concentrations of the H2S and NH3-N are far below the residential control standards. Under the
temperature inversion conditions, however, the distance to reach the residential area standards
varies from about 120 m from the treatment plant to about 200 m. Within this distance, there is no
residence (all are beyond 250 m) but the Gongqing Forest Park is located about 100 m at its
closest point to the WWTP where both H2S and NH3-N will exceed the control standards.
Shanghai Academy of Environmental Sciences  15                           March 2002



Shanghai Urban Environment Project                                 EA Summary Report
Table 7.1 Odour Standards
Items                            NH3              H2S          Methyl sulfide
Smelling threshold (mg/rn )      0.1              0.0005       0.0001
Identification threshold (mg/m)  1.5              0.06         0.0007
Control standards (mg/m3)        1-5              0.01-0.2     0.002-0.01
Type of smell                    Acidous          Bad egg      Acidulous sulfur
Operation of Shanghai's existing sewage pumping stations indicates that odour emissions from
these sources could impact the surrounding areas and emission collection and treatment are
needed to control the impacts to acceptable levels. In SHUEP Phase 1, all pumping stations will
be equipped with odour control and treatment facilities. With such control facility, the impacted
areas will be mostly reduced to less than 5 m for most of the pumping stations. Of the 19
pumping stations, only Bingzhou road and Wenshui road pumping station have sensitive
receptors in close distance (5 and 10 m, respectively), which are close to or within the protective
distance (4.6 and 11 m, respectively).
There will be positive impacts in terms of air quality related to odour. Currently, surface water
bodies in the service areas may have nuisance odour in the summer time from the poor water
quality as a result of direct discharge of untreated municipal wastewater, impacting the areas near
the water bodies including any residential and other sensitive receptors. SHUEP Phase I will
intercept over 45% of these direct discharges which will contribute significantly to the
improvement of water quality and help eliminate the nuisance odour even in the summer.
7.4    Noise impacts
Main noise sources during the operation phase includes lifting pumps, sludge pumps, blowers in
the wastewater treatment plants, submerged pumps in the pumping stations, and trucks,
bulldozers and compactors in the landfill. The noise intensity at the sources is expected to be 90-
95 dB(A) for wastewater treatment plants and landfills and 72-81 dB(A) at the pumping stations.
Noise modeling during the EA indicates that the distance for noise to meet both day time and
night noise standards will be 2 m from the pumping station when I pump is in operation to 14 m
when 8 pumps are in operation. As the design distances of pumping houses to the station property
lines will be 10-50 m, all 19 pumping stations will meet the noise standards. As most of the
facilities, including noise sources at the Minxing treatment plant will be underground and there is
no noise sensitive receptors within 200 m from the sources, noise of the WWTP is not expected to
have significant impacts.
7.5    Sludge disposal impacts
Following sludge thickening and dewatering, the Minxing WWTP will generate 271 m3/day or
99,000 m3/year of combined primary and secondary sludge with an average water content of
65%. This sludge will be trucked to Bailonggang dedicated sludge landfill on the Yangtze river
bank some 32 km from the Minxing site, which receives sludge from the major WWTPs in the
Shanghai area.
Shanghai Acalemy of Environmental Sciences  16                           March 2002



Shanghai Urban Environmenrg Project                               EA Summary Report
Major potential concerns with regard to sludge transportation include leaking, odour, noise and
impacts on traffic. A truck route through some trunk roads of Shanghiai has been selected and
will cross Huangpu river via Yangpu bridge. Ten water tight trucks will be used for sludge
transportation to prevent leaks and odour emission along the route. The sludge transportation is
scheduled in evenings to minimize the impacts on traffic. The trucks will be washed daily in a
dedicated truck washing area within the WWTP and the wash water will be drained to the
treatment processes.
The Bailonggang sludge landfill has 600 t/d capacity and is designed with sanitary landfill
standards. The leachate is contained, collected and diverted to Bailonggang wastewater treatment
plant located immediately adjacent to the landfill. The Bailonggang site is on reclaimed land, and
as the Yangtze river estuary shoreline is moving outwards by about 40-60 m every year, there is
substantial land resources to expand the life of the landfill. Strong nuisance odor from the sludge
landfill will be another potential impact. There are no sensitive receptors in the immediate
adjacent areas surrounding the Bailonggang site. Furthermore, daily coverage of newly deposited
sludge with a 20-30 cm layer of clean soil will minimize nuisance conditions at the landfill.
7.6    Resettlement and socio-economic impacts
Resettlement and compensation plans have been prepared and are covered in a separate
"Resettlement Action Plan" (RAP). The summary of land acquisition and people affected is
shown in the following table 7.2.
Table 7.2 Project affected land statistics
Component                        Permanent Land Acquisition
Land Acquisition (ha)       People Affected
SSP 3                                  33.8                      1310
Old Town urban upgrading               8.96                5357 (households)
The area affected the most is the Old City area which is the oldest section of Shanghai with the
highest population density. The project will change the area completely, with more green space,
better protection of cultural heritage and reduced population density. Although the relocated
residents lose their convenience of being in downtown, their living conditions such as living
space and environmental quality will be substantially improved. Laogang landfill site is situated
on reclaimed land and no residents are affected.
There are other socio-benefits from the implementation of SHUEP Phase 1. They are:
* Improvement of the image of Shanghai as an international economic, financing and trade
center, improvement of the investment environment and infrastructure, and foundation for
sustainable development;
o  Increase of the environmental awareness of Shanghai citizens and the general public which
will be the public support for further investment in environmental protection and
improvement;
*  Protection of public health from the significant reduction of pollutants loads discharged to the
environment and proper handling of municipal solid waste;
*  Role model for other cities in the region especially along the Yangtze river area for urban and
environmental infrastructure development; and
Shanghai Academy of Environmental Sciences  17                          March 2002



Shanghai Urban Environment Project                                  EA Summary Report
*   Protection of cultural heritage through improvement and landscape of surrounding
environment.
7.7    Groundwater and soil impacts
Potential impacts to groundwater quality and soil contamination will be primarily from the
Laogang municipal solid waste landfill and the Bailonggang sludge landfill, due to potential
leachate infiltration into the ground. However, both landfills are designed with sufficient
engineering control including horizontal and vertical impermeable liners to contain the leachate,
which will be collected and diverted to Bailonggang wastewater treatment plant. The sanitary
landfill design standards at the landfills have virtually avoided potential impacts to the
groundwater.
In fact, a major improvement at the Laogang landfill can be expected. The previous three phases
at the landfill have only limited leachate treatment before discharge. An increase in heavy metal
concentrations in the surrounding soil have been recorded due to the early phase landfill
operation. The upgrading and Phase IV expansion will also include the leachate from the earlier
phases, resulting in significant reduction of adverse environmental discharge at the site.
7.8    Fly control
Fly is a major nuisance typically associated with municipal solid waste landfill operations.
Observations at earlier phase operations at Laogang landfill indicate that fly population density is
directly related to the area of the filling zone and the duration of exposure of the zone before
covering. At the Laogang landfill Phase IV, the fly density is not expected to increase as the
filling zone area and the exposure duration will not increase. In fact, the filling operation in
Phase IV will change to promptly cover the waste and reduce the exposure duration. This will
help reduce the fly population in the area.
Early observations also show that fly population density decreases quickly over the distance from
the waste unloading and filling zones. Since there is no residential or other sensitive receptors in
close distance to the landfill, the impact of flies will be limited.
7.9    Cultural heritage
Huanpu District where the Old Town is located is the origin of Shanghai and contains many
buildings with cultural heritage. The project area directly relates to the municipal designated
cultural heritage sites of Dajing Pavilion also of the Ming Dynasty (1573-1619), and Shanghai
Bookstore from the modern revolutionary history (early 1900's).
The project will demolish old and obsolete buildings surrounding the Dajing Pavilion, and these
will be replaced with well-designed greening and landscaped areas. This will place the pavilion
in the middle of green areas, much like its original surrounding when it was first built. The
substantially reduced commercial, traffic and other urban activities in the immediately adjacent
areas will also help preserve and protect the ancient architecture.
The Shanghai Bookstore, a site utilized by the Chinese Communist Party in its early years will be
relocated, in an area more appropriate for the building with better access. The new building will
be built identical to the existing one.
Shanghai Academy of Environmental Sciences  18                            March 2002



Shanghai Urban Environment Project                                  EA Summary Report
7.10   Pest management
Within the urban area of Shanghai, synthetic pesticides are prohibited in trees, bushes, lawns and
other green and landscaped areas. The biodegradable and less pcrsistent biological pesticides are
applied instead. May and June of each year is the breeding time for most pest in the Shanghai
area and that is the time for pesticide application. Typically, the pesticide application is through
sprays with an average of I m3 pesticide for approximately 1000 m2 green area.
The SHUEP Old City greening component will need about 35.8 kg biological pesticide per year.
In addition, the project will also require 1,792 kg of organic fertilizer and 27 kg urea. The green
area will have 60 cm top soil in which bushes and lawns are planted. The pesticide, as well as
fertilizer application is limited to the area only and is not expected to have lasting residues and
significant impact to the soil, groundwater or the surrounding areas due to the controlled
application and easy biodegradability.
Pesticide storage, handling and applications could pose a risk to workers, residents in the
neighbouring area and the general public on the green, through direct contact, particularly by
people and children playing on the green area during the pesticide application time. This will
require strict management, including scheduling, controlled access, weather conditions at the
pesticide spaying time, and other management measures to minimize the risk.
7.11   Environmental mitigation measures
Design Plhase
*  All project component sites will be carefully selected to avoid or minimize potential impacts
to the environment;
*  Layouts at the Minxing WWTP, Laogang municipal solid waste landfill and other project
facilities will be designed in such a way that the sources of noise and odours will be as far
away from the surrounding sensitive receptors as possible, such as the Gongqing park and
villages; and
*   Mitigation measures requiring design such as solid waste and sludge landfill sites drainage
control, leachate collection and diversion to the treatment plants, leachate treatment, nuisance
odour emission collection and treatment from wastewater treatment plants and pumping
stations, noise control facilities, etc., will be incorporated into the engineering design.
Construction Pliase
*  Construction sites, transportation routes and materials handling sites will be water-sprayed in
dry and windy days 2 times a day (morning and afternoon), especially if these sites are near
sensitive receptors, such as Dajing Pavilion, villages and residential areas;
*  Construction activities will be scheduled carefully to minimize the impact of noise from
construction machinery to the surrounding environment. Night time uses of certain noisy
machines such as pile-drivers, concrete vibrators, etc. will be prohibited;
*   In conjunction with relevant authority, road and river traffic plans will be prepared ahead of
construction in the congested urban centers, particularly in areas where roads or waterways
must be closed or semi-closed for pipe and sewer installation and river side or in water
construction;
Shanghai Acalemy of Environmental Sciences  19                            March 2002



Shanghai Urban Environment Project                                  EA Summary Report
*  Sewage and other waste from construction camps will be collected and diverted to municipal
systems to avoid contamination of the surrounding areas;
*  Compensate appropriately and promptly the relocated and resettled residents, farmers,
commercial operations, schools, institutions and other organizations according to relevant
laws, regulations, guidelines and rates of the government or the World Bank;
*  Temporary land occupation, particularly in the farm land, will be planned well ahead of the
construction in consultation with the farmers and others affected to minimize the loss of
crops. At the end of the temporary uses, the land will be re-stored to its original state; and
*  Demolition materials and spoil from SHUEP components will be disposed of appropriately in
designated sites only; These sites will be rehabilitated by proper coverage and landscaping.
Disposal of such wastes in farmland, ponds or rivers will be strictly prohibited.
Operational Phlase
*  Properly follow the operation procedures and ensure WWTPs, solid waste landfill, and sludge
disposal facilities operate as designed;
*  Develop contingency plans for power failure, overflows, equipment malfunctioning and other
conditions which may affect the proper functioning of the plants resulting in discharge of raw
wastewater into the receiving environment;
*  Develop a management plan for pesticide and fertilizer application in the green area to
protect the safety of the public and workers; and
*  Maintain regular consultation with the residents in the nearby communities and respond
promptly to any concerns they may raise with regard to the operations of the wastewater,
pumping stations, sludge handling, and solid waste disposal facilities.
8.     PUBLIC CONSULTATION
8.1    General
Stakeholders from the public were consulted during the project EA, particularly those who will be
directly affected by SHUEP Phase 1, such as urban and rural residents near proposed pipelines,
pumping stations, wastewater treatment plants, municipal solid waste and sludge disposal sites,
and the Old City area. The primary methods applied in the public participation included public
meetings, interviews, questionnaires, internet and public media such as newspapers. The EA team
organized and chaired the public meetings and public opinion surveys.
Two rounds of public consultation are planned. The first round, which took place in late 2001 at
the EA TOR stage, focused on the environmental screening to define public concerns and to assist
in identifying key environmental issues for detailed assessment. The second round, which is
taking place in early 2002, is designed to draw public responses and recommendations on the
initially developed mitigation measures for the potential adverse impacts identified. A 24 hour
telephone hotline has been set up since the beginning of the EA, to further solicit and address
environmental issues from the public. In addition, a website dedicated to SHUEP Phase 1 EA was
designed and published in Shanghai Environment Online (http://w-ww.envir.online.sh.cn) on
December 29, 2001. Within 20 days, the website had had 50,000 hits from more than 20
countries.
ShanghaiAcademy of Environmental Sciences  20                             March 2002



Shanghai Urban Environment Project                                 EA Summary Report
8.2    Public meetings
In all two rounds of public participation, public meetings/hearings were held as an effective
method to solicit public concerns and opinions on project environmental issues. Details of these
meetings/interviews are summarized in Table 8-1.
Table 8-1 Summary of Public Meetings/Interviews
Component             Date            Locations          No. of participants
SSP 3 (Minxing)      18-24 Dec 2001  Yangpu District     30
Second meeting to be held
in March 2002.
Laogang landfill     10-25 Dec 2001  Laogang (2 meetings) 60 (30 at each meeting)
Urban environmental  Oct - Nov 2001  9 no. meetings on site  1000 (100 to 200 at each
improvement                                              meeting)
Upper Huangpu        Feb 2002        Jinshan, Fengxian,  Questionnaires only.
WWTPs                                Fengjing            Public meetings to be held
in March 2002
8.3    Public Opinion Survey
Public opinion surveys have been adopted as one of the key tools for public consultation. The
questionnaires, prepared by the EA team, were distributed to the public. Questionnaires were
distributed with no restriction of time and locations which would allow more people to
participate. It is therefore, a good supplementary method to the public meetings/hearings. Details
of the public surveys are summarized in Table 8-2.
Table 8-2 Public Opinion Survey (No. of People Surveyed)
Background       Item      SSP 3   Laogang      Urban    Upper Huangpu    Total
Improvement     WWTP
Total         148     96         100         100                 444
Sex          Male                  65         54         68
Female                31        46          32
Age          18-30         19       11        12         42                     84
31-45         52      42         18         43                    155
45-60         56      39         52          14                   161
>60           21      4          18          1                    44
Profession   Public servant  12     13        34          19                    78
Framer        23      46        -            13                    82
Professional  -B5                8          26                    39
Worker        76      29        21          31                    157
Merchant      12      1         24                                37
Other         25      2          13          11                    51
Education    Primary school 19     6          2           5                    32
Junior high   45      37        29          26                    137
High school   62      36        32          42                    172
University    19      14        33          25                    91
_ Other        3       2         4           2                     11
Shanghai Academy of Environmental Sciences  21                            March 2002



Shanghai Urban Environment Project                                  EA Summaiy Report
8.4    Public concerns and responses
The majority of the public surveyed are well aware of various components of the SHUEP and
understand the benefits, significance and adverse impacts. The public survey shows that the
project has received wide public support. However, the public also expressed concerns for
potential adverse impacts, both long-term and short-term, during the construction and operation
phases of the SHUEP from their own perspective. For the each of the concerns expressed during
the public consultation, a corresponding mitigation measure has been developed and
communicated to the concerned public. The following table summarizes the concerns, mitigation
measures and public satisfactory rate to the mitigation measures.
Table 8.3 Public Concerns and Responses
Main public concern                Mitigation measures
Air-borne dust in construction phase  * Periodical water spray
* Speed limit for vehicles
Noise in construction phase        * Rationalize construction schedule
* Minimize night construction
Traffic block during construction phase  * Excavation controlled in line with specifications
* Good planning to relieve traffic congestion
Spoil disposal in construction phase  * Careful selection of disposal site
* Reclamation of disposal site
Odor in operation                  * Keep odour sources covered or indoor
* Promptly coverage of solid waste in landfill to
minimize the odor
Fly at landfill                    * Sufficient thickness of trees planting to isolate the
landfill and minimize fly from leaving the landfill
Noise in operation phase           * Proper insulation of noise sources
Resettlement transparency          * Information disclosure
* Public notice on compensation procedures, rates and
standards
Compensation for farmland acquisition  * Compensate according to state policies
Compensation for house demolition  * Compensate according to state policies
8.5    Information disclosure
Advertisements have been placed in the most popular newspapers in Shanghai (Wenhui Daily and
Jiefang Daily) and a dedicated website to describe the project components and its potential
impacts and to invite the public to express their concems about the project. In addition, the draft
EA reports and other project related information including project environmental information
have been placed in Shanghai Academy of Environmental Sciences and Shanghai Library for
public reviews and comments. A telephone hotline manned by the EA team's environmental
specialists is another source of information to the public about the project and potential project
impacts.
Shanghai Academy of Environmental Sciences  22                            March 2002



Shanghai Urban Environment Project                                EA Summary Report
9.0    ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND MONITORING PLAN
Several organizations, both government and corporate bodies, will take the responsibility for
environmental management. These organizations and their responsibilities for environmental
management the SHUEP APL I are:
*  Shanghai Planning and Development Commission, the overall leading agency for the project
implementation will take the ultimate responsibility for environmental protection and
management;
*  Shanghai Water Environment Construction Corporation (SWEC) which is the working group
for project management designated by the Planning Commission, will be responsible for the
day to day environmental management during the construction phase. Their responsibilities
will include engagement of professional supervision and monitoring services, allocation of
budget for environmental management, response to environmental monitoring reports and
taking mitigation actions as appropriate, and handling of any environmental emergency and
other adverse impacts not adequately projected by the EA which may occur during
construction.
*  Shanghai Municipal Environmental Protection Bureau (SEPB) and its municipal counterparts
will be responsible for enforcement of environmental regulations and standards and review of
environmental monitoring reports.
*  Shanghai environmental monitoring stations will be responsible for environmental
monitoring for air quality, noise, water quality, and other impacts to the environment by the
project during both the construction and operation phases. Sampling sections for Huangpu
River and for the Yangtze (Chang Jiang) are shown on Figures 11 and 12 respectively.
*  SWEC will be responsible for the day to day environmental management during the
operational phase of SSP III, Shanghai City Appearance and Environmental Sanitation
Bureau for the Laogang municipal solid waste landfill, Shanghai Huangpu district
government for the Old Town upgrading and suburb district governments for Upper Huangpu
wastewater treatment plants.
A training program, including both local and overseas training, will be prepared for management
and technical staff from above mentioned organizations. Training contents will include
environmental regulations, wastewater treatment technologies, environmental monitoring, sludge
handling and disposal, and handling and responses to environmental accidents. In total, it is
planned that 90 people will participate in the domestic environmental training and 30 in the
overseas training.
In order to ensure that the SHUEP Phase I will be in compliance with relevant environmental
standards and as predicted in this EA, a comprehensive monitoring program has been prepared
for water, air and noise. The plan covers both the construction phase and operation phase of
SHUEP Phase 1. The monitoring program is summarized in Table 9.1 and the estimated cost for
the monitoring program is presented in Table 9.2.
Table 9.1 Environmental Monitoring Program
Shanghai Academy of Environmental Sciences  23                          March 2002



Shanghai Urban Environment Project                                 EA Summary Report
Environment   Items         Construction Phase          Operation Phase
Water          Parameters   pH, SS, DO, BOD, COD, pH, SS, DO, PV, BOD, NH3-
NH3-N, oil, phenol, CN, Hg, N, oil, phenol, CN, As, Hg,
Cr(VI), Pb, Cu, Cd          Cr(VI), Pb, Cu, Zn, Mn, Cd
Locations    Upstream and downstream of Upstream and downstream of
the adjacent rivers; control the adjacent rivers; control
sections of Huangpu in project sections in major water bodies
area                        in the project area
Frequency    Six times a year            Three times a year
Groundwater    Parameter    pH, PV, Cl-, NH-N, phenol, pH, PV, Cl-, NH-N, phenol,
total hardness, Cu, Zn, Hg, As, total hardness, Cu, Zn, Hg, As,
Cr, Cd, Pb                  Cr, Cd, Pb
Locations    Around the out of vertical Around the out of vertical
barrier of landfill site    barrier of landfill site
FrequencTw      otimesayear              Two times a year
Air            Parameter    TSP                         Odour, TSP
Locations
Frequency
Noise          Parameter    dB(A)                       dB(A)
Locations    Construction sites          Boundary  of the   WWTPs,
Sensitive receptors         landfill site, pumping stations;
nearest residences and villages
Frequency    Once a week                 Twice a year in winter and
summer
Table 9.2 Summary of Monitoring Cost
Project City           Environmental Monitoring Cost Estimates (RMB/Ye r)
Equipment    Construction phase Operation phase Total
SSP 3                         20,000             30,000          20,000     70,000
Laogang landfill              20,000             30,000          20,000     70,000
Urban upgrading                5,000             20,000           5,000     30,000
Upper Huangpu WWTP            20,000             30,000          20,000     70,000
Total                         65,000            110,000          65,000    240,000
10.0 CONCLUSIONS
The environmental assessment for SHUEP Phase I has drawn the following conclusions:
*  All the three phases of APL-supported SHUEP are well integrated with the Shanghai's
Master Plan which has been approved by the State Council and will contribute significantly
to the strategic objectives for the city's development and environmental protection. SHUEP
Phase I will play an important role in fulfilment of Shanghai Tenth Five-year Plan (2001-
2005) and in the Comprehensive Redevelopment Program of Riverside along the Huangpu
River.
*  The implementation of SHUEP Phase I will increase the wastewater treatment capacity in
Shanghai to 714,000 m3/d, and the solid waste sanitary disposal to 4,900 t/d, which are about
45% of the total wastewater directly discharged into the surface water without being treated
Shanghai Academy of Environmental Sciences  24                            March 2002



Shanghai Urban Environment Project                                  EA Summary Report
and about 45% of municipal solid waste generated in the city. It will cut the pollutant loads to
the water bodies in the region by 47,552 tons/year of COD, 41,325 tons/year of SS, 3,789
tons/year of NH3-N. As a result, the surface water quality will be expected to improve and to
meet the applicable surface water quality standards.
*  The Laogang landfill upgrading will provide a sustained sanitary disposal of municipal solid
waste but also upgrade the previous phases. As a result, the leachate will be better controlled
and treated, groundwater better protected, and the impact to the surrounding areas reduced.
*   However, SHUEP will also cause some adverse impacts to the environment. During the
construction phase, dust, noise, large scale resettlement and relqcation in downtown area,
construction camps, construction materials extraction, traffic block and near river
construction may affect the residents nearby and environment in the surrounding area. During
the operation phase, noise, odours, municipal solid waste and sludge hauling, sludge disposal
and land acquisition will impact the villages around the project sites. With a careful design
and implementation of appropriate mitigation measures, however, these adverse impacts can
be avoided, mitigated or otherwise compensated to acceptable levels.
To further ensure environmental protection and proper implementation of mitigation measures, an
environmental management plan has been developed involving govemment and professional
institutions for supervision, monitoring, and management of environmental affairs of the
SHUEP Phase 1.
Shanghai Academy of Environmental Sciences  25                            March 2002



Jiangsu Province          + N   1
1. SSP-III WWTP Option 1
- Minxing;
2. SSP-Ill WWTP Option 2
- Zhuyuan;                                 ,j
3. Laogang Landfill Expansion
Project Phase IV;
4. Jinshan Sewerage Project; F
5. Fengjing WWTP Project;                                                '.,.;, 'j
6. FengxianSS Project;
7. Old Town Ore ening Project.                          2
Zhejiang Provinace          ;,
.h jianeHangz              o u g   ay,. tc
f ~~~~~~~~~- '                        '  I
0 0      10    20 km
r                    .              ~~~~~~~~~-  . . i.
Figure. 1 Location of project components of SHUEP-I
(Fig 01 PC Location.doc)



\      '~~~, Thre Isles o  ,>X
XChang Jiang 'r-.
4   Upper    City Proper t        --
Huangpu     Suzhou 
D              XH~~~~angzhou Bay   
*   J                     \      ~~~~~~~~~Coastal Area S
N. 
0     10     20 km
Figure. 2 Wastewater management zoning of Shanghai
(Fig 02 WW Mgmt Zoning.doc)



Wusong Kou
Figure. 3 Service areas of SSP-3
(Fig 03 SSP-HI ABC dc)



L\iLitof of
reclamation         E
East
Chinat
Sea .
\~~~ --- p'\S 
' Laogang Landfill
-t W-N-w nu   i u i    -l -   X      \   \ Prestages
LaogangLandffl
Expansion IV
Dongha\      '
rm~~~~~~~1
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
Figure.4 LocationofLaogangLandfillExpansion Phase IV
(Fig 04 Laogang Location.doc)



goad
<+< Bt\4~ - \ l| Green Space
RIIY  \   \ \  <    /    \   \  \      \          +      o     loo~~~~~~~~~ 10  200  300  400  500 m
Figure. 5 Layout of Shanghai Old City Greening Project
(Fig 05 Old Town Greening.doc)



Zhejiang Province                       Di,
o        5       10 km                     r     Jhtt
tTon                 Han gzou Bay
Figure. 6 Location of WWTPs at Upper Huangpu
(Fig 06 Upper HP WWTPs Location.doc)



-           z'  , r
~~~-
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ , 
-'       >'4     .'       ' 
-~~~~ K 
I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ z 
t*    X  *  .  ,      -' ,
Figure 7: Mechanical plant at existing Laogang landFIll site



I . ! F . 0.~              - -1-  
Figure 8: Aerial view of proposed Minxing WWTP site



D                     E                     F
CAN            AN                        I
Figure 9: Aerial view of proposed Zhuyuan WWTP site



i  "  I-' '.
.,                                         A
r       -
Figure 10: Site of proposed Minxing outfall on Huangpu River



, Kou             '_-
Ls Mffl ~~~~~~~Zhuzra
<: . }4 ^ ( Iinji~~~~~~~~~~ang'Waterworks
-aDnfeng
..            Daqiao      \   -.-   -  -~~ ............... .......
P~~ Misele \9
Ct~~~~~~~~~~~f
Legend             (                                     -
A Sampling sector       i--\ 
0        10        20 km             \            /        Hanon Bay
/ \                _~~~~/
Figure 11: Sampling sections along the Huangpu River
(Fig II HP WQ Sampling.doc)



%s;  -       -                 I 
'i Chongmng Island .
KoutC   --
*gi WusOky  . -    -. 4$a /Z,  f t          S
Gao qi&q. A44tIslajnd 
<wa5n_o     Zhuyuai      e/4  j X1engsh Island
Zhuyu~     ad-s .
,  | .  i   -   .?>  @   i ao Ji ju .............r
" Jiuduan Sho-l '.
4%
....   \     :/                           \\~~~~~~~~......
Legend,
A Sampling sector
i | v z r   \                  O )      I ~~~~0  0   20 Icm
Figure 12: Sampling sections along Chang Jiang estuary
(Fig 12 CJ Sampling.doc)



