Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER    4705-CHA 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Shanghai Urban Environment Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
SHANGHAI MUNICIPALITY
 
Dated  November 10 , 2003  
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER      4705-CHA 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated  November 10 , 2003 , between INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and SHANGHAI 
MUNICIPALITY (Shanghai). 
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People’s 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make a loan to 
the Borrower in the amount of two hundred million Dollars ($200,000,000) on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Shanghai 
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; 
and 
WHEREAS Shanghai, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so 
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
Section 2.01. (a) Shanghai declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Program and of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out, and shall cause to be carried out, the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and 
public utility practices, and social and environmental standards acceptable to the Bank, 
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project. 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and Shanghai shall otherwise agree, Shanghai shall carry out, and 
shall cause to be carried out, the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program 
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. (a) Shanghai shall carry out, and shall cause to be carried out, the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records 
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Agreement. 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto,  Shanghai shall: 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months before the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and Shanghai, a plan for the continued 
achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
(ii) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Shanghai on said plan. 
 Section 2.04 (a) Shanghai shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to progress of the Program and the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan. 
(b) 
Shanghai shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of 
the purposes of Loan, or the performance by Shanghai of its obligations under this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Financial Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) Shanghai shall maintain, and shall cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of Shanghai and of each of the Participating Districts, responsible for carrying 
out the Project or any part thereof. 
Page  4
-
3
-
(b) Shanghai 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 
Section 3.02. 
(a) Without limitation upon Shanghai’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 15 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, Shanghai shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank financial monitoring reports, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which set forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by each said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the Loan, and explain variances between the actual and planned uses of 
such funds. 
(b) 
The first such financial management report shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective 
Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the 
Project through the end of such first calendar semester; thereafter, each financial 
management report shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after each 
subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover such calendar semester. 
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Shanghai 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Shanghai thereof. 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE V 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail. The addresses so specified are: 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For Shanghai: 
 
200 Renmin Da Dao 
 
Shanghai, 200003 
 
P.R. China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
86-21 6311 9462
/
86-21 5652 9502 
 
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of  Shanghai may 
Page  6
-
5
-
be taken or executed by its Mayor or a Vice Mayor or such other person or persons as 
said Mayor or Vice Mayor shall designate in writing, and Shanghai shall furnish to the 
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of 
each such person. 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in  Beijing, People’s Republic of China as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ Yukon Huang 
Authorized Representative
 
SHANGHAI MUNICIPALITY 
 
By /s/ 
Zou 
Jiayi 
Authorized Representative
 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than 
goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the Macau 
Special Administrative Region of the Borrower).  
(b) 
Dispute Review Board
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more shall 
include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding 
documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines. 
(c) 
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines. 
Page  8
-
7
-
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedure
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, and  works estimated to cost 
less than $10,000,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$273,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(b) 
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding under 
Part C.1 of this Section shall be those set forth in the Law on Tendering and Bidding of 
the People's Republic of China promulgated by Order No. 21 of the President of the 
People's Republic of China on August 30, 1999, with the following clarifications required 
for compliance with the Guidelines: 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circulation in China and such 
advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective 
bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents and 
prepare and submit their responses.  In any event, a minimum of 
thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders between the date of 
advertisement in such newspaper and the deadline for 
submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding 
documents shall specify the deadline for such submission.  
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in 
detail in the bidding documents. 
(iii) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient to protect the Borrower, in case of breach of contract 
by the contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the 
required form and amount of such security. 
(iv) 
The time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline 
for receipt of such bids. 
(v) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be afforded 
an opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not 
be required to be present at the bid opening. 
Page  9
-
8
-
(vi) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls 
outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of 
average bids established by the Borrower. 
(vii) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate 
standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been 
determined (A) to be substantially responsive to the bidding 
documents and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The 
winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to 
undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding 
documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
(viii) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, 
at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the 
performance of the contract and to have said accounts and 
records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank.  
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract for (a) works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$10,000,000 or more, and (b) goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the following provisions of this Section. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Quality-based 
Selection
Services for a study on pollution reduction measures under Part F.2 of the Project 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for studies on alternative funding for environmental services under Part 
F.2 of the Project, and for provision of training may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under Parts B and C of the Project, and services for the development of 
procurement procedures for private sector participation under Part F.2 of the Project may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. 
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Page  11
-
10 - 
5. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals. Selection of all 
consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates and the terms of reference 
and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given. The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts.   
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  12
-
11 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program 
Project Management
1. 
Throughout the period of implementation of the Project, Shanghai shall maintain: 
(a) 
the Program Leading Group to provide overall guidance and 
coordination in the implementation of the Program and the Project and to monitor 
progress in the overall urban environment improvement strategy; and
 
(b) 
the Project Office, under the direction of qualified and experienced 
managers, staffed with competent personnel in sufficient numbers, and provided with 
adequate resources, to be responsible for the overall management, supervision, 
monitoring and evaluation of, and reporting on Project activities, including the 
management of procurement, and for the coordination among all implementation entities. 
2. 
Shanghai shall cause each Project implementing entity, as set forth in Section 
1.03 of the Loan Agreement, to establish and, thereafter throughout the period of 
implementation of the Project, maintain its respective project management office, under 
the direction of qualified and experienced managers and staffed with competent 
personnel in sufficient numbers, and provided with adequate resources; said project 
management office to be responsible for the overall management, supervision and 
monitoring of the implementation of its respective part of  the Project.   
Resettlement and Environment Protection
3. Shanghai 
shall: 
(a) 
 take, and shall cause SMSC, Chengtou, the Participating Districts and 
their Respective Sewerage Companies to take, all necessary actions to minimize to the 
extent possible any involuntary loss by persons of shelter, productive assets or access to 
productive assets or income or means of livelihood, temporarily or permanently;  
(b) 
for this purpose, implement, and cause SMSC, Chengtou, the 
Participating Districts and their Respective Sewerage Companies to implement, the 
Resettlement Action Plans in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(c) 
prepare, or shall cause to be prepared, resettlement action plans in regard 
to Part C of the Project, satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with the principles and 
procedures set forth in the Resettlement Policy Framework, and carry out, and cause to be 
carried out, such resettlement action plans in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, before 
commencing works for the pilot urban upgrading program in Hongkou District under said 
Part C of the Project. 
Page  13
-
12 - 
4. 
(a) 
Shanghai shall, and shall cause SMSC, Chengtou, the Participating 
Districts and their Respective Sewerage Companies to implement the Environmental 
Management Plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and designed to ensure that the 
Project is implemented in accordance with sound environmental practices and standards. 
 
(b) 
Until adequate sludge treatment facilities are constructed in the 
Participating Districts, Shanghai shall cause said Districts and their Respective Sewerage 
Companies to dispose of sludge resulting from wastewater treatment safely, on site, and 
not to make such sludge available to farmers inside or outside of said Districts.  
5. 
Shanghai shall, and shall cause SMSC, Chengtou, the Participating Districts and 
their Respective Sewerage Companies to:  
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable them to monitor and 
evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, the implementation of the 
Environmental Management Plan, the Resettlement Action Plans, and the achievement of 
the objectives of said Plans, including the engagement of experienced and qualified 
independent monitoring agencies acceptable to the Bank; 
(b) 
include the results of such monitoring and evaluation activities in each 
report referred to in paragraphs (6)(j) and (9)(j) below, together with any revisions 
proposed to be introduced into such Plans in order to achieve their respective objectives; 
and  
(c) 
introduce such revisions into such Plans as shall have been agreed with 
the Bank. 
Project Implementation
6. 
For purposes of Part A of the Project, Shanghai shall re-lend to SMSC a portion 
of the Loan proceeds made available to it, pursuant to a Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
acceptable to the Bank, and under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank which 
shall include, without limitation, the following:  
(a) 
(i) 
The principal amount so re-lent to SMSC shall be the amount in 
Dollars (on the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from the 
Loan Account or paid from the Special Account) of the value of 
the currency or currencies so withdrawn, or paid, on account of 
expenditures under Categories (1)(a), (2)(a), (3)(a) and (4)(a); 
(ii) 
Shanghai shall recover the principal amount so made available, 
together with an amount equal to one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, over a period of fifteen (15) years inclusive of 
a
grace period of five (5) years; 
Page  14
-
13 - 
(iii) 
Shanghai shall charge interest on such principal amount, 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to 
the rate of interest applicable from time to time to the Loan 
pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Loan Agreement; and 
(iv) 
Shanghai shall charge a commitment charge on such principal 
amount, not withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to three 
fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
SMSC shall undertake to: (i) carry out its Respective Parts of the Project, 
through a contractual arrangement with SWEC, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate management, financial, engineering and public utility 
practices and social and environmental standards  acceptable to the Bank, and provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities and other resources required for the purpose; and 
(ii) without limitation on the foregoing, take all measures necessary to ensure that 
SMSC’s Respective Parts of the Project shall be implemented in accordance with the 
Resettlement Action Plan for Shanghai Sewerage Project Phase III, and with the 
Environmental Management Plan. 
(c) 
SMSC shall undertake to procure the goods, works and consultants' 
services for its Respective Parts of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and utilize 
such goods, works and consultants' services exclusively in the carrying out of said Parts 
of the Project.  
(d) 
SMSC shall undertake to enable Shanghai and the Bank to inspect such 
goods and the sites and works included in SMSC’s Respective Parts of the Project, the 
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents. 
(e) 
SMSC shall undertake to take out and maintain with responsible insurers 
such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound 
business practice, including, without limitation, such insurance to cover hazards incident to 
the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan to the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by SMSC to replace or repair such goods. 
(f) 
SMSC shall undertake to: 
(i) 
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance 
with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition; 
(ii) 
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
Page  15
-
14 - 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;  
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank and to Shanghai, as soon as available, but in 
any case not later than six (6) months after the end of each such 
year certified copies of said financial statements and accounts for 
such year as so audited; the report of such audit by said auditors 
in such scope and detail as the Bank or Shanghai shall have 
reasonably requested; and all such other information concerning 
said records, accounts and financial statements, as well as the 
audit thereof, as the Bank or Shanghai shall reasonably request. 
(g) 
SMSC shall undertake to produce for each fiscal year, commencing in 
2004, total revenues equivalent to not less than the sum of: 
(i) 
its total operating expenses (including for maintenance) before 
depreciation;  
(ii) 
the amount by which debt service requirements exceeds the 
provision for depreciation; 
(iii) 
increases in working capital other than cash; and 
(iv) 
ten percent (10%) of its average capital expenditures over a 
rolling three-year period.  
(h) 
SMSC shall undertake to: 
(i) 
review by September 30 in each fiscal year commencing in 2004, 
on the basis of forecasts prepared in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank, whether it would meet the requirements set forth in 
subparagraph (g) above, in respect of such year and the next 
following fiscal year and furnish to the Bank the results of such 
review upon its completion; and 
(ii) 
if any such review shows that it would not meet the requirements 
set forth in subparagraph (g) above for the fiscal years covered 
by such review, promptly take all necessary measures (including, 
without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its 
tariffs) in order to meet such requirements. 
(i) 
SMSC shall undertake not to incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast 
of its revenues and expenditures shows that its estimated net revenues for each fiscal year 
during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.3 times its estimated debt 
service requirements in such year on all of its debt including the debt to be incurred. 
Page  16
-
15 - 
(j) SMSC
 
shall undertake to: 
(i) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Bank and to Shanghai the carrying out of its 
Respective Parts of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; and 
(ii) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and to 
Shanghai, and submit to the Project Office semi-annual reports 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to clause (i) of this subparagraph (j) on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of its Respective Parts of 
the Project during the period preceding the date of each such 
report. 
7. 
Shanghai shall: (a) exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement with 
SMSC in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank and Shanghai, 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (b) except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive its Subsidiary Loan Agreement with SMSC 
or any provision thereof. 
8. 
Shanghai shall cause SMSC, to engage the services of a consultancy firm 
acceptable to the Bank, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank to assist SMSC 
in construction management in respect of its Respective Parts of the Project.  
9. 
For purposes of Parts D.2, D.3 and D.4 of the Project, Shanghai shall make 
available to each of Jinshan and Fengxian part of the proceeds of the Loan, and shall 
cause each of Jinshan and Fengxian to re-lend to its Respective Sewerage Companies a 
portion of the Loan proceeds so made available to it, pursuant to a Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement acceptable to the Bank, and under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank which shall include, without limitation, the following:  
(a) 
(i) 
The principal amount so re-lent: (A) by Jinshan to Jinshan OOC 
shall be the amount in Dollars (on the date, or respective dates, 
of withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment from the 
Special Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so 
withdrawn, or paid, on account of expenditures under Categories 
(1)(b) and (2)(b); (B) by Jinshan to Fengjing WPC shall be the 
amount in Dollars (on the date, or respective dates, of 
withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment from the Special 
Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so 
withdrawn, or paid, on account of expenditures under Categories 
(1)(c) and (2)(c); and (C) by Fengxian to Nanpai SDC shall be 
the amount in Dollars (on the date, or respective dates, of 
Page  17
-
16 - 
withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment from the Special 
Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so 
withdrawn, or paid, on account of expenditures under Categories 
(1)(d) and (2)(d); 
(ii) 
Each Participating District shall recover from its Respective 
Sewerage Companies, the principal amount so made available, 
together with an amount equal to one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, over a period of fifteen (15) years inclusive of 
a
grace period of five (5) years; 
(iii) 
Each Participating District shall charge interest on such principal 
amount, withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate 
equal to the rate of interest applicable from time to time to the 
Loan pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Loan Agreement; and 
(iv) 
Each Participating District shall charge a commitment charge on 
such principal amount, not withdrawn from time to time at a rate 
equal to three fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
Each Respective Sewerage Company shall undertake to: (i) carry out its 
Respective Parts of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with 
appropriate management, financial, engineering and public utility practices and social and 
environmental standards acceptable to the Bank, and provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities and other resources required for the purpose; and (ii) without limitation 
on the foregoing, take all measures necessary to ensure that its Respective Parts of the 
Project shall be implemented in accordance with its Respective Resettlement Action Plan 
and with the Environmental Management Plan. 
(c) 
Each Respective Sewerage Company shall undertake to procure the 
goods, works and consultants' services for its Respective Parts of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement, and utilize such goods, works and consultants' services exclusively in 
the carrying out of its Respective Parts of the Project.  
(d) 
Each Respective Sewerage Company shall undertake to enable its 
respective Participating District, Shanghai and the Bank to inspect such goods and the 
sites and works included in its Respective Parts of the Project, the operation thereof, and 
any relevant records and documents. 
(e) 
Each Respective Sewerage Company shall undertake to take out and 
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, 
as shall be consistent with sound business practice, including, without limitation, such 
insurance to cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any indemnity 
Page  18
-
17 - 
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by said Sewerage Company to 
replace or repair such goods. 
(f) 
Each Respective Sewerage Company shall undertake to: 
(i) 
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance 
with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition; 
(ii) 
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank, to Shanghai and to its respective 
Participating District, as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year certified 
copies of said financial statements and accounts for such year as 
so audited; the report of such audit by said auditors in such scope 
and detail as the Bank, Shanghai or the respective Participating 
District shall have reasonably requested; and all such other 
information concerning said records, accounts and financial 
statements, as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank, Shanghai or 
the respective Participating District shall reasonably request. 
(g) 
Each Respective Sewerage Company shall undertake to produce for each 
fiscal year, commencing in 2004, total revenues equivalent to not less than the sum of: 
(i) 
its total operating expenses, including for maintenance, and 
including depreciation; and 
(ii) 
the amount by which debt service requirements exceed the 
provision for depreciation. 
 (h) 
Each Respective Sewerage Company shall undertake to: 
(i) 
review by September 30 in each fiscal year commencing in 2004, 
on the basis of forecasts prepared in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank, whether it would meet the requirements set forth in 
subparagraph (g) above, in respect of such year and the next 
following fiscal year, and furnish to the Bank, Shanghai and its 
respective Participating District the results of such review upon 
its completion; and 
Page  19
-
18 - 
(ii) 
if any such review shows that it would not meet the requirements 
set forth in subparagraph (g) above for the fiscal years covered 
by such review, promptly take all necessary measures (including, 
without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its 
tariffs) in order to meet such requirements. 
(i) 
Each Respective Sewerage Company shall undertake not to incur any 
debt unless a reasonable forecast of its revenues and expenditures shows that its estimated 
net revenues for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 
1.3 times its estimated debt service requirements in such year on all of its debt including the 
debt to be incurred. 
(j) 
Each Respective Sewerage Company shall undertake to: 
(i) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Bank and to Shanghai the carrying out of its 
Respective Parts of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; and 
(ii) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to 
Shanghai and its respective Participating District, and submit to 
the Project Office semi-annual reports integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
clause (i) of this subparagraph (j) on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of its Respective Parts of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of each such report. 
10. 
Shanghai shall cause the Participating Districts to: (a) exercise their rights under 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements with their Respective Sewerage Companies in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank, Shanghai and said 
Participating Districts, and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (b) except as the 
Bank and Shanghai shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive their 
respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof. 
11. 
For purposes of paragraphs 6 and 9 of this Schedule: 
(a) 
The term “total revenues” means the sum of total operating revenues and 
net non-operating income. 
(b) 
The term “total operating revenues” means revenues from all sources 
related to operations. 
(c) 
The term “total operating expenses” means: 
Page  20
-
19 - 
(i) 
in respect of SMSC, all expenses related to operations, including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but excluding interest and other charges on debt; 
and 
(ii) 
in respect of any Respective Sewerage Company, all expenses 
related to operations, including administration, adequate 
maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and provision 
for depreciation on a straight line basis at a rate of not less than 
3.3% per annum of the average current gross value of the fixed 
assets in operation of said Respective Sewerage Company, or 
other basis acceptable to the Bank, but excluding interest and 
other charges on debt. 
(d) 
The average current gross value of the Project Company' fixed assets in 
operation of SMSC, or of any Respective Sewerage Company, as the case may be, shall 
be calculated as one half of the sum of the gross value of its fixed assets in operation at 
the beginning and at the end of the fiscal year, as valued from time to time in accordance 
with sound and consistently maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to the Bank. 
(e) 
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other charges 
on, debt. 
(f) 
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of SMSC or any of  the 
Respective Sewerage Company maturing by its terms more than one (1) year after the 
date on which it is originally incurred. 
(g) 
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:  
(i) 
under a loan contract or agreement or other instrument providing 
for such debt or for the modification of its terms of payment on 
the date of such contract, agreement or instrument; and 
(ii) 
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement 
providing for such guarantee has been entered into. 
(h) 
The term “net revenues” means the difference between: 
(i) 
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations and 
net non-operating income, and 
(ii) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, other non-
cash operating charges and interest and other charges on debt. 
Page  21
-
20 - 
(i) 
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference between: 
(i) 
revenues from all sources other than those related to operations; 
and 
(ii) 
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, incurred 
in the generation of revenues in clause (i) above. 
(j) 
The term “working capital other than cash” means the difference between 
current assets excluding cash and current liabilities at the end of each fiscal year. 
(k) 
The term “current assets excluding cash” means all assets other than cash 
which could in the ordinary course of business be converted into cash within twelve (12) 
months, including accounts receivable, marketable securities, inventories and pre-paid 
expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses within the next fiscal year. 
(l) 
The term “current liabilities” means all liabilities which will become due 
and payable or could under circumstances then existing be called for payment within 
twelve (12) months, including accounts payable, customer advances, debt service 
requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends. 
(m) 
The term “capital expenditures” means all expenditures incurred on 
account of fixed assets, including interest charged to construction related to operations; and 
the term “average capital expenditures” in respect of any fiscal year means the average of 
capital expenditures incurred or expected to be incurred for that year, the previous fiscal 
year and the next following fiscal year. 
(n) 
The term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast prepared by SMSC or any 
of the Respective Sewerage Company, as the case may be, not earlier than twelve months 
prior to the incurrence of the debt in question, which both the Bank and said Company 
accept as reasonable and as to which the Bank has notified said Company of its 
acceptability, provided that no event has occurred since such notification which has, or may 
reasonably be expected in the future to have, a material adverse effect on the financial 
condition or future operating results of said Company. 
(o) 
Whenever, for the purposes of this Schedule, it shall be necessary to value, 
in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such valuation 
shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such 
debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the 
Bank. 
12. 
Shanghai shall: (a) by no later than December 31, 2005, complete a study on the 
Uper Huangpu Catchment and water modeling under terms of reference acceptable to the 
Page  22
-
21 - 
Bank; and (b) thereafter provide the report of such study and the recommendations to the 
Bank for its review and comment. 
13. 
Shanghai shall: (a) by no later than December 31
,
2005, complete a study under 
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, on measures to improve air quality in Shanghai; 
and (b) thereafter provide the report of such study and the recommendations developed in 
such study to the Bank for its review and comment.  
14. Shanghai 
shall: 
 
(a) 
by no later than December 31, 2005, develop and adopt an administrative 
framework and implementing regulations for the execution of service or management 
contracts and/or concessions for wastewater services; and 
 
(b) 
by no later than June 30, 2006, execute, or cause to be executed, a contract 
for private sector participation in the design, construction, operation and maintenance of a 
wastewater treatment facility of a reasonable capacity for the Shanghai metropolitan area.
 
15. Shanghai 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about January 31 and July 31 of each year, commencing in 2004, a semi-
annual report, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 15 and incorporating the 
reports prepared and submitted by, or on behalf of, SMSC, Chengtou, the Participating 
Districts and the Respective Sewerage Companies in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 6 and 9 of this Schedule; each such report to: (i) set out physical progress in 
the implementation of the Project, both cumulatively, and in respect of the preceding 
calendar semester, and explain variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and (ii) set forth the status of procurement under the Project as at the end 
of the period covered by said report;  
(c) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank on or about September 30, 2006, a mid-term report on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding such report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(
d) 
review with the Bank by December 31, 2006, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the mid-term report referred to in subparagraph (c) of this paragraph 
15, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Page  23
-
22 - 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
 
