Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4705-CHA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Shanghai Urban Environment Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated November 10, 2003 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER      4705 -CHA 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated  November 10, 2003, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF 
CHINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from Shanghai Municipality (Shanghai) a 
letter dated February 7, 2002
,
which describes a program designed to improve urban 
environmental conditions in an integrated and sustainable manner throughout Shanghai, 
and to increase access to environmental services in poorer and less well-served areas 
within said area so as to foster sustainable growth and improve the living conditions of its 
population (the Program), and declare Shanghai’s commitment to the execution of said 
Program; 
(B) 
the Borrower has requested that the Bank support Shanghai’s execution 
of the Program through a series of loans over a period of approximately eight years to be 
utilized in the implementation of the Program;  
(C) 
the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which Project forms the first phase 
of the Program, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
(D) 
the Project will be carried out by Shanghai with the Borrower’s 
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the 
loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to Shanghai, as set 
forth in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Shanghai 
(the Project Agreement); 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
Page  4
-
2
-
through October 6, 1999) with the modification set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows: 
"(c) 
Not later than six months before the Closing Date and or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, 
the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Project, 
its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the 
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement 
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
 “Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1
of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(b) 
“Chengtou” means Shanghai Chengtou
 
Environment Industry 
Development Company Limited, established and operating pursuant to its Charter dated 
February 25, 2003, and
 
to Business License No. 3101151018232 of the Shanghai 
Municipal Industrial and Commercial Administration Bureau, and any successor thereto. 
(c) 
 “Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of 
the Project, had or would have their: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or (ii) right, 
title, interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any 
other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; (iii) 
access to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (iv) 
business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected; and 
“Displaced Person” means any of the Displaced Persons. 
(d) 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan prepared by 
Shanghai, and referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, which 
is an integral part of the Environmental Assessment Report dated March 2002 and the 
supplement thereto dated March 2003, both  prepared by Shanghai; said Plan sets out the 
environmental protection measures in
 
respect of the Project, as well as administrative and 
monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plan, as said plan may be 
revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.  
(e) 
“Fengxian” means Fengxian District of Shanghai, and any successor 
thereto. 
Page  5
-
3
-
(f) 
“Fengjing WPC” means the Fengjing Water Purification Company 
Limited, established and operating pursuant to its Charter dated September 16, 2002, and 
to Business License Number 3102281012668 of the Jinshan Branch
 
of the Shanghai 
Municipal Industrial and Commercial Administration Bureau, and any successor thereto. 
(g) 
“Jinshan” means Jinshan District of Shanghai, and any successor thereto. 
(h) 
“Jinshan OOC” means the Shanghai Jinshan Ocean Outfall Engineering 
General Company Limited, established and operating pursuant to its Charter dated 
January 1993, and to Business License Number 3102281006890 of the Jinshan Branch of 
the Shanghai Municipal Industrial and Commercial Administration Bureau, and any 
successor thereto. 
(i) 
“Hongkou” means Hongkou District of Shanghai, and any successor 
thereto. 
(j) 
“Nanpai SDC” means the Shanghai Nanpai Sewage Disposal Company 
Limited of Fengxian District, established and operating pursuant to its Charter dated 
April 28, 2002 and to Business License Number 3102261013137 of the Shanghai 
Municipal Industrial and Commercial Administration Bureau, and any successor thereto. 
(k) 
“Participating Districts” means, collectively, Jinshan and Fengxian; and 
“Participating District” means either of said Participating Districts.   
 
(l) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and 
Shanghai of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement
.
(m) 
“Resettlement Action Plans” and “RAPs” mean, collectively: (i) the 
Resettlement Action Plan for Laogang Daily Waste Disposal Site dated April 2002; (ii) 
the Resettlement Action Plan for Shanghai Sewerage Project Phase III, dated April 5, 
2002; (iii) the Resettlement Action Plan for Shanghai Fengxian Sewage Treatment Plant 
Project, dated March 28, 2002; (iv) the Resettlement Action Plan for Fengjing Water 
Decontamination Project in Jinshan, dated March 2002; and (v) the Resettlement Action 
Plan for Shanghai Jinshan Treated Wastewater Drainage Project – Phase II, dated March 
2002; prepared by Shanghai and the Participating Districts, respectively, and referred to 
in paragraphs 3(b) and 5 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, which set out the 
principles and procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement, compensation and 
rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, as well as administrative, reporting and monitoring 
arrangements to ensure compliance with said plans, as said plans may be revised from 
time to time with the agreement of the Bank; and “Resettlement Action Plan” and “RAP” 
mean any of said Resettlement Action Plans or RAPs. 
(n) 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Policy Framework for 
Resettlement and Land Acquisition, dated April 2002, prepared by Shanghai, and referred 
Page  6
-
4
-
to in paragraph 3(c) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, which sets out the policies 
and procedures for land acquisition, resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of 
Displaced Persons, and for the preparation of resettlement action plans whenever required 
during the implementation of the Project, as said Policy Framework may be revised from 
time to time with the agreement of the Bank.  
(o) 
“Respective Parts of the Project” means: (i) in respect of SMSC (as 
hereinafter defined), Parts A, E and F.1 of the Project; (ii) in respect of Fengjing WPC, 
Parts D.3, E and F.1 of the Project; (iii) in respect of Jinshan OOC, Parts D.2, E and F.1 
of the Project; and (iv) in respect of Nanpai SDC, Parts D.4, E and F.1 of the Project. 
(p) 
“Respective Resettlement Action Plan” means: (i) in respect of SMSC 
(as hereinafter defined) the Resettlement Action Plan for Shanghai Sewerage Project 
Phase III; (ii) in respect of Shanghai and Chengtou, the Resettlement Action Plan for 
Laogang Daily Waste Disposal Site; (iii) in respect of Jinshan and Jinshan OOC, the 
Resettlement Action Plan for Shanghai Jinshan Treated Wastewater Drainage Project; 
(iv) in respect of Jinshan and Fengjing WPC, the Resettlement Action Plan for Fengjing 
Water Decontamination Project in Jinshan; and (v) in respect of Fengxian and Nanpai 
SDC, the Resettlement Action Plan for Shanghai Fengxian Sewage Treatment Plant 
Project. 
(q) 
“Respective Sewerage Companies” means: (i) in respect of Jinshan, 
Fengjing WPC and Jinshan OOC, and any successors thereto; and (ii) in respect of 
Fengxian, Nanpai SDC, and any successor thereto. 
(r) 
“Shanghai” means the Borrower’s Shanghai Municipality, and any 
successor thereto. 
(s) 
“Shanghai Water Authority” and “SWA” mean the agency established in 
2000 by Shanghai to manage all water resources for Shanghai Municipality and 
responsible for planning and investment strategies for urban environmental services 
related to water within Shanghai. 
(t) 
“SMSC” means the Shanghai Municipal Sewerage Company  Limited, a 
wholly state-owned entity, established and operating pursuant to its Charter dated August 
1995 and to Business License No. 3101081016391 of the Shanghai Municipal Industrial 
and Commercial Administration Bureau, and any successor thereto, which is the recipient 
of a subsidiary loan from Shanghai in accordance with paragraph 6 of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement. 
(u) 
“SWEC” means the Shanghai Water and Environment Construction 
Company Limited, established and operating pursuant to its Charter dated July 1999, as 
revised, and to Business License No. 3101071019027 of the Shanghai Municipal 
Industrial and Commercial Administration Bureau, and any successor thereto, and 
referred to in paragraph 6(b) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement. 
Page  7
-
5
-
(v) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of 
this Agreement. 
(w) 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreements” means, collectively, the agreements to be 
entered into between Shanghai and SMSC, and between each Participating District and 
its respective Sewerage Company or Companies, as the case may be, pursuant to 
paragraphs 6 and 9, respectively, of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as the same 
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to said agreements; and “Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means, individually, 
any of said Subsidiary Loan Agreements. 
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to Shanghai, Shanghai Chengtou 
Environment Industry Development Company Limited, Shanghai Municipal Sewerage 
Company Limited, Shanghai Water Authority, Shanghai Water and Environment 
Construction Company Limited, Jinshan and Fengxian and each of their Respective 
Sewerage Companies, and Hongkou. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to two 
hundred million Dollars ($200,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2009 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Page  8
-
6
-
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
Page  9
-
7
-
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not
 less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower  
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on February 15 and August
 
15
in each year.  
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause Shanghai to perform in accordance 
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of Shanghai therein set 
forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Shanghai to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such performance. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to Shanghai  
on the following principal terms: 
 
(i) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars 
(determined on the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from 
the Loan Account or of payment out of the Special Account) of 
the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out.   
 
(ii) 
The following shall be recovered over a period of twenty (20) 
years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years: (A) the 
principal amount so made available; and (B) an amount equal to 
one percent (1%) of the Loan.  
 
(iii) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of 
interest applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
Page  10
-
8
-
(iv) 
A commitment fee shall be charged on such principal amount of 
the Loan so made available and not withdrawn from time to time 
at a rate equal to three fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per 
annum. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Shanghai  
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
(ii) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained, 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account was made; and 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)(i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;  
Page  11
-
9
-
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as possible, but in any case not later 
than six (6)  months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation can 
be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and  
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
Shanghai shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement. 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Shanghai will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
(c) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that Shanghai 
will carry out a substantial part of the Program. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph (a) 
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that Shanghai and SMSC have entered into a Subsidiary 
Page  12
-
10
-
Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 6 
of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that: 
(a) 
the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by Shanghai, 
and is legally binding upon Shanghai in accordance with its terms; and 
(b)  
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between Shanghai and SMSC has been 
duly executed by the parties thereto and is valid and binding on said parties in accordance 
with its terms.  
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
Page  13
-
11
-
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Sanlihe 
 
Beijing 100820 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
FINANMIN 
 
22486 MFPRC CN 
(86-10) 68551125 
 
Beijing  
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145 (MCI) 
Page  14
-
12
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in   Beijing, People’s Republic of China as of the day and year first above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By /s/ 
Zou 
Jiayi 
Authorized Representative
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ Yukon Huang 
Authorized Representative 
Page  15
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:  
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
       Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Works   
 
 
 
 
 
       48% 
 
 
 
(a) under Part A of the Project                 108,200,000 
 
(b) under Part D.2 of the Project                  5,000,000 
 
(c) under Part D.3 of the Project                  2,500,000 
 
(d) under Part D.4 of the Project                  1,900,000 
 
(e) under other Parts of the Project 
     19,400,000 
 
(2) 
Goods 
    
 
    
 
(a) under Part A of the Project  
     20,000,000 
 
     100% of foreign 
 
 
(b) under Part D.2 of the Project 
       3,100,000 
      
     expenditures, 100% 
 
(c) under Part D.3 of the Project 
       1,600,000    
     of local expenditures 
 
(d) under Part D.4 of the Project 
       2,000,000      
     (ex-factory cost) and 
 
(e) under other Parts of the Project 
     14,200,000 
                  75% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
other items procured 
 
locally 
 
(3) 
Consultants’services 
   
 
 
 
     91%  
 
 
(a) under Part A of the Project                     2,000,000 
 
(b) under other Parts of the Project              4,700,000 
Page  16
-
14
-
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
       Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(4) 
Training 
 
 
       3,400,000 
                    100% 
 
(5) 
Front-end fee 
 
 
       2,000,000 
                    Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(6) 
Unallocated 
 
 
      10,000,000
TOTAL 
 
 
    200,000,000 
 
=========== 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
The term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; provided, however, that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower for goods or services supplied from said region, and expenditures in the 
currency of the Macau Special Administrative Region of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from said region shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; 
(b) 
The term “local expenditures” means any expenditures that are not 
foreign expenditures.
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $5,000,000, may be made 
in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after October 1, 2002, and subject to the provisions of sub-paragraphs 
(b) and (c) of this paragraph 3;  
(b)  
expenditures under Category (1)(a) until SMSC shall have engaged the  
services of a consultancy firm to provide technical assistance in construction 
management in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 8 of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement; and 
(c) expenditures 
under: 
Page  17
-
15
-
(i) 
Categories (1)(b) and (2)(b) until the Bank shall have received 
satisfactory evidence that Jinshan and Jinshan OOC have duly 
entered into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the 
Bank, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 9  of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, and that said Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement is valid and binding on Jinshan and Jinshan 
OOC in accordance with the terms thereof;  
(ii) 
Categories (1)(c) and (2)(c) until the Bank shall have received 
satisfactory evidence that Jinshan and Fengjing WPC have duly 
entered into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the 
Bank, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 9  of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, and that said Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement is valid and binding on Jinshan and Fengjing 
WPC in accordance with the terms thereof; and 
(iii) 
Categories (1)(d) and (2)(d) until the Bank shall have received 
satisfactory evidence that Fengxian and Nanpai SDC have duly 
entered into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the 
Bank, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 9  of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, and that said Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement is valid and binding on Fengxian and Nanpai 
SDC in accordance with the terms thereof. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing 
less $500,000 equivalent each; (b) works under contracts costing less than $10,000,000 
equivalent each; (c) services under contracts (i) with firms, costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each, and (ii) with individuals, costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and 
(d) training; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
 
Page  18
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The Project is the first phase of the Shanghai Urban Environment Program. The 
objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower’s Shanghai Municipality to: (i) develop 
policies and plans to support and enable an integrated municipality-wide approach to 
urban environment issues, and (ii) improve environmental management and infrastructure 
services in the core city and in the upper Huangpu catchment areas. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
PART A
:
Urban Wastewater Management
1. 
Completion of the wastewater collection systems in the urban core area of 
Shanghai within its Outer Ring Road, consisting of the construction of collection and 
trunk sewers, stormwater conveyors and pumping stations in the Baoshan, Zhabei, 
Hongkou, Yangpu and Pudong areas. 
2. 
Construction of a main conveyor, including associated pumping stations, and a 
wastewater treatment plant at Zhuyuan, incorporating secondary treatment, effluent 
discharge, and sludge disposal. 
PART B
:
Urban Solid Waste Management
1. 
Expansion of the sanitary landfill at Laogang, including installation of facilities 
for leachate collection and treatment, for collection of landfill gas, and the provision of 
equipment for landfill operations. 
2. 
Establishment of a food waste collection system through the provision of 
equipment. 
3. 
Design and installation of a computerized management information system for 
the management of urban solid waste. 
PART C
:
Urban Planning and Upgrading
Carrying out of a pilot urban upgrading program in Hongkou District through the 
construction of off-site environmental infrastructure, on-site building renovation and 
associated infrastructure, and improvement of surrounding neighborhoods.  
 
Page  19
-
17
-
PART D
:
Upper Huangpu River Catchment Environmental Management
1. 
Preparation of an Upper Huangpu Catchment Management Plan, including 
analysis of pollution sources, development of strategies for pollution control and 
formulation of an investment plan.  
2. 
Construction and operation of a wastewater treatment plant and sea outfall at 
Xinjiang in Jinshan District; construction of conveyor, secondary and tertiary collection 
sewers and connections to conveyor; and provision of mechanical and electrical 
equipment for related pumping stations. 
3. 
Construction and operation of a wastewater treatment plant in the town of 
Fengjing in Jinshan District; and construction of collection sewers and conveyor.  
4. 
Construction and operation of a wastewater treatment plant in Fengxian District; 
extension of an existing trunk conveyor, and construction of a new trunk conveyor and 
secondary and tertiary collection sewers.  
PART E
:
Resettlement
Carrying out of a program of resettlement and rehabilitation for Displaced 
Persons under the Project. 
PART F
:
Institutional Strengthening
1. 
Strengthening the institutional capacity of Shanghai, Jinshan and Fengxian, and 
their respective relevant agencies, including institutional capacity for construction design 
and supervision, wastewater treatment plant operation, project management, procurement 
management, and preparation for successive phases of the Program, through the 
provision of technical assistance and training. 
2. 
Carrying out of strategic studies and preparatory works, including studies on 
metropolitan water resource and policy, and on pollution reduction measures, and 
preparatory studies on alternative funding for environmental services.  
 
 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2008.
 
Page  20
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
(Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
Dollars)*
February 15, 2009 
 
5,840,000 
August 15, 2009 
 
5,895,000 
February 15, 2010 
 
5,945,000 
August 15, 2010 
 
6,000,000 
February 15, 2011 
 
6,055,000 
August 15, 2011 
 
6,105,000 
February 15, 2012 
 
6,160,000 
August 15, 2012 
 
6,215,000 
February 15, 2013 
 
6,275,000 
August 15, 2013 
 
6,330,000 
February 15, 2014 
 
6,385,000 
August 15, 2014 
 
6,445,000 
February 15, 2015 
 
6,500,000 
August 15, 2015 
 
6,560,000 
February 15, 2016 
 
6,615,000 
August 15, 2016 
 
6,675,000 
February 15, 2017 
 
6,735,000 
August 15, 2017 
 
6,795,000 
February 15, 2018 
 
6,855,000 
August 15, 2018 
 
6,920,000 
February 15, 2019 
 
6,980,000 
August 15, 2019 
 
7,045,000 
February 15, 2020 
 
7,105,000 
August 15, 2020 
 
7,170,000 
February 15, 2021 
 
7,235,000 
August 15, 2021 
 
7,300,000 
February 15, 2022 
 
7,365,000 
August 15, 2022 
 
7,430,000 
February 15, 2023 
 
7,495,000 
August 15, 2023 
 
7,570,000 
 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in 
Section 4.04(d) of the General Conditions. 
Page  21
-
19
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $14,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $10,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $60,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Page  22
-
20
-
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
Page  23
-
21
-
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
wb204079 
M:\CHINA\HOI-CHAN\ShanghaiUrban\Board\LA-BOARD.doc 
June 3, 2003 6:58 PM
 
