                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR00001578



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-47050)



                                      ON A

                                     LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 200 MILLION

                                    TO THE

                        PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                     FOR A

                SHANGHAI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT



                               September 29, 2010




China and Mongolia Sustainable Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                       Exchange Rates

                            Currency Unit = Renminbi Yuan (Y)

                         US$1.00 = Yuan 8.30 (at project appraisal)
                         Yuan 1.00 = US$0.12 (at project appraisal)
                          US$1.00 = Yuan 6.80 (at project closing)
                          Yuan 1.00 = US$0.15 (at project closing)

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1 to December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


APL   Adaptable Program Loan                     PPI    Private Participation in Infrastructure
CEAM Chengtou Environment Asset Management Co.   PPP    Public Private Partnership
CEIC Shanghai Chengtou Environment Industry      QAG Quality Assurance Group
     Development Co. Ltd.                        QEA    Quality at Entry Assessment
CIDA Canadian International Development Agency   QER    Quality Enhancement Review
CDM Clean Development Mechanism                  RAP    Resettlement Action Plan
CNG Compressed Natural GAs                       SCAESAB Shanghai City Appearance and
DFV  District Financing Vehicle                             Environmental Sanitation
DRA Design, Review and Advisory (services)                  Administration Bureau
EIA  Environmental Impact Assessment             SCC    Shanghai Construction Commission
EMP  Environment Management Plan                 SEP    Shanghai Environment Project
FWP   Fenging Water Purification Company Ltd.    SEPB Shanghai Environmental Protection Bureau
GDP  Gross Domestic Product                      SFB    Shanghai Finance Bureau
GEF  Global Environment Facility                 SMG Shanghai Municipal Government
GIS  Geographical Information System             SMSC Shanghai Municipal Sewerage Company
ICB  International Competitive Bidding           SPC    Shanghai Development Planning Commission
JOOC Jinshan Ocean Outfall Engineering Ltd.      SSP1&2 First and Second Shanghai Sewerage Project
MIS  Management Information System               SWA Shanghai Water Authority
MOF Ministry of Finance                          SWAOD Shanghai Water Assets Operation & Dev. Co.
MSW Municipal Solid Waste                        SWEC Shanghai Water & Environment Construction
NDRC National Development Reform Commission             Co. Ltd.
NCB  National Competitive Bidding                UDIC Urban Development and Investment Corp.
O&M Operations and Maintenance                   USTDA United States trade Development Agency
PDO  Project Development Objective               WTO World Trade Organization
PMO Project Management Office                    WWTP Wastewater Treatment Plant




            Vice President:                       James W. Adams
            Country Director:                     Klaus Rohland
            Sector Manager:                       Ede Ijjasz-Vasquez / Vijay Jagannathan
            Project Team Leader:                  Sing Cho
            ICR Team Leader:                      Sing Cho
                                      China
                       SHANGHAI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 19
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 20
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 23
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 25
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 27
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 30
  Annex 3. Resettlement .................................................................................................. 35
  Annex 4. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 36
  Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 37
  Annex 6. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 38
  Annex 7. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 38
  Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 39
  Annex 9. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 49
  Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 49
  MAP IBRD 38039
 
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Shanghai Urban
Country:                China                   Project Name:
                                                                          Environment Project
Project ID:             P070191                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-47050
ICR Date:               11/03/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:
                                                                          OF CHINA
Original Total
                        USD 200.0M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 200.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 200.0M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
 Shanghai Development & Reform Commission
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       10/29/2001     Effectiveness:             02/11/2004        02/11/2004
Appraisal:            03/28/2002     Restructuring(s):                            06/26/2009
Approval:             06/17/2003     Mid-term Review:           04/30/2007        04/02/2007
                                     Closing:                   03/31/2009        03/31/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              Moderately Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Sewerage                                                              73                   73
Solid waste management                                                20                   20
Sub-national government administration                                7                      7


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Access to urban services and housing                                  25                   25
Environmental policies and institutions                               25                   25
Other urban development                                               25                   25
Pollution management and environmental health                         25                   25

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            James W. Adams                       Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:          Klaus Rohland                        Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:            Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez             Keshav Varma
Project Team Leader:       Takuya Kamata                        Geoffrey Read
ICR Team Leader:           Sing Cho
ICR Primary Author:        Sing Cho


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
(a) To put in place some of the underpinnings and enabling conditions to pursue an
integrated, metropolitan-wide approach for managing the urban environment; (b) install,
in both the city center and districts, facilities already known to be high priority to achieve
metropolitan-wide environmental objectives.



                                               ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
N/A

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target     Formally        Actual Value
                                                Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                   approval         Target        Completion or
                                                 documents)         Values        Target Years
                  (a) Investment program/services optimized across Shanghai Municipality; (b)
Indicator 1 :     financed in a more stable and market-based manner; and (c) organized, taking
                  full advantage of public/private possibilities
                                                                               a) Significantly
                                                                               improved. Plan
                                                                               with various
                                                                               institutional
                                             (a) Comprehensive                 initiatives
                                             plan under                        implemented. (b)
                                             implementation.                   Long-term multi-
Value             (a) Limited                (b) Long-term                     source financing is
quantitative or   (b) Limited                multi-source                      being extensively
Qualitative)      (c) Very limited           financing applied                 applied. (c)
                                             (c) Various PPI                   Substantial
                                             initiatives applied               involvement of
                                             in the sectors                    private sector, and
                                                                               various
                                                                               public/private
                                                                               partnerships
                                                                               implemented.
Date achieved     03/28/2003                 12/31/2009                        03/31/2010
                  Suburban programs approved by SWA; supported by Shanghai UDIC. MSW
Comments
                  master plan updated. Bond issue, 8-15 year loans from various sources, PPP, a
(incl. %
                  water company listed on exchange. Zhuyuan I a BOT. Landfill operated by JV.
achievement)
                  Private concession for incinerator
                  Share of wastewater collection systems, and necessary additional treatment and
Indicator 2 :     disposal facilities completed to handle all wastewater generated within the outer
                  ring road area
Value                                        See intermediate                  See intermediate
                  See intermediate outcome
quantitative or                              outcome indicators                outcome indicators
                  indicators below.
Qualitative)                                 below.                            below.
Date achieved     03/28/2003                 12/31/2009                        03/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Completion of fourth-stage expansion of the existing Laogang sanitary landfill
                                       Full operation                    8,900 ton/day
Value
                                       receiving > 4,800                 (target
quantitative or Not started
                                       ton/day of                        (significantly
Qualitative)
                                       garbage.                          exceeded)



                                                 iii
Date achieved 03/28/2003                   12/31/2009                        03/31/2010
Comments
                Currently 85% more solid waste per day than the minimum target is being
(incl. %
                received and managed at the landfill.
achievement)
                Completion of three wastewater treatment plants in two districts that protect the
Indicator 4 :
                water supply resources in the Upper Huangpu Catchment
                                           Two WWTPs                         Two WWTPs were
Value
                                           were completed                    completed (plus
quantitative or None
                                           (plus one with own                one with own
Qualitative)
                                           funds).                           funds).
Date achieved 03/28/2003                   12/31/2009                        03/31/2010
Comments
                The Fengxian District WWTP was implemented using own and private sector
(incl. %
                funds due to delays of the APL1 loan negotiation and effectiveness.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                       Original Target                          Actual Value
                                                           Formally
                                        Values (from                             Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value                          Revised
                                          approval                              Completion or
                                                        Target Values
                                         documents)                             Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Urban WW: Enhanced primary treatment (m3/d)
                                                                              All upgraded to
Value
                                                                              secondary
(quantitative   0                            2,900,000
                                                                              treatment.
or Qualitative)
                                                                              (See Indicator 2)
Date achieved 03/28/2003                     12/31/2009                       03/31/2010
Comments        New national regulations passed in late 2003 required cities (on the coast and on
(incl. %        large rivers) to invest in secondary treatment only, and thereby all WWTPs
achievement) implemented under APL1 applied this treatment level.
Indicator 2 : Urban WW: Secondary treatment of wastewater (m3/d)
Value
(quantitative   0                            900,000                          6,865,000
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/28/2003                     12/31/2009                       03/31/2010
                Combining the indicators 1 and 2, the target was exceeded by 80%. In parallel
Comments
                with the APL1, Shanghai expanded and upgraded another large WWTP
(incl. %
                (financed by the Bank under an earlier project) responding to new policy and
achievement)
                increased flow.
Indicator 3 : Upper Huangpu: WW treatment capacity (m3/d)
                                                                              950,000 in all
Value                                                                         suburban Districts
(quantitative   0                            70,000                           (of which Jinshan
or Qualitative)                                                               & Fengxian
                                                                              Districts 114,000)
Date achieved 03/28/2003                     12/31/2009                       03/31/2010
Comments        The target 70,000 for Jinshan and Fengxian Districts was exceeded by 63%.
(incl. %        (two WWTPs implemented under the project, and one plant with own funds).



                                                iv
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Wastewater tariffs implemented to meet financial projections
Value
                                                                                 No ( details see
(quantitative     Yes                         Yes
                                                                                 section 4)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/28/2003                   12/31/2009                        03/31/2010
Comments          Despite significant tariff increases, impact of investments caused indicator not to
(incl. %          be fully met as per Covenant. The definition was stronger than for other Bank-
achievement)      financed projects in China due to the development level of Shanghai.
                  Urban WW: Aggregate quantity of urban wastewater treated at wastewater
Indicator 5 :
                  treatment plants (% of system flow)
Value
(quantitative     60                          80                                 79
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/28/2003                  12/31/2009                         03/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Number of studies and training on institutional reforms implemented.
Value
(quantitative     0                           18                                 18
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/28/2003                 12/31/2009                             03/31/2010
                  Of the 18 consulting services (studies, training, etc.) activities, 5 were
Comments
                  implemented with loan financing, 5 with grant funding (from US TDA, CIDA),
(incl. %
                  and 7 with own funds; corresponding to 28%, 34%, and 38% respectively with
achievement)
                  regard to cost.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                      Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                          IP                 Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                  (USD millions)
  1     06/27/2003             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     12/24/2003             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     06/02/2004             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    10.00
  4     12/07/2004             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    15.08
  5     05/17/2005             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    18.91
  6     11/17/2005             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    34.72
  7     11/28/2006             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    77.56
  8     12/20/2007             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   111.33
  9     03/19/2009             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   151.72
 10     04/27/2010             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   199.70


H. Restructuring (if any)



                                                    v
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     . Reallocation of about USD 7
                                                     million from the Institutional
                                                     Strengthening and Training
 06/26/2009       N       S       S         158.28   category to the Goods category.
                                                     . Extension of the loan closing
                                                     date from March 31, 2009 to
                                                     March 31, 2010.




I. Disbursement Profile




                                        vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Leading up to project identification Shanghai had made substantial progress in
restructuring its economy and in upgrading its environmental infrastructure. However, in
spite of considerable investments, less than two-thirds of wastewater and storm water in
the core city were hygienically intercepted and disposed of, and only some eleven percent
of sewage flows were treated to secondary treatment standards and safely disposed. An
old landfill for municipal solid waste disposal had only about two years capacity
remaining, and the water quality in the Huangpu River, the main source of drinking
water, was becoming increasingly polluted, rendering it marginally acceptable as a water
source. The inequality of access to services was also of concern to Shanghai Municipal
Government (SMG), exacerbated by emerging income disparity.

Shanghai had established a strong partnership with the Bank through urban infrastructure
projects with good results, including for wastewater, water supply and solid waste
management. Implementation performance, including institutional advances, had
steadily improved in these projects.            The city's strategic plans incorporated
environmental issues to enhance the city's competitiveness and continue rapid economic
growth. (The GDP per capita in Shanghai was in 2000 US$ 4,173 and in 2009 about US$
10,500.) This formed a good base for Shanghai to pursue more innovative ways of
providing services to its citizens with Bank support through a longer-term phased
program, including new financing instruments, extending services to its under-served
areas in the city and to less affluent citizens in suburban districts, and changing the role
of government from a provider of services to an enabler and facilitator. Both the Central
and Shanghai governments determined that an APL program - the first one in China -
would best serve Shanghai's requirements.

SMG recognized that the current funding methods using short-term funding for long-term
investments was risky, inefficient and not sustainable. Hence, SMG decided, with central
government support, to develop a more responsive and innovative framework for
infrastructure financing (see Annex 15 of APL1 PAD). Shanghai realized that it needed
to broaden its access to capital and tap the domestic bond market. Local governments in
China had, to a limited extent, previously issued bonds for manufacturing and transport,
but not for environmental purposes. The suburban districts of Shanghai faced even
greater obstacles than the core city in raising stable, long-term financing for its
infrastructure. Therefore another initiative was to use Shanghai's municipal-level
strength to help its District governments secure long-term financing at reasonable costs.
This was the main objective of the project support to a District Financing Vehicle (DFV).

The project directly supported two of the three themes of the CAS at the time: (i) to
facilitate an environmentally sustainable development process; and (ii) to help improve
the business environment, as China makes its transitions to a more urban society and a
market-based economy. The overall APL program was also to have a demonstration



                                             1
benefit to China by: (i) developing innovative measures for long-term infrastructure
finance; (ii) extending opportunities for public/private partnerships; (iii) improving
regional environmental management; and (iv) demonstrating the imperatives of cost
recovery for environmental services.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

PDO: The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower's Shanghai Municipality to:
(i) develop policies and plans to support and enable an integrated municipal-wide
approach to urban environment issues, and (ii) improve environmental management and
infrastructure services in the core city and in the upper Huangpu catchment areas.

(The corresponding PDO wording in the PAD is: (a) To put in place some of the
underpinnings and enabling conditions to pursue an integrated, metropolitan-wide
approach for managing the urban environment; and (b) install, in both the city center
and districts, facilities already known to be high priority to achieve metropolitan-wide
environmental objectives.)

Key Indicators:

   (a) Investment program/services optimized across Shanghai municipality; financed in
       a more stable and market-based manner; and organized, taking full advantage of
       public/private possibilities.

   (b) Share of wastewater collection systems, necessary additional treatment and
       disposal facilities completed to handle all wastewater generated within the outer
       ring road area.

   (c) Completion of fourth-stage expansion of existing Laogang sanitary landfill.

   (d) Completion of three wastewater treatment plants in two districts that protect the
       water supply resources in the Upper Huangpu Catchment.

Water Quality and Financial Performance Targets (at project closing)
Urban WW: Enhanced primary treatment (m3/d)            2,900,000
Urban WW: Secondary treatment of wastewater (m3/d)       900,000
Urban WW: Aggregate quantity of wastewater treated at          80
      wastewater treatment plants (% of system flow)
Upper Huangpu: WW treatment capacity (m3/d)                70,000

Wastewater tariffs to be implemented to meet financial projections (Yuan per m3)
Shanghai Municipal Sewerage Company (SMSC) 1.71
Fengxian: Nanpai WW Co.                           1.26 (sub-component deleted)
Jinshan: Xinjiang Ocean Outfall Co.               1.26
Jinshan: Fengjing Water Purification Co.          1.41




                                           2
Triggers for APL2. It was agreed that an APL2 would be considered by the Bank when
four of the six triggers shown in the Box below were met. In addition, triggers 1, 2, and 3
had to be among the four triggers fulfilled.

                                      Triggers for APL2
1. SMG has approved a Solid Waste Disposal Master Plan covering all urban and suburban
districts and Chongming County of Shanghai. Such Master Plan would contain the service charge
policy, including adoption of market-oriented charges on users, fees for treatment, disposal and
discharge, waste volume reduction measures, and recovery and reuse approaches.

2. (a) SWAOD has: (i) prepared and adopted a five-year capital investment plan which includes a
capital financing plan, a debt management plan and a revenue adjustment plan; and (ii) formulated
the preliminary design of long-term bonds to finance environmental infrastructure; and (b) SMG
has: (i) reviewed said preliminary design and submitted it to the central government for approval;
and (ii) completed a time-bound action plan for Phase 2 in preparation for bond issuance.

3. SMG has prepared an administrative framework and draft implementing regulations for social
participation (i.e., various forms of ownership) in wastewater treatment and/or solid waste
management.

4. SMG has: (a) initiated a study, including water quality modeling, for the purpose of developing
an Upper Huangpu Catchment Management Plan; and (b) provided an interim report of such study
which includes draft revised regulations of agricultural wastewater pollution control in the Upper
Huangpu Catchment area.

5. SMG has piloted in Hongkou District approaches for urban services upgrading for poorer and
underserved areas, which incorporate the principle of maintaining community life and minimizing
clearing and permanent relocation of the residents of such areas.

6. SMG has: (a) completed the design for a District Financing Vehicle (DFV) for environmental
services in its suburban districts, together with the institutional and financial arrangements necessary
for the functioning of such Vehicle; and (b) in accordance with applicable national laws and
regulations, submitted such design to the relevant agencies of the central government for approval.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
NA 

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The target population broadly included all the residents of the municipality, focusing on
those who were un- or under-served by urban environment services. Governmental
agencies involved benefitted through a sustainable mechanism of financing
environmental infrastructure, and more effective systems for environmental management.
The primary beneficiaries of the respective project component of APL1 were as follows
(see Annex 2 for further quantifications):

Urban Wastewater Management. Residential households and property owners in under-
served areas (called area A, B and C), all located in the urban core of Shanghai,


                                                  3
benefitted in terms of improved environment (eliminated/reduced smells and periodic
flooding from storms, etc.) and related public health, and enhanced property values and
rents close to the waterways.

Urban Solid Waste Management. Project focused on solid waste disposal, since the
collection systems were functioning well. Beneficiaries were residents living in the
vicinity of the Laogang landfill, and the landfill operator and its staff. Residents along
the waterways on which the waste is transported, and sanitary workers, were also
beneficiaries in terms of reduced smell and spillage through the implemented
containerization. (Most solid waste collected in the core city of Shanghai is transported
by barges to the Laogang landfill site, about 60 km away from the city center.) The
improved food waste system benefits restaurants and residents living nearby through
improved collection. The Management Information System (MIS) benefitted the
Shanghai Sanitation Bureau and the various local operators that the system serves.

Urban Planning and Pilot Upgrading. Some 81,400 households benefitted from better
living conditions of this housing program. The Hongkou District Government benefitted
from the project management experience, as an example of housing rehabilitation with
in-situ resettlement, as did the governments in the municipality at large.

Upper Huangpu Catchment Management. Beneficiaries were residents living close to
small waterways where sewerage was previously discharged without interception.
District Government entities gained important project management experience for their
second phase implementations. The investment contributed to some extent also to the
protection (or limited further degradation) of the water source area (Upper Huangpu
River) for the core city of Shanghai's piped water supply, and thereby indirectly
benefitted essentially all the residents in the city to some extent.

Institutional Strengthening and Training. Studies of the Upper Huangpu catchment
area benefitted Shanghai Water Authority (SWA) for its planning and oversight of
metropolitan-wide water quality improvement, and Shanghai Environmental Protection
Bureau (SEPB) for its regulatory and enforcement functions. Study tours benefitted
implementing agencies by getting exposure to operations of large scale infrastructure in
other countries. Studies on Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) usage, the city's air quality,
and a Heritage Strategy, benefitted Shanghai Development Planning Commission (SPC)
and Shanghai Finance Bureau (SFB) for their five-year planning, and many entities
addressing heritage preservation in the municipality. Documentation related to the bond
issue benefitted the Shanghai Chengtou (owner of the wastewater utility and landfill
operator), as well as the national regulatory body and other cities in China. The
beneficiaries of the DFV, prepared under APL1, were the suburban District governments
and their public utility companies, and the residents they serve with sewerage, storm
water, and solid waste management services.

1.5 Original Components

Urban Wastewater Management (Project cost US$345.7 million; IBRD$137.7 million)



                                            4
The objective of this component was to complete wastewater collection systems in the
urban core, facilities to treat all wastewater generated within the Outer Ring Road in
Shanghai, and support the first stage of a sludge management program. This comprised
collection and trunk sewers, pumping stations, a large treatment plant and outfall, and
related sludge treatment and disposal. Consultancy services for construction supervision
and project management, and studies on sludge management and financial strengthening
of the utility company was also included.

Urban Solid Waste Management (US$ 78.6 million; IBRD $ 30.0 million)
Objectives were to: (a) establish environmentally sound and cost-effective municipal
solid waste management services in the urban areas; (b) adopt user tariffs and handling
charges that will ensure adequate cost recovery of these services; (c) adopt a market-
oriented institutional arrangement for the services; and (d) introduce, on a pilot basis, a
set of appropriate market-based instruments to support waste recycling. The project
financed the implementation of the fourth-stage expansion of the existing Laogang
landfill, to increase the handling capacity to at least 4,900 ton/day, which would extend
the useful life of this facility by another 18 years or more, and equipment for waste
transport and dock rehabilitation. It also included a food waste collection system and a
computerized Management Information System (MIS).

Urban Planning and Pilot Upgrading (US$ 14.8 million; IBRD US$ 5.9 million)
This component was concerned with urban planning, and the upgrading of infrastructure
services in crowded and underserved areas in one District, in the context of SMG's
overall strategic urban development policies. It supported upgrading and pilot renewal
projects with in-situ resettlement to the extent possible in older residential environments,
some of cultural heritage value.

Upper Huangpu Catchment Management (US$ 45.7 million; IBRD US$ 16.5 million)
The objective was to improve environmental management of the Upper Huangpu River
Catchment and protect water resources in the area. It comprises: (a) policy development
based on water modeling and an Upper Huangpu Catchment Management Plan
establishing pollution sources and strategies for their control; and (b) investments in three
wastewater collection, treatment and disposal systems covering several towns in two
suburban Districts.

Institutional Strengthening and Training (IST) (US$ 9.0 mill.; IBRDUS $7.9 mill.)
APL1 supported a range of technical assistance (TA) for capacity-building in the
implementing agencies and SMG, including: (a) Upper Huangpu Catchment Management
Plan; (b) procedures for private sector participation in infrastructure provision; (c)
pollution reduction measures; (d) support for local bond issue; (e) preparation of policy
and operating rules for a District Financing Vehicle; (g) training and study tours; (h)
special studies; and (i) heritage strategy support. (Items (a) and (c) were described in the
Loan Agreement under the previous project component.)

1.6 Revised Components
NA



                                             5
1.7 Other significant changes

The following significant change occurred:

       During project implementation (in 2004 and 2005) Shanghai accelerated its
       construction of a middle ring-road which seriously affected the sewer
       implementation under the project. After thorough analysis of required design
       changes, it was determined that under the new circumstances pipe-jacking
       technology would be possible to use, and be more cost-effective to apply than the
       earlier specified traditional (excavation) approach of pipe-laying. Soft ground
       tunneling skills, which included pipe jacking, had been introduced in Shanghai
       under the earlier First and Second Shanghai Sewerage Project (SSP1 and SSP2),
       and also used in Shanghai Environment Project (SEP).

The following limited adjustments were made during project implementation:

       The Fengxian District WWTP and related sewer network was financed by the
       District with its own funds due to start-up delays in the APL1 and the urgency of
       the investment. The Bank financing of US$3.9 million was reallocated to the
       disbursement category Unallocated at the time, and later was used in the urban
       wastewater component. This sub-component was deleted from the project scope
       by an amendment to the legal agreements.

       The disbursement percentages were increased in May 2007 for some of the Works
       categories (from 48% to 79%), and for the Consultants' Services category (from
       91% to 100%) following changes in China policy and Bank policy respectively.

       The loan closing date was extended one year from March 31, 2009 to March 31,
       2010 to allow for completion of all urban wastewater investments. Sewer
       implementations had been delayed due to the design adjustments mentioned
       above, and implementation of the large WWTP required some additional time to
       complete construction.

       Towards the end of project implementation, a loan amount of about US$7 million
       from the Institutional Strengthening and Training (IST) component (and US$13.9
       million in Unallocated) was reallocated to the urban wastewater component, as
       the IST having been financed to a great extent by grant funds and own funds by
       the Borrower (See Annex 1 & 2 for details), and the price of goods for the
       wastewater investments had increased significantly beyond the estimates, partly
       due to high inflation in China in 2008. This was done as part of a formal project
       restructuring in 2009 together with the extension of the loan closing date.

In addition, facilities for methane gas extraction with transfer to the power grid were
added to the Laogang IV landfill as part of a project by Shanghai to pursue carbon credit
under the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM). The Bank team assisted Shanghai in



                                             6
structuring this CDM project but the related investments were financed by own funds
outside the APL1.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The project benefitted from a sound background analysis. The APL followed on three
urban environmental projects in Shanghai financed by the Bank: SSP1, SSP2 and SEP,
and experiences from these were incorporated in the new, broader APL.

A Quality at Entry review by QAG in 2003 rated the project preparation "Satisfactory".
Preparations for this important program for Shanghai, and to some extent for China, were
considered thorough by QAG, in the context of an advanced and financially strong client.

Over the course of the project implementation, the Bank's practices have evolved. It is
recognized that the PDO and KPIs for the project would have today been formulated
somewhat differently, with the PDO being simpler and more narrowly defined, and some
of the KPIs being more measurable. However, the PDO and KPIs were reasonably
related and a high quality design easily led to the achievement of the PDO, even with the
fairly long formulation of the PDO by today's standards. The risk rating in the PAD (p.
31) was appropriate at the time, but most of these risks did not materialize. See section
2.2 below for further information.

The siting of a wastewater treatment plant became a challenging task during project
preparation. After project appraisal in March 2002, Shanghai decided, appropriately, to
further study the pros and cons of two alternative sites. This caused the loan negotiations
to be postponed for a year while these alternatives were thoroughly studied and a choice
of site determined which the Bank could support. Loan negotiations were subsequently
successfully carried out in April 2003.

Adequate participatory processes were carried out related to safeguards, as per Bank
guidelines, including social surveys. A social study was also carried out in the Upper
Huangpu area based on New Zealand grant funding, confirming the critical need for
improved infrastructure services in the area. These studies influenced not only safeguard
management but also project design more broadly, for example in terms of what to
include in the project scope.

A high profile, international urban environmental conference was held by Shanghai in
June 2001 during project preparation, and actively supported by the Bank, partly through
the APL1 preparation budget. Some deliberations influenced Shanghai's approach to its
metropolitan environmental management and the content of the overall APL program.

2.2 Implementation

The only significant change during project implementation was a technology change for
the pipe-laying. This and other limited adjustments made are noted in section 1.7 above.


                                            7
The Mid-term review was carried out in April 2007 without any major changes.
Substantial supervision efforts were made regarding technical quality, safeguards,
institutional development, financial innovations (DFV and bond issue), and the triggers
for APL2. Project preparation of both APL2 and APL3 were undertaken in parallel with
implementation of APL1. These loans were approved by the Bank in June 2005 and June
2009 respectively.

Periodic detailed design changes of the sewer implementation became necessary due to
the construction of a ring-road in the area which had been accelerated at the same time.
This caused an unusually high volume of variation orders for related APL1 civil works
contracts, putting significant stress on the related review/approval processes, including
required prior reviews by the Bank. The change to pipe-jacking (see 1.7 above) created
increased costs of civil works but much reduced resettlement costs. Significant attention
was put on this during supervision missions.

Wastewater Tariffs. The risk of insufficient tariffs for full cost recovery did materialize
to some extent, since, in spite of the wastewater tariffs being increased periodically (and
more than doubled during the project implementation), the related, strong loan covenant
was not fully met during the last couple of years of the project. This was mainly caused
by large new investments being recorded on the financial statements of the related utility
companies, triggering higher depreciations. Sufficient operational funding was never an
issue though, with SMSC being part of the financially strong Shanghai Chengtou
(UDIC), and Jinshan District government making adequate budgetary allocations for debt
service, as required.

With regard to the risk of Government being uncommitted to financing "intangibles" (see
page 31 of the PAD) with loan funds, this was mitigated by SMG and the Bank together
making efforts in mobilizing grant funding and ensuring that adequate own funds would
be allocated to such investments to achieve the project objectives. Significant attention
was given to this during project supervision since it was a concern particularly during the
first few years of project implementation. In addition to some planned institutional
strengthening and training items being financed by loan or grant funds, Shanghai
undertook all but one of the remaining items with its own funds. TORs were still
reviewed by the Bank's team. Operational training for staff of the suburban wastewater
treatment plants was cancelled due to lack of demand from the respective district
governments. The staff had separately received necessary training and later demonstrated
good competence through efficient management of the two plants funded by APL1.

A Quality of Supervision review by QAG in 2006 rated the project supervision
moderately satisfactory, expressing concerns about slow implementation of the IST
component at the time, and that both the environmental and social safeguards had been
supervised by the same team member up to that time. Even though the one team member
for these safeguard subjects was fully qualified and readily available for both tasks, QAG
maintained its rating and insistence on the need for separate team specialists for this large
project. With respect to IST, implementation accelerated after 2006, by Shanghai to a
great extent using bilateral grant funding and own funds.



                                             8
Changes in Costs and Scope. The final cost of the urban wastewater component was
US$ 379 million versus US$ 346 million originally estimated in the PAD, a difference of
about 10%. This was mainly due to the significant revaluation (22%) of the RMB vis-à-
vis the US dollar during project implementation. The total cost for the Upper Huangpu
component became less due to the deletion of one WWTP from the project scope, having
been implemented with own funds early on due to the start-up delay of the APL1. (See
Annex 1 and page 17 of the PAD for details.)

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E design. The Shanghai authorities were experienced in managing project
investments following Bank guidelines. Routine aspects of monitoring were in place
building on the system from previously Bank-funded projects. The project assisted in the
expanded use of geographical information systems (GIS) by enhancing the management
information systems (MIS) for solid waste management.

M&E implementation. As reflected in the Borrower's Completion Report (See Annex 8),
monitoring of service areas, served population, water quality, etc. was carried out by the
implementing entities throughout project implementation. Six specific intermediate
performance indicators were followed up closely, and others were monitored during full
supervision missions about every six months, and by ongoing contacts between team
members in the Bank Beijing office and SMG's Project Management Office (PMO),
including field visits, as required. The PMO submitted semiannual progress reports to
SMG's Leading Group and the Bank. The external environmental monitoring reports by
a unit of the East Normal University in Jiangsu Province were particularly comprehensive,
reflecting the experience and competence of this entity. The most challenging aspect of
M&E was, as expected, to assess the degree of progress toward fulfilling the overall
development objectives due to their longer-term nature, the difficulties in measuring them
quantitatively, and the inter-linkages among APL phases and goals.

M&E utilization. Detailed monitoring data was collected by the respective implementing
agency and used well for their project implementation and subsequent operations, as
reflected by the tables of indicators in Annex 8. For example, the management of
Laogang landfill closely monitored leachate volumes and composition during early
operations and made adjustments to the related systems as required, particularly due to
increased received waste volumes.          Supported by the project implementation
arrangements, with a very small dedicated PMO and the each involved government
agency taking responsibility for implementation of their respective investments, the
sustainability of the monitoring and evaluation activities is considered secure.

Compliance

The Borrower complied with the Bank's relevant safeguard and fiduciary requirements,
i.e. on financial management, procurement, disbursement, environmental assessment,
physical cultural resources, and involuntary resettlement. No major issues occurred.



                                            9
Financial Management. Overall financial management compliance was satisfactory.
The financial management system during implementation had no significant changes
from appraisal. The project financial management system was acceptable to the Bank.
Audit compliance was satisfactory; the PMO and implementing agencies submitted
annual audit reports to the Bank in a timely manner. However, the auditors detected
some weaknesses such as improper accounting treatments, cost increases, and slow
implementation.

Environment Management Plan. During project implementation the EIA and EMP
documents were updated to be consistent with changes in project scope and activities.
EIAs for new investments were prepared, reviewed and cleared in accordance with
domestic and Bank requirements. At the early stage of project implementation,
institutional arrangement such as dedicated environmental staff at various levels of
management and external monitoring agencies were not put in place in a timely manner.
However at the request of the Bank, such issues were solved. The external environmental
monitoring agency played a crucial role in ensuring implementation of the environmental
quality monitoring plan and quality reporting. East China Normal University (ECNU)
was engaged directly by sub-project owners to carry out monitoring and prepare the EMP
external monitoring report. In situations when ECNU could not conduct special
monitoring due to technical or instrument constraints, the sub-project owner engaged
specialized monitoring agencies, but still had ECNU play a coordinating role to maintain
quality standards, and translate the monitoring and evaluation results into management
advice, which were provided to the Project Office and the sub-project owners. Mitigation
measures, including technical, management and educational ones, were taken as
appropriate. By and large, the project EMP compliance is considered satisfactory.

Resettlement. As reflected in Annex 3, the numbers of housing units removed and the
resettled persons were drastically reduced compared to the original RAPs (as per numbers
in the PAD). This was due to the change of pipe-laying technology found possible during
the project, as explained in Section 1.7 above. These RAPs were revised as per Bank
guidelines at the time. The resettlement objectives as set forth in the final RAPs were
achieved by the loan closing. Total resettlement compensations of RMB 930 million
(US$137 million) were expended. In spite of the decrease in the resettlement volumes,
the total amount of resettlement compensation still remained high for the project due to
significant increases in property values in Shanghai, triggering related increases in the
compensation rates as per the municipal regulations.

2.4 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The project implementation arrangements, with the various municipal and district
government agencies being directly responsible for implementation of their respective
project investments, made the transition to operations and maintenance (O&M) very
smooth. These agencies are monitoring indicators established and used during project
implementation as part of their ongoing management and operations. In addition,
Shanghai's Development Planning Commission and Environmental Protection Agency
are undertaking monitoring and evaluation as part of their Five-Year-Plan and Three Year
Environmental Program processes respectively.


                                           10
SMSC is well established, staffed and budgeted - currently one of the largest sewerage
operations in the world ­ with proven O&M processes and staff for large systems. The
Jinshan District and its wastewater companies have, through the APL1, proved
themselves to be competent entities, reflected in the project implementation performance.
Through the ongoing APL2 and APL3 projects, the Bank continues to be engaged in the
sector, and related monitoring, at the city as well as suburban district levels. Regarding
cost recovery in the sector, see Section 3.2 below.

The solid waste sector has well established M&E processes at the Laogang landfill,
operated by a joint venture of a subsidiary company of Shanghai Chengtou, Veolia
Environmental Services, and the CITIC Pacific1, with international best practice landfill
management. This facility ­ the largest in Asia in terms of received volumes - and its
operations, is often referred to as a model in China and the region based on its application
of state-of-the-art equipment and management techniques; a comprehensive leachate and
treatment system; financial management with full cost recovery through tipping charges
based on weighted waste; and methane gas extraction providing all electricity
requirements for the landfill operations. The sector M&E is supported by a new MIS
system managed by the Shanghai City Appearance and Environmental Sanitation
Administration Bureau (SCAESAB) and implemented in stages under APL1 and APL2.

In order to further improve the water quality in Shanghai, particularly in the Upper
Huangpu area, an initiative was taken by SPC and the Bank during the APL1
implementation for livestock waste management improvements. A grant of about US$5
million was mobilized, Shanghai Agricultural and Non-Point Pollution Reduction Project,
from GEF's East China Sea program, supporting a total program of about US$35 million,
which was recently approved in June, 2010. This will further contribute to the
metropolitan-wide environmental improvement efforts by Shanghai.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: S

The project and indeed the overall program remain highly relevant for Shanghai.
Metropolitan level management is becoming increasingly important with continued
urbanization transcending jurisdictional boundaries, and requiring more equitable basic
urban service delivery and environmental improvement, not only for the increasing
population but also across larger, previously un- and underserved geographical areas. As
outlined in Section 1 above, the continued economic growth and urbanization in China
are putting stress on the local environments and public service delivery, requiring new,
strategic development approaches.


1
         CITIC Pacific is incorporated in Hong Kong SAR, China and publicly traded on the Hong Kong Stock
Exchange. CITIC Pacific's largest shareholder is CITIC Hong Kong (Holdings) Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of
CITIC in Beijing, Peoples' Republic of China.


                                                       11
Through the APL program, Shanghai is continuing its pioneering role in China in the
urban environmental sectors, being of strategic importance for the country and beyond by
setting examples for other cities (more than 50 municipalities in China have a population
of more than 1 million today). Shanghai was, for example, the first city in China to
establish a wastewater tariff, to corporatize utility services, and to form a municipal
Water Authority by consolidating the functions of a number of sector agencies.
Innovations implemented in the APL1 project include: (i) advances in infrastructure
finance (design of the DFV for support of suburban districts, bond financing, and refined
tariff structures); (ii) enhanced metropolitan-wide infrastructure planning and
management (through Shanghai Water Authority and Shanghai Chengtou (UDIC)); (iii)
technical advances (pipe-jacking, reducing resettlement needs and costs); (iv) housing
rehabilitation with in-situ resettlement, and (v) particularly comprehensive management
of a large sanitary landfill through a public-private partnership (PPP) arrangement. The
project also demonstrated the application of full implementation responsibility vested in
the future operational entities making the transition from project to operational mode
essentially seamless. Additional advances are being introduced in the ongoing APL2 and
APL3 projects. (The APL program has to date been of demonstration value for China
and the region, and has also provided valuable inputs to the Bank's pool of learning and
knowledge with regard to mega-city development.)

In addition to directly supporting the Bank's assistance strategy for China at the time of
approval (see 1.1 above) the project remains consistent with two of the three themes of
the current China Partnership Strategy 2006-2010: (i) to facilitate an environmentally
sustainable development process; and (ii) to help improve the business environment, as
China makes its transitions to a more urban society and a market-based economy.

The strategic significance of the APL1 project - for Shanghai, China, and other mega-
cities in the region - is reflected in its focus on establishing "underpinnings" (e.g. the
Upper Huangpu Study; solid waste MIS; piloted infrastructure finance instruments; and
strategic physical investments), and providing "enabling conditions" for an improved
metropolitan-wide environment, supporting better quality of life across the municipality,
and enhancing the city's competitiveness. The identification of a GEF-supported
livestock waste management program represents a direct link to a global priority,
contributing to environmental improvements in the East China Sea.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: S

3.2.1. The APL1 project supported underpinnings and enabling conditions for
Shanghai to pursue an integrated, metropolitan-wide approach for managing its urban
environment, and achieve an environment supporting better quality of life and city
competitiveness, are directly reflected by the following policy and institutional advances.
The conference mentioned in section 2.1 introduced Shanghai to these and other ideas.
They were later supported through ongoing dialogue during supervision missions, and in
study tours and workshops.



                                            12
       Role of Government. A significant change was implemented by Shanghai in the
       environmental sector in 2005, with governmental entities such as Shanghai Water
       Authority (SWA) and Shanghai Construction Commission (SCC) focusing on
       policy and regulations, and the public utilities companies on operations and
       investments. That is, the government entities changing their role from direct
       service provider to policy maker and regulator. This has established a strong
       institutional platform for long-term sustainability.

       Shanghai Water Authority. The role of the SWA as the focal point for all
       water/wastewater related matters in the municipality was enhanced, including a
       strengthened role vis-a-vis the suburban districts in approving and overseeing
       their investment programs and service provision. This has strengthened the
       cohesiveness of the environmental improvements in the municipality overall (an
       area of about 6,600 km2, of which the core city is about 600 km2).

       Shanghai Chengtou. The responsibilities of the Shanghai Chengtou (Urban
       Development Investment Corporation/UDIC) were expanded to include all
       operational responsibilities for the water, wastewater and solid waste sectors in
       the core city, and to be a more active facilitator of (and sometimes investment
       partner for) the infrastructure development of the seven suburban district
       governments.

Water/wastewater Sector

Water Catchment Area Protection. Two comprehensive water management studies in the
Huangpu River catchment area were carried out under the project, which provided SWA
and Shanghai Environmental Protection Bureau (SEPB) with a thorough assessment of
water quality and pollution sources, with recommended actions. They have since formed
a basis for Shanghai's Upper Huangpu water quality improvement plan being
implemented at present.

Water Conservation. In April 2003, the Shanghai Finance Bureau, the Shanghai
Planning Commission and the SWA issued a "Management Regulation of Water
Resource Fee". This regulation imposed charges on enterprises and individuals which
directly use water from river, lake and underground. In April 2008, a Shanghai Water
Resource Protection Fund was established to mobilize funds from both the private and
public sector for investments. Seventy percent of the annual profit is being invested in
public welfare projects. In addition to disseminating ideas about how to save water, the
fund has also introduced modern technologies for water saving and purification, and has
invested in construction of WWTPs and water resource management project.

Solid Waste Sector

Strategic Plan. Shanghai's strategic plan for the sector was refined with support of grant-
funded consultants, addressing overall systems design (transport system, technologies,
cost recovery, etc.), recycling approaches, and management practices. This plan


                                            13
continues to guide all investments in the sector metropolitan-wide, with continued policy
development and oversight by Shanghai City Appearance and Environmental Sanitation
Administration Bureau (SCAESAB).

Landfill Tipping Fee. The district governments from where the garbage to the landfill
originates pay the landfill operating company (the joint venture mentioned in 2.4 above)
monthly an agreed amount per ton of garbage based on transport and weight records. As
in most cities in China, households pay a "community maintenance fee" to their housing
maintenance companies for a variety of common services. There is no separate charge
for the solid waste collection.

Food Waste Management System. A pilot system for charging restaurants and other food
facilities for collection and disposal of solid waste was implemented and is applied since
2005. The district government charges each facility periodically based on an agreed
projected volume. At the end of the year payments are adjusted based on the actual
amount of waste as per collection and transport records. As per local regulation the fee is
currently up to RMB 60 (US$9) per barrel (240 liters) within a base quota, and up to
RMB 120 (US$18) beyond this quota. Exact charge depends on the type of food facility
and the size of collection containers used.

Management Information System (MIS). Phase 1 of a comprehensive MIS system for the
sector was installed, creating a significant underpinning for continuous institutional
improvements in the sector. It is being maintained by SCAESAB.

Both Water/wastewater and Solid Waste Sectors

Metropolitan-wide Utility Support. Shanghai Chengtou (UDIC), as the "holding
company" for all environmental utility companies in the core city, has established a
separate subsidiary, Chengtou Environment Asset Management Company (CEAM), to
support the suburban Districts upon request with project planning, finance and
management. Preparation of this District Financing Vehicle (DFV) was done under
APL1, and is now being applied in APL2 and APL3 (with US$30 million of Bank funds
assigned to it in each of these projects). This is one model for facilitating infrastructure
development by suburban district/county governments in large municipalities in China.
In a few cases, Shanghai Chengtou has also taken a full or part ownership of suburban
government infrastructure facilities.

Broadened Long-term Finance. Infrastructure finance by the municipality now includes
a variety of long-term sources, including bond issue, long-term (8-15 year) loans from
domestic banks and insurance companies, increased user charges, finance through public-
private partnerships (PPP), and listing of a water company on the Shanghai stock
exchange. Examples of PPPs are the Zhuyuan WWTP I (capacity 500,000 t/d)
implemented as BOT; the Laogang landfill; and a MSW incinerator operated as private
concession. These advances have been examples for other cities in China and helped
ensure financial sustainability of Shanghai's infrastructure development.




                                             14
Municipal Bond Preparation. Thorough financial planning was achieved by Shanghai
Water Assets Operations & Development Co. (SWAOD), a subsidiary of Shanghai
Chengtou, as preparation for an issue of the first municipal bond in China in the urban
environmental sector. RMB 1.5 billion (US$ 180 million at the time) was successfully
raised by SWAOD in 2005.

Capacity Building. Study tours and training sessions in conjunction with international
consulting services strengthened the capacity of both municipal policy and regulatory
entities and management and technical staff of utility companies, including Shanghai
Municipal Sewerage Company (SMSC). It included visits to other relevant mega-cities
(e.g. Paris and Sao Paolo), and two study tours included workshops at the Bank's
headquarter.

Safeguards and Fiduciary Requirements. Two important advances were made for the
continued APL program related to these requirements.

       Shanghai's experiences of environmental and social safeguard monitoring during
       APL1 formed a base for the design of frameworks for these subjects for the
       innovative DFV component of APL2. Review and approval of the EAs and RAPs
       was delegated to the DFV implementing agency by the Bank, with only post-
       review by the Bank. This was the first such delegation arrangement by the Bank
       in China.

       A simplified disbursement process was agreed for the DFV component of APL2,
       with the Bank's Task Team Leader for the project approving disbursements and
       replenishment requests based on progress reports from the DFV implementing
       agency, with post-reviews during supervision missions, as required.

Other metropolitan management initiatives contributing to Shanghai's future
development include:
    Exploratory LNG and air quality studies were completed, providing some
       guidance for Shanghai's initiatives for improved air quality.
    A cultural heritage strategy was developed strengthening and facilitating related
       activities by governmental as well as non-governmental entities.

3.2.2. Priority facility investments made in APL1 (part (b) of the PDO), consistent with
Shanghai's long-term sector strategies and master plans, included:

In the wastewater sector, in the core city:
     sewerage collection in large un- and underserved areas, essentially completing the
        required sewerage collection system for the core city of Shanghai for some time.
     a related large wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) phase II at Zhuyuan with
        secondary treatment (capacity of 500,000 m3/day), 60 km outside the city center.

In the wastewater sector, in suburban areas:



                                               15
       priority sewerage systems and two treatment plants in underserved suburban areas
       of the Upper Huangpu of Shanghai (Jinshan District), representing early examples
       of facility installations which have now been duplicated elsewhere in the
       metropolitan area.

In the solid waste sector:
     state-of-the-art sanitary landfill at Laogang, 60 km from the city center, now
        expanded to a capacity of receiving at least 8,900 ton/day of solid waste (as at
        present), with a useful life of 15 years or more from the time of loan closing.
     arrangements for a pilot food waste collection system, which is now a permanent
        system.

Pilot urban upgrading investment:
     housing rehabilitation in an old historic housing area with in-situ resettlement, as
        an example of a new approach to historical urban area rehabilitation for Shanghai,
        covering 2,517 houses with floor area of more than 1.3 million m2. A total of
        81,361 households benefitted.

While the Laogang IV landfill is now operating at a much higher capacity than originally
planned for, appropriate adjustments have been made through expansion of equipment
and the leachate treatment facility with own funds, and investments in additional adjacent
landfill cells are underway. The landfill is now by many internationally considered a
model sanitary landfill.

Achievement of Triggers for APL2. Five of six triggers were achieved (a minimum four
was required) in a timely manner, as confirmed by an independent review panel
appointed in the Bank, allowing the APL2 project to be approved in July 2005, only two
years after the approval of the APL1. A trigger related to the Urban Planning and Pilot
Upgrading was not met at the time of appraisal of APL2 due to early implementation
delays of this project component. This did not delay APL2 implementation however
since Shanghai had already decided to expand such urban upgrading with its own funds
only in due course, focusing the APL2 content on continued investments in the water/
wastewater and solid waste sectors, in the urban as well as in the suburban areas (through
the DFV). See section 1.2 for further details about the triggers.

3.3 Efficiency

The lack of urban environmental services adversely affects all residents in terms of
impact on the quality of life and constraints to economic opportunity and growth. Health
and other economic benefits from delivery of urban environmental services are
considerable, but not easily attributable; therefore economic cost/benefit analyses are
usually not attempted for individual environmental infrastructure investments, and were
not applied for this project. Cost-effectiveness standards (i.e. least-cost solutions) were
instead applied to determine the most effective investment choices. Experienced sector
design institutes in China evaluated options as part of feasibility and design studies,




                                            16
which were reviewed extensively by the Bank team, including international specialists.
See Annex 4 for comments by project component.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: S

The project objectives and its design and implementation continue to be consistent with
China's development priorities as per its 11th Five Year Plan, aiming to balance economic
growth with distributional and environmental concerns. In addition to supporting two of
three themes in the CAS for 2000-2005, the project remains fully consistent with the
current Country Partnership Strategy 2006-2010 themes: (i) managing resource scarcity
and environmental challenges; and (ii) improving public and market institutions.
Metropolitan development continues to be critical for China's (and the Region's)
continued urbanization and urban environmental improvements.

The major project objectives were achieved (or, in some case due to their long-term
horizon, are expected to be achieved). The investments and related policy and
institutional enhancements clearly facilitate a continued environmentally and
institutionally sustainable development process by Shanghai, supporting continued
economic growth. The investments in wastewater systems in suburban districts will
improve the security of Shanghai's water supply source (Huangpu River) while a new,
complementary water intake and distribution system is developed in the Yangtze River
(APL3). Wastewater tariff increases to date have strengthened the financial position of
the wastewater utility companies (although further such steps are needed, and are
underway).

Shanghai has moved aggressively to implement secondary treatment in all wastewater
treatment plants, complying with related national regulations, significantly exceeding the
performance targets set for the project. In the core city of Shanghai, the imbalance of
access to sewerage and environmentally sound solid waste services has been addressed in
underserved, low income areas.

With respect to underpinnings for a metropolitan-wide approach: (a) investment
program/services are approved and coordinated by Shanghai Water Authority; (b)
Shanghai Chengtou (UDIC) actively supports suburban Districts, upon request, with
project management services, and has in a number of cases engaged as part owner of
district utility companies; (c) Shanghai has mobilized investment financing through long-
term bonds, loans with similar tenure from domestic banks and insurance companies, and
listing a municipal water company on the Shanghai stock exchange; and (d) has engaged
in large public-private partnerships (PPP) arrangements (Pudong Water, Zhuyuan WWTP
I, a solid waste incinerator, and Laogang landfill).

The institutional development impact has been high, for example: strategic wastewater
and solid waste development plans have been updated; financial innovations were
implemented (bond issue, DFV); pilot housing rehabilitations were successfully
implemented (albeit later than planned); and an innovative cultural heritage strategy for
the city was developed.


                                              17
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
 (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Shanghai's environmental services strategy supported by APL1 yielded significant
benefits to relatively poorer areas in the municipality. In addition to the investments in
Jinshan District (at the border with Zhejiang province), the Shanghai authorities had
identified, as part of project preparation, an overlap between underserved areas and areas
in need of upgrading in the city, and areas occupied by the relatively poorer sections of
the population (project areas A, B and C).2 One of these areas (Hongkou) was included
in the project as a pilot urban upgrading component which, albeit small, improved the
living conditions of the mostly very poor residents. It demonstrated a new approach to
addressing conditions of extreme densities and poor housing (90% of the households had
no sanitary facilities and were not connected to sewer systems).

Resettlement. The resettlement objectives as set forth in the final RAPs were achieved
by the loan closing including the intended improvement of livelihood for the people
affected by the project. See section 2.3 for details.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Almost all of the institutional development activities were of a strategic nature (see tables
in Annex 2 for details), involving officials across numerous municipal and district
government entities and corporations, both at management and operational levels. The
fact that preparation and implementation of the APL program involves many agencies,
has encouraged and facilitated coordination and cooperation across the municipal
organization, an environment otherwise characterized by fragmentation. Continued
capacity development and institutional change is taking place as part of the ongoing
APL2 and APL3 projects.

A particularly pioneering outcome (for China) was the implementation of a strategic
organizational change in the utility sector (water, wastewater, solid waste, etc.), clearly
separating the government functions (policy, regulation, oversight) from municipal utility
and service delivery functions. Utility ownership and management (and reporting) were
consolidated under its urban development investment corporation Shanghai Chengtou.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The APL1 project triggered interest of Shanghai in pursuing sale of carbon credits
through the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM), based on methane extraction from
wastewater sludge and the waste at Laogang landfill. Both prospects were explored and
prepared to an advanced stage with Bank support. Shanghai is currently pursuing carbon
credits for Laogang through the private sector. With regard to the wastewater sludge, the


2
          Although the reported GDP per capita for Shanghai was the highest among China's cities in the early 2000,
there was nevertheless a significant income disparity between the urban and rural population; over 3 percent of even
the urban population within the municipality had an income lower than the locally defined poverty line. In addition,
over 15% of the non-registered urban population (recent migrants) was estimated to be below this poverty line.


                                                         18
timing of related constructions precluded any carbon credit at the time due to the
expiration of the Kyoto protocol in 2012.

Agricultural (livestock) waste treatment was during APL1 implementation addressed by
initiating a livestock waste investment program of about US$35 million, including grant
support from GEF of about US$5 million. This program was triggered by the Upper
Huangpu Catchment Study carried out early in the APL1 implementation. It is
significant for the water quality in Shanghai, complementing large industrial and
municipal investments in wastewater management to date.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
NA

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Negligible or Low Risk

The only item of some concern is the lack of full cost recovery (as defined by the loan
covenant) in the wastewater sector, both at the city (SMSC) and the Jinshan District level.
However, Shanghai is on a path of incrementally increasing tariff levels to achieve full
cost recovery, with the next increase (applied across the municipality) scheduled to be
approved on November 20, 2010 as follows:

Wastewater tariff (RMB per m3)                                         From
                                                      Current     November 20, 2010
      Residents (households)                          1.08              1.30
      Non-residents: Institutional                    1.70             same
                       Commercial/Industrial          1.80             same
                       Special Trade                  2.60             same
(The water tariff for households will be increased from RMB 1.33 to RMB 1.63 per m3)

Although this represents an increase of more than 20% it will still not be enough for full
cost recovery. It is worth noting that the covenant for SMSC includes a requirement for
the tariff to contribute "ten percent (10%) of its average capital expenditures over a
rolling three-year period", a particularly strong requirement. Shanghai Chengtou (owners
of SMSC) and Jinshan District are in strong position to support the wastewater
companies financially, as required. The Bank is continuing supervising this through the
ongoing APL2 and APL3 projects, both of which include investments by SMSC.

Other risks and uncertainties for the sustainability of the development objectives and its
related outcomes are considered negligible. Key underpinnings and enabling conditions
for a metropolitan-wide urban environmental management approach are now well
established within Shanghai's institutional structure. For example, the transformation of
the Shanghai Municipality from service provider to a facilitator of services has taken hold
since its introduction in 2005; district level investment programs are approved and
coordinated by Shanghai Water Authority; Shanghai Chengtou (UDIC) is increasingly
supporting the environmental improvements in suburban districts (including through its



                                            19
DFV); long-term multi-source financing is being increasingly applied; and various long-
term private sector engagements are established and gaining further traction.

Regarding other physical investments: (i) appropriate maintenance arrangements are in
place for the pilot housing improvements in Hongkou District, and some features of the
pilot investments are used by Shanghai as model for housing rehabilitation in other areas
of the city; (ii) the SMSC has proven maintenance procedures for its facilities; and (iii)
Jinshan wastewater company has through the project proved its strong management
capacity. The solid waste MIS system has been further enhanced under APL2, and has a
well established management team.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: S

As reflected in the PAD and legal documents, particularly high requirements were
established for this project due to the role of Shanghai in China's development context.
The APL program also represents a new level of Shanghai's development, building on
various previous Bank-finance projects in terms of, for example: extension of the scope
to the metropolitan area; completion, with technical advances, of a previously established
long-term sewerage management strategy for the core city; heightened cost recovery
requirements; and significant policy and institutional development initiatives. The
operation was Phase 1 of the first APL program in China, with elements of pioneering
significance for both other cities and the national government in terms of experiences
gained (about 50% of the overall program implementation period has now passed).

The Bank engaged a number of internal and external experts for project preparation
reviews, including a Quality Enhancement Review (QER) in early 2002, and review by a
Regional Operations Committee (ROC) in early 2003. Fiduciary, sustainability and risk
assessments were thorough. The strong Bank performance was confirmed by a QAG
quality-at-entry review rating of "Satisfactory" in late 2003. The Bank facilitated
Shanghai's mobilization of significant grant funding and the mentioned international
environmental conference undertaken in conjunction with the project preparation.

The less than sufficient tariff for full cost recovery was the only risk materializing during
project implementation. The potential controversial aspect of public reaction to proposed
tariff increases was flagged in the PAD.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: S

In addition to ensuring high technical quality of investments, the Bank team paid
particular attention to the policy and institutional development and related development
impact (see Aide Memoires) and supported Shanghai in this regard through mobilization
of significant grant funds (see Annex 1 & 2). The team introduced and used quantified


                                             20
intermediate and final outcome indicators, and worked closely with the implementing
agencies for the achievement of their overall APL program. For example, the APL1
supervision supported Shanghai's activities towards meeting the Triggers for an APL2
project, allowing that project to be approved already in mid 2005, two years after the
APL1 approval. The team made substantial use of Bank resources in the Beijing office,
ensuring high level of client responsiveness and limiting supervision costs.

Various technical and fiduciary issues were addressed proactively, and active supervision
and support helped Shanghai to implement essentially all of the elements of the IST
component of the project, albeit in some cases later than originally planned. Project
performance was reported candidly and thoroughly throughout, as confirmed by a QAG
review in December 2006. The panel noted that: "Strong aspects of supervision include:
(i) effective cultivation of the borrower's ownership of the infrastructure components of
the project; (ii) an experienced and well qualified Task Team with key members having
been associated with the project since inception; (iii) solid support from Management on
key issues raised by the Team; (iv) effective supervision of the many large and complex
construction components, which account for some 90% of project cost." This review
rated the Bank performance moderately satisfactory, since: (a) both the EMP and the
RAPs had been supervised by the same person; QAG considered that a category A
project should have a separate safeguard specialist for these two tasks; and (b) that the
use of loan funds for the IST component was lagging. The Bank unit disagreed with the
rating since the one team member for these safeguard subjects from the Bank's country
office was fully qualified and available on a timely basis for both tasks, but QAG
maintained its rating and insistence on the need for separate team resources for this large
project. With respect to IST, implementation accelerated significantly after 2006, to a
great extent by Shanghai using grants and own funds. Following the QAG review two
safeguard specialists were assigned to the team. The Bank team was to a large extent
maintained during implementation.

Transition to regular operations was very smooth since project implementation
responsibilities had been carried out by the respective operating company/entity. The
Bank supervision and support in this regard is continuing to some of them through the
supervision of APL2 and APL3.

Environmental Management. As mentioned above, at the early stage of project
implementation institutional arrangement such as dedicated environmental staff at
various levels of management and external monitoring agencies were not put in place in a
timely manner. At the request of the Bank, such issues were resolved however. Well
established institutional and reporting systems laid a corner stone for the project EMP
compliance. The team environmental specialists working closely with the counterparts
and provided specific analysis and advice on the implementation of monitoring activities
and results, with recommendations on actions to take (see Aide Memoires).

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: S
The performance is rated satisfactory on both the quality at entry and quality of
supervision dimensions, and due to the overall outcome rating being satisfactory.


                                            21
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: S

The rating refers to both the central government and SMG. Implementing agency
performance (below) refers to the various implementing companies and entities in
Shanghai: SMSC; FWPC and JOOC in Jinshan District; Hongkou District Government;
SCAESAB; SPC; SFB; and CEIC, CEAM (DFV) and SWAOD in Shanghai Chengtou
(UDIC). Government ownership was strong throughout project preparation as well as
implementation. Supportive sectoral and institutional policies in place at the time were
applied, and in a number of cases enhanced. For example, the transformation of SMG
from service provider to a facilitator, transfer of managerial responsibility of the utility
companies to Shanghai Chengtou (responsibilities earlier vested with government
commissions and bureaus), periodic wastewater tariff increases, and introduction of
policies for food waste management.

Project implementation was well organized, with responsibilities for investments and
policy/ institutional development assigned to the respective sector company or agency.
An overall Project Management Office (PMO) was established with effective core staff,
with experience from previous Bank-funded projects, generally resolving implementation
issues in a timely manner in spite of having very limited staff and funding at times. All
fiduciary requirements were met, with particularly strong performance of the engaged
external monitoring agencies. Stakeholder consultation and information disclosure were
timely and adequate for all safeguards.

All covenants were complied with except the ones related to the cost recovery levels of
the involved wastewater treatment companies. As mentioned, a new tariff increase is
scheduled for late 2010. In addition, the following covenant has not been met literally:
"Shanghai shall develop and adopt an administrative framework and implementing
regulations for the execution of service or management contracts and/or concessions for
wastewater services." However, a draft regulation, which addresses not only the
wastewater sector but also other environmental sectors, was submitted to the municipal
legislative authority, but has not yet been approved. Various management contracts and
concessions have been issued though based on national level regulations and less formal
municipal guidelines and case-by-case municipal approvals.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: S

All implementing agencies maintained strong commitment to achieving development
objectives, proactively carrying out their respective parts of the project, and addressing
obstacles as required. The Laogang landfill component in particular was carried out with
first-class performance (rated highly satisfactory by the Bank throughout project
implementation) by the joint venture of Shanghai Chengtou Environment Industry
Development Co. Ltd. (CEIC) and its partner Veolia Environmental Services. Other
components which are worth special mentioning are the timely and quality


                                            22
implementation of the two wastewater systems in Jinshan District, and the comprehensive
preparation of the DFV (for implementation in APL2). All agencies counted on
competent staff and carried out all fiduciary activities in a fully satisfactory manner.

Shanghai's commitment to its overall environmental objectives for the metropolitan area
was reflected in Fengxian District going ahead with the implementation of its WWTP and
related sewerage system with own and private sector funding before loan effectiveness.
As mentioned above, this investment was later formally deleted from the APL1 scope.
The IST component was maintained as MS through project completion since some of the
training never took place, or was weaker than originally intended, and that some of the
TA was done with delay and less ambitious than originally intended.

Transition to regular operations was particularly smooth due to the project
implementation responsibilities being carried out by the respective operating company or
entity (the implementing agencies). Each of these agencies have established and applied
adequate M&E processes. SMSC, for example, is currently managing a few of the
world's largest wastewater treatment facilities.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: S
Both the government and the implementing agencies performance are rated satisfactory
and the project outcome is satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

Programmatic Approach. To achieve significant sustainable impact of environmental
infrastructure improvements and addressing complex policy issues in a major city,
strategic planning, consistency in implementation, and time for evolution is required. For
this, the APL approach with phased deliverables proved to be an effective approach.
Shanghai's strategic plans for their water, wastewater, and solid waste sectors were
already established in the 1990's with Bank support. A sustained commitment to this
partnership between Shanghai and the Bank, which started almost twenty years ago, has
enabled the dialogue on both technical designs and policy to grow, as reflected in the
APL1 project.

Triggers for APL2. The approach with four out of six triggers to be met (three of which
were defined as mandatory) in order to proceed with an APL2 proved effective, allowing
some flexibility and adaptability without compromising development objectives or
requirements. They were of sufficient number, closely related to the development
objectives, and sufficiently measurable to prevent uncertainty or arguments of them being
met or not. The same approach was applied for the triggers of APL3.

Site Visits as part of Feasibility/Design Work. Early project implementation
demonstrated the importance of doing site visits as part of feasibility studies/design to
prevent unforeseen complications (surprises) on the ground at implementation stage.
Implementation of sewers in Area A, B and C were significantly delayed due to



                                           23
accelerated construction of a ring-road in the area, a risk which would likely have been
identified at a site visit during the study/design work by local institutes. Although in the
APL1 case, this work was done long before project start-up, a site visit would likely still
have reminded the design team to liaise with the city's road agency.

Implementation Arrangements. The implementation of APL1 showed the potential
strength of future owner agencies of project investments to be the agencies responsible
for the respective implementation, ensuring smooth transition from project mode to
operations. In case of many agencies, as in APL1, a small, dedicated temporary Project
Office for coordination is critical though, including for consolidated progress follow-up,
issue resolution, and status reporting. It is critical that such Project Management Office
be sufficiently funded and staffed to prevent delays.

Cost Recovery of Wastewater Services. As mentioned, the project applied a particularly
strong tariff covenant for the cost recovery of SMSC, by not only covering O&M costs
and the higher of depreciations or loan service cost, but also: "ten percent (10%) of its
average capital expenditures over a rolling three-year period". In hindsight, this
requirement was too demanding taking into consideration that: (a) the wastewater utility
sector in China is fairly "young" (for example compared to the water supply sector); (b)
significant externalities exist which might justify some subsidization in the sector; and (c)
particularly large investments undertaken in certain years, may create a requirement for
sudden temporary large tariff increases, which would not be accepted by the users.
Allowing a longer period of phased tariff increases might have been more appropriate.
While the APL2 project - approved only two years after APL1 - maintained the same cost
recovery covenant, this was revised for the APL3 projects when the above lesson had
become clearer.

Urgent Investments. The deletion of one sub-component in the project (Fengxian
WWTP; loan US$3.9 million) is a reminder that in situations where there is a risk of
significant delay in loan negotiation or effectiveness, it may be more effective for a
Borrower to exclude very urgent investments from the project scope and instead
implement them with other funding, if possible.

Very Successful Landfill Implementation and Operations. The implementation of the
Laogang IV landfill was rated highly satisfactory throughout the project. Shanghai
adopted best international practices through its joint venture company, and by this not
only achieved successful physical implementation but also built valuable local capacity
for the future.

Use of pipe-jacking for pipe laying. At locations where traffic impacts were significant,
the contractors were required to use pipe-jacking techniques to alleviate traffic problems.
These techniques reduced the amount of road excavations, shortened the time required
for reinstatement of road surfaces, and substantially reduced necessary resettlement and
related costs. The contractor and the designer, STEC (Shanghai Tunnel Engineering
Company) and STEDI (Shanghai Tunnel Engineering Design Institute), became, and still
are, leaders in this technology in China, which is also applied in subway and other



                                             24
tunneling projects. This is an example of Shanghai's readiness to be a leader in China
when presented with new ideas.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The following issues and suggestions were raised in the Borrower's report and a meeting
with representatives of the implementing agencies on July 13, 2010 in Shanghai.

Procurement issues
1.       "It is suggested that the World Bank should revise its Procurement Guidelines so
that it would consist of two parts, i.e. General Guideline and Special Guideline, so as to
increase the Guidelines' flexibility and adaptability." (The particular concern is about
having the lowest bidder necessarily win a contract.)
Comment: The Bank's current guidelines provides for the possibility of disqualifying a
lowest responsive bidder in extreme cases, i.e. where the lowest bid is significantly lower
than the second lowest bidder.

3.      "It is suggested that the Bank adopts a classified method, e.g. for those who have
real experience and good credit, could World Bank consider simplifying its procedures,
e.g. the World Bank authorizes those units to carry out the project in accordance with the
Bank's procedures, or use the record method or the post review method?"
Comment: The proportion of prior versus post review is determined based on a
procurement assessment carried out for each project. The Bank agrees that previous
experience of client and procurement staff with Bank procedures is an important factor.

4.      "When the tendering documents are being reviewed, more attention should be
paid to the big issues, such as the technical feasibility, rather than to small issues, such
as the quantities of the spare parts."
Comment: Good point. The appropriate focus of each review (case) would need to be
determined based on its context, and possible need to ensure sustainability though.

Loan disbursement for land acquisition and resettlement compensation.
"The land acquisition and resettlement costs account for a big proportion of the total
project cost. It is suggested that the World Bank loan disburses part of the land
acquisition and resettlement cost. This would facilitate project implementation."
Comment: The Bank is sometimes financing land acquisition and resettlement costs,
particularly in low income areas. This is determined country by country and project by
project, and in discussion between the Bank and Central Government.

China Conference on Social Safeguards. During the last 15 years, many urban
infrastructure projects have been implemented in China with application of the World
Bank's OP4.12 Involuntary resettlement, including in Shanghai. The local academy and
the external monitoring agency suggested that a conference on this subject for knowledge
sharing, with participants from across China and from the Bank, would be very useful at
this stage of China's development.



                                            25
Comment: The Bank's ICR team agrees that this would be useful.

(b) Cofinanciers       NA
(c) Other partners and stakeholders   NA




                                           26
Annex 1. Projects Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

Due to the significant difference (about 22%) in the US$ / RMB exchange rate at the time
of project closing vs. project appraisal, a Project Cost table is included for both these
exchange rates.         Exchange rate at project closing:       US$ = RMB 6.8
                        Exchange rate at project appraisal: US$ = RMB 8.3

Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent) US$=RMB 6.8                     
                                                    Actual/Latest
                               Appraisal Estimate                                   Percentage of
         Components                                 Estimate (USD
                                (USD millions)                                       Appraisal
                                                       millions)
URBAN WASTEWATER
                                      299.90             379.42                          126.52
MANAGEMENT
URBAN SOLID WASTE
                                       68.90               62.36                         90.51
MANAGEMENT
URBAN PLANNING AND
                                       13.70               10.21                         74.53
PILOT UPGRADING
UPPER HUANGPU
                                       39.70               28.95                         72.92
CATCHMENT MANAGEMENT
INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING AND                       7.80                4.60                         58.97
TRAINING
           Total Baseline Cost        430.00             485.54                          112.92
Physical Contingencies                        33.30
                                                                    -                      -
Price Contingencies                           30.50
                                                                    -                      -
              Total Project Costs            493.80
Interest during construction                  16.40                16.40                 100.00
Front-end fee IBRD                             2.00                 2.00                 100.00
      Total Financing Required               512.20               503.94                 98.39

(b) Financing
                                                        Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                            Type of     Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                          Cofinancing    (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                        millions)   millions)
Borrower                                                  0.00        0.00       100.00
International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                         200.00            199.80           99.90
and Development
Local Govts. (Prov., District, City) of
                                                         312.20            302.64           89.18
Borrowing Country
Bilateral grant financing (all grant        Parallel
                                                          0.00              1.50               -
recipient executed) (*)                    financing



                                                27
Note: The costs above do not include the costs of land acquisition and resettlement compensation
Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent) US$=RMB 8.3
                                                          Actual/Latest
                                  Appraisal Estimate                            Percentage of
         Components                                       Estimate (USD
                                    (USD millions)                                Appraisal
                                                             millions)
URBAN WASTEWATER
                                          299.90                310.85              103.65
MANAGEMENT
URBAN SOLID WASTE
                                           68.90                  54.67              79.35
MANAGEMENT
URBAN PLANNING AND
                                           13.70                   8.36              61.02
PILOT UPGRADING
UPPER HUANGPU
                                           39.70                  23.71              59.72
CATCHMENT MANAGEMENT
INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING AND                           7.80                   4.60              58.97
TRAINING
           Total Baseline Cost            430.00                 402.19              93.53
Physical Contingencies
                                              33.30                 -                 -
Price Contingencies
                                              30.50                 -                 -
              Total Project Costs            493.80
Interest during construction                  16.40                16.40            100.00
Front-end fee IBRD                             2.00                 2.00            100.00
      Total Financing Required               512.20               420.59            82.11

(b) Financing
                                                        Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                            Type of     Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                          Cofinancing    (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                        millions)   millions)
Borrower                                                  0.00        0.00       100.00
International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                         200.00            199.80      99.90
and Development
Local Govts. (Prov., District, City) of
                                                         312.20            219.29      70.24
Borrowing Country
Bilateral grant financing (all grant        Parallel
                                                          0.00              1.50          -
recipient executed) (*)                    financing

Note: The costs above do not include the costs of land acquisition and resettlement compensation




                                                28
(*) Bilateral grant financing supporting the implementation of APL1:

       US Trade Development Agency (TDA) grant of US$ 0.5 million to support
       SWAOD for its financial planning and preparation of a bond issue.

       US TDA grant of US$ 0.7 million to support strategic planning and institutional
       development of the solid waste management sector in Shanghai.

       Grant from CIDA, Canada of CAN$ 0.2 million (about US$ 200,000 at the time)
       to support the preparation of the District Financing Vehicle (DFV)

       Grant from CIDA Canada of CAN$ 115,486 (about US$ 100,000 at the time) to
       support the development of a Shanghai Cultural Heritage Strategy. (The total cost
       was about US$ 600,000, including the grant from CIDA, and additional costs
       covered partly by the firm and partly by the Shanghai Finance Bureau)

Grant financing supporting the preparation of APL1:

       Grant from Japan of US$ 0.8 million to support project preparation of the APL1.

Grant financing supporting the preparation of APL2 (in parallel with implementation of
APL1):

       Grant from France of Euro 823,225 (about USD 1.1 million) to support project
       preparation of the APL2.

In addition, a grant from Finland of US$ 330,000 (managed by the World Bank) financed
an Air Quality Study in Shanghai, carried out by a Finnish firm during early APL1
implementation.




                                          29
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

All outputs were implemented well, in accordance with original feasibility studies. The
main change from these related to the sewer implementations in Areas A, B, and C,
where it was decided during project implementation to introduce a pipe-jacking approach,
significantly reducing the resettlement needs (see Lessons Learned). Although many IST
outputs did not use loan funds, most of them were achieved using grant and own funds.

Urban Wastewater Management
Rating: S

Part (1): Trunk sewer system to solve the wastewater disposal problems in three areas
(called A, B and C) of the central city (areas with no sewerage system), covering a total
service area of 172 km2, with a population of 2.4 million, and with a flow of about 1.1
million m3/d. Constructed facilities: 24.48 km of pipelines and 2 pumping stations

Part (2): Two wastewater collection systems to increase collection percentage and the
existing facility utilization rate. The service area (different than in Part 1) is about 133
km2, with a population of about 1.6 million, and with a flow of about 0.8 million m3/d.
Constructed facilities: 144 km of sewers, 13 new pumping stations, and rehabilitation of
5 pumping stations. Construction and rehabilitation of 13 storm water systems, 75.8 km
storm water pipelines, and 11 related pumping stations (2 of which combined ­ sewerage
and storm water - pumping stations).

Part (3): A wastewater treatment plant to increase the treatment rate of urban wastewater,
with a designed capacity of 500,000 m3/d and effluent meeting Class 2 of China's
national discharge standard (secondary treatment). The discharge to the Yangtze River
Estuary consists of two existing pipes of 2,100 m in combined length, each with a
diameter of 2.4 m. In addition, a 100-m long emergency discharge pipe with a diameter
of 3m was constructed.

Part (4): Land reclamation at the east side of the Zhuyuan Wastewater Treatment Plant
for use as a sludge landfill site. The total area is about 230,400 m2, reclaimed by blow-
filling method. In addition, 562 m of dyke has been constructed, with blow-filling of
560,000 m2 natural seashore. The sludge disposal method initially applied was to
dispose sludge at an existing sludge landfill at the Bailonggang WWTP nearby. Co-
disposal of sludge at the Laogang solid waste landfill was also developed and
implemented later.

Part (5): Experimental rehabilitation of about 6 km of sewer pipes built under a previous
Bank-financed project (SSPI), to gain experience with such rehabilitation.

The Collection System included separate wastewater and storm water systems in some
areas, and combined systems in other. Main Conveyor and Wastewater Treatment.
Wastewater was conveyed through a new 13.5 km main conveyor, including a pumping




                                            30
station, to a new 500,000 m3/day WWTP at Zhuyuan (adjacent to an existing plant), for
full secondary treatment.

Urban Solid Waste Management
Rating: HS

Part (1): The fourth phase of the Laogang Domestic Sanitation Landfill Site (Laogang
IV) occupying an initial area of 3.36 km2, with an intended capacity to receive at least
4,900 ton/day of waste, with four landfill cells and auxiliary facilities, horizontal and
vertical infiltration proof system, and a leachate treatment system.

The collection of domestic solid waste covers the entire core city of Shanghai (a
population of about 10 million). In 2009, the proportion of containerized transportation
of the solid waste had reached 100%, and the proportion of sorted collection of the
domestic solid waste was 60%. In 2003, the corresponding figures were 24% and 50%.
In 2009, Laogang IV treated a total of 3.5 million tons of domestic solid waste and
generated 1.7 million tons of leachate. The landfill is currently receiving about 9,000 t/d.
It has expanded its leachate treatment plant from 1,500 ton/day to 2,300 ton/day in recent
years in response to the higher volumes being managed. The landfill operating company
is currently also constructing an incinerator and an additional adjacent landfill site.

Part (2): Food Waste Collection System: 11 waste collection vehicles were procured
achieving a safe and hygienic collection of food waste from large kitchens in restaurants,
hotels, institutions, and hospitals.

Part (3):     Management Information System (MIS) compatible with Shanghai's
geographic information system (GIS), with four sub-systems: (1) phase one of a digitized
command center with a surveillance system for city appearance and environmental
sanitation (second phase has been implemented under APL2); (2) public information
service platform improvement; (3) an automatic weight system for domestic solid waste;
and (4) other management improvements of sanitation infrastructure.

Urban Planning and Pilot Upgrading in Hongkou District
Rating: S

Pilot approaches for urban services upgrading with in-situ resettlement were implemented
in Shanyin Rd (Old Housing Restoration) and Liyang Rd (Historical House Protective
Restoration). 2,517 housing units with floor spaces of 1,332,823 m2 were upgraded,
benefitting 81,361 households. This was done in a cost-effective manner retaining a
high proportion of residents and traders in their traditional but improved environments.
The Hongkou pilot comprised residents with varying incomes, different house types in
poor condition, with living space generally less than 15 m2 per household and basic
services generally shared between multiple households.

Upper Huangpu Environment Management
Rating: S



                                            31
Important measures were implemented in Jinshan District for protection of the water
source area of the Huangpu River, from which the core city of Shanghai gets its piped
water supply. The investments in WWTPs and related sewer networks improved the
environment for the residents in the respective service area, in particular residents living
close to small waterways where the sewerage was previously discharged without any
interception or treatment.

Jinshan Sea Outfall Project: Xinjiang Wastewater Treatment Plant with secondary
treatment and a related sewer network. The plant is being built in two stages with a total
design capacity of 100,000 m3/d. The first stage with a capacity of 50,000 m3/d was
implemented under APL1. The second stage is planned to be implemented by 2020, as
wastewater volume increases. Physical Outputs: Sewage Conveyor of a total length of
2.23 km. The Xinjiang plant with a design capacity of 50,000 m3/d. Outfall: Multi-
nozzle for outfall under water into Hangzhou Bay, with a length of 1,174 m from the high
chamber to the diffuser; the diffuser is about 200 m long with 12 pieces of risers (interval
of 18 m). Diameter of the outfall is DN1300DN1650.

Fengjing Water Purification Plant: A wastewater treatment plant with secondary
treatment, being built in two stages with a total design capacity of 42,000 m3/d. The first
stage with a capacity of 14,000 m3/d was implemented under APL1, servicing an area of
4.47 km2. Physical Outputs: Plant, sewer networks, three lifting pumping stations, and
supporting items.

Institutional Strengthening and Training (IST)
Rating: MS

The following table shows the planned IST items with the respective outputs produced.
Although all items except one were implemented, the moderately satisfactory rating at
the end of the project was due to some implementations occurring with somewhat less
ambition than originally planned.

        IST Items           Funding (US$)           Outputs
        Upper Huangpu       Loan: $ 1.1 million     Final consultant report completed
 IST
        Catchment                                   December 2005.
 1.1
        Management Plan
        Study Tour &        Grants: 0.7 million     Research financed by own funds, resulting
        Training for PSP    Own funds: (included    in the formulation of "Shanghai Urban
 IST    Procurement         in IST 1.7 below)       Domestic Solid Waste Collection and
 1.2    Procedures                                  Disposal Management Method", Shanghai
        (including solid                            Government Order No. 5. This became
        waste sector)                               effective on November 1, 2008.
        Pollution           Loan: $ 0.2 million     Final consultant report completed in
 IST
        Reduction                                   October 2006.
 1.3
        Measures




                                            32
 IST     Support and          Grants: US$ 0.5 mill.   Completed in 2005 with consultant
 1.4     Training for Local                           assistance. Main documentation produced:
 &       Bond Issue                                   . Five-year capital investment plan with
 IST                                                        capital financing plan
 1.5                                                        debt management plan
                                                            a revenue adjustment plan
                                                      . Preliminary design of long-term bonds for
                                                      environmental infrastructure
                                                      . A time-bound action plan in preparation
                                                      for bond issuance
                                                      A domestic bond of RMB 1.5 billion
                                                      (about US$ 180 million) was successfully
                                                      issued by SWAOD in July 2006.
         Preparation of       Grants: US$ 0.2 mill.   Completed with consultant assistance 2005
         Policy &                                           DFV framework
         Operating Rules                                    Operations Manual
 IST     for DFV                                            Sub-project appraisal report
 1.6
                                                            Business development plan incl.
                                                               human resource development plan
                                                            EA and RAP policy frameworks
         Executive            Own funds US$ 0.8m      Completed through own fund
 IST
         Management                                   See detailed list of training and study tours
 1.7
         Training                                     in file of Supporting Documents.
         Other Special        Loan: $ 0.2 million     Studies on the potential for CNG and Air
 IST
         Studies                                      Quality Improvement in Shanghai
 1.8
                                                      completed in 2006.
         Training and         Own funds: US$ 1 m.     Completed through own fund
 IST
         Study Tours                                  See detailed list of training and study tours
 1.9
                                                      in file of Supporting Documents.
         District WWT                                 Cancelled due to lack of demand from
 IST
         Operational Staff                            districts. Operators had received training
 1.10
         Training                                     through other activities.
         Heritage Strategy    Grants: $ 0.4 m         Completed with consulting assistance.
         Support              Own funds: $0.2 m       Report completed in April 2005.
 IST
                              (see note)              Note: Total cost about US$ 0.6 mill. incl.
 1.11
                                                      costs covered partly by the consulting firm
                                                      and partly by Shanghai Finance Bureau.

Engineering Services (Construction Management Consulting Services)

Table below shows planned engineering services with the respective outputs produced.
Urban Wastewater               Funding               Outputs
Management
            Development of     Own funds: $3.5m Completed with own fund by way of two
            Sludge                                   contracts. Second contract still on-going.
UWW6.1
            Management
            Plan
            Construction       Loan: $2.0 mill.      Completed July 2007
UWW6.2      Management
            Services


                                              33
            Financial        Own funds: $0.5         Completed at the end of 2007.
            Strengthening &
UWW6.3
            Tariff Policy
            Study
Urban Solid Waste Management
            Corporatization  Own funds:              Completed with own funds.
            of Solid Waste   $1.0m (for MIS)         Study tour to R&D Center of Veolia
            Services &                               Headquarter in France, Paris Municipal
            Training for     Note: Training          Domestic Solid Waste Incinerator,
            Enterprise       included in IST         Compost Plant, Toxic and Harmful
            Operations       items.                  Industrial Waste Treatment Plant, focusing
USW 3.1
            (including Phase                         on operational management.
            1 of MIS system)                         Attended International Environmental
                                                     Equipment and Technology Expo (Pollutec
                                                     2004 Lyon Eurexpo) learning about waste
                                                     recycling & treatment plant management,
                                                     and management of big scale landfills.
            Pilot Food Waste    Own funds: $1.0m     Completed with own funds. Carried out as
USW3.2      Treatment                                a pilot study and research on the disposal
            Program                                  of food waste in Luwan District.
            DRA Services for    Grants: $0.7 mill.   Completed through US TDA grant.
            APL2, Solid                              Study tours, surveys and solid waste
USW 3.3     Waste Tariff                             master planning, including tariff
            Regimes, Market                          mechanisms, creating proposals for middle
            Based Instrument                         and long term reforms of SCAESAB.

Outputs produced related to the Triggers for the APL2:

Subject                               Output
Solid waste sector:            Solid Waste Disposal Master Plan

Municipal bond issue:          Five-year capital investment plan including:
                               . a capital financing plan
                               . a debt management plan
                               . a revenue adjustment plan
                               Preliminary design of long-term bonds for environmental
                               infrastructure
                               A time-bound action plan in preparation for bond issuance

PPI Regulations:               An administrative framework and draft implementing
                               regulations for private sector (called social) participation

Upper Huangpu Area             Interim report for Upper Huangpu Catchment Environment
                               Management Plan (final completed shortly afterwards).

District Finance Vehicle       Design of the DFV, including an Operations Manual with
                               institutional and financial arrangements.




                                              34
Annex 3. Resettlement



Component                             Wastewater               Solid Waste           Upper Huangpu**                    TOTAL
                                       Final                     Final                  Final                           Final
Impacts                 Unit       PAD RAP Actual           PAD RAP Actual          PAD RAP Actual              PAD      RAP       Actual

Land acquisition        mu          767     535   536     5,190 5,040 5,037*   288    281    213                6,238  5,863       5,786
Housing removed         m2     298, 973 69,979 70,800          -     -       16,813 17,101 5,847              315,786 87,080       76,647
Affected enterprises    No           73      84    84          -     -           10     25     0                    83   109           84
Affected persons        No        7,005 1,412 1,416            -     -          514    220    82                7,519  1,632        1,498

Compensation costs   RMB mill             930    904            -       -                  10.1   25.6                     940.1   929.6
Compensation costs USD mill              136.8 132.9            -       -                   1.5    3.8                     138.3   136.7
(with USD = RMB 6.8 as per project closing)


*     leased

** the appraisal data include both two WWTP in Jinshan District (implemented under the project) and one in Fengxian District (which was
deleted from the project scope during the project implementation).

*** RAPs for the urban wastewater and Upper Huangpu investments were adjusted during project implementation based on improved designs
and implementation technology (use of pipe-jacking instead of traditional excavation approach), drastically reducing the number of people which
needed to be resettled. 




                                                                       35
Annex 4. Economic and Financial Analysis

The lack of urban environment services adversely affects all residents in terms of its
negative impact on the quality of life and the constraints it imposes on economic
opportunity and growth. Health and other economic benefits from delivery of urban
environmental services are considerable, but not easily attributable; therefore economic
cost/benefit analyses are usually not attempted for individual environmental
infrastructure investments, as for this project. Cost-effectiveness standards (i.e. least cost
solutions) were instead applied to determine the most effective investment choices. The
feasibility studies and designs of all project investments, conducted by highly qualified
Chinese design institutes, evaluated various options in terms of least cost solution to
satisfy the defined requirements. In this project, a significant example of this type of a
particularly thorough analysis was Shanghai's additional studies in 2002/03 of the most
appropriate site and solution for its wastewater treatment plant.

The wastewater investments in the core city completed a backlog of sewerage services by
intercepting discharges to urban creeks, taking the flows to a treatment plant on the coast,
for discharge into the sea, as the least overall system cost. Clear economic benefits have
accrued in the collection areas in terms of amenity and property values, but valuation and
attribution of these are not possible. The same benefits apply to the pilot urban upgrading
component, achieved through rehabilitation of basic infrastructure and housing. This
component also demonstrated a new local urban planning approach for Shanghai.

The landfill investment was based on rigorous technical specifications. These were also
used for an international tender by Shanghai for a private joint venture partner for the
implementation management and operations and maintenance. This ensured a least cost
solutions in meeting state-of-the-art environmental requirements for a sanitary landfill.

The wastewater investments in Jinshan District contributed to Shanghai's strategic
objective of improving the water quality in the catchment area of the Huangpu River, the
current source of water supply for the core city. In addition to amenity and property
value increases in the areas provided with sewerage systems, benefits include cost
avoidance (postponed expenditures) in the water supply system for the city. (A new
water intake is currently under implementation using Yangtze River as water source.
APL3 is financing one of the components of this large project). The treatment processes
for the two WWTPs constructed were carefully selected for cost-effective impact.

Shanghai Municipal Finances. The rapid growth of the municipality is shown in table
below. See PAD page 75 for reference. (RMB Billion; US$ in parenthesis at RMB 6.8)
                               2002                       2008                     2009
                                           Projected in
                              Actual      PAD (page 75)          Actual            Actual
Receipts (excl. transfers      72.0           124.3              238.1             254.0
from central government)      (10.6)          (18.3)             (35.0)            (37.4)
Expenditures                   87.7           155.5              261.8             299.0
                              (12.9)          (22.9)             (38.5)            (44.0)



                                             36
Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                     Responsibility/
          Names                     Title                 Unit
                                                                       Specialty
Lending
                                                                  Finance, Institutional,
Mats Andersson                                           EASUR
                                                                  Co-Task Manager
Chandra Godavitarne                                      EASUR    Engineering
Meredith Dearborn                                                 Document Production
Vellet Fernandes                                         EASIN    Program Assistant
David Hanrahan                                           EASES    Project Economics
Jeffrey Lecksell                                         GSDPG    Cartography
Zhentu Liu                                               EASCS    Procurement
Patrick McCarthy                                          Cons.   Financial Analysis
Hoi-Chan Nguyen                                           Legal   Legal Counsel
Geoffrey Read                                            EASUR    Task Manager
Keiko Sato                                                        Institutional Analysis
Tony Shen                                                EASCS    Financial Mgmt.
Chongwu Sun                                              EASCS    Environmental
                                                                  Water Quality & Wastewater
George Taylor                                            Cons.    Treatment Strategies
Chaogang Wang                                            EASCS Resettlement
Dong Yi                                                  EASCS Financial Mgmt.
Chaohua Zhang                                            EASCS Resettlement
Supervision/ICR
Mats Andersson          Sr Urban Management Specialist   EASUR
Axel E. N. Baeumler     Sr. Infrastructure Economist     EASIN
Sing Cho                Urban Specialist                 EASCS
Yiren Feng              Environmental Specialist         EASCS
Vellet E. Fernandes     Program Assistant                EASIN
Yi Geng                 Sr. Financial Management Spec.   EAPFM
Xumei Guo               Program Assistant                EASCS
Takuya Kamata           Sr. Financial Specialist         EASUR
Eddie Ke-Siong Hum      Consultant                       EASUR
Naoko Kataoka           Consultant                       HDNCY
Toyoko Kodama           Operations Officer               EASIN
Haixia Li               Sr. Financial Management Spec.   EAPFM
Geoffrey Read           Consultant                       EASCS
Masato Sawaki           Consultant                       EASCS
Hiroaki Suzuki          Lead Urban Specialist            EASUR
Supriya Sen             Sr. Financial Analyst            SASDE
Dawei Yang              Procurement Specialist           EAPPR
Songling Yao            Social Development Specialist    EASCS
Jun Zeng                Social Development Specialist    EASCS



                                       37
Ji You                     Urban Specialist                EASCS
Hao Zhang                  Sanitary Engineer               EASCS
Zhun Zhang                 Consultant                      EASCS

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                          13                       91.57
  FY02                                          34                      622.53
  FY03                                          16                      196.44
                          Total:                63                      910.54
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                          13                      125.05
  FY05                                           8                       65.49
  FY06                                          12                       70.13
  FY07                                          15                      101.13
  FY08                                          11                       71.03
  FY09                                           8                       75.90
 FY10                                            5                       38.80
                          Total:                63                      547.53

Comments: The high project preparation cost was due to a thorough preparation process
for this large (US$ 700 million) APL - the first APL in China - including extensive
QER/peer reviews, ROC, etc., and extra costs incurred by the Bank due to the one year
delay from project appraisal to loan negotiation, during which time Shanghai undertook
additional reviews of site alternatives for a large wastewater treatment plant to be
financed by the project. Some budget was also used in FY01 to support an international
environmental conference in Shanghai.

Annex 6. Beneficiary Survey Results
NA

Annex 7. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
NA




                                           38
Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Summary of Borrower's ICR

Shanghai Municipal Government submitted a Borrower's report dated July 29, 2010 (60
pages plus an Annex with site pictures), and later provided further data upon request of
the Bank. This is a summary of the report with the headings and selected text essentially
maintained as in the full report. For each project component, the full report includes a
table with details of each contract, including contractor, signing and completion dates,
procurement method, original and final contract price, and amounts disbursed.

1.      Introduction
In order to attract foreign and social funds into urban infrastructure and eco-environment
construction, to further explore the investment and financing reform in infrastructure
construction, Shanghai Municipal People's Government (SMG) had repeated discussions
with the World Bank about the implementation of the proposed Shanghai APL Project
and did a lot of preparatory work, identified the initial objectives, overall framework, and
principles for implementation of the project. It also proposed the basic components in
phases, policies and institutional reform measures as well as the necessary technical
assistance. On February 7, 2002, SMG submitted to the World Bank the Letter of
Development and the Development Program for Shanghai APL Project, which meant
Shanghai formally agreed to implement the APL project.

1.1    Background
Since China's reform and opening to the world and under the unified arrangement of the
central government, Shanghai has achieved substantial progress in becoming an
international economic, financial, trade and shipping center and has entered a new level
in economic development, urban construction, social services, people's living standards,
and cultural and ideological progress. This has laid a solid foundation for establishment
of Shanghai's position as an international metropolis. However, Shanghai recognizes that
there are quite a few difficulties in its developing process. One of the key issues to be
solved is to strengthen its urban management and improve its urban eco-environment.

Among many other initiatives, in order to carry forward the infrastructure construction
for environmental protection, Shanghai will continue its policy and institutional reform,
gradually practice the Four Separations, i.e. separation of investment, construction,
operation and management in water, environmental sanitation, and forestation sectors.
The environmental construction and operation will gradually change from the existing
administrative arrangement to competitive bidding. It will guide and encourage the
enterprises and institutions of all kinds of ownership to participate in the urban
environmental protection and construction according to the requirements of socialization,
market, professionalism and industrialization to gradually form a multiple input
mechanism consisting of government, enterprise and individual. It will widen financing
channels and make an active effort to issue environmental protection and construction
bonds. It will further implement the polluter pay policy, improve the sewage charge
mechanism and increase the billing area for the sewage charge. It will gradually establish
and complete the pollutant permit trading system based on a resource paid - use principle.


                                            39
1.2      Development Objective
The implementation of Shanghai APL Project will help to speed up Shanghai's urban
infrastructure construction, improve its urban environment, and enhance its
comprehensive competitiveness. The overall objective of the Development Program is
closely related to the Five-Year Plan for Shanghai's national economic and social
development. The specific objective is to strengthen and enhance Shanghai's
comprehensive economic strength, service functions, development environment,
innovative capability, management level, and quality of its people.

1.3      Components of APL1 and Loan Allocation
APL1 consists of the following physical components. (The related Institutional
Strengthening and Training items are included in the respective component here.)

             Loan Allocation and Withdrawal Table                                        Unit: million USD
                                                              Loan
No.       Sub-project                                         Allocation       Final Withdrawal Amount
1         Urban Wastewater Management                            151.2*        151,740,318.36
2         Urban Solid Waste Management                            29.8**       29,896,602.58
3         Urban Planning and Pilot Upgrading in
                                                                    6          6,000,000.00
          Hongkou District
4         Jinshan Sea Outfall Project.                             7.5         7,344,169.57***
5         Fengjing Water Purification Plant                         5          5,000,000.00
          Total                                                                199,981,090.51
*         The original loan was 146 million USD. Later, 5.2 million USD loan savings from Laogang Phase IV was
transferred to this component, therefore, the loan amount for this component was increased to 151.7 million USD.
**        Original loan was 35 million USD. Later, 5.2 million USD loan savings from Laogang Phase IV was
transferred to the Urban Wastewater Management Component, therefore, the loan amount for this component was
reduced to 29.9 million USD.
***       Loan withdrawal was 7,344,169.57 USD. This left 155,830.43 USD un-withdrawn. Because adjustment of
withdrawal categories was not agreed by the World Bank at the time, and because completion of accounting settlement
of the project had to be completed by the end of 2008, the project entity decided to give up the un-withdrawn
155,830.43USD for equipment.

1.4      Milestones
This section lists dates from pre-appraisal to signing of the local on-lending agreements.

1.5      Indicators and Final Results
The staged performance indicators for APL l during the implementation are as follows
(as per Annex 1 to PAD ­ Shanghai Municipal People's Government (Letter)):

Target A.      At the beginning of 2002, water tariff in Shanghai was increased from
Y0.88/m3 to Yl.O3/m3, which created a better environment for launching the APL1. At
present, the tap water tariff for domestic users is 1.33 RMB Yuan per m3, and the
wastewater tariff 1.08 RMB Yuan per m3. The combined tariff is 2.30 RMB Yuan per m3.
Starting from November 20, 2010, the tap water tariff for domestic users will be adjusted
to 1.63 RMB Yuan per m3, and the wastewater tariff for domestic users will be adjusted
to 1.30 RMB Yuan per m3 , making the combined tariff 2.80 RMB Yuan per m3.
(Wastewater tariff is calculated based on 90% of the water consumed.)




                                                       40
Target B.       In 2003, the proportion of sorted collection of domestic solid waste in
Shanghai's urban area reached 50% the proportion of containerized
collection/transportation reached 24%, and the proportion of closed transportation 100%.
In 2009, the proportion of sorted collection of domestic solid waste in Shanghai core city
was 60% and the proportion of containerized collection/transportation was 100%.

Target C. In 2005, the proportion of wastewater collection in the built urban area was
increased from the present 68% to 70%. In 2003, the service area of SMSC was 584.57
km2, in 2009 it was 756.25 km2. According to the present statistics, the city & town
wastewater treatment ratio was in 2009 79% while in 2003 it was 63%.

Target D.        APL1 Monitoring indicators
                                                               End-of-Project       Actual in Year of
 No.                         Indicators
                                                                (2009) Target            2009
 1.     Urban WW: Enhanced primary Treatment (m3/d)          2,900,000          0
        Urban WW: Secondary treatment of wastewater
 2.                                                          900,000            6,865,000
        (m3/d)
 3      Upper Huangpu WW treatment capacity (m3/d)           70,000             950,000
        Aggregate quantity of wastewater treated at
 4                                                           80%                78.9
        WWWP (% of system flow)
        No. of studies & training on institutional reforms
 5                                                           18                 18
        implemented.
        Wastewater tariffs implemented to meet financial     Year of 2002       Year of 2009
        projections (Yuan per m3)
        . Shanghai Municipal Sewerage Co.                    0.51               Domestic: 1.08
 6
        . Jinshan: Jinshan Sea Outfall Company               0.68               Government
                                                                                Enterprises: 1.70
        . Jinshan: Fengjing Water Purification Co            0.68               Industries: 1.80


1.6     Triggers for APL2
The required triggers for the program to move to APL2 were satisfied in a timely manner.
A table is included in the Borrower's report with comments on each of the Triggers.

2.       Institutional Structures of Shanghai (SH) PMO
This section describes the project implementation arrangements and includes the
institutional structure shown in two detailed organizational charts (as in the PAD).

3.    Project Description
APL1 consists of five project components, described below in sections 3.1-3.4 and 4.

3.1     Urban Wastewater Management (Third Shanghai Sewerage Project or SSPIII)
The total investment approved was 4.61080 billion RMB yuan, including 146 million
USD loan from the World Bank. Later, 5.2 million USD loan savings from Laogang
Phase IV was reallocated to this component making the loan amount 151.2 million USD.

3.1.1  Components of SSPIII
       Part (1) Completing the trunk sewer system to solve the wastewater disposal
problems for the central city, where there is no sewerage system. The total service area is


                                                    41
            about 171.68 km2 with a population of 2.4 million and the flow of about 1.09 million
            m3/d. Main components: Construction of 24.48 km pipelines and 2 pumping stations.
                    Part (2) Construction of two wastewater collection systems to increase the urban
            wastewater collection and the existing facility utilization rate. The service areas of the
            collection systems are different from that of the trunk sewer. The service area is about
            132.56 km2 with a population of about 1.6 million. The designed flow is about 0.768
            million m3/d. Main components: Construction of 144 km sewers, 13 pumping stations,
            and rehabilitation of 5 pumping stations. Construction and rehabilitation of 13 storm
            water systems, 75.8 km pipelines, and 11 pumping stations (2 of which will be combined
            pumping stations with sewerage system).
                    Part (3) Construction of a wastewater treatment plant to increase the treatment
            rate of urban wastewater. Plant with design capacity of 500,000 m3/d; the effluent would
            meet Class 2 of the national discharging standard. The discharger consists of two pipes
            with the diameter of 2.4 m each, with a total length of the two of 2,100 m. In addition, an
            emergency discharging pipe with the diameter of 3 m and the length of 100m.
                    Part (4) Land reclamation at the east side of Zhuyuan Wastewater Treatment
            Works to be used as a sludge landfill site. Total area of about 230,400 m2, 91,400 m2 of
            which reclaimed by blow-filling, and 139,000 m2 of which to be blow-filled. 562.2 m of
            dyke built, and within the dyke there is 560,000 m2 of natural seashore for blow-filling.
                    Part (5) Experimental rehabilitation of pipes built under the earlier SSPI project in
            order to gain experience of rehabilitation of urban sewers. The length will be about 6 km.

            3.1.2               Completion and Operation Status
            Construction started at the end of 2003 and was substantially completed at the end of
            2008. The operation status of the Zhuyuan No. 2 WWTW (the plant) is as follows:

                                                 Operation Status of Zhuyuan No. 2 WWTW
                                         Oct.- Dec., 2007   Year 2008          Year 2009          Jan. ­ Jun., 2010
Average Flow per
                                         4.44 thousand M3   4.85 thousand M3   5.21 thousand M3   5.69 thousand M3
Day (10,000 Ton)
  Average Water Quality/Year




                                         In: 78.3mg/L       In: 97.2mg/L       In: 105.7mg/L      In: 112.9mg/L
                               BOD
                                         Out:7.9mg/L        Out: 13.1mg/L      Out: 7.7mg/L       Out: 7.2mg/L
                                         In: 174.4mg/L      In: 173.8mg/L      In: 193.1mg/L      In: 223.6mg/L
                               COD
                                         Out: 41mg/L        Out: 35.8mg/L      Out: 34.3mg/L      Out: 30.8mg/L
                                         In: 79.4.8mg/L     In: 88.4mg/L       In: 108.4mg/L      In: 133.7mg/L
                               SS
                                         Out: 9.6mg/L       Out: 9.8mg/L       Out: 9.8mg/L       Out: 8.9mg/L
                               Ammoni    In: 24.8mg/L       In: 23.8mg/L       In: 23.8mg/L       In: 24.5mg/L
                               a         Out: 20.7mg/L      Out: 11.7mg/L      Out: 15.7mg/L      Out: 18.7mg/L
                               Phospho                      In: 2.4mg/L        In: 2.69mg/L       In: 3.19mg/L
                               rus                          Out: 0.5mg/L       Out: 0.48mg/L      Out: 0.72mg/L

            3.2                 Urban Solid Waste Management (The First Shanghai Solid Waste Disposal System)
            According to the approved preliminary design by Shanghai Municipal Construction and
            Transportation Commission (SMCTC) in its Document (2004) No. 444, the total
            investment is 656.61 million yuan, including a World Bank Loan of 35 million USD, in
            which Laogang IV will use 33 million loan proceeds, and Food Waste Collection System
            and MIS will use 1 million each. Later, 5.2 million USD loan savings from Laogang



                                                                    42
Phase IV was transferred to the Urban Wastewater Component, therefore, the loan
amount was reduced to 29.8 million USD and for Laogang IV to 27.8 million USD.

3.2.1   Components of Urban Solid Waste Management
This component included three sub-components:
 (1)    The Fourth Phase of Laogang Domestic Sanitation Landfill Site (Laogang IV),
located in Nanhui District, occupying an area of 3.36 km2, and with a capacity of
receiving at least 4,900 ton/day includes 4 landfill cells with auxiliary facilities,
horizontal and vertical infiltration proof system, and a leachate treatment system.
 (2)    Food Waste Collection System; to provide 11 domestic waste collection vehicles.
 (3)    Management Information System (MIS): To mainly construct four sub-systems:
(1) digitized command center for city appearance and environmental sanitation (first
phase); (2) public information service platform improving and upgrading; (3) domestic
solid waste auto-weight system improving and upgrading; (4) environmental sanitation
infrastructure MIS improvement and upgrading.

3.2.2   Completion and Operation Status
Construction started in 2003 and was completed in 2007. Laogang IV started trial
operation in February 2005 and commercial operation in December 2005. Since then, the
amount of solid waste it receives has kept on increasing as is shown in the table below:
           Average Amount of Solid Waste Treated Daily at Laogang IV (ton/day)
        2006               2007                2008                2009
        4900               6400                7800                8900

The collection of the domestic solid waste covers the entire core city of Shanghai. The
proportion of containerized transportation of the solid waste has reached 100%, and the
proportion of sorted collection of domestic solid waste has reached 60%. In 2009,
Laogang IV treated 3.5 million tons of domestic solid waste, and generated 1.7 million
tons of leachate. Laogang IV has expanded its leachate treatment plant from 1,500T/d to
2,300T/d. Laogang IV is now constructing a solid waste incinerator and additional
landfill cells. In the future, the amount of waste to be landfilled will be reduced and the
proportion of harmless treatment of solid waste will be increased. In 2009, the harmless
treatment of domestic solid waste reached 82%, and it is expected that this will be over
95% in 2015. The charge for food waste has been applied since 2005.

3.3     Urban Planning and Pilot Upgrading (Historical House Protective Restoration)
According to the Reply to the Adjustment to the Feasibility Study Report on Hongkou
District Historical Area Protection Project (Phase I) by the Shanghai Development
Planning Commission in September 15, 2006, the total investment was adjusted to 125.34
million RMB Yuan, with World Bank loan of US$6 million. After adjustment of the
project contents several times, the project included three contracts (1) UIU1.1 Shanyin
Rd and Liyang Rd Historical House Protective Restoration, (2) UIU1.3 Old House
Comprehensive Rectification, and (3) UIU1.4 Old House Comprehensive Rectification.

3.3.1   Completion and Operation Status
Urban Planning and Pilot Upgrading repaired 2,517 housing units with floor space of
1,332,823 m2 and brought benefits to 81,361 households. Under leadership of Hongkou


                                            43
   District Government and PMO, and after hard work, the old style lane houses managed
   by Hongfang Group have changed to a new look. The project has brought a lot of benefits
   to the local residents and improved their living conditions and got their praises.

   3.4        Upper Huangpu Catchment Management
   The Upper Huangpu Catchment Management consists of two projects, i.e. Jinshan Sea
   Outfall Project and Fengjing Water Purification Plant. These two projects are important
   measures for protection of the water source area of the Huangpu River.

   3.4.1      Jinshan Sea Outfall Project
   The investment was 158.13 million RMB Yuan, including 7.50 million USD loan from
   the World Bank. The project intercepts wastewater generated in five towns, industrial
   zones, and core urban areas of Jinshan District. After secondary treatment at Xinjiang
   Wastewater Treatment Works, effluents are discharged into Hangzhou Bay. The plant is
   built in two stages; the first stage under APL1, with a designed capacity of 50,000 m3/d,
   and the second stage to be built by 2020 to reach a design capacity of 100,000 m3/d.

   3.4.1.1 Components of Jinshan Sea Outfall Project. Jinshan Sea Outfall Project contains:
   (1) Sewage Conveyor with a length of 2.23 km; (2) Xinjiang WWTW with design
   capacity of 50000 m3/d; (3) Outfall: Multi-nozzle outfall under water (diameter DN1300
   DN1650) with a length of 1,174 m from the high chamber to the diffuser.

   3.4.1.2 Completion and Operation Status. The project started construction in February,
   2005, was completed in December, 2006, and turned into trial operation in March, 2007.
   It has been under smooth operation as shown in table below.
                                Operation Status of Jinshan Sea Outfall
                             Year 2007         Year 2008        Year 2009       Jan. - June 2010
Average Flow/ Day M3         44,400            48,500           52,100          56,900
Service Area                 167 km2           167 km2          167 km2         167 km2
Service Population           14 thousand       15.4 thousand    16.7 thousand   17.2thousand
                             In:240.8mg/L      In: 220mg/L      In: 188mg/L     In: 175mg/L
               BOD
Average                      Out:23.3mg/L      Out:18.7mg/L     Out:14.92mg/L   Out: 14.18mg/L
Water                        In: 622.9mg/L     In: 470mg/L      In: 440mg/L     In: 426mg/L
               COD
Quality per                  Out: 96.8mg/L     Out: 68.9mg/L    Out: 56.8mg/L   Out: 49.5mg/L
Year                         In: 545.8mg/L     In: 358mg/L      In: 187mg/L     In: 155mg/L
               SS
                             Out: 48.7mg/L     Out: 21mg/L      Out: 14mg/L     Out: 18mg/L

   3.4.2      Fengjing Water Purification Plant
   The total budgetary investment approved is 107.95 million RMB yuan, including 5
   million USD loan from the World Bank. The plant occupies 54 mu, the service area is
   4.47 km2, and it has a design capacity of 42,000 m3/d. It will be built in two stages.

   3.4.2.1 Components of Fengjing Water Purification Plant.    The scope of the project
   includes one wastewater treatment plant, sewer networks, three lifting pumping stations
   and some additional items.




                                                  44
3.4.2.2 Completion and Operation Status. Project started construction in December 2003,
was completed in October 2004, and turned into formal operation in January 2005. It has
been under smooth operation as shown in table below.

             Operation Status of Shanghai Jinshan Fengjing Water Purification Plant
                               Year         Year          Year        Year        Year        Jan-June
                               2005         2006          2007        2008        2009        2010
Average Flow per Day (m3)      2356         6301          8573        9196        12307       11073
Service Area (km3)             12.63        12.63         12.63       12.63       12.63       12.63
Service Population             33,000       33,000        33,000      33,000      33,000      33,000
                               In: 809.9    In: 553.7     In: 240.6   In: 236.7   In: 209.2   In: 288.0
              BODmg/L
Average                        Out:14.4     Out: 16.9     Out:12.6    Out: 12.4   Out:10.3    Out: 10.7
Water                          In:1686.2    In: 1021.3    In: 508.9   In: 450.4   In: 402.0   In: 551.3
              CODmg/L
Quality                        Out: 44.9    Out: 51.7     Out: 42.5   Out:42.6    Out:5.7     Out: 35.1
per Year                       In: 1267     In: 1092      In: 133     In: 171     In: 141     In: 199
              SSmg/L
                               Out: 11      Out: 11       Out: 11     Out: 8      Out: 9      Out: 12

4.          Institutional Strengthening and Training, and Engineering Services

The completion status of the IST items under APL1 is as follows:

              Name of IST Items      Responsible     Completion Status
                                     Agency
              Upper Huangpu          SWA             Completed. Contracted to DHI Water & Environment and
 IST 1.1      Catchment                              Black & Veatch Int'l Ltd.
              Management Plan                        Final report submitted in December 2005.
              Study Tour &                           Completed (Own fund). Pilot study and research done for
              Training for PSP       SWA/            "Shanghai Urban Domestic Solid Waste Collection and
 IST 1.2
              Procurement            SCAESAB         Disposal Management Method". This became effective on
              Procedures                             November 1, 2008 as per Government Order.
              Pollution Reduction    SWA             Completed. Contracted to Halcrow Group Ltd. & Fichtner
 IST 1.3
              Meas.                                  Gmbh. Final report in October 2006.
              Support and training   SWAOD           Completed through US TDA grant.
 IST 1.4-5    for Bond Issue`                        Domestic Bond was issued successfully in July 2006.
              Preparation of         DFV`            Completed through CIDA grant with Chreod Ltd. DFV's
              Policy & Operating                     framework, management and operations manual, sub-project
 IST 1.6
              Rules for DFV                          appraisal, business development plan, HR development plan,
                                                     and DFV's EA and RAP policy frameworks completed.
              Executive Mgmt.        SHDRC           Completed through own fund. A list of trainings conducted
 IST 1.7
              Training*                              was submitted to the Bank during the appraisal of APL3.
              Other Special          SHDRC           Completed.
 IST 1.8
              Studies                                CNG and Air Quality studies were conducted.
              Training and Study     SHDRC           Completed through own fund. A list of trainings & study
 IST 1.9
              Tours*                                 tours conducted was submitted to the Bank.
              District WWT Oper.     SWA             Cancelled.
 IST 1.10
              Staff Training
              Heritage Strategy      SFB             Completed strategic plan through CIDA grant with Canadian
 IST 1.11
              Support                                consultants. Final report submitted in April 2005.

Completion status of engineering (construction supervision) and other services were as follows.

 Urban Wastewater                    Responsible         Completion Status
 Management                          Agency


                                                    45
          Development of       SMSC/         Completed through own fund. SMSC signed two contracts
UWW       Sludge Management    SCAESAB       with Environment Group: for May 25, 2006 ­ March 31,
6.1       Plan                               2007, and for April 1, 2007 ­ March 31, 2011. The second
                                             contract is still on-going.
           Construction          SMSC        Completed.
UWW
           Management                        Contracted to Mott MacDonald.
6.2
           Services                          The consulting service was completed July 2007.
UWW        Financial Strengthen. SMSC        Completed. Contract signed with Deloitte Consulting on
6.3        &Tariff Policy Study              March 27, 2007 and completed in December 2007.
Urban Solid Waste Management
           Corporatization of    SCAESAB     Completed through own fund. Study tour to R&D Center
           Solid Waste Services              of Veolia HQ in France, Paris Domestic Solid Waste
           & Training for                    Burning Factory, Compost Plant, Toxic and Harmful
           Enterprise                        Industrial Waste Treatment Plant, focusing on operational
USW 3.1
           Operations                        management. Attended International Environmental
                                             Equipment and Technology Expo 2004 in Lyon to learn
                                             solid waste recycling and treatment plant operational
                                             management, and management of big scale landfill plant.
USW       Pilot Food Waste     SCAESAB       Completed through own fund. Pilot study and research
3.2       Treatment Program                  carried out on disposal of food waste
          DRA Services for     SCAESAB       Completed through US TDA grant. Study tours and
          APL2, Solid Waste                  surveys on the solid waste management, and tariff
USW 3.3   Tariff Regimes and                 mechanism; both in domestic cities and abroad, for
          Market Based                       introduction of market mechanisms in medium and long
          Instruments                        term, and support the reform of SCAESAB.

5.     RAP & EMP

5.1    RAP
Land acquisition and resettlement were needed for the three wastewater systems/plants.
Laogang Phase IV had borrowed land and no resettlement. Summary data of the RAP
implementation is shown in attached table below.

5.2    EMP
The following entities conducted environmental monitoring of APL1 projects throughout
the project implementation: Shanghai Environmental Monitoring Center, Shanghai Water
Environmental Monitoring Center, Shanghai Municipal Drainage Monitoring Center,
Shanghai Luwan Environmental Monitoring Station, Shanghai Jinshan Environmental
Monitoring Station, Centre Testing International (Shenzhen) Corp., Institute for Agri-
food Standards and Testing Technology, Shanghai Academy of Agricultural Sciences,
and East China Normal University. These entities spent a great amount of man-months
and materials carrying out the monitoring, which results showed that the construction and
operation of the APL1 sub-projects conformed to the requirement of the EMP.

6.     Innovation
Under APL1, two innovations for China in particular were introduced, Infrastructure
Bond Issue and District Financing Vehicle. See descriptions in Annex 15, PAD of APL1.

6.1    Bond Issue
The Bond "2006 Shanghai Water Assets Operation & Development Company Ltd. Bond"
was issued in 2006. Total amount of the Bond was: 1.5 billion RMB yuan (about 180


                                           46
million USD at the time); Terms: 15 years. Purpose: all to be used as counterpart funds to
the APL project and the Urban Water Supply System Construction Projects.

6.2    District Financing Vehicle
During APL1, Chengtou Environment Industry Development Company Limited prepared
a District Financing Vehicle (DFV) with Operations Manual, which was reviewed and
approved by the World Bank, and allocated a loan of 30 million USD under APL2. The
DFV started in 2005 with three sub-projects, i.e. Chongming Chengqiao WWTP (phase
1), Chongming Landfill (phase 1) and Qingpu Huaxin Wastewater Collection System, all
of which have been very successfully implemented. In 2008, DFV started another sub-
project, Qingpu Baihe Trunk Sewer Project. In APL3, DFV has got another 30 million
USD World Bank loan. DFV will continue to work hard for its mission to create a better,
more convenient and more effective vehicle for suburban environmental projects.

7.     Comments on the World Bank Performance and Suggestions

The implementation of APL1 has produced good social and environmental results.
However, during the implementation, some issues occurred. In order to carry out better
the World Bank financed projects in the future, we have some suggestions as follows:

1.      The World Bank's Procurement Guidelines are used by all its member countries.
However, each of its member country has its own national conditions. During the
implementation of the Procurement Guidelines, people often have a bit awkward and
forced feeling, particularly to let the lowest bidder win the contract. This has caused
many negative impacts on the contract management. It is suggested that the World Bank
revises its Procurement Guidelines so that it would consist of two parts, i.e. General
Guideline and Special Guideline, to increase the Guidelines' flexibility and adaptability.

2.      The land acquisition and resettlement costs account for a big proportion of the
total project cost. It is suggested that the World Bank loan disburses part of the land
acquisition and resettlement cost. This would facilitate project implementation.

3.     The procurement procedures of World Bank financed project are a set of scientific
processes. It is suggested that the Bank adopt a classified method, for example: for those
who have real experience and good credit, could the World Bank consider simplifying its
procedures, e.g. the World Bank authorizes those units to carry out the project in
accordance with the Bank's procedures, or use the record or the post review method?

4.      When tendering documents are reviewed, more attention should be paid to big
issues, such as technical feasibility, rather than small issues, such as spare part quantities.

Borrower's Comments on ICR

The final draft of this ICR was sent to Shanghai (the Borrower) in September, 2010 for
their review. The Borrower subsequently informed the Bank that, besides a few minor
suggested edits (which were incorporated), they had no comments on the ICR.



                                              47
                                                                      Summary of RAP Implemented Under APL 1

Name of Project    Urban Wastewater Management                                                Urban Planning and Pilot            Fengjing Water Purification Plant      Urban Solid Waste Management
                   (SSSP III)                      Jinshan Sea Outfall Project                Upgrading in Hongkou District                                              Laogang Phase IV
Items
                   RAP      Actual   Difference    RAP          Actual           Difference   RAP       Actual       Difference   RAP          Actual       Difference   RAP        Actual       Difference
Amount Land                                                                                                                                                              5040       5037
                   534.58   535.97   +1.39         251.26       26.922           -224.338     0         0            0            37           43.8985      +6.8985                              0
Acquisition (mu)                                                                                                                                                         (336 ha)   (Borrowed)
Of which:
Cultivated Land    367.92   374.60   +6.68         0            18.0255          0            0         0            0            37           43.8985      +6.8985      0          0            0
(mu)
Water Area (mu)    0        0                      0            2.055            0            0         0            0            -            0-           0            0          0            0
Non-cultivated
                   166.66   112.68   -53.98        0            0                0            0         0            0            -            0            0            0          0            0
Land
Construction
                   0        48.69    +48.69        0            0                0                      0            0                         0            0            0          0            0
Land (mu)
Labor Allocated    381      208                                  31              0            0         0            0            32           56           +24          0          0            0
Of which:
                   381      208      -173          0            6                0            0         0            0            4            43           +39          0          0            0
Retirement
Labor Allocation   0        0        -             0             25              0            0         0            0            28           13           -15          0          0            0
Households
                   460      472      +12           50           12               -38          0         0            0            17           9            -8           0          0            0
Resettled
People Affected
                   1294     1416     +122          147          52               -95          0         0            0            73           30           -43          0          0            0
by Resettlement
Resident Houses
                   69979    70800    +821          13557.52     4076.75          -9480.75     0         0            0            3543.86      1769.76      -1774.1      0          0            0
Removed (m2)
Enterprises
                   59       84       +25           10           -                -10          0         0            0            15           -            -15          0          0            0
Affected
Enterprise
                   78924.   37072.
Buildings                            -41852.76     1402         -                -1402        0         0            0            432.5        -            -432.5       0          0            0
                   83       07
Removed (m2)
Compensation
                   929732   903833   -
Cost (RMB                                          10100884     25601942         +15501058    0         0            0            10854570     8622603      -2231967     0          0            0
                   242.00   533.91   25898708.09
yuan)




                                                                                                     48
Annex 9. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
NA

Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document (PAD) No. 23567-CHA dated May 20, 3002
Board Speech for June 17, 2003 Board Meeting
Laogang Landfill Phase 4 (comprehensive ppt presentation)
Draft Borrower's Completion Report dated July 29, 2010
Summary Notes from Quality at Entry Review (QER), 2002
QAG Quality at Entry Review, 2003
QAG Supervision Review, 2006
Aide Memoires and ISRs
Environmental Monitoring Reports by Independent Monitoring Agencies
Semi-annual Progress Status Reports from the Borrower




                                         49
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 38039

                                                        CHINA                                                                                      MONGOLIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          L               JILIN

                                                                                                                                                                                                              N

         SHANGHAI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT (APL 1)                                                                                                                                                       O                       LIAONING
                                                                                                                                                                                                      M                                        DEM. PEOPLE'S
                                                                                                                                                                                    I                                                          REP. OF KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                N E                       BEIJING Beijing

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TIANJIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      REP. OF
                                             APL1 PROJECT COMPONENTS:                                                                                                                                         HEBEI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KOREA




                                                                                                                                                                A
                                                                                                                                                              NI NG XI
                                                                                                                                                                                                     SHANXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SHANDONG          Ye l l o w
                                                                                                                                            QINGHAI                                                                                      Sea
                                                                                                                                                       GANSU
                                                                                                                                                                                                        HENAN                   JIANGSU       Area
                                                                                                                                                                         SHAANXI
             WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANTS (WWTP)                              DRAINAGE CATCHMENTS SERVED                                                                                                                                      of map
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ANHUI            SHANGHAI SHI
                                                                                                                                                                                                 G
                                                                                                                                                                                            IN         HUBEI
             OUTFALLS                                                        SOLID WASTE LANDFILL (SWL)




                                                                                                                                       XIZANG
                                                                                                                                                    SICHUAN                         G
                                                                                                                                                                                        Q                                                             East
                                                                                                                                                                                N                                                   ZHEJIANG
                                                                                                                                                                            O                                         JIANGXI                        China
                                                                                                                                                                         CH
             UPPER HUANGPU PROTECTION PROGRAM AREA                           URBAN UPGRADING                                                                                                         HUNAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FUJIAN
                                                                                                                                                                GUIZHOU

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TA I WAN
                                                                                                                                                  YUNNAN                                                   GUANGDONG
                    121°00'                                                                         C      121°30'                                                          GUANGXI

                                                                                                 (Ya hang




                                                                                                                                        MYANMAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HONG KONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MACAU

                                                                                                    ng
                                                                                                                                                           VIETNAM
                RING ROAD
                (UNDER COMPLETION)                                                                     tze Jiang                                 LAO
                                                                                                                                               PEOPLE'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    South
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  China Sea
                                                                                                          Riv                          THAILAND
                                                                                                                                                 DEM.
                                                                                                                                                 REP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                 HAINAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PHILIPPINES

                ROADS                                                                                         er)
                                                                                         CHONGMING
                RAILROADS                                      Ch
                HEAVILY URBANIZED AREA                              an
                                                                         g
                URBAN AREA
                                                                             Jia
                                                                                   ng
                COUNTY/DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                              (Y
                                                                                             an
                                                                                                  gtz
                PROVINCE/MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES                                                           eR
                                                                                                           ive
                TIDAL FLOW IN RIVER                                                                            r)                                                                                                                                31°30'


0        5     10       15    20      25

               KILOMETERS
                                                                                                               APL 1     Cha
                                                                                                            Wastewater       ngx
                                                                         BAOSHAN                           Service Areas
                                                                                                                                 ing
                                                   JIADING
                                                                                         Baoshan




                                                                                                                                           Isl
                                                                                                                                                  an
                                                                                                                                                    d
                                                  Jiading                                                                                                                                                       Hengsha
                                                                                                                                Zhuyuan                                                                        Island
    JIANGSU                                                                                                                     WWTP

                                                                                                                         PUDONG
                                                      Hongqiao
                                           International Airport
                                   QINGPU                   SHANGHAI                                                                                        Bailonggang WWTP
                                                                                                                                                            (existing)
                               Qingpu
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Pudong
                                                     MUNICIPALITY                                                                                                                                International
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Airport
                                                                                                                                  NANHUI
                                             SONGJIANG                                   MINHANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Laogang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SWL
31°00'                                                Songjiang                                                                                                                                                                                  31°00'

                                                                                    R.
                                                       H ua ng pu
                                                                                                                    FENGXIAN
                             WWTP                                                                             Nanqiao

                        Fengjing
                                                                                                                     Fengxian
                                                     JINSHAN

    ZHEJIANG
                                                                                        Jinshan
                                                               WWTP

                                                                                                                Hangzhou Bay                                                                     This map was produced by the
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                 The boundaries, colors, denominations
                                                                                                                                                                                                 and any other information shown on
                                                                                                                                                                                                 this map do not imply, on the part of
                                                                                                                                                                                                 The World Bank Group, any judgment
                                                                                                                                                                                                 on the legal status of any territory, or
                                                                                                                                                                                                 any endorsement or acceptance of
                    121°00'                                                                               121°30'                                                                                such boundaries.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AUGUST 2010
