Report No. PID9765
Project Name                     Algeria-Budget System Modernization
Region                           Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                           Public Financial Management
Project ID                       DZPE64921
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF ALGERIA
Implementing Agency
Address
Ministry of Finance
Ministere des Finances, Alger , Algerie
Contact Person: Mr. Brahim BOUZEBOUDJEN,
Secretaire General
Tel: 011-213-2-73-38-64
Fax: 001-213-2-73-10-94
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                August 15 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         Oct 7-14, 2000
Projected Board Date             Jan. 23, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Sector issues manifest themselves in the following way:a) A poor record in
the control of costs and delays in implementing capital projects; solid
formal controls of paper flows exhibiting low reliability in terms of
the time, costs and adherence to specifications for assets delivery; low
effective controls on on-going services effectively delivered. Imposing
fiscal discipline in recent years has stopped overspending but aggravated
delays, unit costs and work-flow problems.b) Poor planning of investments
(especially networks in transportation and water); weak links between
investments and current expenditures (essentially only annual cash
limits); difficulties in insuring that the assets are provided to
ministries at correct costs and even more that they are adequately
maintained and used.c) Difficulties encountered in dealing with
parliamentarians' questions and desiderata because the MOF possesses
neither easy to access adequate information nor technical support; because
the structure of the budget is either opaque (line item inputs only) or
dispersed (capital expenditures classified differently than current ones,
consequences of capital expenditures on future current charges not
identified).d) Absence of forward looking and comprehensive synthesis of
the intentions of the government and of the economic constraints it faces,
globally and sectorally.e) Antiquated information management systems and
equipment effectively preventing credible forecasting, simulations in
expenditures groupings along program lines, and timely monitoring.f) Low
capacity inside the MOF for countervail analysis on ministries' spending
requests (Eg. low capacity to assess methods used and quality/robustness
of results obtained by line ministries in the costing of requests, of the
relevance/optimality of service delivery options they have selected, of
the relationships between proposed actions and needs identified
(effectiveness), of the distributive impacts of proposed policies and
programs, etc.). No structure nor arrangement exist to monitor the



situation and its evolution with respect to contingent liabilities.The
strategy followed by the government has been to merge the organizations
responsible for the capital and current budgets, to cut off funding from
the budget to SOEs, to limit public banks exposure to SOEs, etc. From
this basis, its strategy is to reinforce central financial management and
budgeting by aiming for an integrated budget which incorporates best
international practices in order to support transparency, better strategic
choices, and efficiency and effectiveness in control and execution. The
constraints on the speed of such transformations are the risks of
weakening existing controls and processes even further if some
international best practices were to prove ill-suited to the Algerian
environment because of a dearth of resources needed to implement them in a
sustained way, or because they could cause costly complementary changes in
well functioning parts of the system.
2. Objectives
1. Project development objective: (see Annex l)The objective is to
modernize and expand the capacity of the MOF to discharge its core
functions. The key goals are: budgetary institutions and organizations
which favor growth in the context of a democratic market economy by
delivering: i) a transparent and comprehensive statement of public
resources allocation, firmly anchored to the economic situation of the
country; ii) a framework for strategic choices using the best information
possible, arrayed according to best international practices; and iii) an
instrument which promotes efficiency and effectiveness in budget execution
as well as timely and reliable feedbacks to insure solid controls and
overall fiscal discipline.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank support will add value at the organizational and technical
levels. At the organizational level, in a context where the independence
of each directorate dominates the MOF structures and traditions, this loan
and its collective preparation will help forge consensus on the changes
needed which are all in the direction of a more closely integrated MOF
(uniformity of nomenclatures, centralized informatics management, systems
for free flow of information between directorates, etc.).This
organizational contribution is possible essentially because of the Bank's
unique offerings on the technical side. The Algerian authorities are
acutely conscious of the need for modernization and are very interested in
effecting it by going beyond the confines of the Latin model they have
inherited and used since independence. But, at the same time, they are
apprehensive about the risks that profound and rapid reforms could involve
for an institution which is one of the few very stable one left in a
difficult environment, as far as the current expenditures budget is
concerned. The mobilization of expertise the Bank can achieve (breath and
depth) and the credibility of the Bank on what has, in practice, worked in
various countries, is deservedly seen as a unique possibility to act
decisively and with audacity while minimizing risks.
4. Description
A) technical assistance in detailed implementation planning:
i) Budget structuring: multi-year framework, economic and functional
classification grouping, accrual accounting (partial), transparent
- 2-



presentation, management of contingent liabilities, integration of capital
expenditures, output monitoring and controls, dissemination of new
procedures, analytical and countervail capacity building.
ii) Integrated information management system: system architecture
determination, training and outsourcing plans and TORs; preparation of
bids for hardware, software, launch assistance, communications
B) Deployment and launch of information systems for new budget structures:
i) Hardware and software installation and tests
ii) Training (technical and functional on using new budgetary processes)
iii) Launch, adaptations.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost               14
6. Implementation
The MOF will be the executing agency. It will use substantial
international expertise at each step of the project in: i) assessing,
adapting and sequencing the implementation of best international practices
in the design and implementation plans for the structural modernization of
budget systems; ii) developing suitable options for information systems
from management to systems architecture; and iii) training personnel and
assisting in the launch and adaptation of the new information system.The
preparation of the project will benefit from the services of consultants
in the context of a PHRD grant. This grant will serve essentially to: i)
supply expertise to assist in developing options suitable to Algerian
conditions and reaching decisions on the issues listed above under
"Institutional reforms to be sought"; and ii) carry out studies on the
computerized systems to be put in place and the feasibility of the
implementation strategies required for their continuous operation.
7. Sustainability
Two risks affect sustainability. The first one is not specific to
Algeria: the effective use of transparent budgeting, efficient controls on
execution and management of contingent liabilities all depend on political
factors going beyond this project. The second one is
technical/institutional and has been flagged above: the substantive
reforms demand a major upgrade in capacity for forecasting and analysis
and even more in maintaining and managing the required information
systems. The risks on this last score are: i) that real authority for
this will not be implemented or will be rapidly eroded leading back to the
dispersed and inefficient present arrangements, and ii) that in
implementation and continuous upgrading, as has often been the case
elsewhere, the MOF will face severe constraints on specialized personnel
given the rigidities of the remuneration system in the whole of the public
service and that outsourcing will encounter difficulties (reticence
inside, control and management structure in the interface between
contractor and MOF).
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The whole of the best practices in budgeting -- whose introduction in
- 3-



Algeria are at the core of the project -- are derived from lessons learned
in Bank-Fund supported projects and in analyses and experiences carried
out by other international organization such as OECD and SIGMA (EU-OECD
joint project for transition economies). The design of the project
derives from lessons learned both in budget reform and information systems
upgrading.The necessity for clarity of purpose, ownership and making
information systems subservient to precise decisions on the substantive
reforms in budget processes drives the design of the project with its
insistence on an in-depth preparation with substantial technical
assistance, on a first component heavily loaded with careful design of
budget reforms and their implementation plans as well as the weight given
to institutional reforms which should support them, for instance in
information systems management structures (accountability, locus, power
and resources). In other words, 75% of the ultimate costs will be on
computers, software and training but, from lessons learned, the project is
expending , up front, a maximum of effort to insure that the focus remains
firmly on budget restructuring and that computers etc. remain only
implementation tools to precisely defined objectives.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Francois Lacasse
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
December 15, 2000.
-4-



