World Bank
Document
Report No: 21484 AL
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US $23.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR THE
BUDGET SYSTEMS MODERNIZATION PROJECT
December 21, 2000
Social and Economic Development Group
Maghreb Department
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 10/24/2000)
Currency Unit = DZ
82DZ       = 1 US$
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
AiIBkEVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CITIF     Conseil de l'informatique et des technologies de l'information des Finances (Council
*n informatics and information technologies of the Ministry of Finance)
DCl       Direction centrale de l'informatique (Central information systems directorate)
DGB       Direction generale du budget (Budget directorate)
DGC       Direction generale de la comptabilite (Accounting directorate)
DGD       Direction g6nerale des douanes (Customs directorate)
DGDN      Direction generale du domaine national (Real Property directorate)
DGEP      Direction g6nerale des etudes et previsions (Forecasting and Analysis directorate)
DGI       Direction generale des impots (Taxation directorate)
DGRFE    Direction g6nerale des relations financieres exterieures (External Financial Relations
directorate)
DGT       Direction generale du tresor (Treasury directorate)
DMOB    Direction des moyens et operations budgetaires (Internal Resources and Budget
Operations unit)
DRH       Direction des ressources humaines (Human Ressourc.es Management unit)
GoA       Government of Algeria
HWS       Hardware and software
IBMS      Integrated Budget Management System
ISSP      Information Systems Strategic Plan
IGF       Inspection gen6rale des finances (Audit directorate)
IT        Information Technology
MoF       Ministry of Finance
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
SC        Steering Committee
SG        Secretaire general
SOE       State-Owned Enterprises
UNDP      United Nations Development Programme
Vice President:  Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director: Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager/Director: Mustapha Nabli
Team Leader: Francois Lacasse



ALGERIA
Budget Systems Modernization
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective................................................2
1. Project development objective.............................................2
2. Key performance indicators...............................................2
B. Strategic Context............................................................2
I. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (GAS) goal supported by the project .....2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy..................................3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .................3
C. Project Description Summary .................................................5
1. Project components......................I...............................5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ....................6
3. Benefits and target population.............................................6
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements................................7
D. Project Rationale ............................................................8
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ........................8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies......9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design.............................9
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ..........................1I0
5. Value added of Bank support in this project .11...............................   
E. Summary Project Analysis...................................................1 1
1. Economic............................................................I11
2. Financial.............................................................I11
3. Technical ............................................................I11
4. Institutional ...........................................................12
5. Social................................................................12
6. Environmental .........................................................12
7. Participatory approach.......................................................12
F. Sustainability and Risks.......................................................13
1. Sustainability .........................................................13
2. Critical Risks..........................................................14
3. Possible Controversial Aspects............................................15
G. Main Loan Conditions .......................................................16
1. Effectiveness Conditions ................................................16
2. Other................................................................16
H. Readiness for Implementation.................................................16
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ................................................16
Boxes
Boxl1              Project description.................................................... 17
Box 2              Project rationale...................................................... 18
Box 3              Summary evaluations of project..........................................20
Box 4              Main loan conditions..................................................2 1
Box 5              Compliance with general bank policies....................................2 1



Annexes
Annex I   Project Design Summary ........................................                                                          22
Annex 2          Detailed Project Description ........................................ 25
Annex 3   Estimated Project Costs ........................................                                                        3 1
Annex 4         Cost-Benefit, Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary ... ..................................... 32
Annex 5   Financial Summary ........................................                                                               32
Annex 6         Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ........................................                                33
Table A        Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements ................                            ........................ 36
Table B        Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review  ........................................ 36
Table C        Allocation of Loan Proceeds ........................................ 37
Annex 7         Project Processing Budget and Schedule ........................................ 44
Annex 8         Documents in the Project File- ......................................... 45
Annex 9          Statements of Loans and Credits ........................................ 47
Annex 10 Country at a Glance .48
Annex  11    Implementation Plan + Disbursement Schedule.............................................................
Map IBRD No. 29992



ALGERIA
Budget Systems Modernization
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Maghreb Department
Date: December 21, 2000                              Team Leader: Fran,ois Lacasse
Country Manager/Director: Christian Delvoie          Sector Manager/Director: Mustapha Nabli
Project ID: P064921                                  Sector: BF --- Public Financial Management
Lending Instrument:                                 Theme(s): Governance
Investment Loan
Poverty Targeted Intervention:   L I Yes   XI No
Project Financing Data
[X] Loan      [ 1 Credit     [1 Grant       [  Guarantee      [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 23.7 Million
Proposed terms:   [] To be defined        [ Multicurrency      X] Single currency USD
Standard Variable             [x ] LIBOR-based fixed spread
]                                   loan
Grace period (years):           4 years
Years to maturity:             12        Including 4y grace
Commitment fee:                0.85%    0.75% after 4 years    According to effective disbursements
Service charge:                %
Front-end fee on Bank loan:     1.0%
Fi~ndagph~:                                                      - ~'oreiTO -Ta
Government                                                6.06Million                         6.06M
Co-financing
IBRD                                                                       23.7 Million      23.7M
Other (specify)
Other (specify)
Other (specify)
Borrower: Government of Algeria                               Guarantor:
Responsible agency: Ministry of Finance
Estimated disbursements:                     US$M
yve   -                     1           2- -$X--                  4
Annual                     5.2         7.1          7.8          3.6
Cumulative                    5.2         12.3         20.1         23.7
Guaranties: no
Project implementation period: 4 years
Project promoter:                                    Ministry of Finance
Nature of underlying financing:                      IBRD loan
Financing conditions: .
Principal amount                23.7 million USD
Final closing date              February 28, 2006
Amortization profile                                 ENo
Financing available without guaranties?              n/a
If yes, estimated cost or estimated duration:        n/a
Estimated cost or estimated duration of guaranteed financing: n/a
Expected effectiveness date: March 1, 2001           Expected closing date: February 28, 2006
Implementing agency: Project Implementation Unit, Budget Systems Modernization Project
Contact person:       M. S.A. Dib
Address:              Ministere des Finances, Alger, Algerie
Tel: 011-213-21-71-13-66      Fax: 001-213-21-73-27-58       E-mail: ccmdb2.wissal.dz



2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective (see Annex 1)
The objective is to modernize and expand the capacity of the MoF to discharge its core expenditure
management and economic policy advice functions. The key goals are: budgetary institutions and
organizations which favor growth in the context of a democratic market economy by delivering: i) a
transparent and comprehensive statement of public resources allocation, iirmly anchored to the economic
situation of the country; ii) a framework for strategic expenditures cheices using the best information
possible, arrayed according to international practices; and iii) an instrutnent which promotes efficiency
and effectiveness in budget execution as well as timely and reliable feedback to insure solid controls and
overall fiscal discipline.
2. Key performance indicators (see Annex 1)
1. The expenditures budget is comprehensive: all significant public expenditures are included in it. A
multiyear expenditures framework links it to economic conditions, pro-vides for expenditures groupings
around outputs, outcomes and target populations; expenditures are presented in multiyear fashion with
forecasts for the 3 outlying years.
2. The presentation of the budget is transparent so that key stakeholders (parliamentary committees, the
press, the public, international institutions) can understand and debate the key decisions it incorporates
without having to expend considerable resources in identifying the financial transcription of government
policies.
3. Key structural changes in budgeting and accounting are implemented, such as: functional grouping of
activities into programs; new accounting standards and rules ("nouveau plan comptable de l'Etat");
limited use of accrual accounting for some physical assets such as vehicles. New and adequate structures
are in place and functioning to manage modernized computer infrastructures and information systems; the
management and control of the whole expenditure circuit has been revamped with shorter delays and
more effective controls of expenditures.
4. A multi-year framework is used for preparing and presenting the budget, integrating current and
capital expenditures. Within the MoF, an analytical and forecasting capacity has been built to the point
where forecasts are regularly produced and revised, and expenditure/cost implications of new policies or
of maintaining existing ones can be readily estimated and assessed by the MoF.
5. A new MIS resources management structure is in place; the Information Systems Strategic Plan
(ISSP) has been finalized and implemented (the new hardware and software are in place, the training of
personnel has been completed). Up-to-date information systems are in place and operational, and
adequate resources and organizational structures are provided to insure their maintenance and updating.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1)
Document number: R96-15 [Rev.]          Date of latest CAS discussion: Feb. 27, 1996
The latest CAS was an interim one and dates back to 1996. The unchanged goal pursued is the growth in
income and employment through the transformation of a command economy into a market economy and
a lesser dependence on the hydrocarbons sector. After the major efforts and resources expended in
downsizing the State Enterprise sector, the reform of the core public sector has begun with the transfer of
the investment budget to the MoF in 1998. The modernization of budget institutions is the next step in
adapting central and structures to the objective of maximizing growth in a market environment.



3
Recent work has stressed the urgency of optimal use of scarce resources to alleviate unemployment,
housing and water scarcities, and rigidities and inefficiency in the delivery of public services. The key
structure able to deliver on these issues is the MoF, especially its expenditures management institutions;
this project will assist in modernizing, tooling up and empowering them.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
Sector issues manifest themselves in the following way:
a) A poor record in the control of costs and delays in implementing capital projects; solid formal
controls of paper flows exhibiting low reliability in terms of time, costs and adherence to
specifications for assets delivery; and low performance controls on on-going services effectively
delivered.  The imposition of fiscal discipline in recent years has stopped overspending but
aggravated delays, unit costs and work flow problems.
b) Inadequate planning of investments (especially networks in transportation and water); weak links
between investments and current expenditures (essentially annual cash limits); difficulties in insuring
that assets are provided to ministries at correct costs; and moreover, that they are adequately
maintained and used.
c) Difficulties encountered when the budget is debated in parliament: a) insufficient capabilities in the
MoF in answering all the questions asked by parliamentarians; b) budgetary documents whose
presentation makes it difficult for parliamentarians to fully understand them and thereby limits their
effective readership.
d) Absence of a forward-looking and comprehensive transcription of the resources allocation
consequences of implementing the Government's Program; no forecasting and analysis of external
economic shocks and their budgetary consequences; no multiyear framework capable of assessing the
future costs of current or new policies, of providing timely warnings as to their sustainability.
e) Inadequate information management systems and equipment: this prevents both credible
macroeconomic forecasting and the production of simulations of expenditures along program
categories. This impairs timely monitoring. The absence of an integrated MIS systems within the
MoF leads to unnecessary costs and to duplications of efforts.
f) Low capacity inside the MoF for countervail analysis of ministries' spending requests (e.g., low
capacity to assess line ministries' costing for these requests, the relevance/optimality of service
delivery options they selected, the relationships between proposed actions and identified needs
(effectiveness), the distributive impacts of proposed policies and programs).
The strategy followed by the government has been to merge the organizations responsible for capital and
current expenditures budgets, to cut off funding from the budget to SOEs, to limit public banks' exposure
to SOEs, etc. From this basis, its strategy is now to reinforce central financial management and budgeting
by aiming at an integrated budget which would incorporate the best international practices to support
transparency, better strategic choices, as well as efficiency and effectiveness in control and execution.
The present project and the resources devoted to its preparation and implementation bear witness to the
determination of the government to attain these objectives.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
The government's intentions are to reinforce the MoF as a whole, in particular, the Accounting, Budget
and Treasury directorates. A simultaneous modernization in expenditures management planning and
internal controls is intended for line ministries.



4
The strategy selected for the Budget Systems Modernization project is to focus on the core MoF functions
in expenditures budgeting and management and on a limited number of key complements to it:
improvements in accounting and in implementation monitoring, full integration of capital expenditures in
budgeting and control, setting up and using a multiyear functional (programs) structure for expenditures
allocation, integrated into a proper macroeconomic forecasting framework.  Achieving significant
progress in these fields, in turn, demands a major upgrading of the MoF's capability for economic analysis
as well as in MIS equipment and management. Financial management systems also have to be
modernized through new accounting standards ("nouveau plan comptable de l'Etat") and the whole
expenditures circuit has to be revamped to increase efficiency, effectiveness and control (from the
effective availability of budgetary credits to spending agencies to a clearer allocation of authority in
controls, in recurrent reporting and in implementation monitoring).
The option of extending the project to all the operations of the MoF was considered and rejected. It
would have involved dealing with too large a number of heterogeneous and sometimes weakly linked
issues. Moreover the organizations involved would then have been very different in terms of the
problems they face and the stage they are at in their technology. For instance, operating on a such a wider
front would have meant dealing with complex property right and land management issues (Real Property
directorate). These issues go far beyond the boundaries of the MoF. As well, dealing with revenues
issues would have significantly increased complexity since the relevant directorates have information
systems and capabilities substantially ahead of what is available for expenditure management; tackling
those issues would also have meant dealing with "fiscal federalism" (the overall systems of financial
relationships between levels of government in fields such as taxation and expenditures authority and
responsibility, incentives within each level of government, etc.). Essentially to insure that the project is
successful and further significant improvements, it has been decided to limit its scope to insure feasibility
and speed in a number of tightly interrelated fields. It should also be noted that a parallel project to this
one, supported by the EU, is in preparation; it will focus on the revenue generation functions of the MoF.
Taken together the 2 projects will lead to a global modernization of the whole financial core functions of
the government. It should noted however that the ISSP (Information Systems Strategic Plan) will apply
to the whole of the MoF since its implementation will amount to an upgrading of a common
infrastructure.
Consequently, the key sector issues to be addressed specifically by the project are: a) the structure and
elaboration (multiyear, programmatic, comprehensive) and the presentation of the expenditures budget
(transparency); and b) the capability of the MoF for promoting efficiency and effectiveness through
improved macro and micro economic analysis capacity and in its capability for countervail analysis of
line ministries budgetary requests, new accounting rules and standards, streamlined and reinforced
controls and management in implementing the expenditures budget). Apart from institutional changes,
the project provides for a major upgrade in computerized information management capabilities in the
MoF.



5
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description, and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown).
--Component                 $etr  .9-4 :
A) Implementation of new                BF           13.2          44        10.4
expenditures management systems
Budget structuring, controls, economic
and functional classification grouping,
new accounting standards, accrual
accounting (partial), transparent
presentation. integration of capital
expenditures, output monitoring and
controls, dissemination of new
procedures, analytical and countervail
capacity building.
B) Development and implementation       IT            16.6         56        13.1            79
of information systems for new
budget structures
i) Capacity building: preparation of
MoF's Information Systems Strategic
Plan (ISSP) and technical assistance for
its implementation (training,
organization, policies and procedures);
technical assistance to the MoF's IT
Council and its Secretariat; technical
assistance to the Project Coordination
and Monitoring Unit for the
implementation of the Computer and
Information Systems component.
ii) Development and implementation of
computerized management systems: a
computerized Integrated Budget
Management System (IBMS); ancillary
systems.
iii) Strengthening of the technological
infrastructure: provision of H/S for the
Centralized computer unit (DCI);
provision of H/S for operating the
IBMS; provision of H/S for other
computer units.
Total      29.8M        100%        23.7          79%
Total project costs      29.8M
Front-end fee      0.237M
Total financing required      29.8M                    23.7



6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
Institutional reforms are the core objectives of the project. The Governrent's program includes a global
restructuring of the MoF and the whole of the budgeting component of the project deals with changes in
the rules and procedures for expenditures allocation planning, decisions, expensing and controls. The
major upgrading of the MIS within the MoF involves fundamental changes in business processes, not a
computerization of the existing systems. Details on the nature of these changes appear below.
A) For the full integration of capital and current expenditure budgets within a multiyear framework, the
main organizational changes required have already been effected in making the MoF the sole locus of
budgeting. The institutional changes sought thus deal with structuring the budget itself, building up of
capacity and its use in client ministries and the MoF, improving methods and practices in expenditures
analysis and forecasting, and implementing functional groupings of expenditures.
B) Two complementary additions to present capacity seem necessary: il sufficient analytical capacity to
give the MoF a strong countervail capacity on expenditures programs and investment projects, and
ii) their organizational and institutional integration to budget processes in such a way as to insure that
these capabilities are effectively used to improve the menu of options (costing and assessment of impacts)
provided to decision-makers. No matter where this additional analytical capability will be located, its
very existence and the need for using it effectively make it imperative that expenditures management
rules and modus operandi be modified, from budgetary discussions to parliamentary presentation. These
institutional changes will also apply to those parts of line ministries in most direct contact with the MoF.
C) The new accounting standards will modify how expenditures are reported and controlled. The partial
introduction of accrual accounting represents a major departure from past practices; it will also require a
re-allocation of responsibilities in inventory maintenance and ways of accounting for the use of assets.
D) The project involves building up the capacity to group expenditures within programs defined by the
outputs they deliver and the sectoral priorities in outcomes and outputs they intend to achieve. This key
feature of fiscal discipline and of the transparency of the budget has organizational consequences in the
needs it creates for forecasting capacity and for designing and applying rules to control its quality and
relevance.
E) Implementing the MIS modernization changes described implies a rnajor and sustained upgrading of
present information management systems. Such an expanded capacity will require: i) centralization of
authority and resources in the field within the MoF as well as a clarification of roles and responsibilities;
and ii) compatibility and immediacy of information flows with ministries and other organizations. New
organizational structures have been created to meet those needs: the CITIF (Council for informatics and
information technologies in Finance) and the DCI (Central Informatics Unit). With the new MIS, the
rules and procedures for the acquisition and uses software and hardware will change; as well, the
computerization of many operations will by itself modify the modus operandi of the MoF, mainly in
controls and disbursements.
3. Benefits and target population
This project concerns a basic infrastructure for economic management. Consequently, its benefits are
dispersed throughout the polity; they consist in a better allocation of public resources and in a greater
capacity to focus public sector action on priority issues. It will, in the medium term, make the task of
civil servants and decision-makers easier in budget formulation and monitoring.
The benefits expected cannot be quantified given present techniques. Moreover, the question is not
whether a project to modernize budget systems will be carried out or not, but under what conditions such
an endeavor will take place. The GoA has already rejected a separate budgetary/programming systems



7
for investments, inherited from the abandoned command economy model and has moved decisively
toward a modem integrated budgeting model by unifying all public expenditures responsibilities at the
MoF. These reforms are not yet completed in terms of fusing organizations and the MoF has not yet
brought in place a modem systems for expenditures allocation and execution. This project will facilitate
and accelerate the transition by facilitating access to international expertise and information systems
support, by allowing for the computerized infrastructure to be vastly improved and focused, by
strengthening the credibility of reforms in a field where they are complex, and difficult to implement.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
Project Implementation
In order to increase the institutional capacity of the targeted directorates, the project preparation has
benefited from the contribution of consultants under a PHRD grant and a grant from the Italian Trust
Fund. These grants have served essentially to: i) supply expertise to assist in developing options suitable
to Algerian conditions and reaching decisions on the issues listed above under "Institutional reforms to be
sought"; and ii) carry out studies on the computerized systems to be put in place and the feasibility of the
implementation strategies required for their continuous operation.
The project will be implemented over a period of four years. Project completion is expected by August
2005, with a closing date of February 28, 2006. A mid-term review will be carried out no later than
October 2003. The Ministry of Finance is the executing agency.
Steering Committee: The project will operate under the guidance of a Steering Committee (SC), chaired
by the Secretary General of the Ministry of Finance, and comprised of representatives from MoF
directorates and various line departments involved in the project, at the discretion of the Chairman. This
Steering Committee has been established during preparation and has been the focal point for decisions on
the project. This role will continue during project implementation. The Steering Committee will then
meet regularly but no less than four times a year. Members of the Committee can designate other
members to act on their behalf.  The Committee will direct and facilitate project execution and
recommend measures or changes in execution modalities to facilitate project implementation, and will
clear regular progress reports to the World Bank.
Project Implementation Unit (PIU): The overall responsibility for project execution will be delegated to
a Project Implementation Unit (PIU).
This PIU has been set up during the last stages of preparation and its director (an experienced project
manager) appointed. It reports directly to the Secretary General of the MoF. Its staffing, including
capabilities for accounting and financial management and reporting, is being completed. The PIU will be
in charge of implementing the project in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan (see annex 11)
and with the directives coming from the Steering Committee.
The PIU will use substantial international expertise at each step of the project for: i) assessing, adapting
and sequencing the implementation of best international practices in the design and implementation plans
for the structural modernization of budget systems; ii) implementing changes in information systems,
from management to systems architecture; and iii) designing and assessing the training of personnel;
iv) periodically updating the implementation plan. Given the importance of the MIS component of the
project, the secretary-general of the CITIF (Council for informatics and information technologies in
Finance) will serve as the key expert on MIS within the PIU.
Part of the expenditures related to the use of consultants will be financed by the project. The local
salaries and complementary expenditures necessary for the PIU will be the responsibility of Algerian
authorities. The PIU is responsible for the preparation of monitoring reports and working documents



8
required by Bank supervision missions, and for the mid-term review of the project. These reports will be
vetted by the Steering Committee.  The PIU will be responsible for procurement, contracting,
disbursement, administrative oversight and accounting; it will also manage the design of bidding
documents and the oversight of contracts delivery and implementation; and it will insure that reporting
arrangements are carried out in accordance with standard World Bank procedures. The PIU will serve as
a secretariat for organizing Steering Committee meetings and for providing it with the information
required for project implementation.
As described in annex 11, a detailed project implementation plan has been prepared and agreed upon..
Accounting and financial reporting: Upon implementation of the project financial management system
(see Annex 6), the Project Manager will maintain, with the assistance of the financial management
specialist, acceptable project accounts. This team will assure the issuing of the annual project financial
statements and the quarterly Project Management Reports (PMR) acceptable to the Bank and their
submission to the Bank and to the auditors. Procedures for accounts and financial reporting as well as
internal control mechanisms specific to the project, which aim at meeting the Bank requirements, will be
developed by a specialized consultant and will be reflected in a Financial Management Procedures
Manuel no later than September 2001.
Audit: MoF will appoint an auditor acceptable to the Bank to carry on an annual audit according to the
International Standards of Auditing as issued by the International Federation of Accountants, Bank's
Guidelines (e.g., financial, accounting, reporting and auditing handbook, "FARAH") and specific Terms
of Reference (TORs) acceptable to the Bank. The auditor will express a professional opinion on the
annual project financial statements and will submit to the Bank an annual audit report as soon as possible,
no later than 6 months after the end of each fiscal year.
Disbursements from the Bank loan will be initially made accorcling to the traditional system
(reimbursements with full documentation and against Statements of Expenditure - SOEs, and direct
payments). GoA could opt to the PMR based disbursement after the assessment of the project financial
management system which aims at ensuring that this system is operating satisfactory. This assessment
will take place no later than February 2002.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
As mentioned in B.3. ("Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices"), the alternative
of extending the project to all of the MoF operations was rejected because it would have led to a dispersal
of efforts, too much complexity and an overly heterogeneous series of operations, thereby unduly
increasing risk and costs. For instance, the key issues and challenges relating to revenue generation and
real property management are fundamentally different from those relating to expenditures planning and
management systems. During project preparation, discussions on a prcject supported by the EU were
initiated to deal with revenue generation issues; this project would effectively complete the present one; it
could effectively start past the mid-point of the Bank-supported project. In the same vein, organizational
and institutional difficulties associated with procurement systems -- if these elements had been included --
would have led to a loss of focus and lower efficiency; these problems should be addressed separately in
the usual Bank framework for procurement systems reform.
The project focuses on strengthening intemal accounting and controls. T his focus derives from the very
structure of external audit and control institutions in Algeria: the key institution in this respect is the Court
of Accounts (La Cour des Comptes) which is constitutionally independent from the MoF.



9
Even if it focuses on expenditures forecasting and management functions, the Information Systems
Strategic Plan (ISSP) will incorporate infonnation bridges into the upgraded computerized systems in
other directorates concerned with revenue generation which are themselves being modernized. The
objective is an integrated MIS for the whole of the MoF.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
A) An IDF grant has been awarded to help with the update of the private accounting standards
("Modersization du plan comptable national') and to upgrade the capacity of a key internal audit
institution (Inspection Generale des Finances). This tightly complements the present project.
B) A large EU-financed project is in preparation to modernize all the revenue functions of the MoF.
Contacts have already been established to insure coordination between the Bank-supported project
focused on expenditures allocation and management and the EU initiative. For instance, the necessary
harmonization points, notably in MIS architecture and communication channels, have already been
identified
C) France is involved in assisting with the updating of the public sector accounting standards ("nouveau
plan comptable de l'Etat').
D,) The UNDP is also involved in projects in the financial sector, particularly with public institutions.
E) The WB Financial System Infrastructure Development Loan project is at the preparatory stage.
Implementation    Development
progress (IP)    objective (DO)
Bank-financed                      IDF Grant                     N.A.              N.A.
Other development agencies
Public sector financial institutions  UNDP              :.....
Private accounting standards        France (bilateral)
("Modemisation du Plan Comptable                                  ,, 
National").                         EU (starting)
Revenue Functions of the MoF       _                          .'' x "+            -
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
The whole of the best practices in budgeting -- whose introduction in Algeria is at the core of the project -
- is derived from lessons learned in Bank-Fund supported projects and in analyses and experiences of
other international organizations such as the OECD and SIGMA (EU-OECD joint initiative for transition
economies).  The design of the project derives from  lessons learned both in budget reform  and
information systems upgrading.
The basic MTEF (Multiyear Expenditures Framework) was introduced in the 1960's in OECD countries
belonging to the Westminster tradition, the Scandinavian countries and the USA. In the 80's it was
introduced with success in countries like Taiwan and Singapore, refined in countries which had already
adopted it. With Bank assistance, in the '90s, it has been implemented in Estonia, Guatemala, Poland and



10
Hungary; it is being introduced in Bulgaria and Bolivia. In Africa, it has been successfully introduced in
Ghana and is being implemented in Benin. Recently, some countries in the OECD (essentially Latin
tradition countries) which had not adopted such a framework have started introducing it.
The functional groupings for public expenditures ("classification fonctionnelle ou economique") consists
of aggregating expenditure, sometimes irrespective of administrative units responsible for their
management, into categories reflecting the outputs and objectives sought, the populations targeted by the
investment and policies. Presenting expenditures in this fashion, as programs, allows for meaningful
forecasting according to the underlying factors driving the evolution of public expenditures (e.g.,
demographics and costs related to levels in education, prices and aging for health, etc.). The benchmark
functional classification now in use has been initiated by the UN in 1976; it has been extensively
recommended and supported by the IMF and the Bank over the last two decades, and by SIGMA since
1991. These groupings of expenditures are useful for transparency (they allow stakeholders to know
clearly how the government's intentions are effectively translated into the reality of expenditures
allocation) and to insure fiscal discipline (the forward looking presentation allows for early detection of
drifts and thus offers a set of early warning signals on sustainability).
With respect to MIS, the integrated system proposed, with open access to all information users, has been
the standard in public and private systems modernization over the last decade, in virtually all countries.
The technological choice effected in this project to go for a web-centered architecture also reflects now
available technology enabling organizations to have fully integrated systems which are more efficient and
less costly to upgrade and maintain.
The need for clarity of purpose, ownership and subordinating information systems to precise decisions on
substantive reforms in budget processes drives the design of the project, with an emphasis on in-depth
preparation with substantial technical assistance, on a first component heavily loaded with careful design
of budget reforms and their implementation plans, as well as the weight given to institutional reforms
which should support them, for instance in information systems management structures (accountability,
locus, power and resources). With more than 50 percent of the ultimate costs being on computers,
software and technical training, it comes out clearly from the implementation plan that the project will be
expending, up-front, a maximum of effort to insure that the focus remains firmly on budget restructuring
and that computers and software remain essentially implementation tools to attain precisely defined
structural/institutional changes objectives. This approach stems from lessons learned over the last decade.
For the MIS component, particularly costs and implementation timelines, the preparation work carried out
has called upon consultants experienced in recent turn-key operations of this nature in governmental
contexts.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
The Minister of Finance for Algeria requested the technical assistance at the 1998 annual meetings.
Preparatory work revealed that the commitment to change was solidly shared among senior civil servants
in the key directorates of the MoF. The collaboration obtained has been superb in all cases. The
preparation work has been conducted with competence and energy in all sectors in spite of substantial
changes in senior officials and a change of minister.
Moreover, the Secretary General of the MoF and the Minister's advisor have devoted a large amount of
time and energy to insure that written and well thought-out priorities were produced by the relevant
directorates; these were openly discussed under their chairmanships, and were carefully harmonized and
ranked in both importance and timing. They did not shy away from openly discussing difficult
organizational problems.
Finally, the required structures (CITIF for the MIS and the PIU itself), discussed early on in preparation,
have effectively been set up in conformity with agreements reached during the discussions of experts'



11
reports, and their managers have been appointed months before the loan will become effective. As well,
the Steering Committee requested was set up early during preparation and was the main forum for
discussions with consultants and for deciding on the project orientations; it will serve as the main locus
for high level discussions and impulsing implementation with line ministries. Moreover, the creation of a
Central informatics unit is now part and parcel of the MoF's overall restructuring plan.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
The Bank support will add value at the organizational and technical levels. At the organizational level, in
a context where the independence of each directorate dominates the MoF structures and traditions, this
loan and its collective preparation will help forge consensus on the changes needed -- which are all in the
direction of a more closely integrated MoF (centralized information management, new MIS insuring free
flows of information between directorates, etc.). The Bank's experience with similar challenges in other
countries as well as its reputation for competence and impartiality provide the GoA with a partner capable
of helping in overcoming the organizational resistances to change which are unavoidable in such
endeavors.
The Bank contribution would not be available from the private sector given the specialized expertise
needed in public sector restructuring. The Algerian authorities are acutely conscious of the need for
modernization and are highly interested in effecting it by going beyond the confines of the Latin model
they have inherited and used since independence. At the same time, they are justly apprehensive about
the risks that profound and rapid reforms could involve for one of the few very stable institutions left in a
difficult environment: the current expenditure budget. The mobilization of expertise the Bank can
achieve (breath and depth) and the credibility of the Bank on what has, in practice, worked in various
countries, is deservedly seen as a unique possibility to act decisively and with audacity while minimizing
risks.
E: Summary Project Analysis (detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8).
1. Economic assessment
[ Cost-Benefit Analysis: NOT APPLICABLE
] Cost-Effectiveness Analysis: NOT APPLICABLE
2. Financial assessment :NOT APPLICABLE
Fiscal impact: Will contribute to more effective allocation of resources and more efficient budget
execution, thereby facilitating the pursuit of the fiscal discipline established since the adjustment program
of the mid-90s.
3. Technical assessment
The budgeting component of the project will serve to finance the adoption of well-known good practices
for budget formulation, integration, presentation and management (MTEF). These accepted practices are
instruments that have been thoroughly tested elsewhere in order to ensure budgetary discipline,
transparency and public expenditure rationalization. The strengthening of analytical and forecasting
capabilities within the MoF pursues similar aims. The information systems component will serve to
finance the modemization of the tools required to implement this set of modern expenditures allocation
and management institutions. Indeed, the archaism and lack of integration of MIS within the MoF would
thwart any attempt at budgeting reform.



12
4. Institutional assessment
a. Executing agencies: The directorates involved within the Ministry of Finance have a high level of
competency and are adequately staffed. As project sponsor and throughout the preparation process, the
MoF has demonstrated its willingness and ability to bring to completion projects of this nature, as
evidenced by the quality and fast turnaround of the information subrnitted, a rigorous effort to meet
deadlines and the quality of the debate surrounding options and strategies at all times. The Secretary
General has personally taken the role of project champion from start to finish, by chairing the Steering
Committee; the same can be said for the person designated as the Bank's counterpart, the minister's
advisor.
b. Project management: The Project Implementation Unit has been set up; its structures, locus, and
functions are in agreement with all the Bank's requirements to insure effective implementation. Its
director has been appointed soon enough in the preparation phase to insure full ownership of and
participation to implementation planning; the full staffing of the PIU is underway and will be completed
before the start of the project. In addition, its closed links with the Steering Committee and the Secretary
General will give it sufficient clout to manage conflicts and the unavoidable trade-offs in projects of this
nature. The decree creating the CITIF is being processed and its secretary-general is the chief IT person
within the PIU.
c. Financial management issues: The financial management assessment that has been conducted showed
that the project's accounting and financial management system is in place in the MoF, it is based on
principles and procedures defined by the legal framework applicable to the public sector. This system is
incomplete in terms of providing the cumulative and detailed data that is required by the Bank.
Accordingly the Project Manager will be held responsible to build a financial management system
specific to the project including, among others, issuing of a detailed financial and accounting procedures
manual, implementation of a software for accounting and reporting and t-aining of the project staff.
The improvements proposed in the agreed time bound action plan, if successfully implemented during the
12-month period, will mitigate the risks linked to the insufficiencies identified in the existing MoF
financial management system (financial management arrangements for the project are detailed in Annex
6).
5. Social assessment
The central social issues in Algeria are the serious disruptions in labor markets that have surfaced in the
wake of the transition from a command economy, and the difficult adjustment process that had to be
undertaken given the country's indebtedness and difficult financial position. This occurred against a
backdrop of overall stagnation during the last decade. This project will help reach Government's social
priorities by improving investment selection and project management, as well as providing for a quantum
leap in the tools required for expenditures allocation, monitoring and control.
6. Environmental assessment           Environmental Category   [ ] A    [ ] B   [X] C
The project deals with budgeting machinery, and thus has no direct impact on investments or expenditures
with a prospective environmental impact.
7. Participatory approach
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups.
The project cannot succeed fully if ministerial stakeholders in the preparation and execution of budgets
are not involved at an early stage. On the budget execution side, the same applies to the regional offices
and their employees. Within the project itself, the first stage will serve to familiarize senior civil servants



13
with the project and build consensus. The Steering Committee is set up with enough flexibility to achieve
the required high level buy-in from line ministries. The implementation plan and its communication
strategy, as well as the large amount of resources devoted to training and communication in launching the
new systems, will serve to bring in the second and third tiers of civil servants.
b. Other key stakeholders.
N/A
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
Four risks affect sustainability and effectiveness.
The first is political, and is by no means specific to Algeria: effecting a better allocation of public
resources via a more transparent expenditures budgeting framework and more efficient controls depends
on political factors going beyond this project. The project only puts in place tools capable of furthering
theses objectives.
The second is technical and economic: the substantive reforms undertaken demand a major upgrade in
forecasting and policy analysis capacities. The costs and real availability of resources to maintain and to
upgrade this capability up to a critical mass might be substantial and they raise the question of
sustainability. The recurrent costs involved should not be so heavy as to pose a major threat. However
the capacity to recruit, train and retain the specialized personnel required may prove problematic.
The third risk is not specific to Algeria; difficulties in the field have beset governments in OECD
countries as well as in developing ones. The problems lie in the effective use of an upgraded analytical
capacity and notably in its effective integration to budget processes in such a manner that it really
contributes to better resources allocation choices. To take the best known example, it has proven
difficult, everywhere, to effectively use for budgetary choices the knowledge accumulated through
program and policy evaluations. Even after a generation of experiments, the problem cannot be
considered completely solved. Constraints in this field appear to be linked to the ways knowledge gets
used and transmitted within public organizations; they would thus have more to do with organizational
culture than with the level of technical proficiency. In Algeria, the upgraded capacity might not be fully
used during the project because the qualitative organizational and institutional changes required to do so
are delicate and slow to implement.
The fourth risk has to do with the capacity to maintain and manage the planned upgraded MIS. The risks
in this field are: i) that the real authority for this function will be eroded with the passage of time, leading
back to the dispersed and inefficient present arrangements; and ii) that in implementation and continuous
upgrading, as has often been the case elsewhere, the MoF will face severe constraints in recruiting and
retaining skilled personnel in a very fast growing field -- given the rigidities of the remuneration system
in the public service. Outsourcing might prove difficult because of reticence inside the public sector and
because of the demands it would impose in this field in terms of controls and structures which would be
required to manage the interface between contractors and MoF. A special study was commissioned
during preparation specifically to uncover solutions to this problem.



14
2. Critical risks (reflecting the assumptions made in the fourth column of Annex 1)
_                           $                  0 
From outputs to objective
The critical risks are:
i) Project management is not strong enough to  M    With regarcl to project management, the
ensure prompt and complete application of all       clear commitment expressed by the MoF
reforms planned as part of the project.             toward the implementation of the
execution and control structure described
above, as well as the willingness to call
upon consultants in this task coincide with
the completion of the preparation and first
phase of the project (planning finalization).
All these measures, as well as the
participative approach described earlier,
seek to give the project an implementation
plan that is carefully spelled out but
flexible, mainaged by competent persons,
and given adequate resources and the
required authority.
ii) that a technically more complete and      S    Political variable not within reach of the
proficient budgeting system is not used for         project except for its transparency
policy debates outside the executive;               improveme.nt dimension
iii) that improvements in budget execution    M     The project itself is designed to give
monitoring are not realized due to constraints      greater power clout to the MoF, as
beyond the effective authority of the MoF;          explicitly desired by the GoA.
iv) that the management structures put in place  M  The full integration of the MIS changes to
for information systems do not prove resilient     the rest of the modified expenditures
enough, and/or that not enough resources are        management systems reduces the risk that
devoted to the continuous upkeep and                this component could revert to its former
development of the system.                          dispersed mnanagement.



15
From components to outputs
i) Serious constraints may exists to institutional    M  i) The project can only offer good tools.
capacity to actually use the improved analytical
capabilities, to do so transparently, to submit to
the type of criticisms and demands that a
MTEF with clear policy objectives and
forecasts entail
ii) In MIS deployment and use, the key risk is  M     ii) This risk is the key reason why
that of delays and cost overruns given the            contingencies reserves are an explicit part
number of elements to introduce and the variety       of the project; they serve to contain it as
in demands as well as the delicate connections        well as to take into account the fiact that
between the MIS and the changes effected in all       unplanned difficulties are bound to arise.
dimensions of expenditures management.                As well, preparatory work has been tightly
focused on systems with proven track
records and on wide participation of all
interested parties in order to avoid
surprises
iii) The traditional risks in such operation are  M   iii) The mitigation of these risks has taken
that either the material bought is already           the form of a scheduling of operations
obsolete or that its use is delayed so much that      such that the substantive changes in
substantial skills deterioration occurs.             institutions are implemented before the
ISSP is finalized; that this finalization
itself offers a downstream occasion to
insure against irrelevance and
obsolescence; as well, calls for bids
preparation once the ISSP is finalized will
insure tight integration between materials
and training and launch.
iv) The improvement in communication            S     iv) The web-based architecture selected
infrastructure will not occur or will come too        can be run on reserved facilities inside
late for this project.                               ("private web") cities and special lines can
dedicated or outlying areas.
Overall Risk Rating                             S    The overall risk is higher than the sum of
the risks associated with individual
components.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk).
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
Changes of this magnitude are bound to affect power relationships. The present project will certainly
reinforce Mol's intervention capabilities vis-a-vis other institutions. Mutatis mutandis the same holds for
relationships between directorates inside the MoF. While these consequences of the changes explicitly
sought by the project will generate internal debates and conflicts, no controversy involving Bank policies
is likely to emerge.



16
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
None.
2. Other
Dated Covenants in the Loan Agreement
I.    The mid-term review (MTR) report is to be submitted to the Bank not later than October 315'
2003 and the MTR of the project to be carried thereafter.
2.     Not later than October 3 15, 2003, the Borrower shall have enacted the regulations required for the
restructuring of the MoF, including the institution of a central entity responsible for MIS.
3.    Not later than December 2002, the Borrower shall have enacted the regulations required to enable
the presentation of its annual budget if possible for the fiscal year 2003 and not later than FY 2004 on the
basis of a Multiyear Expenditures Framework (MTEF as defined in article I of the loan agreement). This
MTEF (Multiyear Expenditures Framework) will complement the standard annual budget presentation; it
will present expenditures forecasts for the outlying 3 years, for all current and investment expenditures,
aggregated according to the functional groupings which will have then been finalized and implemented.
4.    Not later than June 30, 2003, the Borrower shall have adopted and implemented its new public
sector accounting standards ("nouveau plan comptable de l'Etat").
5.    The Borrower shall not later than December 31s' 2003, have taken all the necessary steps,
including the enactment of the relevant regulations, to implement a rationalization, a streamlining and
efficiency improvements to the whole expenditure circuit, including in particular a clarification of the
roles and effective authority of agents and organizations with respect to expenditures management and
control.
H: Readiness for Implementation
[ ]. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are completed and ready for the
start of project implementation.
[X ] 1. b) NOT APPLICABLE.
] 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are completed and ready for the start of
project implementation. NOT APPLICABLE.
[ X ] 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ ] 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G): NIL.



17
1: Compliance with Bank Policies
[ X ] 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
]  2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
[signature]                                     -
Team Leader: Francois Lacasse
[signature]
Sector Manager/Director: Mustapha Nabli  
[signature]
Country Manager/Director: Christian Delvoie



18
Box 1: Project description
1. Project developmental objectives (see Annex 1 for key performance indicators).
The project will provide tools to enable budgetary institutions to deliver a comprehensive and transparent
statement on expenditures allocation; to increase efficiency in the execution and control of expenditures;
to offer better and more realistic assessments of expenditures consequences of policy choices.
2. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed breakdown of
costs).
Components                  Category    Costs. includin>zunexpected   % of total
(Million USD)
A) Implementation of new
Expenditures management systems       BF                 13.2                 44
Budget structuring, controls, economic
and functional classification grouping,
new accounting standards, accrual
accounting (partial), transparent
presentation, integration of capital
expenditures, output monitoring and
controls, dissemination of new
procedures, analytical and countervail
capacity building.
B) Development and implementation
Of information systems for new budget
Structures                            IT                 16.6                 56
i) Capacity building: Information Systems
Strategic Plan (ISSP) and TA for its
implementation (training, organization,
policies and procedures).
ii) Development and implementation of
Computerized management systems:
a computerized Integrated Budget
Management System (IBMS); ancillary
systems.
iii) Strengthening of the technological infrastructure:
Provision of HIS.
Total              29.8
3. Benefits and target populations
This project concerns a basic infrastructure for economic management. Consequently, its benefits are
dispersed throughout the polity; they consist in a better allocation of public resources and in a greater
capacity to focus public sector action on priority issues. It will, in the medium term, make the task of
civil servants and decision-makers easier in budget formulation and monitoring.
4. Institutional structures and implementation procedures
Implementation period: March 2001 to August 2005
Implementation agencies: Project Implementation Unit within MoF
Project coordination: Steering Committee chaired by SG of the MoF
Project supervision: standard with dated covenants anchored to MTR
Accounting, financial information and audit. IGF audits; FMM in Sept. 2001 (see annex 6)
Monitoring and evaluation. Steering committee.



19
Box 2: Project rationale
5. CAS objective(s) promoted by the project
Growth supported by efficient, transparent and effective governance.
Document number: 15316- AL              Date of latest CAS discussion: Feb. 5, 1996
6. Sectoral issues and government strategy
i) A poor record in planning and control of costs and delays in capital projects.
ii) (a) Insufficient capabilities in the MoF in answering parliamentarians' questions; b) budgetary
documents rather difficult to interpret.
iii) Absence of a forward-looking and comprehensive transcription of the resources allocation
consequences of implementing the Government's Program.
iv) Inadequate information management systems and equipment.
v) Low capacity inside the MoF for countervail analysis of ministries' spending requests.
7. Sectoral problems targeted by the project and strategic choices
Reinforce the Accounting, Budget and Treasury directorates; simultaneous modernization in expenditures
management planning and internal controls for line ministries. The strategy selected for the Budget
Systems Modernization project is to focus on the core MoF functions in budgeting and expenditures
management and on a limited number of key complements to it, essentially in MIS.
8. Options considered and reasons for their rejection
The option of extending the project to all the operations of the MoF was considered and rejected. It
would have involved dealing with too large a number of heterogeneous and sometimes weakly linked
issues and therefore would have led to increased risks due to a lack of focus and implementation
complexities. A project is under discussion with the EU to modernize the revenue generation functions of
the MoF.
9. Main related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing or projected)
IDF grant to update commercial accounting standards ("plan comptable") and to upgrade the capacity of a
key internal audit institution (Inspection Generale des Finances).
EU financed project is in preparation to modernize all the revenue functions of the MoF.
WB Financial System Infrastructure Development Loan project is at the preparatory stage.
France [Ministere Economie et Finances, Direction Generale de la Comptabilite Publique (DGCP)].assists
with the updating of the public accounting standards.
10. Lessons learned and integrated in project design
The whole of the best practices in budgeting is derived from lessons learned in Bank-Fund supported
projects and experiences of OECD and SIGMA. The design of the project derives from lessons learned
both in budget reform and information systems upgrading. The MTEF was introduced in the (1960's in
OECD) with success in countries like Taiwan and Singapore in the '80s; with Bank assistance, in the '90s,
in Estonia, Guatemala, Poland and Hungary; it is being introduced in Bulgaria and Bolivia; in Africa, it
has been successfully introduced in Ghana and is being implemented in Benin. With respect to MIS, the
integrated system proposed, with open access to all information users, has been the standard in public and
private systems modernization over the last decade, in virtually all countries. The technological choice
effected in this project to go for a web centered architecture also reflects now available technology
enabling organizations to have fully integrated systems which are more efficient and less costly to
upgrade and maintain.



20
11. Elements demonstrating borrowers commitment and ownership
The Minister of Finance requested assistance at the 1998 annual meetings. Preparatory work revealed
that the commitment to change was solidly shared among senior civil servants; the collaboration obtained
has been superb; the preparation work has been conducted with competence and energy in spite of
substantial changes in senior officials and a change of minister. The Secretary General of the MoF and
the Minister's advisor have devoted a large amount of time and energy to insure that written and well
thought-out priorities were produced by the relevant directorates.
12. Value added of the Bank's support
The Bank support will add value at the organizational and technical levels. At the organizational level, in
a context where the independence of each directorate dominates the MoF structures and traditions, this
loan and its collective preparation will help forge consensus on the changes needed -- which are all in the
direction of a more closely integrated MoF (centralized information marnagement, new MIS insuring free
flows of information between directorates, etc.). The Bank's experience with similar challenges provides
the GoA with help in overcoming organizational resistances to change. At the technical level the Bank
contribution would not be available from the private sector given the specialized expertise needed in
public sector restructuring.



21
Box 3: Summary evaluations of Project (detailed evaluations are found in the project file. See Annex 8)
13. Economic assessment    Cost-benefit analysis: NA    Cost-effectiveness      Other (specify)
(see Annex 4): NA                                       analysis: NA             Institutional
Readiness
Fiscal impact (for all project): Will contribute to more effective allocation of resources and more efficient budget
execution, thereby facilitating the pursuit of the fiscal discipline established since the adjustment program of the
mid-90s.
14. Financial assessment: NA.
15. Technical assessment: The project is feasible, solid commitment and planning, well integrated into the overall
transition strategy of the GoA.
16. Institutional assessment
a. Executing agencies: PIU has been set up and changes made for MIS management; all conditions met.
b. Project management: PIU reporting to Steering Committee chaired by the SG; all conditions met.
17. Social assessment: No direct impact; better budgetary machinery will facilitate implementation of policies
directed at social priorities.
18. Environmental assessment:         Environmental Category        A          B          C
19. Participatory approach: NA  Identification/Preparation Execution  Operation
Beneficiary/community groups: NA; Other sources of financing: GoA
20. Sustainability:
Moderate risks related to sustainability and ability to find and retain required personnel in informatics and economic
analysis.
21. Critical risks (see fourth column of Annex 1):
From outputs to objectives
Risk: Multiyear framework makes for clearer statement of objectives; new accounting, integration of expenditures
foster fiscal discipline and efficiency; improved countervail assists in clarifying choices. For these results to be
attained depends on: a) capacity of the MoF and departments to integrate the added expertise and multiyear
perspective in designing policy choices; b) the will of policy makers to use this information.
Rating: M.
Risk minimization measures: substantial training and feedback mechanisms; gradual introduction, transparency
aspects focuses on Parliamentarians and media.
From components to outputs
Risk (budgeting): Delays in using MTEF and implementing accounting standards and difficulties in integrating
analytic capabilities.
Rating: M.
Risk minimization measures Commitment and resources in PIU, MTR linked covenants, preparation studies and
planning.
Risk (MIS): Delays from difficulties in budgeting component, complexity and scope; difficulties in finding required
personnel, resistance to centralization of authority, communications infrastructure.
Risk Rating: M.
Minimization: Substantial resources devoted to establishing conditions and planning; commitment to MoF
reorganization (covenants) and basic architecture which insulates partially against delays in telecommunication
upgrading.
Overall risk rating: S (The overall risk is higher than the sum of the risks associated with individual components)
22. Possible controversial aspects: NIL



22
Box 4: Main loan conditions
23. Effectiveness conditions: None
24. Other: Dated covenants anchored to the MTR on the effective implemenltation of the project: MTEF launch,
new accounting standards for the public sector, comprehensive strategy for streamlining and in improving budget
execution and control, orderly deployment of new information management technology, training and MIS
management structures.
Box 5: Compliance with general Bank policies
The project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval: NIL
The project complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
Francois Lacasse                  t   Mustapha Nabli                 Chris    Delvoie
Team Leader                           Sector Director               Country Director



23
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Algeria: Budget Systems Modernization
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:          Sector / Country Reports:   (from Goal to Bank Missi on)
Growth supported by         Solid expenditure forecasts   WB and IMF data bases and  Continued timprovement in
efficient, transparent and  and control on project and    annual reports.           social/business climate;
effective governance.       policies old and new; tight                             continued progress toward
links between expenditures                              diversified growth,
and macro situation.                                    increased investments and
improved governance.
Project Development Objective:  Outcome I Impact Indicators:    Project Reports:    (from Objective to Goal)
The project will provide                                                            The goals are:
tools to facilitate:                                                                comprehensive and
transparent budgeting
Budgetary institutions      i) Reduction in payments    Supervision reports, media   inform private and public
delivering a comprehensive   delays 2003 when mid-term   and Parliamentarians' views  decision makers, reduce
and transparent statement on  review will take place    collected, IGF views on     uncertainty on government
expenditures allocation on a  together with demonstrated   compliance.              intentions and foster fiscal
multiyear basis; increased  execution controls.                                     discipline; improved budget
efficiency in execution and   ii) New accounting                                    execution monitoring
monitoring of expenditures,  standards ("nouveau plan                               reinforces suppliers'
solid analytical capability in  comptable de l'Etat") are in                        financial planning and
place and used.             place and followed.                                     reduces costs; stronger
iii) Parliament has received   Supervision reports, data  countervail capabilities
the new format budget and    collection on delays from  fosters better instruments
the tools necessary for its    the start, IGF opinion, MTR. choice and priorization; and
comprehension.                                          a more transparent budget
facilitates contestability by
elements of civil society.
The critical assumption for
all these goals to be reached
is that the instruments the
project sets up are:
a) delivered adequately and
b) effectively used by
decision makers, media and
Parliamentarians.



24
Output from each component:   Output Indicators:       Project Reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
A) Expenditures
management
i) Multiyear framework in   i) Regulations are enacted    Supervision reports, annual   Multiyear and program
place with accepted        for the new budget structure  progress reports, MTR.   framework make for clearer
methodology used and       before Oct. 31 2003;                                   statement of government
controlled by MoF.         functional groupings are in                            objectives and target
place at the end of 2002;                              populations. New
capacity for forecasting is in                         accounting, integration of
place in departments and so                            expenditures foster fiscal
is the quality/relevance                               discipline and economv.
controls in the MoF by Sept.                          Improved countervail assists
2003.                                                  in clarifying choices.
ii) Partial accrual accounting  ii) Referenced inventory                          The critical conditions for
is launched for vehicles.  implemented for vehicles                               these results to be attained
during 2003/2004, methods                              given the instrumental
for depreciation and                                   changes that the project will
valuation are then in place.                           deliver are: a) capacity of
iii) Fully integrated capital   iii) Presentation of fully                        the MOF and departments to
expenditures.              integrated capital                                     integrate the added expertise
expenditures in budget law                             and multiyear perspective in
in 2004.                                               designing policy choices;
iv) Improved capacity for    iv) Observations for a                               b) the will of policy makers
economic assessment and    sample of sectoral policy                              to use this information.
forecasting.               groupings: quality of
"micro" forecasts and of
control system assessed by
MoF.
v) Improved budget         v) Direct legibility
presentation; more         assessment.
accessible to Parliament and
civil society
B) New management          i) Operational tests on IT  Annual progress reports.   Real authority and resources
information systems        hardware and software and    Supervision reports.      are devoted to managing
i) IT hardware and software  users have been trained on                           infornation systems and the
are in place at the end of the  new information systems.                          launching of the new
project, in full congruence    Systems have been put in                           systems has been done onlv
to the budgeting objectives   place according to the                              after carefully planning the
pursued and providing      implementation plan.                                   implementation of all the
effectively a unified      ii) Budgetary structures                               required changes in
budgetary/accounting       have been modified as                                  budgeting and management
system accessible to all   agreed before the bulk of the                          structures as well as
relevant personnel.        new technology is put in                               providing for adequate
ii) Management structures    place(end of 2002),                                  resources competencies to
are in place and working   including integrating a new                            upgrade.
within the MoF for an      information system
integrated system          management.
management.                iii) Observations on:
iii) Adequate resources of    systems breakdowns
information systems        (frequency, length); levels
management, maintenance    of resources for support and
and continuous upgrading.   management; capability for
updating systems.



25
Project Components/       Inputs: (budget for each component, in US$ 000)  Project reports:  (from Goal to Bank
Sub-components:                                                                           Mission)
1. Budget system          US$8,711.
component.
1.1. Implementation of    US$2,006. Design of functional            WB supervision        Expertise mobilized,
multiyear budgeting.      groupings, dissemination, training in its    reports annual project  decision flows
use as a base for MTEF (2001-2).         reports.              continuous, line
depts. integrated.
1.2. Improvement of       US$525. Needs analysis, design of         Supervision reports.   Will and openness in
presentation and diffusion   supports, validation according to plan                       needs analysis.
of budget.                (2001-3).
1.3. Reinforcement of     US$1,560. Choices for reinforcement       Supervision reports.   Capacity of MoF to
economic and policy       (training and recruitment), organizational                      adapt structures to
analysis at the MoF.      choices; planning and action (02-4).                            use capability.
1.4. Reform of expenditure  US$3,050. Analysis, validation, solution    Supervision reports.   Leadership in
implementation cycle.     design, testing, regulatory changes,                            overcoming sectoral
New public accounting      implementation, review.(2001-4). New                           interests.
system                    accounting standards in (2002-3).
1.5. Implementation of    US$1,570. Design for motor pool, pilots,   WB supervision       Creating local
accrual accounting        validation, regulatory formulation        reports annual project  expertise.
(partial).                (responsibilities, methods) (2003-4).     reports.
2. Computer and           US$12,844.
information systems
component.
2.1. Structural           US$1,165. Detailed architecture planning   Supervision reports.   Careful bids planning
strengthening.            and bids preparation, organizational                            and surveillance.
changes.
2.2. Development and      US$5,100. Contracted out including        Supervision reports    Adequate feed-back
deployment of             launch, training and adjustments.         annual reports.       (experts and users).
applications.
2.3. Strengthening of the    US$6,519. Expansion of systems and     Supervision reports.   Previous steps fully
technological             integration of new equipment and                                implemented.
infrastructure.           technology.
3. Reserve for            US$2,172. In a project of that complexity,  Procurement
contingencies.            capacity to adapt to unforeseen           decisions,
contingencies is crucial.                supervisions.          _



26
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
Algeria: Budget Systems Modernization
The project has two major components. The BUDGETING component contains changes to rules,
organizations and practices related to budget preparation, its presentation, and the expenditures
monitoring procedures. The INFORMATION SYSTEMS component deals with the implementation,
operation and testing of equipment, structures and skills required for the information systems to
effectively support the new budgeting structures and promote closer integration of key expenditures
management functions within the Ministry of Finance.
PROJECT COMPONENT A - Budgeting: Implementation of new expenditures
management systems: 13.2 million USD
The overall objectives are: to facilitate the overall control of public expenditures; to facilitate strategic
choices through better information and analysis; to improve budget transparency in order to promote an
open discussion of economic and social policies options, to strengthen budget execution monitoring and
the effectiveness of policy implementation via improved choices and execution in both recurrent and
investments expenditures.
The operational objectives of the project -- the sub-components selecteJ to facilitate the attainment of the
overall objectives -- are:
1. Implementation of an integrated, multiyear budgeting, including both investments and current
expenditures. The move towards multiyear budgeting, while maintainiing entirely the annual budgetary
cycle from a legal point of view (one year with budget projections for three-years, updated annually),
implies the following initiatives:
1.1. Strengthening of expenditure forecasting capacity within departments and the MoF, as well
as an analytical and programming capacity for public investments, full integration of current and
capital expenditure nomenclatures; adoption of a new expenditures grouping system based on a
functional breakdown of expenditures.
1.2. For each of these elements, the following initiatives will be undertaken: required staff
training, modernization of equipment (hardware, software, etc.) and changes to laws and
regulations as required.
2. Improving budget presentation and dissemination in order to promote a more open and informed debate
on the various option facing the government. Here are the measures contemplated to this end:
2.1. Streamlining the documents to be published based on the reform introduced by multiyear
budgeting to the formulation and implementation of a revised dissemination policy for budget
documents and information, following consultations with interested parties (parliamentarians,
media, etc.).
2.2. This sub-component will entail expenditures for analysis and surveys, budget layout design,
adaptation and procurement of required hardware and software.
3. A substantial capability building in terms of the overall analytical capacity of the MoF, specially for
establishing a full-scale MTEF and micro-economic and policy analysis of expenditures programs and
projects.



27
3.1. This sub-component will entail expenditures for tooling up in both computer and software
infrastructure, technical and methodological training.
3.2. Building such capability and, more importantly, insuring that it is used effectively requires
delicate changes in processes and organizations. Consequently, it will require continuously
revised planning over the duration of the project. The same holds for insuring that the recurrent
costs involved in setting up this capability are kept within bounds and do not endanger
sustainability. This concern, in turn, means a careful and sequential examination of all
procurement options for such products, not only the hiring of additional civil servants with the
required qualifications. Expenditures for this sub-component will take the form of technical
assistance, training time and expenses.
4. A substantial strengthening of the capacity for monitoring and accounting for public expenditures will
take place. A revamping of the whole of the budgetary expenditures implementation cycle will focus on
improving service delivery, reducing costs and delays in payments, improving performance controls.
4.1. This sub-component includes the implementation of a completed new set of public
accounting standards; diagnostic, design and implementation of solution on the revamping of the
expenditures implementation cycle; a partial introduction of accrual accounting during the second
half of the project, starting with vehicles in the perspective of improving both management and
budgetary capabilities in balancing maintenance and replacement expenditures and assessing
needs of line ministries. The role of ex-post auditing will also be re-defined within this sub-
component and the required methods and expertise will be set in place.
4.2. This sub-component links up tightly with the unified MIS for budgeting and accounting. The
main expenditures will be on training and building up the procedures for the revamped system
and the new MIS.
PROJECT COMPONENT B - Computer and Information Systems: 16.6 million
USD
It is necessary to develop an integrated budget management system (IBMS) that would allow the various
actors in budgetary processes -- MoF Directorates and ministry's budget administrators (ordonnateurs) --
to exchange data and have access constantly to timely and accurate budget, commitment, expenditure and
revenue data at all levels.
Although the development and implementation of the.IBMS is the raison d'ere of the Computer and
Information Systems component, two other aspects have to be taken into account to ensure that the
project will meet its objectives: i) the strengthening of the MoF's capacity to operate a system which will
become a critical tool for budget planning and execution; and ii) the strengthening of MoF's physical
infrastructures (computer and telecommunications hardware and software) which, given their degree of
obsolescence', is a pre-requisite for the deployment of the IBMS. The Computer and Information
Systems component has therefore been subdivided into three sub-components.
1.1    Capacity Building
Three (3) series of project activities have been designed to enable the MoF to implement and successfully
operate the IBMS: i) preparation of a ministry-wide Information Systems Strategic Plan (ISSP); ii)
O out of the 945 units (microcomputers, workstation, servers) in use at the DGB, DGEP, DGC and DGT, 719 are
considered as being obsolete, i.e. with a 486 or lower processor.



28
tecknical assistance to the MoF Information Technology Council and its Secretariat; and iii) technical
assistance to the PIU. Although the first two series of activities may not seem directly related to the
nature of the project, i.e. the modernization of budget systems, they nevertheless constitute key elements
of a strategy aimed at ensuring a positive return on the investment required to develop and implement the
IBMS. Suffice it to say that, as reported in a project preparation study, most computer system problems
currently faced by the Ministry result from past organizational choices and from the weakness of the
coordination structure adopted to monitor the implementation of the Schema directeur informatique
strategique of 1991.
1.1.1  Information Systems Strategic Plan
The project will finance the preparation of a ministry-wide ISSP which will: i) determine strategic
orientations w.r.t. the mission and role of IT within the MoF; ii) define data and applications
architectures that ensure the orderly implementation of applications within the MoF - especially
those linked to budget processes - and the development of data bases allowing for a sharing of
information among the various applications; iii) provide a blueprint for the deployment of a
technological infrastructure that ensures compatibility of hardware and software and facilitates
the sharing of telecommunication resources among the various departmental administrative units;
iv) estimate resources (human, material, financial) for the development and operations of needed
information systems; v) provide guidelines for the establishment of a well-structured and
performing informatics organization; and vi) define an overall implementation plan for the ISSP.
1.1.2  Technical Assistance to the IT Council
Based on international experience and taking account of the Algerian context, the proposed
organizational structure would entail: i) the creation of the MoF Information Technology Council
(Conseil de l'informatique et des technologies de l'information des Finances - CITIF)2 which will
be responsible for the definition of the Ministry's IT strategies and policies; ii) the creation of a
permanent secretariat - attached to the CITIF - which will assist the CITIF in the definition of
strategies and policies, represent the MoF towards the Algerian government and other
organizations in matters related to IT, prepare and update the MoF's ISSP, set standards and
methods to be used by all computer units and assess sub-ISSP prepared by Directorates; iii) the
creation of a Central computer unit (Direction centrale de l'informatique) which will be
responsible for the development and operations of centralized systems (such as the IBMS,
Payroll, etc.) as defined in the ISSP, the planning and management of technological
infrastructures used for the operation of centralized systems or used by other directorates for the
operation of their own systems; and iv) the revision of the way computer services are organized
within Directorates.
The project will finance two sets of activities to assist the MoF in the setting-up a of the proposed
structures: i) coaching and advisory services to CITIF Secretariat staff to help them play their
support role to the members of the CITIF; and ii) training and study tours to upgrade CITIF
Secretariat staff's technical capabilities.
2 The CITIF will be composed of MoF high-level managers (Secrdtaire gein&ral, Directeurs gene'raux and
Directeurs) and of the Finance Auditor (Inspecteur general des finances); it will be chaired by the Secretaire
general.



29
1.1.3  Technical assistance to the PIU
The project will provide consulting and advisory services to the PIU which will bear the
responsibility of implementing the highly complex Computer and Information Systems
component of the project. Assistance will be provided in areas such as: planning; preparation of
bidding documents; evaluation of proposals; monitoring of contractors' performance; and
coordination of project activities assigned to the MoF computer units.
2.1    Systems Development and Implementation
The project will contribute to the development and deployment of computer applications to support
budget processes by financing technical assistance and training of both computer specialists and users.
The limited skills and knowledge of cutting-edge technologies among computer personnel, the lack of
computer experts and the speed at which applications should be deployed under the project timetable
would call for a strategy where the development of computer applications is contracted out to specialized
firms. These would submit a plan aimed at integrating the Ministry's resources in order to promote skill
transfers to Algeria's computer staff. Given the country's situation and the nature of the applications
required, most of these would have to be custom-developed in the absence of packaged software on the
market. These strategies would be validated or rejected during the preparation of the ISSP.
Although specific systems requirements resulting from changes to be brought to budget processes are not
yet known, the general features of the budget systems modernization as outlined in the Budget
Component and the agreed upon need to deploy an Integrated Budget Management System which will
focus on the expenditure side of budget management make it to possible to define precisely the scope of
the IBMS. The estimation of the effort and cost required to develop and implement the IBMS was done
taking into account that: i) all current systems supporting budget processes have to be replaced due to
either their functional shortcomings or their technological obsolescence; and ii) computer hardware
currently in place is or will be obsolete when the IBMS will be deployed (two years after project start-up).
2.1.1. Integrated Budget Management System
The main objectives of the IBMS are as follows: i) to streamline the budgetary processes by
applying the principle of single entry by the initiator of an operation3 and to make this
information accessible to various parties based on their right of access to this information; ii) to
facilitate and speed up the treatment of actions linked to an expenditure by rationalizing the
information flows to promote better cash-flow management (by the DGT); iii) to ensure that, at
all times, the accounting data produced by the various budget administrators (and assistant budget
administrators), financial controllers and accountants match4; iv) to accelerate the process by
which budgetary bills are prepared and examined; currently, these bills are tabled three (3) years
after the end of the fiscal year.
The MoF Business Model developed during the preparation phase of the project highlighted that many
internal organizational units (Directorates) and external organizations (e.g., ministries, Cour des comptes)
participate in the same business processes; and that there is a high level of data sharing of budget data.
This finding reinforces the idea that the IBMS cannot belong to any specific organizational unit (DGB,
DGC, DGT) and that a central computer unit is needed for operating it. The MoF Business Model also
3The DGB for budget and administrative controls, the budget administrators for commitments, the DGC for expenditure
accounting, and the DGI, DGD and DGDN for revenue accounting.
4The computer system would be designed to ensure continuity among budget and accounting nomenclatures, whether or not they
are standardized.



30
proved to be a useful tool to define the scope of the IBMS by delimiting the boundaries of the business
processes it will support. To that end four families of business processes were identified, namely:
<<Planning)>, <(Budget Preparation>>, <<Expense Execution>> and <<Preparation of the Loi de reglement
(Budgetary Bill)>>. This grouping implies that the IBMS will focus mainly on supporting business
processes involving the DGEP, DGB, DGC and DGT and that business processes related to revenue
collection (and under the main responsibility of the DGI, DGD and DGDN) will not be supported by the
IBMS.
Although functional specifications of the IBMS will be developed during project implementation,
the following preliminary requirements have already been identified:
i)     a computer-based model to assist the DGEP and the DGB in the preparation of
(revolving) multi-annual forecasts (by sector, policy or program) closely linked
with a coherent macroeconomic framework;
ii)    a complete re-write of DGB's systems for the preparation, administrative control
and monitoring of multiyear budgets (by program and sector) integrating capital
and current expenditures;
iii)   the complete re-write of DGC's key> systems used centrally and in the wilayat
taking into account the (partial) introduction of accrual accounting and the
harmonization of budget and accounting nomenclatures;
iv)    applications which  would  make  it possible  for budget administrators
(Ordonnateurs) to monitor the progress of their budget;
v)     applications to facilitate the preparation of the Loi de reglement; and
vi)    links) between the IBMS and DGI's, DGD's and DGDN's systems to collect
revenue data at consolidated levels.
2.1.2   Other systems
The project will give the highest priority to the IBMS given its key role in the modernization of
budget systems. However other systems development activities could be funded by the project -
budget and time permitting - especially to support the <Financial Management>>, a family of
business processes which is mainly under the responsibility of the DGT and covers topics such as
cash and debt management. These systems cannot effectively be implemented before the IBMS
is in place.
3.1    Strengthening of the technological infrastructure
The DGEP, DGB, DGC and DGC have, as. of June 2000, a combined computer inventory of 945 units
(servers, PCs and workstations), the majority of which are already obsolete5 while the others will become
obsolete during the life of the project. The project will fund the accluisition of about 1,250 units (and
peripheral equipment) based on the following assumptions developed as part of a project preparation
study and which were validated by the Project Computer and Information Systems Group: i) the number
of units could change based on a load study and/or taking into account the re-engineering of budget-
related business processes; ii) units allocated to the Directorates are strictly for the purpose of using and
accessing the IBMS; iii) the bulk of data input related to budget commitment, financial and accounting
control and payment will take place at the wilayat level and in ministries. Based on these assumptions,
the proposed breakdown of units is as follows: Regional Offices (66), Financial control (282), Accounting
(408), Ministries (Ordonnateurs) (156), Central Computer Unit (Direction centrale de l'informatique)
(224) and other computer units (30). It is to be noted that the project will only finance computer hardware
5 719 units out of 945 have a 486 (or older) CPU.



31
and software needed for the operations of the IBMS and not those that might be required to respond to
other MoF's needs. However the technological infrastructure to be put in place during the project -
especially computer communications facilities - will become a backbone which could be used by other
computer applications.
The project will give the MoF the opportunity to put in place a modern technological infrastructure based
on the latest developments in government (and industry) systems. The IBMS will therefore be developed
on a web-based architecture and operate on a MoFs intranet, users having access to the system via a
standard web interface (<web browser>). It is anticipated that web-based systems will progressively
replace the popular client/server architecture on which many current systems are based. The web-
based)) architecture will allow MoFs and ministries' users to access the IBMS through a variety of
communication means (dial-up, dedicated lines, local area networks, packet-switched networks, intranet,
etc.) and from various computer hardware and software platforms. It incurs systems development costs
lower than for other architectures (<<client/server and character-based)); it will make it easier for MoF's
systems administrators to face administrative changes (number and location of users); and will provide an
open architecture for the introduction, in due time, of new technologies (e.g., internet, GroupWare,
electronic mail). Although the web-based)) architecture offers superior advantages when compared to
other alternatives, it nevertheless entails a certain number of disadvantages which are worth mentioning:
i) a strong dependency on communication links7; ii) the need to maintain a kernel of technically qualified
staff in a field of expertise currently in high demand overseas (and soon to be in Algeria); iii) the need to
re-engineer business processes and train users in new work methods; and iv) (<high, recurrent
communication costs8. The web-based solution however remains the only way to protect the large
investments that will be needed to deploy the IBMS.
6 The <<private>> equivalent of the internet which can run on both public and private telecommunications facilities.
7 Local communication infrastructures in Algeria need to be upgraded.
8 Communication costs for operating the IBMS are expected to decrease significantly when the communication
market is opened to competition. Moreover, facilities used for operating the IBMS could be shared with Directorates
(DGI, DGDN and DGD) which currently incur high communication costs.



32
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Algeria: Budget Systems Modernization
3.6-1         8.212.03
Budgeting
Information systems                                      4.4';         10.35         14.80
Total Baseline Cost                                      8.06         18.77          26.83
Physical Contingencies                                   0.7           0.39           1.09
Price Contingencies                                      1.2           0.40           1.60
Total Project Costs                  9.96         19.56         29.52
Front end fee                    0.24          0.24
Total Financing Required             9.96         19.80         29.76
Goods                                                    0.28          5.80           6.08
Services and Training                                    9.43         13.124         22.57
Other                                                    0.00          0.87           0.87
Total Project Costs                  9.71         19.81         29.52
Front-end fee                    0.24          0.24
Total Financing Required             9.71         20.05         29.76



33
Annex 4
Algeria: Budget Systems Modernization
Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary: NOT APLLICABLE
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary: NOT APPLICABLE
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Algeria
Algeria: Budget Systems Modernization
Year 1   Year 2    Year 3    Year 4
Total Financing Required
Total Project Costs           6.4       8.6        9.6        5.16
Investment costs            6.16       8.6       9.6        5.16
Front-end fee               0.24
Total Financing                 6.4       8.6        9.6        5.16
Financing
IBRD                        5.2        7.1       7.8        3.6
Central Government          1.2        1.5        1.8       1.56
Total Project Financing     6.4        8.6       9.6        5.16



34
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Algeria: Budget Systems Modernization
I. PROCUREMENT
a. Procurement of Goods
Part A: General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following
provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
I.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 11 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of
Appendix I thereto.
2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph I of this Part B:
(a)     Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to
cost $350,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)     Preference for domestically manufactured goodis and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall
apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1.     National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed $3,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.      International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed $450,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international or
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the
Guidelines.



35
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
I.      Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the
Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph I of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance
with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said
paragraph 1.
2.      Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $350,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.      Post Review
With respect to each contract for goods not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures
set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
b. Employment of Consultants
Part A: General
Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the Introduction and
Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers",
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants' services shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines,
paragraph 3 of Appendix I thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through
3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.      Selection Based on Consultant's Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract for consulting firms, and
services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract for individual consultants, may be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the
Consultant Guidelines.
2.      Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may, with the
Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of
the Consultant Guidelines.



36
Part D: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
I .     Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for the
selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the C'onsultant Guidelines. Selection of
all consultants' services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph l.
2.      Prior Review
(a) With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 [other than
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)] and 5 of Appendix I to the Consultant Guidelines
shall apply.
(b) With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to
cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review
and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been
given.
3.      Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set forth in
paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.



37
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements9
(in US$ million equivalent)
1. Goods                            4.65         0.61       1.70         0             6.96
(4.05)      (0.45)     (1.50)       (0)            (6.0)
2. Services and training             11.0        5.45       5.14         0            21.59
(9.0)      (3.45)      (4.14)       (0)          (16.59)
3. Miscellaneous                                  0
(O)         (O)       (I. 1)       (0)           (I. 1)
Total                15.65        6.06        7.94                      29.75
(13.05)     (6.06)      (6.74)       (0)          (23.7)'
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures,
consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous item).
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review"
us s                                   __   _   __   _
1. Goods                  >350.000 $US                AOI                     All
<350.000 $US            AON, other                None
< 25.000 $US             CFN/CFI                  None
2. Services and            >100.000 $US              QCBS                      All
training
A) Consulting Firms       >100.000 $US           QCBS / QBS                    All
B) Individuals             > 50.000 $US            Section V of               All
Directives            (TORs, CV)
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:               18M USD
Note: = QCBS Quality- and Cost-based selection
QBS = Quality-based selection
SFB = Selection under a fixed budget
LCS = Least-cost selection
CQ = Selection based on consultants' qualifications
Overall procurement risk assessment:
9 For details on presentation of procurement methods refer to OD] 1.02, "Procurement Arrangements for Investment
Operations." Details on consultant services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format (additional to Table
A, where applicable).
' Includes Front-end fee of 240 000USD
" Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation"
and contact the Regional Procurement Advisor for guidance.



38
High
Average
Low L
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every
6 month(s) (includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits).
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
1. Goods                              6.08                        98.6
(6.00)           _-
2. Services and training              22.57                       73.5
(16.60)           _-
3. Front-end fee                      0.24                         100
4. Misc.                              0.86                         100
(0.86)
Total Project Costs                   29.76            _
Total Financing                       (23.7)                       79



39
II. DISBURSEMENT AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT FOR THE PROJECT
a. Institutional and legal framework
1.    The Financial Management System (FMS) of the Ministry of Finance (MoF) followed to manage
its own activity is based on principles and procedures defined by the legal framework applicable to the
pubic sector and more specifically to governmental institutions.
2.    Accounting system. An accounting system based on the cash basis and the outline of budget
components is operational and reflected on legal books according to the regulation described in the Public
Accounting Law.
3.    Budgeting system. Based on the programs and actions to be undertaken the MoF is held to issue
an annual budget for commitments related to the planned expenditures and its submission for approval to
the Council of Ministers. The budget execution is subject to authorization for payment on a transaction
level. This specific authorization process aims at ensuring that the expense to be paid has been budgeted,
and to issue the official instruction for the payment.
4.    Disbursements.  Payments through the governmental budget for the financed projects are
centralized within the Banque Algerienne de Developpement (BAD). Two departments are involved in
the payment procedures. The first is the DEP (Direction des Equipements Publics) playing the role of
financial controller and public account (Comptable public).  The second is DFE (Direction des
Financements Exterieurs) playing a role of financial department and manager of the special accounts on
behalf of the General Treasury. Thus the DFE is issuing all payments authorization related to financed
projects.
5.    Control of the budget execution. A fiduciary responsibility of control of the budget execution and
monitoring is assigned to the MoF, through a specialized audit department "Inspection Generale des
Finances"(IGF); and to the Audit Court (Cour des Comptes) that has a judiciary role of supervision of the
public finances. It is the authority which issue the final approval ("quitus") for the management of public
funds.
b. Financial Management Assessment
6.    The financial management assessment conducted shows that the accounting and financial
management system in place in the MoF, overall responsible of the project implementation, is based on
principles and procedures defined by the legal framework applicable to the public sector as summarized
above. This system is adequate in terms of management of public expenditures but still incomplete to
provide cumulative and detailed financial data as required by the Bank. Accordingly, the Project
Manager would be held to build a financial management system specific to the project including, mainly,
the issuing of a detailed Financial Management Procedures Manual, implementation of a suitable software
for accounting and reporting and the training of the project staff.
c. Project implementation
7.    Project Management. The overall responsibility for project execution will be delegated to a
Project Implementation Unit (PIU). This PIU was created in September 2000 and its head, an
experienced project manager, appointed. The PIU will report directly to the Secretary (General of the
MoF and to the Steering Committee (SC). A qualified information technology specialist acting as
Secretary General of the SC was also appointed as PIU's staff. The appointment of a qualified financial
management specialist and a procurement specialist will be made shortly and by no later than March



40
2001. The PIU will act on behalf of the MoF as responsible of the project implementation, and will be
held to follow the directives of the Steering Committee as well as the rules defined in the project
documents.
8.     Financial Management arrangements. The PIU head will maintain, with the assistance of the
financial management specialist (FMS), acceptable project accounts. This team will be held to issue the
annual project financial statements (PFS) and the quarter Project Management Reports (PMR) acceptable
to the Bank and their submission to the Bank and to the auditors. Procedures for accounts and financial
reporting as well as internal control mechanisms specific to the project which aim at meeting the Bank
requirements would be developed by a specialized consultant and would be reflected in a Financial
Management Procedures Manuel. In order to implement a sound financial management system, the PIU
head would be held to implement the following actions:
> Appointment of the PIU staff. The team would include a qualified financial management
specialist who would assist the PIU head in the accounting, financial and reporting duties. Job
descriptions and responsibilities should be issued in writing and included in the Financial
Management Procedures Manual.
> Designation of a coordinator at the BAD who would play a role of official vis-A-vis the project
team and Bank staff. This designation aims at assuring the needed efficiency at the disbursement
level.
L  Hiring of consultant qualified in accounting, finance, and information system  in order to
implement a suitable financial management system. The assignment will cover the issuing of the
Financial Management Procedures Manual (FMPM) and installment of software for accounting
and reporting.
u Acquisition of the needed hardware for the project team in order to allow the implementation of
adequate communication tools and the computerization of the accounting and reporting systems
specific to the project.
d. Financial management characteristics
9.     Organization of the PIU. The PIU head will be responsible for monitoring and coordination as
well as procurement finances, budgeting, accounting and reporting functions. A financial management
specialist will assist the PM in this field.
10.    Financial and accounting policies for the project have to be developed. These policies are crucial
for ensuring transparency, providing clarity regarding financial aspects to the various stakeholders and
finance staff, ensuring uniformity, and enforcing accountability. These policies inter alia cover the
following aspects: (i) expenditures, which would be treated as project expenditures including their
classification; (ii) expenditures, which would be eligible for reimbirsement from  Bank loan; and
(iii) project accounting policies.
11.    Project Accounting System.  The PIU head will act on behalf of the MoF and would be
responsible of the project financial management and accounting duties. He would maintain accounting
records for the issuing of the annual project financial statements (PFS) and the quarterly Project
Management Report (PMR) as well as the submission of these documents on a timely basis to the Bank
and to the auditors. The overall principles for project accounting are outlined below:
(i)   Books of accounts for the project would be maintained on cash basis principles but would
include the needed adjustment for on going commitment. Project accounts would be maintained
using the software or data base proposed/developed for this purpose and which will be
implemented by no later than September 2001.



41
(ii)  Project accounting would cover all sources of project funds, and all utilization of project
funds. This would include payments made to and expenditures incurred. All project-related
transactions (whether involving cash or not) would be taken into account in the reporting system.
Disbursements made by the World Bank and the transaction proceeded through the Special
Account maintained by BAD would also be included in the project accounting system.
(iii) A Chart of Accounts for the project has to be developed and should reflect the classification
of expenditures and sources of funds as indicated in the project documents (Project Implementation
Plan, Project Appraisal Document, COSTAB). The Chart of Accounts should allow data to be
captured in a manner to facilitate financial reporting of project expenditures by: (i) project
components; (ii) expenditure categories; (iii) disbursement categories and (iv) source of funds.
iv)   A system of reconciliation between the Project Financial Statements/financial reports and
the legal records have to be defined.
(v)   Physical information on key performance indicators that can be readily linked to financial
costs would be maintained as part of the project financial management system.
12.   Information Flow for Accounting Purposes. The information flow will be as follows:
(i)   PIU will generate and maintain vouchers, records and supporting documentation for
expenditures on activities directly managed;
(ii)  The PIU head will transmit to the BAD all the invoices to be paid after a deep control of
their adequacy and eligibility;
(iii) The BAD will proceed with payments after review of the supporting documents and their
compliance with the accounting public law and the Bank guidelines. Monthly statement of account
would be transmitted by the BAD to the PMU in order to allow a close follow-up of the
disbursement operations and an adequate update of the accounting records; and
(iv)  Expenditures incurred by the PMU would be reviewed by the project auditors following the
International Standards of Auditing as issued by the International Federation of Accountants, the
Bank's Guidelines (e.g. Financial, Accounting, Reporting and Auditing handbook, "FARAH") and
specific Terms of Reference (TORs) acceptable to the Bank.
13.   Internal Controls.  The project financial management system should include the following
internal control mechanisms:
(i)   Operation of a budgeting system, and regular monitoring of actual financial performance
with budgets and targets;
(ii)  Adoption and operation of simple, clear and transparent financial and accounting policies
which would govern financial management of and accounting for the project. These policies and
procedures have to be included in the Financial Management Procedures Manual.
(iii)  Establishment at the transaction level of policies, procedures and systems for ensuring
acceptable internal controls mechanism such as checking of expenditures, appropriate
documentation, levels of authorization, segregation of duties, periodic reconciliation, physical
verification, easy access to supporting documents etc.; and



42
(iv)  Implementation of a comprehensive system, which aims at issuing of the annual PFS and
quarterly PMR.
e. Financial Management Reports
14.   Ouarterly project management reports (PMR) for the project would be generated from the
computerized financial management system. These reports would be management-oriented (i.e.,
summaries rather than transactional details) and would be used for project monitoring and
implementation. The PMR should include the 3 following parts:
(i)  Financial Statements that include:
/ Summary of sources and uses of funds
/ Uses of funds by project activity
V  Project balance statement of affairs
/ Cash withdrawal Cash forecast
/ Special account statement
(ii)  Project progress statements that include:
/ Output monitoring report using contract management information, or
$ Output monitoring report using unit variance as monitoring indicator
(iii) Procurement management report that includes:
/ Contract expenditures report - Goods and works
C Contract expenditures report - Consultant
$ Procurement management report - Goods and works
/ Procurement management report - Consultant
Formats of the reports should be part of the FMPM.
15.   Annually: Audited Project Financial Statements (PFS) would be submitted to the Bank. The PFS
would include: (i) a statement of sources and utilization of funds or Balance Sheet, indicating funds
received from various sources, project expenditures, and assets and liabilities of the project; (ii) schedules
classifying project expenditures by components and expenditure categories; (iii) a Special Account
Reconciliation Statement; and (iv) a Statement of Withdrawals made on the basis of Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs). Audited PFS would be submitted to the Bank as soon as possible and not later than
6 months after the end of the Fiscal Year.
f. Audit Arrangements
16.   MoF will appoint an auditor acceptable to the Bank to carry on an annual audit. The auditor will
perform the audit according to: (i) the International Standards of Auditing as issued by the International
Federation of Accountants, (ii) Bank's Guidelines (e.g., financial, accounting, reporting and auditing
handbook, "FARAH"), and (iii) specific Terms of Reference (TORs) acceptable to the Bank. The auditor
will express a professional opinion on the annual project financial statements and will submit to the Bank
an annual audit report within 6 months after the end of each government fiscal year.
17.   The audit would be comprehensive and cover all aspects of the project (i.e., all sources and
utilization of funds, and expenditures incurred) and would also cover an assessment of the financial
management system, including review of internal control mechanisms. The PIU team as well as
structures at the MoF and BAD would provide the auditor with access to project-related documents and
records, and information required for the purposes of the audit. The Auditor would carry out a concurrent



43
audit during the fiscal year, to bring to management's attention any issues, which need to be addressed.
This would strengthen internal controls, and would also facilitate early completion of the annual audit.
g. Disbursements
18.   Disbursements from  the Bank loan would be initially made on the traditional system
(reimbursements with full documentation and against Statements of Expenditure - SOEs, and direct
payments). GoA could opt to the PMR based disbursement after the assessment of the financial
management system which aims at ensuring that this system is operating satisfactory. This assessment
will take place by no later than February 28, 2002.
h. Financial Management Action Plan
19.   The PIU head will oversee the implementation of the following financial management actions
plan during a period of 12 months. He will ensure that the following actions are completed by no later
than December 31, 200 1.
V  Project organization including official designation of the project team including appointment
of the financial management specialist and the BAD coordinator.
' Development of the financial management procedures manual.
/ Implementation of an accounting software.
Improvements would be introduced after implementation of the financial management system in
September 2001 and will aim at improving the financial reporting system, and at training the project team.
20.   The complete action plan is as follows, assuming the effectiveness date is March I st, 2001.



44
2. Designation of the BAD    Letter of         BAD General    March 2001
coordinator               designation       Director and
MoF
3. Preparation of TORs for the  TORs and       PJU head         March 2001
Consultant: management       documentation
information systems specialist   acceptable to IDA
4. Launching of the          Contract for the    PIU head       April 2001
assignment                   consultant and
planning
5. Developing of the FMPM    Drafi of the      PIU head and    June 2001
FMPM to be        consultant
submitted to
PML', SC and the
Bank                              ______________
6. Acquisition of the software   Reception and  PIU head        July 2001
for accounting and reporting  installation of the
_____________________________ package
7. Implementation of the     Setting up of the   PIU head and   September
accounting and reporting     system and testing  the consultant    2001
system                       documents
8. Training of the PMU staff    Training program   PIU head and  September to
consultant      December
2001
9. Issuing of the 1 PMR as of  PMRto be       PIU head         February 15,
December 31, 2001            submitted to the                   2002
Bank
10. Assessment of the financial   Assessment report  Bank staff  February 2002
management system



45
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Algeria: Budget Systems Modernization
Time taken to prepare the project (months)        15                   18
First Bank mission (identification)            11i2 1/1999        I11/21Ill999
Appraisal mission departure                    09/06/2000          10/06/2000-
Negotiations                                   11/28/2000          12/04/2000
Planned date of effectiveness          03/15/2000
Prepared by: MNSED.
Preparation assistance: PHRD grant (379,500), Italian Trust Fund (60,000).
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Giulio de Tommaso                  Public Sector
Emile Finateu                      Accounting, Budgeting
Fran ois Lacasse                   Public Finance/Public Management (TTL)



46
Annex A8: Documents in the Project File*
Algeria: Budget Systems Modernization
A. Project Implementation Plan
The summary PIP is included as Annex 11.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Aide-memoires and BTOs on files, all missions.
C. Other
1)   <<Organisation de l'informatique au Ministere des finances>, Jean Pierre Lalonde, juillet
1999.
2)   <<Mod&le de r6organisation de l'informatique au Ministere des finances>>, Jean Pierre
Lalonde, avril 2000.
3)   ((Situation actuelle de l'informatique au Ministere des finances et modele d'entreprise -
Rapport de base>>, A.R. Ghomari, juin 2000.
4)   ((Situation actuelle de l'informatique au Ministere des finances et modele d'entreprise -
Annexes: Fiches descriptives de l1existant>>, A.R. Ghomari, juin 2000.
5)   <<Description des trois scenarios technologiques>>, INFOS:ERV/ENSI, juin 2000.
6)   <<Compte-rendu des activites de la composante <<Informatique et systemes d'information>>,
Jean Pierre Lalonde, 11 mars 2000.
7)   <<Compte-rendu des activites de la composante <dInformatique et systemes d'information>,
Jean Pierre Lalonde, 17 mai 2000.
8)   ((Compte-rendu des activites de la composante <drnformatique et systemes d'information>,
Jean Pierre Lalonde, 13 juin 2000.
9)   ((Presentation sur les architectures technologiques>>, INFOSERV/ENSI, 6 juin 2000.
10)  ((Pour une utilisation rationnelle des ressources informatiques (a la Direction generale de la
comptabilite) - Avant-projet>, Elf Alg6rie, juillet 1998.
11) oProb1emes et solutions informatiques au sein de la Direc.tion generale de la comptabilite -
Rapport d'evaluation>, BADSI Moncef, 29 aofit 1998.
12)  <<Rapport de synthese - Composante Informatique et systemes d'information>, Jean
Pierre Lalonde, juillet 2000
Internal Documents - Ministry of Finance
1)   <<Schema directeur strategique informatique de l'6conomie>>, Ministere de l'economie,
1991.
2)   <<Sch6ma directeur informatique>>, Direction generale de la douane - Centre national de
l'informatique et des statistiques, septembre 1994.
3)   <<Refonte du systeme d'information de ladministration fiscale>>, Direction generale des
imp6ts, fevrier 1995.
4)   <<Refonte du systeme d'information de l'administration fiscale - Le systeme operant>,
Direction generale des imp6ts, fevrier 1995.
5)   <(Refonte du systeme d'information de ladministration fiscale - Planification des actions>>,
Direction generale des imp6ts, avril 1995.
6)   <<SIGAD - Systeme d'information et de gestion autornatis&e  des douanes - Bilan et
perspectives>, Direction generale des douanes, 1998.



47
7)   <Note relative a l'informatisation des services de la Direction generale du budget>>,
Direction generale du budget, (non date).
8)   <<Textes relatifs a la comptabilite publique>>, Ministere de 1'6conomie, (non date).



CAS Annex B8 - Algeria
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
As Of Date 12/18/2000
Closed    54
Projects
Active Projects                                                                                                                          Difference Between
Last PSR                                                                            Expected and Actual
Supervision Rating b/                             Original Amount in US$ Millions          Disbursements a)
Project ID  Project Name                    Development    Implementation    Fiscal Year         IBRD         IDA     Cancel.    Undisb.       Orig. Frm Rev'd
Obiectives        Progress
P004964   Cadastre                               S                 S              1992              33          0         4.7        2.5         7.1        4.9
P004954   Basic& Sec. Education                  S                 S              1993              40          0          5         6.9        11.8         -1
P004974   WaterSupply&Sewerage                   U                 U              1994             110          0          0        93.1        82.1        9.2
P004907   Highways VI                            S                 S              1995             130          0          0        56.6        47.1          2
P004960   Ind.Pollution Ctrl.                    S                 S              1996              78          0          0        67.2        33.2       20.6
P004978   Social Safety I                        S                 S              1996              50          0          0         5.1         5.1        5.1
P042940   Low Income Housing                     S                 U              1998             150          0          0         140        89.5          0
P070123   Privatization Assistance (LIL)         S                 S              2000               5          0          0           5          0           0
P069947   TEERP-Ain Temouchent Reconst.          S                 U              2000            83.5          0          0        83.5        18.5          0
P070308   Telecom. & Postal Sector               S                 S              2000               9          0          0           9         1.2          0
P043724   Rural Employment                       S                 S              1997              89          0          0        61.8        61.8        9.5
Result                                                                                777.5          0         9.7      530.7       357.4       50.3
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio Performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS = Highly Satisfactory, S = Satisfactory, U = Unsatisfactoy,
HU = Highly Unsatisfactory): see proposed improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology ( SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.



49
CAS Annex B8 (IFC) for Algeria
Algeria
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                     Disbursed
FY Approval   Company  Loan  Equity  Quasi Partic Loan  Equity  Quasi Partic
1998 ABCA          0    1.88      0      0     0    1.88      0      0
2000 AIP            0     0.3     0      0     0       0      0      0
1992 Helios      2.67      0      0      0  2.67       0      0      0
1998 SGA           0       1      0      0     0    0.19      0      0
1999 Aldaph      5.96     1.7     0   5.11     0       0      0      0
Total Portfolio:    8.63    4.88     0   5.11  2.67    2.07      0      0
No Approvals Pending Commitment



50
Annex 9: Statements of Loans and Credits
Algeria: Budget Systems Modernization
Original Amount in      Difference between expected
US$Millions            and actual disbursements
Project ID    FY    Borrower                 Purpose                IBRD    IDA   Cancel.   Undisb.   Orig.   Frm Rev'd
P004964    1992    Algeria     ALG-CADASTRE                           33.00   0.00      2.27      5.93     8.20       4.78
P004954    1993    Algeria     BASIC & SEC. EDUC.                     40.00   0.00      0.00     11.92   10.25        0.00
P004907    1995    Algeria     DZ-HIGHWAYS VI                        130.00   0.00      0.00     69.16   50.56        -6.72
P042940    1998    Algeria     DZ-LOW INCOME HOUSING                 150.00   0.00      0.00    140.00   48.40        0.00
P004974    1994    Algeria     DZ-WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE    110.00   0.00              0.00     93.29   75.29         1.03
P004960    1996    Algeria    IND. POLLUTION CTRL.                    78.00   0.00      0.00     70.00   27.78        6.00
P043724    1997    Algeria     RURAL EMPLOYMENT                       89.00   0.00      0.00     68.88   64.28        5.55
P004978    1996    Algeria     SOCIAL SAFETY I                        50.00   0.00      0.00      7.80    7.14        7.14
Total:  680.00   0.00      2.27   466.98   291.90        17.78
ALGERIA
STATEMENT OF IFC'S
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Million US Dollars
Committed                                    Disbursed
IFC                                               IFC
FY approval    Company      Loan      Equity      Quasi      Partic      Loarl     Equity      Quasi      Partic
1998          ABCA          0.00       2.00       0.00        0.00       0.00       1.88       0.00       0.00
1992          Helios        3.33       0.00       0.00        0.00       3.33       0.00       0.00       0.00
1998          SGA           0.00       1.00       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.19       0.00       0.00
Total Portfolio:    3.33     3.00       0.00       0.00       3.33        2.07       0.00       0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                 Loan         Equity        Quasi          Partic.
2000              AIP                      0.00          0.00       300.00           0.00
1999              Aldaph                7274.75          0.00      1700.00        6236.00
Total Pending Commitment:    7274.75          0.00       2000.00       6236.00



Annex 10
Page 51                         Algeria at a glance                                                                 8/23/00
M. East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            & North   middle-
Algeria    Africa   lnc,rme     Developnent diamond
1999
Population. mid-year (n-ritonns)                       30.0       291     2,094                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas rethod, US$)                    1.550     2,060      1,200
GNP (Atlas method. US$ t>fiotns)                       46.6       599     2 513
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Popukltio)n (%j                                         1.8       2.1        1 1
Labor force (%M                                         3.7       3.0        1.2     GNP                              Gross
per              I              primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199349)                                 capila                        enrollment
Poverny  % of population below national poverty tno)    14
Urban population (% of lola/populafror)                 60         58        43
Life expectancy at birth (yearsJ                        71         68        69
Inlant mortality (per 1,000 Irve btrths)                35         45        33
Child malnutrition (% of chi&nen undar 5)                13        15        1S                Access to safe water
Access to improved mvater source (% olpopulation)       70         71        86
Illiteracy I% of popuklfon age 15+)                     33         36        16
Gross primary enrollment (% of schoolage populatin)    108         95       114               A@ena
M;tb                                                 113        102       114              Lower-mitJle-incoine group
Fetnale                                              102         88       116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998      1999
Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ brllk.rnsl                           33.3     54.9      47.4       47.9
Gross dontestic investmn,3tGDP                42.4     29.0      27.7       27.4
Exports of goods and serv;ces'GDP            31.1      18.6      22.9       ?7.6                     Trade
Gross donestic savings/GOP                   40.7      29.3       27.1      31.7
Gross natiorral savings)GOP                   38.1     29.6      25.0       28.9
Currant account balance.:GDP                  -4.9     -1.9       -1.9       0 0     Domestic        2   <
Interest paymnents.GIDP                       3 8       3.2        4.0       3 9                                  Investment
Total debtiGDP                               55.6      49.3      64.7       586      Savings
Total debt servicelexports                   28.8      66.3      45.6       38.3
Present value of debtGDP                        ..       ..      63.2 
Present value ol debtexporlts                   ..       ..    265.9
Indebtedness
197949  1989-99      1998      1999   199943
(average annual gmrwth)
GDP                                  3.1       1.2      5.1        3.3       3.9               Atlgeria
GNP per capda                        0 0      0.9       5.2        1.5       1.9               Lower-mIddle-incomne group
Exports of goods antd services       3 4       2 6      1.6       6.2        5 3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998       P999     Growth of Investment and GDP (%I
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                   10.6     14.9       12.1       1.4
Industry                                     50.5      41.6      47.3       50.7      s
Manufacturing                               10.2     11.0       10.6       9.6      a I
Services                                      38.9     43.5      40.6       47.9    -5            s
Private consumption                          45.6      53.8      54.8       51.3    .10
General government consumption                13.7     16.9       18.1      17.0 0GDI                        GDP
Imports of goods and services                32.8      18.3      23.5       23.3
197949  1989-99       1998       1999     Growth of exports and imports (%I
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   4.7       2.6       11.4       2.7    10
Industry                                       2.7      0.8        3.9       4.8     5
Manufacturing                                5 7      -7.1       6.7       1.5      o
Services                                      4.0       2.0        3.9       2.8
Private consumption                           2.6       2.6        2.4       2.9
General government consumption                4.7       3.8        2.6       2.5    . 0
Gross domestic investment                     -1.6     -1.7        3.3       2.7   -15
Imports of goods and services                 -2.8     -2.3       6.5        1.8           -     Exports        lmports
Gross national product                         3.1      1.2        5.9       3.0
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds shoe four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average If data are missing, the diamond vill
be incomplete



Annex 10
Page 52
Algeria
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                                           __           -
1979     1989      1998      1999       ation
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                          40 
Consumer prices                              11.5      9.3        5.0       2.6
Implicit GDP defator                         14.0     14.6       -4.1     10.9      20
Govemment finance                                                                   0
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                        94   95   9B   97   99   99
Current revenue                                       28.9       27 8     29.8    .20
Current budget balance                                 9.1        4.0       5-5              -GDP delator  -0CPR
Overall surplus/deficit                               -1.8       -3 9      -0 5
TRADE                                                                                                                _
(USS millions)                              '1979     1989      1998      1999      Export and import levels (US5 mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                  9,561     10,140    12,320    150C0
Crude oil                                           1,894     1,943     2,735
Condensate                                          2,535     1,953     2,422     1                         *         |
Manufactures                                         234         42       46      1091
Total imports (cif)                                 10,289      8,630    8,960
Food                                                2,925     2,657     2,609     5o'00
Fuel and energy                                      127        110      127
Capital goods                                       2,335     2,907    3,155         o
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..    101          81        93                                   9B   9
Importpriceindex(1995=100)                              85        92        94                mExports      *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                              119        88        99
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979     1989      1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%l
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services              10,137   10,147    10,880    13,040      B T
Imports ot goods and services              10,911   11,336    10,850    11,520
Resource balance                             -774   -1,189        30      1,520     4
Net income                                 -1,091   -1,893    -2,000    -2,290
Net current transfers                         226    2,053      1,060      790  3
Current account balance                     -1,639   -1.030      -910       20
Financing hems (net)                        2,060      388       -180    -2,370
Changes in net reserves                      -421      642      1,090    2,350
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)      2,916    1,104      7,121    4,668
Conversion rate (DEC, WcaYUS$)                3 9      7 6       58 7     66 5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       18,507   27,072    30,665    28,079
IBRD                                       227       960      1,676    1,540      Composition of 1998 jeqt6LyS3 mill.)
IDA                                           0        0         0         0                                C 20
Total debt service                          3,053    7,001      5,136    5.084        F 9,054
IBRD                                         30      183       333       327                   C                   2.713
IDA                                           0        0         0         0
Composition of net resource flovvs
Official grants                              21       68
Official creditors                          710      107       -213     -106
Private creditors                         2,112      339    -1.328    -1,002
Foreign direct investment                  -153      -25       500       460
Portfolio equity                              0        0         0         0                             E 15.025
World Bank program
Commitments                                 188      839        150        0
Disbursements                                47      204        56        74      A - 13RD                    E - Bliatera,
Principal repayments                          7      112       208       199      R IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Prvate
Net flovs                                    40       92       -152     -125
Interesl payments                            22       70       124       126
Net transfers                                18       21       -276     -251
Development Economics                                                                                                8/23t00



53
ANNEX 11
PROJET IMPLEMENTATION PLAN AND DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
The implementation of the project and the disbursement of the Bank's loan (US$
23.7 million) will take place over a period of four years.
Table 1 offers the most likely scenario for disbursements, by quarter for the main
expenditure categories; it also synthesizes the sequencing of the implementation actions
for each component and sub-component of the project as well as illustrates the links
between them.
Table 2 consolidates yearly loan disbursements planned for each component and
sub-component; it also breaks down the financial elements of the GoA's financial
contribution.
Table 3 presents loan disbursements by expenditure categories: IT equipment,
training, consultants, etc.
Table 4 details, on a quarterly basis for the first two years of the project, the most
likely scenario for the actions planned, their cost, the identity of the key operators and the
time required for their completion.



ESTIMED PROJECT COSTS by TERM and by COMPONENT                                                                      Table 1
(linked to the Loan on the Algerian Bud et Systems Modernization)
R U B R I Q U E S                          2001                            2002                              2003                            2004                  Total
al10 2  0 03  0 4  01   2  0 3                                       4   1  0 2  0 3  Q 4  01  02  0304
1. BUDGET SYSTEM COMPONENT               408   430      823     835      985     935   965    705          540     645     465    375       150      100    200   150          8,711
1.1 MULTIYEAR BUDGETING                  113   185    373      290      235     140    240       170     120      70       70       0        0       0       0      0          2,006
1.1.1 Establishment of a Iramwork
for forcasting and management of         43    45       65      65                                                                                                                218
expenditures
1.1.2 Development and implementation
of a functional grouping of expenditures  70    70      70                                                                                                                        210
1.1.3 Formalization and dilusion of rules                               -
and procedures (forecasting)                    50      75      75       75                                                                                                       275       p.
1.1.4 Specialized training, procedures,
controls at the MoF                             20      33      20      20                                                                                                         93
1.1.5 Training of personnel
100     100     100      70       70      70      70       70      70                                                     720
1.1.6 Implementation of framwork
40      40      40       50                                                                              170
1.1.7 Equipment                                                                      -
30      30               30      30                                                                                       120
1.1.8 Evaluation and corrective mesures                                                      -            -
100     50       50                                                                     200
1.2 IMPROVEMENT OF PRESENTATION           0     0      85       85      35       0       70      50       50      50       50      50       0        0       0      0            525
AND DIFFUSION OF BUDGET
1.2.1 Study of the needs of other parties
concerned (parliamentary commitees,                    85       85      35                                                                                                       205
media, international organizations) and
formulation of options
1.2.2 Development of new documents
and implementation of modern support                                                     70      50      50       50      50       50                                            320
mechanisms
(i.e. organization/training/equipmenVIT/etc.)



1.3 REINFORCEMENT OF FORECASTING    55   55         100    275    190    270    220          95      50     150      50      50       0       0       0     0          1,560
AND ANALYTICAL CAPACITY
AT THE MOF
1.3.1 Conceptualization of organizational
options and evaluation of recurrent costs  55    55  55      55                                                                                                          220
1.3.2 Training of personnel                                              _
15     45   45       45                                                                                          150
1.3.3 Implementation of framework 
50     45      45                                                                           140
1.3.4 Equipment                                                                  -
30      30              30      30                                                                                  120
1.3.5 Reinforcement of economic analysis
1.3.5.1 Technical support for implementation
of methods and organization                                 145    145    145    145         50      50      50                                                          730
1.3.5.2 Evaluation of achievements andn
corrective mesures                                                                                          100      50      50                                          200
1.4 RESTRUCTURING OF PUBLIC            240  190    265    185    525    525    435    290    145            100      50      50      50       0       0     0          3,050
EXPENDITURE PROCEDURES
1.4.1 Implementation of new public
accounting standards               90   90      90      110    300      10                                                                                  .       690
1.4.2 Reform of expendIture                                        ,                    .,       . .                                ....    ...
implemenntatlofrcycle  :i.w;  ..150 ;>-100. IJ7   4            225   151                     145290  Wf LA          b         .    h, ...
1.4.2.1 Evaluation and conceptualization
of framework                     150   100    100                                                                                                                 350
1.4.2.2 Conceptualization and formalization
of new rules and procedures                    75        75                                                                                                       150
1.4.2.3 Reorganization of financial services
responsible for expenditure implementation                          225    225    145    145                                                                            740
1.4.2.4 Redefinition of functions, duties                                        -
and responsibilities                                                  145    145290
1.4.2.5 Diffusion of documents andu
training of personnel                                                 145    145    145    145                                                                    580
1 4.2.6 Evaluation and corrective mesures 
100     50      50       50                                250
1.5 PARTIAL IMPLEMENTATION OF           0     0      0       0       0       0       0      100    175    275    245    225          100     100    200   150          1,570
ACCRUAL ACCOUNTING                                                       .____...
1 .5.1 Implementation for some assets
(vehicules): methods planning                                                                        75      75                                                         150
1.5.2 Testing/adaptation of accrual accounting
(depreciation schedules, inventory mngt.)                                                  100    100    200    100                                                    500
1.5.3 Redefinition of functions and responsi-
bilities in inventory mngt., depreciation uses                                                                      145      75                                         220
1.5,4 Diffusion of documents and training                                                                                   -
of personnel for general implementation                                                                                   150     100      100    100   100           550



1.5.5 Evaluation and corrective mesures
._________________________  ___________________  ______________________  ______________________                100     50          150
2. COMPUTER AND INFORMATION
SYSTEMS COMPONENT                     5   377    678    1,226   818    381    353    1,401   1649   1176   1166   1,166   1166   1166    76               76       12,884
2.1 Structural Strengthening            5   377    161    111       141      64      36      36      36      36      26      26      26      26      26    26'        :1,165
2.1.1 Preparation of the ISSP
2.1.1.1 Elaboration of policies, norms
and guidelines                              320    107       28      28                                                                                                  483
2.1.1.2 Establishment of technological
infrastructure                                       18      27      27      18                                                                                           90
2.1.1.3 Training                                                                                         -
50      10     10      10      10      10                                                           100
2.1.2 Support to the CIT
2.1.2.1 Support to the CIT - Visits
20                                                                                                           20
2.1.2.2 Support to the CIT - Training
10     10      10      10      10                                                                                           50
2.1.2.3 Support to the CIT - expert consulting
34     13      13      13      13      13      13      13      13      13       13      13      13     13    13            211
2.1.3 Support tO the PIU
5    14      14      14      14      14      14      14      14      14      14      14      14      14      14    14            211.
2.2 Development and deployment
of applications                                  317    677    677    317    317    557    557    317    317    317    317                317    50    50          5,100
2.2.1 Development of the IBMS
317    317    317    317    317    317    317    317    317             317    317    317                        3,800
2.2.2 Implementation of the IBMS                             _       _
and training                                                360    360                      240    240                                                                1,200
2.2.3 Development of others applications
50    50           100
2.3 Strengthening of the technological
Infrastructure                      0     0     200    438        0       0      0      808    1,056   823    823        823      823   823      0      0         6,619
2.3.1 Establishment of the Central
Information Directorate                             200    438                                                                                                          871
2.3.2 Deployment of the IBMS
_   823    823    823   823     823     823                       4,940
2.3.3 Assistance to technological
infrastructure                                                                              808                                                                         808
Physlcalcontingenciesandprice          40    79     146    201      176    128    129    205    213    178    159           150     128    123    27    22            2,105
contengencles                                                                                                                                               .
T 0 T A L PROJECT COSTS   453   886   1,647  2,262   1,979   1,444   1,447  2,311   2403   1,999   1,790   1,692   1,445   1,390   303   248                      23,700



ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS by YEAR (financing required)                         Table 2
(in USS 000.0)
YEAR 1     YEAR 2      YEAR 3      YEAR 4       TOTAL
1. BUDGET SYSTEM COMPONENT                                         2,496       3,590       2,025        600        8,711
1.1 MULTIYEAR BUDGETING                                          961         785         260          0            2,006
1.2 IMPROVEMENT OF PRESENTATION
and DIFFUSION of BUDGET                                      170         155         200          0             525.0
1.3 REINFORCEMENT of the ROLE
of ECONOMIC COUNCIL of the MOF                               485         775         300          0             1,560
1.4 RESTRUCTURING of PUBLIC EXPENDITURE
PROCEDURES                                                   880           1,775     345          50            3,050
1.5 IMPLEMENTATION of a NATIONAL SYSTEM
of CLASSIFICATION                                             0          100         920             550        1,570
2. COMPUTER and INFORMATION SYSTEMS COMPONENT                     2,287       2,953       5,158       2,485       12,884
2.1 STRUCTURAL STRENGTHENING                                     655         278         125         105           1,165
2.2 DEVELOPMENT and DEPLOYMENT
of APPLICATIONS                                               993           1,867       1,507     733           5,100
2.3 STRENGTHENING of the TECHNOLOGICAL
INFRASTRUCTURE                                               638         808           3,526       1,647        6,619
Physical contingencies and price contingencies                   466         638         700         301           2,105
T O T A L FINANCING                           5,249       7,181       7,884       3,386      23,700
Algerian Contribution:
- Salaries of the PIU employees: (17 agents/year x US$7.000 x 4 years)                                  476
- Operating costs of the PIU: (US$20.000 x 4 years)                                                      80
- Customs duties: (approx. US$900.000 x 4 years)                                                      3,700
- Transports: (US$450.000 x 4 years)                                                                  1,800
Algerian Contribution (20.3 %):                                                                        6,056
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS:                                                                                  29,756



____________________________________ ._______   EXPENDITURE ACCOUNTS BY COMPONENTS                                       Table 3
Local Staff Loc. Cons. Int. Cons.  Training    OHf.Eq.    Equip.  IT HW/SW    Misc.     TOTAL
1. BUDGET SYSTEM COMPONENT                             0      1,876      3,975      1,670          0       240           0      950        8,711
1.1 MULTIYEAR BUDGETING                                0        221        875        7901         0       120           0         01      2,006
1.1.1 Establishment of a multiyear framework
for forecasting and management of expenditures                28        190                                                               218
1.1.2 Development and implementation
of a functional grouping of expenditures                                   210                                                               210
1.1.3 Formalization and diffusion of rules and
procedures (forecasting)                                               275                                                               275
.1.4 Specialized training, procedures, controls                  23                    70                                                      3
at the MoF
1.1.5 Training of personnel                                                           720                                                    720
(other than at MoF)
1.1.6 Implementation of framework                               170                                                                          170
1.1.7 Equipment                                                                                            120                               120
1.1.8 Evaluation and corrective mesures                                    200                                                               200
1.2 IMPROVEMENT OF PRESENTATION
AND DIFFUSION OF BUDGET                              0       200        325           0          0        0           0         0         52S
1.2.1 Study of the needs of other parties
concerned (parliamentary committees, media,
international organizations) and formulation of options         130         75                                                               20S
1.2.2 Development of new documents and                           70        250                                                               320
implementation of modern support mechanisms
(i.e. organization/training/equipment/lT/ etc.)                      .
1.3 REINFORCEMENT OF FORECASTING AND
ANALYTICAL CAPACITY AT THE MOF                       0        75      1,215        150           0      120           0         0     1,560.0
1,3.1 Conceptualization of organizational options                          220                                                               220
and evaluation of recurrent costs
1.3.2 Training of personnel                                                           150                                                    150
1.3.3 Implementation of framework                                75         65                                                               140
1.3.4 Equipment                                                                                            120                               120
1.3.5 Reinforcement of economic analysis
1.3.5.1 Technical support for implementation                               730                                                              730
of methods and organization
1.3.5.2 Evaluation of achievements and                                    200                                                               200
corrective mesures



Ala rian Budget Systems Modernization
Local Staff Loc. Cons. Int. Cons.  Training    Off.Eq.    Equip.  IT HW/SW    Misc.   TOTAL
1.4 RESTRUCTURING OF PUBLIC
EXPENDITURE PROCEDURES                             0       980      1,040        380         0         0          0       650       3,050
1.41 Implernentation of new public                          _                __ _
accounting standards~~~~~~~~~~~                                                 -.S 90,tr9
1L    es2 ponie ofor expen itureM i
1.4.2.1 Evaluation and conceptualization                                 350                                                             350
of framework
1.4.2.2 Conceptualization and formalization                              150                                                             150
of new rules and procedures
1.4.2.3 Reorganization of financial services                  190                                                            550         740
responsible for expenditure implementation
1.4.2.4 Redefinition of functions, duties                                290                                                             290
and responsibilities
1.4.2.5 Diffusion of documents and training                   200                   380                                                  580
of personnel
1.4.2.6 Evaluation and corrective mesures                                250                                                             250      o
1.5 PARTIAL IMPLEMENTATION OF
ACCRUAL ACCOUNTING                                 0       400        520        350          0        0          0       300       1,570
1.5.1 Implementation for some assets (vehicules):
methods planning                                                    150                                                              150
1.5.2 Testing and adaptation of accrual accounting
(depreciation schedules, inventory mngt.)                    200                                                           300          500
1.5.3 Redefinition of functions and responsibilities
in inventory mngt., depreciation uses                               220                                                              220
1.5.4 Diffusion of documents and training
of personnel for general implementation                   200                  350                                                   550
1.5.5 Evaluation and corrective mesures                                  150                                                             150



Local Staff Loc. Cons. Int. Cons.  Training    Off.Eq.    Equip.  IT HWiSW    Misc.    TOTAL
2. COMPUTER AND INFORMATION
SYSTEMS COMPONENT                                    0      516       6,148       900        .          30       5,180      110       12,884
2.1 Structural Strengthening                           0       155        820        150          0I       30          0        10       1,163
2.1.1 Preparation of the ISSP
2.1.1.1 Elaboration of policies, norms and guidelines                     483                                                              483
2.1.1.2 Establishment of technological infrastructure           50                                         30                   10          90
2.1.1.3 Training                                                                     100                                                   100
2.1.2 Support to the CIT
2.1.2.1 Support to the CIT - Visits                              5         15                                                               20
2.1.2.2 Support to the CIT- Training                                                  50                                                    50
2.1.2.3 Support to the CIT - expert consulting                            211                                                              211
2.1.3 Support to the PIU                                       100        111                                                              211     o
2.2 Development and deployment
of applications                                    0        150      4,100        750          0        0           0       100       5,100
2.2.1 Development of the IBMS                                           3,800                                                            3,800
2.2.2 Implementation of the IBMS and training                  150        300        750                                                 1,200
2.2.3 Development oi others appiications                                                                                       100         100
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
2.3 Strengthening of the technological
infrastructure                                     0       211      1,228          0          0         0      5,180         0       6,619
2.3.1 Establishment of the Central Information Dir.            211        420                                        240                   871
2.3.2 Deployment of the IBMS                                                                                       4,940                 4,940
2.3.3 Assistance to technological infrastructure                          808                                                              808
Physical contingencies and price contingencies                 233        987        251          0       26         505       103       2,105
T O T A L PROJECT COSTS                       0    2,626    11,110       2,821                 296       5,685    1,163       23,700



Table 4
IMPLEMENTATION OF LOAN FOR ALGERIAN BUDGET SYSTEMS MODERNIZATION PROJECT (QUARTERLY)
2001-2002
NB: these tables are based on the assumption that the loan is effective January 1 st 2000.
First Term 2001                                                       Second Term 2001
Components             Total  Imple-  Implementors   Total              Components            Total  Imple-  Implementors  Total
duration mentation               costs                                duratior mentation              costs
1. Budget system component                                              1. Budget system comPonent
1.1 Multiyear budgeting                                                 1.1 Multiyear budgeting
- Development and implementation  9 mths   P.l.U.   4 consultants  210.000 $  - Formalization and diffusion  1 yr   P.W.U.  Intemational  275.000 $
of a functional grouping of expenditures             2 int, 2 lc.          of rules and procedures                        consultants
- Establishment of a multiyear framewor  1 year   P.l.U.   International  218.000 $  - Specialized training and proced   1 yr   P.l.U.  Int. Consultan  93.000 $
and management of expenditures                      consultants            at the MoF                                    Nat. Trainers
1.2 Reinforcement
analysis & forecastiong capacity                                                                                                                 a,
- Conceptualization of organizational  1 yr   P.l.U.   International  220.000 $
options and evaluation of recurrent costs           consultants
1.3 Reform of expenditure cycle
- implementation of new public accountin 18 mths  P.W.U.  Accounting D. 690.000 $
standards
- reform of expenditure           9 mths   P.W.U.   International  350.000 $
implementation cycle                                consultants
2. Computer and Information                                             2. Computer and Information
Systems Component                                                       Systems Comoonent
2.1 Structural Strengthening                                            2.1 Structural Strengthening
-Support to the PIU                4 yrs   P.l.U.                211.000 $  - Support to the CIT         3 yrs   P..U.      CIT      281.000 $
9 mths
- Elaboration of policies, norms    1 yr   P.W.U. Ext. consultan 483.000 $
and guidelines                                    CIT



Third Term 2001                                                          Fourth Term 2001
Components              Total   Imple-  Implementors    Total              Components            Total   Imple-  Implementors   Total
duration mentation                cost                                  duratior mentation               cost
1. Budget system component                                                1. Budget system component
1.1 Multiyear budgeting                                                      1.3 Reinforcement
forecasting and analysis cap.
- training of personnel in forecasting  2 yrs   P.l.U    Ext. consult.  720.000 $  - technical support for   1 yr   P.W.U.   Ext. consult.  730.000 $
budgetary costing                   3 mths            Nat. trainer           implementation of framework    9 mths
- IT equipment                       1 yr    P.l.U.                120.000 $
1.2 Improvement of presentation
and diffusion of budget
- study of needs of stakeholders   9 mths   P.l.U.    Ext. consult.  205.000 $
Senior civ. serv.
1.3 Reinforcement
forecasting and anal. cap.
- training of personnel            9 mths   P.l.U.    Ext. consult.  150.000 $
Senior civ. serv.
- IT equipment                      1 yr    P.l.U.      C.IT.      120.000 $
1.4 Reform of expenditure cycle
- conceptualization and formalization of  6 mths   P.l.U.    Ext. consult.  150.000 $
rules and procedures
2. Computer and Information                                               2. Computer and Information
Systems Component                                                         Systems Component
2.1 Structural strengthening                                             2.2 Development of applications
- Establishment of technological     1 yr    P. .U.     C.I.T.     90.000 $  - Implementation of IBMS and    1 yr    P.l.U.   Ext. consult. 1.200.000
infrastructure                                                               training                                           C.I.T.
2.2 Development of applications
- Development of IBMS               3 yrs   P.l.U.    Ext. consult.  3.800.000 $
C.I.T.
2.3 Stengthening of tech. Infrastructure
- Establishment of CISD            9 mths   P.l.U.    Ext. consult.  871.000 $
C.I.T.



IMPLEMENTATION OF LOAN FOR ALGERIAN BUDGET SYSTEMS MODERNIZATION PROJECT PER TERM.
2001-2002
(part 2)
First Term 2002                                                      Second Term 2002
Components             Total  Imple-  Implementors    Total             Components           Total  Imple-  Implementors   Total
duration mentation              costs                                duratio mentation               costs
1. Budget System Component                                              1. Budget System Component
1.1 Multiyear budgeting                                                   1.1 Reinforcement                                                 L
forecasting and anal. cap.
- Implementation of framework      1 yr   P.I.U.    Budget D.   170.000 $  - Implementation of framework   9 mths  P.l.U.  Ext. consult. 140.000 $
Senior civ. serv.                                                    Sen. civ. serv.
1.2 Reform of expenditure cycle                                         1.2 Reform of expenditure cycle
- reorganization of financial services  1 yr   P.I.U.    Budget D.   190.000 $ - redefinition of functions, duties  6 mths  P.l.U.   Ext. consult. 290.000 $
responsible for expenditure                         Controlers            and responsibilities
implementation                                       Budget D.
- diffusion of documents and  1 yr   P.l.U.   Budget D.  550.000 $
training of personnel                         Controlers
2. Computer and Information
Systems Comoonent
2.1 Structural strengthening
- Training of personnel for the ISSP  18 mths  P.l.U.  C.I.T.   100.000 $



Third Term 2002                                                         Fourth Term 2002
Components              Total  Imple-  Implementors    Total             Components            Total   Imple-  Implementors   Total
duration mentation                cost                                 duratior mentation               cost
1. Budget System Component                                               1. Budget System Component
1.1 Multiyear budgeting                                                  1.1 Implementation of a
- evaluation and corrective measures    9 mths   P.I.U.   Ext. consult.  200.000 $ national system of classification
- reorganization of financial  1 yr   P.l.U.   Ext. consult. 500.000 $
services responsible for
1.2 Improvement of presentation                                          expenditure implementation
and diffusion of budget
- development of new documents and   18 mths  P.l.U.   Ext. consult.  320.000 $
implementation of modern support                   Senior civ. serv.
mechanisms
2. Computer and Information
Systems Component
2.1 Strengthening of the
technological infrastructure
- assistance to technological  3 mths  P.l.U.   Ext. consult. 808.000 $
infrastructure



MAP SECTION






i.  bX  i  i.                                     .                                                          IBRD 29992
M        e  0O  i t e  *, r  a  .f  e, LT n             Se  La
,_- L Xs G E R I A   A L G)ERIE35                                                                                                                                                                    c    +                                            r
__B_._ _.rrr_l_                                                                      ._                      4        J1
44 AIN DFLA   3Q  L OUED         OUM ELBOUAGH                                     OUTES SCONDAIRS                                         SIEGE DES WIAYATE                                                       4tblaamo. X .   ' f44  E-'
26 AIN TE
32             3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
16 ALGIERS        47 G     NA MESA2  SAIDA_   PVOES NATONLR OASEETWN CAIAND VILAGE                                                                                                                                                  C@ 62\   |4110rr4r
23 ANNAA       24 GULMA                    19  ETIF                                                                                                                                                             30       '->8  \s    /   >-M'.30-6
I BADRA                   32 ELIBAAI           2 7        SIADBLA                                         PAVBES WIA  ARPOADS                                     WILAYA HEADNDARTERS  ,/;C. 
44AI DEPLAR                34 JIEL OUB                  I SKLKM ELBEAHROUTSPEONDT                                        S                                          SIMIGES DES W/LATATE                                    |                 Qr/de 37  N. L  .  T   E 
46 31KAIN3TEMGHCENTTTiE TARPMRUANGHSE                                                                      RAILROADSERNATIONACPIAL BOUDAIE                                                                                   >|                                       3
16 BLGIERS                 27 MNASCARA                 i2 TEAESA                                           LOEIMREF                                                  AITAES NENTOAE                                                      ,    B1~~  S      7 /1 I   ,,4
34BODBU E     RRCH IR      I6 JMELE                    24 TKIARE                                           A-2PsT IIMTE D\ A'AEI                                                                                                                  > L  u                         s
U BISKRA  S LAGHOSAT            I TAMANOHASSET                                                                                   -   -      INTERNAT ONAL EOSNDAEIES                                6N /6 dA I                 I.>
IS BOUIRA                  43 MILA                    37 TINDOUP                                                                                                                                                                         \                                      2j\L _
35 BOUMERDES                27 MOSTAGANEM               42 TIPAZA                                                                                                                                                                           *                    ;soaoe
2 CHLEP                   24 MSILA                     34 TISSEMSILT                                                                                          TE, ropw sron noi,edby irefMoo enor UiirolDie Wild EriE                          \N  /N{,
25 CONSTANTINE             45 NAAMA                     IS TIZIOLUZOU                                 0           50           100           150               TIn iordndorn  color deroro,riniinn dooyonhe,nfoomni,l,o                              B 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-d~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~'1
17 DJELPA                  31 ORAN                      13 TLEMCEN                                                    KILOMETERS                               sow,ynd nnn hlmPdo egl 4nOOi,ntY oYP@  OOnYFO5W                                    E 40,10, n\rernn/o
,or 2ceptrnceolnofuh bo,odor,en                               uR~XoAoe                                            p
NOVEMBER 1998



