Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24364
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-37660)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$96.0 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE
PARANA BASIC EDUCATION QUALITY PROJECT
06/24/2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 17, 2002)
Currency Unit = Real (R$)
R$1 = US$ 0.4
US$ I = R$2.4
FISCAL YEAR
January I December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APM         Associagdo de Pais e Mestres/Parents and Teachers Association
AVA         Avalicjo de Rendimento Escolar/ParanA Student Learning Assessment System
CAOCI       Coordenadoria de Auditoria de Operac,es de Cr6dito Internacionaisl State Audit
Coordination of International Credit Operations
CBA         Ciclo Basico de Alfabetiza$do/Basic Literacy Cycle
CELEPAR     Companhia de InforrnAtica do Parana/Parani State Information Technology
Agency
CETEPAR     Centro de Tecnologia Educacional do Parana/Parani State Center of Educational
Technology
CIE         Coordination of Educational Information Unit
DECOM       Departamento Estadual de Construc,es/State Department of Construction and
Maintenance
FMS         Bank Financial Management Specialist
FNDE        Fundo Nacional de Desenvolvimento da EducacAoI
National Fund for Educational Development
FUNDEF      Fundo de Desenvolvimento e Manuten9iio do Ensino Fundamental e Valorizagdo
do Magisteriol Fund for the Development and Maintenance of Basic Education and
Teachers Valorization
FUNDEPAR Instituto de Desenvolvimento da Educacdol
Parana State Fund for Educational Development
IBQP        Brazilian Institute of Quality and Productivity
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IDB         Interamerican Development Bank
IES         Instituqi6es de Ensino Superior/Higher Education Institutions
LACI        Bank Loan Administration Change Initiative
MEC         Ministerio da EducacaolFederal Ministry of Education
MIS         Management Information System
MTR         Mid Term Review
NCB         National Competitive Bidding
NRE         Nzkcleo Regional de Educa,edolSEED Regional Offices
PCU         Unidade de Coordena,eao do Projeto/Project Coordination Unit
PQE         Projeto Qualidade no Ensino Ptublicolthe Project
SAE         Sistema de Administra,ao da Educa,ieo / Human Resources Administration
System
SAEB        Sistema Nacional de Avalia,cdo da Educa,do Bisical
National Student Assessment System



SAFF        Sistema de Administraq ao Fsico-Financeiro do Projeto/Project Financial and
Physical Management System
SEED        Secretaria de Estado da Educacdo/State Secretariat of Education
SERE        Sistema Estadual de Registro Escolar/Student Register System
SIE         Sistema de Informacoes Educacionais/Education Information System
UP          Universidade do ProfessorlTeachers' University
Vice President:  David de Ferranti
Country Director:  Vinod Thomas
Sector Director:  Ana-Maria Arriagada
Task Team Leader    Ricardo Silveira






BRAZIL
PARANA BASIC EDUCATION QUALITY PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             15
6. Sustainability                                                                 16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  17
8. Lessons Learned                                                                19
9. Partner Comments                                                               19
10. Additional Information                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performnance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              3 1
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             33
Annex 8. Borroweres Contribution                                                  34
Annex 9. Summary of the Evaluation of the Teacher Training Program                39
Annex 10. Summary of the Evaluation of the Book Fair                              42
Annex 11. Parana Education Programs and Processes influencing Project Outcomes    45






Project ID: P006558                                       Project Name: BR-PARANA BASIC EDUCATION
QUALITY
Team Leader: Ricardo Rocha Silveira                       TL Unit: LCSHE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       IReport Date: June 24, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: BR-PARANA BASIC EDUCATION QUALITY              L/C/TF Number: CPL-37660
Country/Department: BRAZIL                                               Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: EP - Primary Education
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   01/08/93                               Ejffctive: 01/26/95           01/26/95
Appraisal:  06/28/93                                  MTR: 05/26/98             06/01/98
Approval:  06/28/94                                Closing:  12/31/99           12/31/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency:  FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL / SECRETARIAT OF STATE OF
PARANA
Other Partners: STATE OF PARANA
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                         Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Vinod Thomas                              Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager:      Ana-Maria Arriagada                       Alain Colliou
Team Leader at ICR:  Ricardo Silveira                          Kate Hovde
ICR Primary Author:  Charles Dahan; Dominique
Babelon; Maria R. Puech
Fernandez
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
- Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the project was to improve educational achievement in the State of Parana, as defined by
increases in student learning and graduation from primary school, through delivery of a package of
essential educational inputs to primary schools and improvements in educational management. More
specifically, the project objectives were to: (a) improve children's and teachers' access to adequate
quantities of learning materials; (b) improve teachers' effectiveness in the classroom; (c) provide children in
low-income urban areas with physical space adequate for learning; (d) provide school, municipal, and
regional level administrators with tools, skills and incentives to improve management practices and take on
new responsibilities; and (e) achieve greater equity between state and municipal school systems in terms of
spending per student and the availability of essential educational inputs.
In a Declaration of Policy, the State had reaffirmed its commitment to guaranteeing the continuity of a
number of important policy initiatives which formed the context of the project, including: (i) the Basic
Literacy Cycle (Ciclo Baisico de Alfabetiza,do, CBA); (ii) the partnership program with municipalities;
(iii) community participation in the choice of school principals; and (iv) promoting greater autonomy of
decision-making at the school level, through the transfer of non-salary resources to schools by means of a
revolving fund.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not revised during implementation.
3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of five components:
(i)  Instructional Materials (US$75.5 million equivalent, including contingencies; 38.0 percent of total
project cost). The component would support: (a) the regular provision of textbooks to children in
both state and municipal schools; (b) a basic package of educational materials and equipment to all
state and participating municipal schools; and, (c) a school library enrichment program;
(ii) Teacher Training (US$27.1 million equivalent, including contingencies; 13.7 percent of total project
cost). The component would support an in-service training program for school principals,
supervisors, and teachers through both face-to-face and distance training;
(iii) School Upgrading and Expansion of Access (US$75.4 mnillion equivalent, including contingencies;
38.0 percent of total project cost). The component would finance school construction and furniture
in low-income areas where schools are either in precarious conditions or population shifts have
produced a surge in demand;
(iv) Institutional Development (US$18 million equivalent, including contingencies; 9.1 percent of total
project cost). The component would support: (a) the establishment of a project coordination unit
within the State Secretariat of Education (Secretaria de Estado da Educa,do-SEED); (b) the
development of capacity at the state level for quantitative assessment of student learning; (c)
restructuring and decentralization of existing management information systems; (d) activities to
strengthen management at various levels, including training for regional administrators and municipal
-2 -



staff; and (e) promotion of quality improvements in schools and municipalities through the
establishment of a prize fund; and,
(v) Studies and Evaluation (US$27. I million equivalent, including contingencies; 1.2 percent of total
project cost). The component would support policy, project evaluation, and impact studies.
3.4 Revised Components:
There was not a revision of project components, but their relative importance in terms of scope and
financing changed during implementation. Substantial funds were reallocated from the infrastructure and
educational materials components to the teacher training and the institutional development components.
The educational materials component benefited from federal funding in textbooks allowing for expansion to
include library bookshelves, printing of didactic materials for the Flow Correction program and a Parana
History Collection.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The overall quality at entry was satisfactory based on the following: (i) the relevance and consistency of
the project concept, objectives and design with the Government's priorities and the Bank's assistance
strategy; (ii) the quality of the project design; (iii) the workshops on educational decentralization and
procurement, undertaken during preparation; and (iv) the efforts to integrate the lessons from previous
Bank projects. Procurement arrangements, however, were ill-suited to the project's decentralization
objectives and had to be changed during implementation. Also, the management information system
component should have been better defined at appraisal.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4. 1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Satisfactory. Overall, the project has substantially achieved its objective of improving educational
achievement measured by graduation from Drimarv school (grades 1 to 8) and increases in student learning.
The project has led to a major reduction in repetition and dropout rates throughout primary education in
Parana, resulting in increased efficiency and lower costs per student. The project has resulted in improved
access to adequate physical space, educational materials, and training opportunities for teachers and
managers, particularly in the state school system. Student learning achievements, however, have in fact
declined, in particular in the first four grades (see Annex I) for reasons not yet fully explained. Possible
reasons include: (i) accelerated municipalization, which left municipalities in charge of the first four grades
without much preparation and insufficient funding; (ii) poor implementation of the Basic Literacy Cycle
(CBA); (iii) flow correction programs; (iv) insufficient teachers'qualification; (v) insufficient time in school
to cover prescribed curricula; and (vi) changes in the national curriculum parameters defined by the federal
Ministry of Education (MEC) and introduced in the test without sufficient time for teachers to be prepared
to use those new curriculum guidelines (see Annex 11).
Increased efficiency through improved student flows. The project had set as objectives increases in
promotion rates and a substantial decrease in repetition rates in grades I to 8. These objectives were
exceeded by a substantial margin.
-3 -



*   In grades I to 4, promotion rates were to increase from 76%     in 1990 on average. In municipal schools,
which account for 84% of enrollment in these grades, promotion rates actually increased from 74% in
1991 to 80% in 1996 and to 87% in 1999. In state schools, the increase was even higher, to 94% in
1999.
*   In grades 5 to 8, promotion rates were to increase from       77%   in 1990 on average. In state schools,
which account for 89% of enrollment in these grades, promotion rates actually increased from 64% in
1991 to 68% in 1996 and to 83% in 1999. In municipal schools, the increase was similar, to 83% in
1999.
*   The percentage of students reaching 5th grade with a maximum of one repetition was to increase from
45% in 1990 to 60% in 1999. Actually, the percentage of students reaching 4th grade with a
maximum of one repetition in 1999 was 91%. In state schools, the promotion rate from 4th to 5th
grade in 1999 was 89% on average, so this would correspond to 81% of students reaching 5th grade.
In municipal schools, average promotion rates were not very different from state schools, so this
percentage is not expected to be very different.
*   The percentage of students finishing 8th grade with a maximum           of two repetitions was to increase
from 15% in 1990 to 25% in 1999. Actually, the percentage of students reaching eighth grade with a
maximum of two repetitions was 96% in 1999. In state schools, where most students in these grades
are enrolled, the promotion rate from 8th grade was 83%, so this would correspond to about 80% of
students finishing 8th grade with a maximum of two repetitions.
Changes in promotion, repetition and drop out rates and in age-grade distortions are presented in the Table
below.
1989. All Schools                1996. State Schools              1999- State Schools 1/
Grade      Repetition  Promotion  Drop out   Repetition  Promotion  Drop out   Repetition  Promotion  Drop out
First         35.2      62.7      2.1           0.7       92.5       6.8         2.9       94.2       2.9
Second        28.8      66.8      4.4           17.1      78.7       4.2         2.3       96.3       1.4
Third        24.3       69.7      5.9           9.0       87.2       3.8         2.1       96.6       1.3
Fourth       19.7       68.5      10.8          11.0      85.5       3.6         9.5       89.1       1.4
dIrstto4rth  27.0      669        5.8          9.8       8S7        4.5          4.5       918       1.7
Fifth        43.3       48.0      8.7          21.4       63.9      14.8         12.9      80.2       6.9
Sixth        35.9       56.2      7.9           19.4      67.6      13.0         11.0      84.0       5.0
Seventh      29.2       63.5      7.3           14.5      73.9      11.6         9.0       85.8       5.2
Eighth       21.3       75.8      2.9           8.5       82.0       9.5         7.4       84.0       8.6
tat 5th to 8th  3Z4     60.9      6.7           17.0      70.4      126          10.4      812        6.4
Total Irst to 1  29.7   64.0      6.2          15.7       73.2      11.1         9.6       84.7       5.7
1/ exdcuding students in 'Corecao de Fluxo"program
Source: 1989: Staff Appraisal Report;
1996: SEED/FUNDEPAR-SERE (extracted from A Educacao no Parana nos anos 90"- SEED/PQE, Cademo 8
1999: SEED/FUNDEPAR-SERE
The Table shows very significant decreases in repetition rates as well as significant decreases in dropout
rates in state schools in all grades (equivalent data in municipal schools is not available but are likely to be
in line with those of state schools). The average age-grade distortion has also been substantially reduced,
- 4 -



from 45% of total enrolled students with distortion in 1996 to 31% in 1999. Student flows have therefore
substantially improved, resulting in cost savings for the basic education system. These improvements are
the result of two programs implemented in parallel: (i) the Basic Alphabetization Cycle (Ciclo Bdsico de
Alfabetizaqdo-CBA); and (ii) the Flow Correction Prograrn (Programa de Correqio de Fluxo) (see Annex
11).
Increased Student Learning. Results from the National Student Assessment System (SAEB) and the
Parana State Assessment of Student Learning (AVA) are not satisfactory. Only SAEB presents results
which are comparable from year to year. These show that average proficiency in Portuguese and
mathematics in both 4th and 8th grades, while remaining stable or slightly improving between 1995 and
1997, deteriorated between 1997 and 1999. These trends, however, are consistent with those of the
southern region of Brazil and of Brazil as a whole. In addition, Parana lost in terms of ranking among all
states, particularly in 8th grade, where it fell from first to 8th and 10th place in both subject matters.
Although proficiency levels are not comparable from year to year, the AVA also shows that, in the 4th
grade, the percentage of students answering at least half of items correctly was substantially lower in 2000
than in 1995 or 1997. In the 8th grade, however, the declining trend observed during the 1995-97 period
was reversed in 2000, with a significantly higher percentage of students answering at least half of the items
correctly.
There are no clear explanations for the deterioration in SAEB scores at national and state levels. Nor there
is a clear answer about why Parana Assessment results in 2000 diverge from SAEB's achievements in
1999 in 8th grade. But what is clear from the Parana Assessment System is that proficiency in both
Portuguese and mathematics remains quite low in both grades 4 and 8. Although several explanations can
be considered for why performance has not generally improved and may have decreased in some cases, but
so far no systematic analysis has been made. The main explanatory hypotheses are: (i) accelerated
municipalization, which left municipalities in charge of the first four grades without much preparation and
insufficient finding, combined with poor implementation of CBA; (ii) flow correction programs; (iii)
insufficient teachers'qualification; (iv) insufficient teacher time in school to cover prescribed curricula; and
(v) changes in test content resulting in low reliability of historical comparisons (See Annex 11).
Institutional development. There were major achievements in these area. The project has led to the
development of an evaluation culture throughout the basic education system, supporting the carrying out of
periodic quantitative assessments of student learning, regular evaluation of programs, and the continuos
feedback of results into the design of educational reforn and policies. Key components of the project such
as teacher training and quantitative assessment of student learning have been institutionalized, management
and information systems have been significantly improved, and SEED has been reorganized.
Decentralization objectives have also been met. Decentralization of the first four grades to municipalities
has advanced considerably. At school level, there has been substantial progress towards participatory
management and some progress towards increased autonomy. Greater equity between state and municipal
school systems in terms of spending per student has also been achieved, although this was principally due
to the establishment of the Fund for the Development and Maintenance of Basic Education and Teachers
Valorization (Fundo de Desenvolvimento e Manutengdo do Ensino Fundamental e Valorizagao do
Magisterio-FUNDEF).
Perhaps due to the accelerated decentralization process, by which municipalities assumed responsibility for
the first four primary grades, and the consequent loss of direct state authority over these levels, the project
ended up benefiting more the second cycle (grades 5 through 8), which remained mostly under state control,
- 5-



and less the first four grades. The project objective of giving particular emphasis to grades one through
four thus was only partly achieved.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1. Instructional Materials (USS85.0 million or 38 percent of total project cost).
Satisfactory. This component achieved its objective of improving student and teachers' access to adequate
quantities of learning materials. It supported three programs: (a) the regular provision of textbooks to
children in both state and municipal schools; (b) a basic package of educational materials and equipment to
all state and participating municipal schools; and (c) a school library enrichment program.
Subcomponent L.A - The Textbook Program: This subcomponent achieved its goal, ensuring that every
child in grades one to eight in the state received a set of textbooks of reasonable quality at the beginning of
the school year, providing about 24 million textbooks between 1995 and 2001 (SAR target was 20.2
million), at a total estimated cost of US$59 million (64% higher than appraisal estimates). Textbooks in
Brazil were provided by the MEC under the National Fund for Educational Development (Fundo Nacional
de Desenvolvimento da Educacao-FNDE), and this program was part of the project counterpart funds. To
assure the successful implementation of this program, under the project, the state assumed the entire
responsibility for the adequate and timely provision of textbooks to both state and municipal schools.
Nevertheless, except in 1995, when books for grades 5 to 8 were provided by SEED, textbooks were
provided yearly in the needed quantities by the national textbook program to all state and municipal public
schools. In most cases, textbooks arrived in January for the school year starting in February, although
delays of up to 5 weeks were reported in a few cases.
Procurement of textbooks by the federal government remained centralized, but the choice of textbooks,
from a catalog yearly prepared by MEC, was left to the schools. School requests were consolidated, books
were procured and then directly sent to the schools. Starting 2002, public schools will be able to send their
requests to FNDE via intemet. Also, SEED's good experience in procurement of textbooks for 1995
through competitive bidding demonstrated that: (i) the book evaluation process is very important to improve
quality; and (ii) competitive bidding leads to lower prices.
Subcomponent L.B - The Educational Materials and Equipment Program: The implementation of this
sub-component was satisfactory. The actual cost of the sub-component amounted to US$17.8 million
(including municipal transfers) or 57% of appraisal estimates. The main reason for this reduction is that,
since 1999, didactic materials are provided under the new federal Ministry of Education program (MEC)
"Money in Schools Program" ("Programa Dinheiro na Escola"J. Through direct transfers to schools in
2001, 787,000 students in 1,850 state schools benefited from this program. Municipal schools benefited as
well.
Around 2,056 schools from the state system, including over 1,800 schools under decentralized procurement
arrangements, received a standardized package of educational materials. Additionally, around 552 state
schools received additional project funds under this component to improve their library. Teachers were
trained in the use of didactic materials for both regular and flow correction shifls. Also, the project financed
the preparation of a Didactic Panama History Collection and the printing of didactic materials for the
student Flow Correction Program. Finally, about 3,000 municipal schools benefited indirectly from the
project: 118 low income municipalities (out of 194 having a partnership agreement with the state) became
eligible* to receive state transfers under the municipalization program to help cover maintenance costs and
basic education development, in 1995, 1996 and 1997. These transfers totaled US$22 million equivalent,
-6 -



of which US$8.8 million were allocated to procurement of educational materials. The sub-component
included a small pilot project (US$500,000) to promote the development and dissemination of experimental
materials to be used in the teaching of sciences, which was cancelled after it proved less than effective.
The project provided a large incentive for the establishmnent of Parent and Teachers Associations (APMs)
and their effective involvement in the management of transferred financial resources and participation in the
procurement of materials. In August 1998, a financial audit of a sample of 25 participating state schools
concluded that APMs adequately followed decentralized procurement procedures in accordance with the
instructions manual. In December 1998, a survey of school management autonomy showed that all schools
now purchased materials based on a diagnostic; that educational materials increased substantially in
quantity and quality, and in 1997, that 86 percent of educational materials requirements had been met; and
that satisfaction with management autonomy in the choice of educational materials was complete.
* (Only transfers to those municipalities classified as low income according to the national "Programa Communidade
Solidaria " criteria, and having participated in the fourth grade 1995 AVA, were eligible under the project.)
Subcomponent 1.C - The Library Enrichment Program: This sub-component succeeded in meeting its
objective of upgrading school library collections. The school library enrichment program attended most
targeted schools, and benefited 90% of the total state and municipal school students of Parana in grades I
through 8. The original design intended for the initial purchases to be made centrally under ICB
procedures through FUNDEPAR, while the purchase of additional books would be made in a decentralized
manner, via the organization of book fairs in different regions of the state. At project's mid terrn review,
procurement of all library and reference books was decentralized to schools and financial resources
transferred to their legally organized APMs. As a result, the aggregate amount for books procured by
schools directly from publishers through book fairs increased from US$4.8 million to US$ 9.0 million. It
was decided that the library program would be implemented through the organization of one single fair in
SEED's training center at Faxinal do Ceu, and that schools would be authorized to use up of 20% of their
allocated resources for the direct purchase of furniture and equipment necessary for the organization of
their library.
The book fair was organized in eight consecutive events from October 6 to 21, 1997, with highly
satisfactory results. Close to 4,000 schools, of which around 2,000 municipal schools, participated in these
events. The 7,499 school managers and teachers representing the schools were able to choose, directly
negotiate, purchase, and pay for about 1.5 million books from 49 preselected publishers presenting more
than 10,100 titles. Total actual costs of the sub-component was US$8.6 million, in line with appraisal
estimates.
The quality of books and the adequacy of the purchasing process were recognized and appreciated by all
involved. Independent evaluations and audits of the program confirned the general satisfaction with the
book fair and that procedures had been adequately followed by the APM's. Implementation through a book
fair represented an important step towards school autonomy, decentralization of resources and participation
of the school community in school management through APMs. It provided an inportant stimulus for the
organization of APMs by empowering them with the management of financial resources directly transferred
by the state and to school management and teachers who valued their participation and responsibilities in
the choice of books and in the purchase process.
The gathering of many of publishers all together in the same place and the possibility of direct contact
between them and school buyers were praised. The right to choose the books according to the needs of
each school, the possibility to interact with other teachers and publishers, and ease of purchasing within an
- 7-



available budget, were also appreciated. Finally, the book fair was an opportunity for cultural events
including updating activities, contacts with renowned authors and interchanges among colleagues.
Component 2. Teacher Training (US$74.0 million- or 33 percent of total project cost). Satisfactory.
The program succeeded in its objective of providing voluntary training that successfully reached most
teachers, administrators and managers through a diversified menu of options. Around 295,000 participants
were trained (versus the 93,500 trainees estimated at appraisal), though most professionals were involved
in more than one event. Total spending of US$74 million was one-and-a-half times more than the appraisal
estimates. The program is now institutionalized, being continuously adjusted to reflect changing needs and
feedback from regular monitoring and evaluation activities.
During its implementation, the program went through two different phases: (i) from 1995 to 1998: the
incoming state administration prepared a training program for all of basic education levels, dropping the
decentralized planning concept, adopted in the project design, in favor of centrally planned motivation and
managerial seminars organized by the created Universidade do Profesor (UP) complemented by courses in
the SEED Faxinal do Ceu training center; (ii) from 1999 to project completion: after an evaluation, the
program was changed. Coordination and management were brought under UP; the planning process was
streamlined; motivation seminars were reduced and professional training was increased, because by then,
the majority of teachers had already attended motivation seminars and periodic evaluations had pointed out
that individual motivation required school support to be sustainable. Central seminars oriented towards
school principals and supervisors focused more on participatory management and pedagogic management,
and less on administrative questions. Professional training became more oriented towards addressing the
weaknesses identified through program evaluations (e.g more focus on pedagogic practices) and AVA. In
some aspects of the program, planning and implementation became more decentralized, to allow teachers to
plan their own training in function of AVA results and also to meet the expressed desire by teachers for
training to take place closer to the school. SEED regional offices (Ntucleo Regional de Educacdo-NREs)
became chiefly responsible for training in pedagogic methods within the disciplines. Some projects were
reformulated (" Vale Saber") and others were introduced such as course to irnprove teachers'proficiency in
the use of Intemet, and to improve teaching of mathematics and English. Monitoring became the primary
responsibility of the UP intemal monitoring and evaluation unit, while evaluation was contracted to outside
evaluators.
The major innovation in the training program brought about by the project since the beginning was the
establishment of a monitoring and evaluation unit within the program. The unit was established in 1996
and has regularly performed annual evaluations, based on a number of instruments: evaluation forms filled
out by participants after each event; written opinions of experts contracted to attend every event; site visits
to a representative sample of schools; and working group meetings of regional office staff and of contracted
evaluators. These evaluations made major contributions to the identification of successes and problems and
to the reformulation of a number of strategies. However, the work of the team needed to be complemented
in three respects: (a) more comprehensive and systematic monitoring of program implementation and of the
performance of training providers; (b) more sophisticated statistical analyses of the relationship between
training and student achievement at the level of the school; and (c) regular use of independent outside
evaluations.
In 2000, the evaluation strategy was reforrnulated accordingly. The UP team was refocused on monitoring
of program implementation and evaluation of providers, to permit improved planning and timely
elimination of bad providers and irrelevant events. UP has since established a computerized data base
which allows evaluation of events and providers according to participation rates and satisfaction ratings on
a number of key criteria. Also, UP is in the process of establishing a Data Base which will permit the
- 8-



individual identification of all participants, allowing analyses of relations between the training capital of
each school, school performance and student achievements. In parallel, two outside firns were contracted
to develop better methodologies for evaluation of the impact of training on student achievement and to offer
an independent vision of UP.
Component 3. School Upgrading and Expansion of Access (US$39.8 million or 17.7 percent of total
project cost). Satisfactory. A total of 804 classrooms in 94 schools were built, representing 70% of
appraisal estimates. Of these, 605, all in the state system, were also furnished and equipped. Total costs
were only 51% of appraisal estimates. Cost per classroom averaged US$46,800, about 30% lower than
appraisal estimates due to priority given to the largest schools. A total of 55 municipalities were benefited,
compared to 66 expected at appraisal. The rehabilitation of the SEED headquarter building and the
associated acquisition of furniture and equipment was completed in 1999, at a total cost of US$1.9 million
(48% higher than appraisal estimates). A total area of 8,209 m2 was renovated, 80% more than appraisal
estimates.
The school facilities built directly benefited about 31,330 students. As per FUNDEPAR standards, these
schools include libraries, sciences laboratory, management and teachers facilities, and services such as
kitchen and storage. SEED's consultants for the evaluation of the component and Bank missions found the
schools visited satisfactory in terms of design and construction quality. However, various suggestions were
made including provision for future schools of computer laboratory space, larger sports areas, and green
areas.
Despite an overall surplus of 240,000 school spaces throughout Parana, there are still localized deficits in
some metropolitan regions, where population growth is high due to in-migration. This problem is currently
being addressed by the state government which, at the end of 2001, started the construction of 31 new state
schools with a total of 346 classrooms in 13 municipalities, expected to benefit 36,000 students. In
addition, to avoid crowded schools and promote better use of classrooms, SEED published a norm for
minimum and maximum number of students per classroom, based on the area of the classroom, effective in
2002 and applicable to all public schools in the state. In mid-2000, FUNDEPAR decided to decentralize
monitoring and supervision of state schools through the organization of technical teams in SEED's regional
offices. The establishment of local teams will permit improved quality in new constructions, expansion and
rehabilitation of existing schools.
Component 4. Institutional Development (US$24.6 million equivalent or 10.9 percent of total project
cost). Satisfactory. This component succeeded in its goal of improving managerial tools and capacity and
in providing incentives at the state and local level, through the following subcomponents:
Subcomponent 4.1 - Project management: The project supported the creation of a Proiect Coordination
Unit (PCU) reporting directly to the state Secretary of Education. The project financed equipment and
furniture; training of PCU staff in procurement, disbursement and planning; the development,
inplementation and operation of a computenzed accounting and monitoring system for the project; and the
provision of technical assistance and consulting services to PCU. In early stages of project implementation,
there were significant delays in adequately staffing the PCU and in implementing the physical and financial
monitoring and control systems. In August 1996, a national consulting firm was hired, at the Government's
proposal to provide operational assistance in project management.
A financial and physical management system (SAFF) was developed and established by a specialized firm
under the supervision of consulting firm. With Bank's support, a monitoring and evaluation plan and
project perfornance indicators was developed. By the end of 1996, the financial monitoring and control
-9-



module was operating satisfactorily. The physical monitoring and control module was completed in mid
1997. At the suggestion of a Bank Financial Management Specialists (FMS) team, SAFF was reviewed
and selected at the end of March 1998 for inclusion in the Bank Loan Administration Change Initiative
(LACI) pilot program.
The actual cost of project management amounted to US$3.9 million equivalent, 80% higher than appraisal
estimates and 20% higher that mid-term review estimates. This cost increase was mainly due to the need
for more consultants than planned and to the implementation period being two years longer than expected at
appraisal. Despite initial delays, PCU implemented the project efficiently. SEED has since adopted the
SAFF system modified to LACI reporting requirements to the imnplementation of PROEM, partly financed
by the Interamerican Development Bank. The consulting finn subsequently helped irnplement LACI in the
Ministry of Health and in the reform of the National Institute of Social Security of Nicaragua.
Subcomponent 4.2 - Development of Assessment Capacity: This subcomponent went beyond its original
goal to support the continuation of work with the National Student Assessment System (Sistema Nacional
de Avaliaqao da Educacao Bdsica-SAEB) at the state level and the validation of separate tests based on
the state curriculum.
The SEED testing system (Parana Student Assessment System - Avaliaqdo de Rendimento Escolar-AVA)
was considerably broader than initially planned and was improved over time to increase coverage,
reliability, and comparability. In early 1995, the objective of the SEED program changed to introduce a
culture of feedback and self evaluation at the school level. AVA was conceived to provide a management
tool to individual schools and all levels of the state and municipal administrations. The system became
universal in its application and promoted the idea that each school would receive its own results and would
be able to compare them with those of other schools and of various regional groupings. Despite Bank
warnings that the program could exceed the capacity of project management, the state planned to test every
year all state school students in grades 4 and 8 of basic education. Students attending municipal schools
with a partnership agreement with the state would also be tested. In fourth grade, about 90% of students in
state schools and 65% of students in municipal schools were tested annually. In 8th grade, between 70%
and 90% of state students and between 40% and 60% of municipal students were tested.
Assessment tests were applied in October of 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998 and 2000 in the fourth and eight
grades of basic education. Tests were performed in Portuguese, Mathematics and Science, and, in 1996,
history and geography as well. However, excessive workload led to substantial delays in analysis and
dissemination of results. In 1998, these problems eventually led SEED to schedule testing only every other
year on even years, while SAEB tests in the same grades would continue to be scheduled on odd years.
After the project's mid-term review, important changes were introduced in the 2000 AVA. Students were
to be scored using a single proficiency scale allowing comparisons from year to year, like SAEB, and the
reliability of the tests would be improved by introducing more advanced statistical methods (Item Reply
Theory). Tests would be performed in all schools with more than 50 students in the grade, and other
schools would be tested on a sample basis. Finally, there would be considerably more emphasis on
timeliness of analysis and dissemination of results, and each school would receive a bulletin directly from
SEED headquarters summarizing its performance and comparing it with other schools in the same
municipality and in the state. In parallel, responsibility for the assessment program was shifted from the
Project Management Unit to the Coordination of Educational Infornation (CIE) within SEED, thus
institutionalizing the program on a permanent basis. Consolidated results of the 2000 exercise became
available in 2001 and individual school bulletins were distributed in November 2001.
-10-



The results of the assessment exercises cannot be consistently compared year-to-year, unlike SAEB, due to
changes in statistical planning and analytical methods. However, test results permit valuable analyses of
differences within the system between state and municipal schools, types of shift, gender, and parents
educational level.
Due to delays in processing and consolidating information, use of the assessment system in shaping state
policies and strategies was slower than planned, but has been used in reviewing priorities for teacher
training, particularly since 1998. The major impact of the assessment system is yet to come. Starting in
2001, all schools are receiving individual bulletins showing their performance relative to other schools.
Transparency in individual school performance will allow school managers, parents and teachers to
question themselves about the reasons for good or bad performance and to design training programs for
teachers and other remedial measures aiming at continuous improvement. It will also allow a measure of
performance of directors, which are elected on fixed terms.
Subcomponent 43 - Development of and Integrated and Decentralized Information System: Most of
the existing educational data systems in Parana were very slow, centralized in the state processing agency
(CELEPAR), and not immediately accessible to managers in SEED. The project supported restructuring
and developing an integrated management information system. Through this component, a network
structure for SEED and 31 regional nucleuses was developed, computer equipment was provided to 1,445
state schools with more than 200 students, with at least one computer per municipality, covering about 1.4
million students. A total of 3,056 computers stations had been delivered. Three system modules had been
developed: (i) a school student module taking data from the existing Student Register System-SERE; (ii) an
education infrastructure and management module connected to the existing Human Resource
Administration System -SAE; and (iii) a building and furniture module connected to PROEM). Before
project closing, the new software (SIE) had been installed and technicians had been trained in 24 out 31
NREs and in 808 out of 1,445 schools. SIE installation and training in all remaining regional offices and
schools were expected to be completed in 2002. Additional measures are planned in future years,
including: (a) more training in 2002 for school technicians; (b) use of a lighter version of the system in state
schools with less than 200 students and in municipal schools; (c) incorporation of historical SERE data; (d)
updating of the school module; and (e) development of additional school management tools. The actual cost
of the sub-component totaled US$15.4 million equivalent, in line with mid-term review revised estimates
(US$16 million) but 67% higher than appraisal estimates, due to the sub-component expanded scope.
There were significant delays in implementation of this component. A contract was signed in November
1997 for all equipment and services after a competitive bidding process. At mid term review, responsibility
for the management of the contract was transferred to SEED and the contract was renegotiated and a new
implementation plan agreed in order to achieve the goals of the sub-component.
The new system allows faster transmission of information from schools to regional offices and from there
to SEED, and will make updated information as well as modem planning and management tools available
to all levels of state educational structure, including school managers. The system will foster more
efficiency in schools secretariats, allowing faster preparation and transmission of updated and more
accurate information. However, a number of issues still need to be addressed: (i) the first computers which
were received, are already too slow (if not obsolete) for SIE; (ii) some schools are still resisting the new
system; and (iii) there is a need for a support and development team for SIE, preferably within SEED.
- I 1 -



Subcomponent 4.4 - Strengthening Management and Planing: This sub-component partially achieved its
objective to improve management and planning at the central, regional, municipal and school level. Its aim
was the effective implementation of the state policy of municipal partnerships and increasing school
autonomy. The following activities were supported by the project:
* definition, in conjunction with municipalities of 'fundamental quality indicators" to aid in tracking
school-level data in both state and municipal schools. This set of indicators and quality standards was to
be used as part of a program of regular monitoring and evaluation of school performance, in particular
municipal schools under partnership agreement, but was not implemented. In 2001, it was partly
substituted with the preparation of School Bulletins (Boletim da Escola) for all schools which have
participated in AVA 2000. This bulletin consolidates school data from various sources to provide a picture
of school performance on AVA tests, repetition and dropout rates, number of students, classroom sizes, and
teachers'profile for the school, compared with other schools in the municipality and the state. It also
includes data on parents and student satisfaction with respect to quality, participation, information, safety
and parents attitude. Production of these bulletins was financed in 2000/2001 with project funds.
*  technical assistance and management trainingfor approximately 1,880 SEED and municipal staff in
the use of the above indicators for planning, human resource management, budgeting, as well as in other
areas. Since these indicators were not developed, training of administrators in how to use them also did not
happen. Since 2000, however, SEED administrators at regional and central levels (as well as school
managers and supervisors and APMs) are being trained in the use of school bulletins for self-evaluation
and planning.
* an evaluation of current management mechanisms under the partnership program with
municipalities. A permanent monitoring group within SEED was to establish a monitoring system of
partnership agreements (including an information data base), and perform annual joint evaluations with
municipal authorities. However, this monitoring system was not established.
* the development in the first year of the project of a proposal for reorganization of SEED. The study
was to propose a new structure for SEED, with functions and attributions adjusted to the new context in
which SEED would manage the state educational system, in particular to delegation through partnerships
with municipalities and to increased school autonomy. Project preparation documents pointed out at
excessive centralization despite existence of 30 regional offices with little delegation to resolve routine
matters, excessive number of communication channels, duplication of efforts, deficiencies in data
processing activities, and staffing with personnel mostly with a pedagogic background and without
preparation for technical and administrative functions. In April 1996, a proposal was requested from the
Brazilian Institute of Quality and Productivity (IBQP) and the study was carried out; part of its
recommendations contributed to the later reorganization of SEED. SEED was reorganized in 2001. Key
changes in the organization structure consisted in the separation of pedagogic management (in a
Superintendency for Pedagogic Management -Gestao do Ensino- in charge of managing the teaching
and learning process) from administrative management (Superintendency for Infrastructure Management,
in charge of physical school organization-enrollment, school documentation, construction, and operation
clearances). Furthermore, Human Resources management was upgraded to the level of Superintend, and
key areas of planning, information, monitoring and evaluation were regrouped under the General
Directorate responding to the Secretary (including several coordinators for Educational Information, also
in charge of AVA, and Educational Partnerships).  Universidade do Professor continues as a public
enterprise under SEED. A decentralization process has been initiated (Interiorizaqdo) to give increased
responsibilities to regional offices (NREs), which have also increased in number from 30 to 32, and
- 12 -



information flows between SEED headquarters and NREs and NREs and schools have already improved as
a result. Finally, work is well advanced on a career management plan for all state school teachers
(48,000), including non-statutory ones (21,000).
a development of a series of school management manuals to aid principals and school councils in
managing non-salary resources transferred directly to schools, as well as other areas of responsibility. A
school management manual was developed (Caderno de Gestdo) as a guide for principals, coordinators,
teachers, parents and students for participatory management.
Subcomponent 4.5 - Education Quality Improvement Prize Fund: This sub-component was not
implemented with project funds. Instead, in 1999, Parana joined a national competition for a similar prize
(Premio Nacional de Referencia em Gestao Escolar). This is a competition open to schools of more than
100 students. Candidate schools need to demonstrate excellent results in terms of promotion and
graduation, and excellence in pedagogic management, participatory and strategic management, and
management of human resources, support services, physical and financial resources. Candidate schools are
reviewed by a state committee, then finalists are sent to a national committee. Five schools in each state
receive diplomas (Escola Referencia Nacional em Gestdo). The best rated in each state also receives a
prize of R$2,000 and a kit from Fundacdo Roberto Marinho. The best rated school country wide receives
R$ 10,000. In 1999, a Parana school won the first prize.
Component 5. Studies ad Evaluation (US$L.0 million equivalent or 0.4 percent of total project cost).
Satisfactory. This component successfully financed policy and project evaluation studies, and
dissemination of results. The main achievements are the following:
* An evaluation of CBA in the state, in terTns of teacher attitudes and use of techniques in the classroom.
This study was carried out in 1996 and complemented in 1997. Both studies concluded that there were no
significant differences between fourth grade CBA students and those of regular series, but it wamed about
inadequate understanding of CBA proposal by many teachers and school staff and constraints met in
implementing reinforcement shifts. The 1997 follow up study reported that, in the opinion of teachers
interviewed in ten schools offering grades I through 8 where CBA was being successfully implemented,
former CBA students had difficulties in keeping abreast with their fellow students in fifth grade. CBA was
extended to all four grades of the first cycle of primary school on the basis of the first study.
* A study of the long-term financial implications of decentralization on state and municipal finance. This
study was completed in 1996. Besides financial implications, it also reviewed impacts from the
pedagogical and managerial standpoints. Conclusions were that, financially, municipalization was more
favorable to the state than to municipalities, which lost overall. Municipalities losses were not only
financial but also felt in terms of pedagogic assistance and teacher training formerly provided by the state,
compounded by poor relations between SEED regional offices and municipal administrations. Municipal
finance for education subsequently improved as the state increased transfers in 1997 and, mostly, with the
implementation of FUNDEF starting in 1998.
*  A study examining factors affecting early repetition. includina cultural attitudes of families and
teachers. This study was not implemented, but AVA in various years included questions about perceptions
of parents and teachers and parents'educational backgrounds.
* A series of diagnostic studies on secondary education, with particular emphasis on the strengths and
weaknesses of formal teacher training and certification. The study focused on the relevance of upper
- 13 -



secondary education (ensino m6dio) to the needs of the productive sector. It was one of the diagnostics
used in the preparation of the IDB-supported PROEM project.
* A project monitoring study, which would supplement system-wide monitoring done by SEED with
periodic surveys in a sample of schools. This study was not implemented. However, several additional
studies were carried out covering the preparation and updating of sector and project indicators, monitoring
of the Flow Correction Program, and evaluation of decentralization processes (school materials and book
fairs) and improvements in school management practices promoted under the project.
* Ongoing evaluation of the teacher training component. Annual evaluations were implemented every
year since 1996 and results were incorporated in revising the teacher training program.
*  An impact evaluation of the project which would include an assessment of learning achievement of
students in a stratified sample of schools. This study was not implemented. However, in preparation for
the mid term review, consultants were contracted to propose a set of Global Indicators to measure project
results, including two sets of impact indicators on age-grade distortions, repetition rates and performance of
students at SAEB. These results were based on available sector statistics and SAEB results.
Besides the monitoring studies already mentioned, several other additional studies were financed by the
project. These included a review of AVA methodology in 2000, the preparation of reports summarizing
AVA 2000 results for dissemination, and the preparation of School Bulletins. Finally, the project financed
the preparation and publication of key educational statistics and trends over the past ten years in the state
of Parana.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The project was expected to benefit approximately 1.6 million primary school students in both the state and
municipal systems. By improving the quality of education, it was expected that the project would
contribute to reductions in grade repetition and associated resource waste, and improved student
achievement. No economic rate of return was estimated at appraisal.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return was estimated at appraisal.  However, a Bank report estimated that up to
US$80 million per year was spent on the system of repetition before the project. With the strong reduction
in repetition rates achieved under the project, even assuming that these costs were only reduced by half as a
result of the project, the pay-back period of project investments would be less than three years.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Substantial. The institutional development impact of this project is considered substantial because it
supported capacity building in the education sector. SEED has been reorganized and is making progress
towards decentralization; a comprehensive management and information system has been installed and key
project-supported programs have been institutionalized (AVA, Universidade do Professor, Coordination of
Educational Information). A culture of self-evaluation based on accurate periodic information has
penneated from schools through the top levels of SEED. The project has changed the culture of the
education system from input oriented to outcom-result oriented. Municipal administrations have benefited
or will benefit from information and evaluation systems established by the State, in particular AVA (317
municipalities participated in 2000) and SIE. Municipal administrators also benefited from training offered
by SEED.
- 14 -



There has been substantial progress in municipalization of the first four grades of primary education, as
municipal schools are now responsible for 84% of enrollment in these grades (versus 45% in 1990).
Partnership agreements with the state increased from 275 in 1994 (out of 320 municipalities) to 382 in
2001, or 96% of all municipalities (the number of which has increased to 399), including all major
municipalities. In 1996, 194 municipalities received transfers from the state.
The project has also supported decentralization in municipal and state schools. In state schools, progress
towards participatory management has been strong. All principals are now elected by parents, students over
age 16, teachers, and school and NRE staff. Candidates must pre-qualify by passing a test organized by
Universidade Federal do Parana, have a higher education degree and minimum experience. All newly
appointed state school principals receive training in administrative and pedagogic management in Faxinal
do Ceu soon after their nomination. The situation in municipal systems vary (principals may be elected or
simply appointed by mayors, and new principals may or may not receive training).
By 2001, almost of all state schools (2,125 out of 2,135) had formally established Teacher and Parent
Associations (APMs). These associations manage funds from various programs (state revolving fund for
school maintenance and didactic materials, "Dinheiro na Escola" program of the federal government) and
increasingly participate in day to day school management as well as in making strategic and pedagogic
choices. The project has also increasingly provided training to these associations in areas such as
integration of schools with community, community mobilization, and financial, legal and pedagogic
management. These efforts have led to the creation of regional APM associations.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Frequent changes in Task Managers. During the life of the project, many changes in Bank task
managers took place. This meant an adjustment period that adversely affected implementation. Each task
manager required a learning period and in some cases they lacked substantial operational experience.
Substgntial currency devaluation.  Another factor that affected project implementation was the
substantial currency devaluation experienced by the national currency, which contributed to the
achievement of the project objectives but brought also substantial disbursement lags.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Delays in project start-up, due to change in Government. In January 1995, a new Administration took
office. It completed its review of project components and implementation strategy in May 1995, and agreed
to several measures to strengthen implementation arrangements. By the end of 1995, project arrangements
were still unsatisfactory as staffing of PCU was neither adequate nor organized. In August 1996, the
Government contracted a consulting firm to provide operational assistance in project management,
including procurement, physical and financial control and monitoring. As a result, the financial monitoring
and control module of the project MIS operated satisfactorily only at the end of 1996 (about two years after
effectiveness), and the physical monitoring and control module was completed only in mid- 1997 (about two
years and half after effectiveness). Despite these initial delays, PCU implemented the project efficiently.
Changes in the Design of a Teacher Training Program for Basic Education. In 1995, the new SEED
administration prepared a plan. for all levels of basic education training, within the overall SEED
management plan for 1995-1998, which substantially deviated from the original project concept.
- 15 -



Differences of views developed between SEED and the Bank, which had to approve the first annual plan as
a condition of disbursement. In September 1995, an international workshop was organized, at the Bank's
recommendation to review the preliminary version of the 1996-1997 training plan. The proposed approach
was endorsed while making a nunber of recommendations to improve it. The plan was finalized and
forwarded to the Bank in December 1995.
Reduced availability of Counterpart Funds. Starting October 1998, implementation slowed down due to
a general fnancial crisis in Brazil, and subsequent fiscal adjustments required by the federal government
which reduced available counterpart funds. However, because counterpart fimds already invested were
much higher than planned, an amendment to the Loan Agreement was signed on September 29, 1999,
modifying the share of Bank financing and reallocating loan funds among categories of expenditures. This
allowed the state to overcome the financial difficulties and resume project implementation.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control
Delays in signing of contracts. The contract for the implementation of the educational management
information system was signed only at the end of November 1997, due to delays in finalizing the technical
specifications. Implementation of this program was very slow until the end of 1999, when a number of
remedial actions were taken. The main reasons for delays in the execution of the sub-component were
linked to flaws in design coupled with sub-standard performance of the consulting consortium. To allow
completion of this key program (implementation was to last 4 years), the project's closing date was
extended by two years, from December 31, 1999 to December 31, 2001.
Lack of synchronization in MIS implementation. The lack of a better sequencing in the acquisition of the
hardware for the MIS and the development of the software resulted in the purchase of inadequate hardware
for the software that was developed later.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Actual costs of the project are estimated at US$224.5 million, a 13% increase over appraisal estimates (See
Annex 2a). This difference is mainly due to a 13 percent cost increase of the textbook program, due to a
two-year longer implementation period, a 175 percent cost increase of the teacher training component, due
to an expanded scope of the component, and a 34 percent cost increase of the educational management
infornation system, due to the sub-component expanded scope.  These increases were partially
compensated by a 47% cost decrease in the school infrastructure. The share of Bank financing of total
project cost declined from 48 percent anticipated at appraisal to 43 percent, since the increase in project
costs was financed by the Government.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Sustainability of project achievements is likely. The project has contributed to improve the quality of basic
education in the state of Parana; It has supported the introduction of a culture of evaluation at school and
administrative levels, based on student learning, as well as a practice of continuously adjusting policies and
programs to improve performance. These improvements are likely to be sustained and deepened,
combined with increased decentralization of management to the schools, better information and
management systems, and increased involvement of parents.
- 16 -



Institutional improvements brought about by the project also reinforce sustainability. The reorganization
and increased decentralization of SEED and FUNDEPAR, and the institutionalization of key programs
(training, assessment, management of projects) will contribute to increased efficiency and responsiveness to
school needs. A comprehensive management information system has been established which, provided it is
kept timely updated, will considerably facilitate timely planning and evaluation. At school level,
institutional mechanisms to reinforce participatory management and accountability of principals and APMs
will also promote improved quality, particularly if school autonomy is further increased.
Recurrent funds will be needed to maintain achievements, in particular for replacement of didactic
materials, updating of library collections, and to maintain the expensive training and assessment programs.
With respect to educational materials, due to the combination of institutional funds available to schools,
including the state revolving fund, the federal Dinheiro Direto na Escola program, and, most importantly,
since 1998, FUNDEF, sustainability is likely. For textbooks, the federal program is now consolidated and
works efficiently. Sustainability of the training and assessment components, however, will continue to
require direct allocation of budgetary funds by SEED, and the required amounts will continue to be quite
substantial in the medium term.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Project activities are fully institutionalized in SEED. More support to the municipalities may be required
to streamline operations at that level.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance in identification, preparation and appraisal of the project was satisfactory. The project
objective was consistent with Parana and Brazil development strategies and with Bank's CAS at the time
and currently. The quantity, quality and continuity of staff and consultants involved through out project
preparation was excellent. The project design was adequate in most of its relevant aspects and project risks
were well identified. However, centralized procurement arrangements were ill-suited to the decentralization
objectives of the project, and the design of the sector Management Information System component should
have been more specific about system's content. Although considerable discussions took place around the
decentralization strategy during preparation, the project design relied too much on the existence of
partnership agreements to foster participation of municipalities. Not enough emphasis was given to the
level of overall funding needed by municipalities to comply with their obligations, in particular the proper
implementation of more demanding and expensive strategies such as CBA. Finally, the risk of high
turnover of teachers in municipal systems as a result of seconded state teachers leaving their positions was
not identified at appraisal.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance during supervision was generally satisfactory, although uneven due to the recurrent
changes in task managers. Supervision efforts consisted of a total of thirty missions, including twelve
partial supervision missions, averaging more than three missions per year, with the exception of the year
2000 when only one Bank mission visited the project. There were few full missions in which the progress of
the project as a whole was reviewed. Rather, at least until mid-term review, supervision tended to follow a
strategy of many short partial missions each focused on a particular aspect, complemented by visits of
SEED teams in Washington and Brasilia. These partial missions afforded inputs from specialists on a large
- 17 -



number of specialty areas such as training, educational materials, financial management, architecture,
learning assessment, procurement, monitoring and evaluation and information technology. No mission
focused on the impact of municipalization, nor on monitoring and implementation of partnership
agreements. Consistency in supervision activities was affected by four changes in task managers over the
implementation period.
Despite the above, quality of staff and consultants was good and they made valuable contributions to
improving project implementation.  The Bank demonstrated flexibility to accommodate difficulties
encountered by the state government in the provision of counterpart funds in 1999, and revised
procurement arrangements to better adapt them to the decentralized nature of some of the components.
Bank teams consistently sought to promote cross-fertilization between other education projects in Brazil
and other countries, through the organization of international seminars (training and assessment of student
learning) and of Continuous Leaming Framework exercises (MAC PROF and MAC INFO).
7.3 Overall. Bankperformance:
Bank's overall performance was overall satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Govermment performance during preparation was satisfactory. Despite delays between appraisal and
negotiations, the state government completed all the required steps in time to make the operation ready for
implementation by the subsequent administration, with adequate budget provisions for the first year.
During preparation, the government rightly took the decision to allocate the entire responsibility for the
project to SEED. The plans for implementation in some areas, however, still remained weak, in particular
with respect to the training and sector management information systems.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government performance during implementation was satisfactory. The State government demonstrated
very strong commitment to the project throughout its implementation, despite a change of administration at
the beginning of the project's life.  All project components were implemented satisfactorily and
improvements and corrections were made along the way to reflect results from evaluations and experience.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
SEED prepared extensive progress analyses and evaluation reports for all project components in
preparation for the mid-term review. Most importantly, steps were taken to institutionalize the training,
student assessment, and management information programs, ensuring sustainability. Nevertheless, there
were delays in establishing adequate capacity within PCU and project monitoring systems, and in
contracting the expertise required to supervise the SEED educational management information systems
contract, which resulted in a two year delay. Also, SEED did not focus on regular monitoring the
partnership agreements in order to identify issues compromising the quality of education in municipal
systems, although this was part of the project.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower Performance was Satisfactory.
- 18 -



8. Lessons Learned
Improving the quality of basic education requires strong and sustained commitment from top levels of
the state administration and substantial financial resources on a continuous basis.  Significant
quantifiable improvements in quality take time to materialize and may not show during the project
implementation phase.  Substantial efforts must be put in the prior establishment of a conducive
institutional framnework, including strong monitoring and evaluation systems, and a culture of evaluation at
all levels of administration and in schools.
Decentralization of primary education to municipal levels does not automatically promote better
quality. The state needs to be very active in monitoring performance of municipal administrations and
schools and to offer specially designed programs and incentives in support of municipal administration of
the school system.
Regular Quantitative Assessment of Student Learning is essential both to evaluate educational
policies and for self evaluation by schools. There is considerable merit in making regular assessments of
student learning universal, but they are expensive and require substantial processing and analytical
capabilities. Frequency and quality of testing depends on institutional capacity. If necessary, the program
could limit testing each year to a particular grade or a set of subject matters, in order to ensure speed of
processing and analysis of results. In the case of Parana, given the importance of proper alphabetization
and current uncertainties related to the implementation of CBA, testing second grade of primary school
regularly may be a priority.
In-service teacher training is most useful when focused on pedagogical aspects. While teachers tend to
request more training on subject matters, pedagogic and classroom practices are the areas where they seem
to fail the most. - Integration of pedagogic training with subject matter training is therefore advisable.
Formal prograins and events might usefully be complemented by teams of experienced professionals
dedicated to visiting teachers and observing their classrooms, to provide them tutoring and advice on how
to improve their classroom practice.
The development and implementation of a good educational information system is essential to provide
feedback to decision makers at all levels. The development of an educational infornation system is
complex and requires a strong team, with an information technology expert responsible for managing the
operation, a clear outline of the applications to be developed, and a detailed implementation plan. Software
development always increases the risks of implementation delays. It is therefore crucial that a detailed
project plan be developed very early, with combined hardware deliveries and software development targets
and existing software be adapted to the extent possible.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency.
The Borrower contributed with a report assessing project implementation from its perspective. The report
is included in Annex 8.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
-19-



(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
None
-20 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome/Impact Indicators:
Indicators of System         Appraisal/Mid-Term Review           ActualLatest Estimate
Efficiency                             Target
Percentage of students reaching  Increasing from 45% in 1990 to  Percentage of students reaching 5th grade
5th grade with maximum of    60% in 1999                    with maximum of one repetition: 90% in
one repetition                                              1997 and 91% in 1999 (SAEB 1997 and
I1999)
Percentage of students finishing  Increasing from 15% in 1990 to  Percentage of students reaching 8th
8th grade with maximum of two  25% in 1999                  grade with maximum of two
repetitions                                                 repetitions: 95% in 1997, 96% in 1999
(SAEB 1997 and 1999). (SEED-AVA
1998 reports 87%)
Promotion rate for grades 1-4  Increasing from 76% in 1990 in  Promotion rate increasing from 78% in
grades 1-4                     1995 to 88% in 2000 in public schools
Promotion rate for grades 5-8  Increasing from 77% in 1990 in  Promotion rate increasing from 70% in
grades 5-8                     1995 to 82% in 2000 in public schools
Indicators of Learning
Achievement
Results of Portuguese tests given Targets not specified     Average student test score (Proflciencia
to 4th graders in both state and                            Media) in SAEB:
municipal systems                                           1995: 197
1997: 193
1999: 180
Results of Mathematics tests  Targets not specified         Average student test score (Proficiencia
given to 4th graders in both state                          Media) in SAEB:
and municipal systems                                       1995: 198
1997: 200
1999: 187
Results of Portuguese tests given Not specified             Average student test score (Proficiencia
to 8th graders in both state and                            media) in SAEB:
municipal systems                                           1995: 258
1997: 261
1999: 235
Results of Mathematics tests  Not specified                 Average student test score (Proficiencia
given to 8th graders in both                                Media) in SAEB:
state and municipal systems                                 1995: 255
1997: 263
1999: 247
Definition: Success rate: total number of students promoted in the first four grades divided by the initial enrollment
minus transfers in same grades
- 21 -



Output Indicators
Indicators             Appraisal/Mid Term Review              Actual/Latest Estimate
Target
1. Instructional Materials
1.1 Textbook Program
- Number of textbooks for        20.2 million                    24 million
Grades 1-8
- Percentage of children with     100%                           100%
textbooks
1.2 Educational Materials and                                          State Schools:
Eguipment                    Around 3,903 schools (schools with  - Around 2,400 through decentralized
Standardized package of     Parents and Teachers Associations  procurement through transfers to APMs
pedagogical materials to    and with more than 100 students),  and through centralized procurement as
schools                     including 1,766 state schools and  well;
2,137 municipal schools (since total  - 552 schools purchased supplemental
number of public primary schools in  library books under Revolving Fund.
the state in 1997 was 8,648, this
corresponded to 45% of the total       Municipal schools
number of schools)               - Around 3,000 schools in 118 low-income
municipalities benefited indirectly from
state transfers under partnership
agreements
1.3 Library Enrichment Program
All state and municipal     5,000 schools (schools with Parents  Around 4,000 schools (both state schools and
schools to receive:         and Teachers Associations and with  municipal schools).
more than 30 students)
Schools Grades 1-4: 160                                       1.5 million books
titles each
School Grades 5-8: 300 new
titles
2. Teacher Training
-  State and municipal teachers,  186,000 participants           Around 295,000 participants in motivation
supervisors and principals of                                 seminars and in recycling seminars or courses
state and municipal schools,
receiving on average 240 hours
of training
3. School Upgrading and
Expansion of Access
- Construction of new schools  605 classrooms in 66 new schools  804 classrooms, of which 605 in state
- Provision and equipment and                                   schools and 199 in municipal schools, in 55
fumiture                                                     municipalities.
-  Number of students directly  21,175, or 1.3% of total enrollment  31,330, or 2% of total enrollment in public
benefitting                in public primary schools in 1997  primary school in 2000.
4. Institutional Development
4.1 Proiect Manazement         Creation of a PCU                 Accomplished
-22 -



4.2 Development of Assessment
Capacity,
-  Every second year to selected  1.3 million students to be evaluated  Around 1,000,000 students evaluated in 4th and
even-numbered grades,                                         8th grade since 1995, covering between 42% an
beginning 1994, on a sample                                   64% of total enrollment in 4th grade and 63% to
basis                                                         77% of total enrollment in 8th grade.
Performed annually between 1995 and 1998, and
every second year since.
All schools                      Publication summarizing results widely
. Percentagelof  schools receiving      available. Until 1998, details by school
Percentage of assessT   receiving                             available to all interested schools through SEED
analysis of assessment results                                regional offices. Starting 2000, each
participating school with more than 20 students
in each evaluated grades in each discipline
receive results directly through individual
School Bulletin.
4.3 Development of an
Integrated and Decentralized
Information System
- Microcomputers distributed to  1,646 computer stations installed in  3,056 computer stations delivered and installed
schools, NREs and           main and regional offices of SEED,  in SEED headquarters and regional offices and
municipalities              CETEPAR, FUNDEPAR, 200            1,445 state schools with more than 200 students
municipalities and 200 larger    (including at least one per municipality);
schools                          software installation and training underway at
closing date, expected to be completed in 2002.
SIE scheduled to replace SERE by the end of
2002 in state schools. Also, light version of SIE
will be provided to municipal administrations in
2002
. uesnmngstStaff training-in all 31 recipient regional offices
- Administrators trained in use of  8,000 users and managers traied  and 1,445 state schools.
computers
4.4 Strengthening Management
and Planning
- Municipalities in partnership                                 Increased from 320, at appraisal, or 86% of total
agreements with the state                                     of 371 municipalities , to
382 by the end of 2001, or 96% of
municipalities (now 399)
5. Studies and Evaluation        15 studies and publications     17 studies and publications
- Number of studies contracted
and completed
-23 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs by Co rnonent (in US milion eqij alent)
Com;ponent        Appraisal     Revised      Acl        Prcentage. ePrcentage
.  i,--Estimaie  !-Estimaies. . -    '    ) ...of Rev,ised
'_            _ .  ._._.._-         Appraisal.'   tiEsmriate-
1. Instructional       75.50        69.00        85.00        113         124
Materials
2. Teacher Training    27.10        69.50        74.00        275          106
3. School              75.40        34.80        39.80         52          114
Upgrading and
SEED Building
Revamping
18.00        23.00        24.60        134         106
4. Institutional
Development
5. Studies and          2.40         2.10         1.00         42          48
Evaluation
Total Project Costs    198.40       198.40       224.40        113         113
-24 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (in US$ million equivalent)
.. .               -s. ..  ; >,- -  . .  .Procurement Method ;
>irE irie. --  ' ICB-,, e;  t!c6B  . :-TOther ' -   : N.B F.     Tota Cost
Ctegory.,'-          .:   .      
1. Works           0.00        67.20        0.80        0.00        67.20
(0.00)      (33.60)      (0.50)      (0.00)       (33.60)
2. Equipment      15.20        4.00         1.00         0.00        20.20
and Furniture     (12.40)      (2.00)      (0.50)       (0.00)      (14.90)
3. Instructional  11.90        5.50         2.90        0.00         20.30
Materials         (9.40)      (3.60)       (1.50)       (0.00)      (1.50)
4. Textbooks       0.00        0.00         0.00        35.90        35.90
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Reading         3.40        0.00         4.8         0.00          8.2
Books             (2.20)      (0.00)        (3.4)       (0.00)      (5.60)
6. Technical       0.00        0.00         8.7         0.00          8.7
Assistance        (0.00)      (0.00)        (6.7)       (0.00)       (
7. Training        0.00        0.00         27.9         0.00        27.9
(0.00)      (0.00)       (18.4)      (0.00)        18.4)
8. Other           0.00        0.00         1.5         0.00          1.5
Services          (0.00)      (0.00)       (I. 1)       (0.00)       (I.1)
9. Prize Fund      0.00        0.00          1.1        0.00          1.1
(0.00)      (0.00)        (0.8)       (0.00)       (
10. Operations    0.00         0.00         0.00         6.9         6.9
and Maintenance   (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
11. Incremental    0.00        0.00         0.00         0.5         0.5
Salaries          (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)        0.00
Total             30.50        76.70       47.90        43.30       198.40
(24.00)     (39.20)      (32.80)                  (96.00)
- 25 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (in US$ million equivalent)
-. .  t  ~  |  T  , ~  TProcurement Method D-:     -   ;
Expeziditure     ICB        NCB         Other  -- *NjBF        Total Cost
. Category                                   , _ _ _ _  -.,,''.,:,,.
1. Works          0.00        32.50       0.20         0.00        32.70
(0.00)     (16.30)      (0.10)       (0.00)      (16.40)
2. Equipment      15.50        1.90        0.70        0.00        18.20
and Furniture     (9.70)      (1.00)      (0.40)      (0.00)      (11.00)
3. Instructional  0.00        0.03        14.70        0.00        15.00
Materials         (0.00)      (0.20)      (9.70)                   9.90
4. Textbooks      0.00         0.00        0.00        59.0        59.00
(0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Reading        0.00        0.00         7.2         0.00         7.2
Books            (0.00)       (0.00)      (4.7)       (0.00)       (4.7)
6. Technical      0.00         0.00        15.9        0.00         15.9
Assistance       (0.00)       (0.00)      (13.8)       (0.00)      (13.8)
7. Training       0.00        11.80        46.7        0.00        58.5
(0.00)      (8.30)      (30.9)      (0.00)      (20)
8. Other          0.00        0.90         0.5         0.00         1.4
Services          (0.00)      (0.60)      (0.4)       (0.00)       (1.0)
9. Prize Fund     0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
10. Operations    0.00        0.00         0.00        16.6        16.6
and Maintenance  (0.00)       (0.00)       0.00        (0.00)      (0.00)
11. Incremental   0.00        0.00         0.00        0.0          0.0
Salaries          (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
Total             15.50       47.40       85.90        75.60       224.40
th__________  (9.70)  (26.40)    (60.00)     (0.00)      (96.00)
I/ Figures in parenthcsis-are  c un nWs  atincmu  contingenctes.
2/ Includes civil works and goods procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff, training, technical assistance
services, and incremental operating costs related to managing the project.
-..Components         Appraisal Estimate -k::Actu-a-/ La t e -      Percentage of
_ ;--                       - ;        t       . . , ;           2--,2t-  - 4 b . _  .  iAppraisa l
Bank   Stiate  CoF'. - BUM  ,SlYterl-C      Bank   State  CoF
A. Instructional Materials  28.6  46.90          16.0    69.0           56    148
B. Teacher Training        18.0    9.1          46.5     27.5          258    302
C. School Upgrading and    36.3   39.1          17.7     22.1          48     56
SEED building Revamping
D. Institutional Development  11.3  6.7          15.1    9.5           133    141
E. Studies and Evaluation   1.8    0.6           0.7     0.3           39     53
Total Project Costs        96.0   102.4         96.00   128.4          100    125
-26-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 27 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists,- FMS, etc.)     Implementation  Development
Month/Year     Count           Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identirication/Preparation
June/July 92                 I   Task Manager (Ed. Spec.)
October 92                   6   Task Manager, 4 Ed. Specialists,
I Architect
Jan./Feb. 93                 7   Task Manager, 4 Educ. Spec.
(Educ. Mgmt, Preschool, Student
Assessment, Textbooks), I
Architect, I Procur. Spec.
March/April 93               3   2 educ. Finance Spec., I Educ.
Mgmt. Spec.
April/May 93                 9   Task Manager, 6 Educ. Spec.
(Mgmt., Educ. Materials,
Training, Inform. Systems,
Evaluation and Student
Assessment).
AppraisaUNegotiation
June 1993                   10   Task Manager, 5 Educ. Spec.
(Educ. Materials, Training,
Finance, Assessment, Instit.
Development); I Architect;
I Financial Analyst; 2
Procurement Specialists.
August 93                    3   2 Educ. Specialist, I School
Health Specialist
October 93                   5   Task Manager; 2 Educ.
Specialists (Training; Mgmt. and
Educ. Materials); I Financial
Analyst.
Nov. 93                      2   2 Educ. Specialists (Training)
Dec. 93                      1   Educ. Specialist (Assessment)
March 94                     5   Task Manger; 2 Educ. Spec.
(Assessment, Educ. Materials;
Procurement Spec. and
Economist.
April 94                     1   Educ. Specialist (Assessment)
Supe. -.sion
July 94                     10                                       S             S
August 94 - Partial          I   Educ. Specialist on Training
mission
Sept. 94 - Partial           2   Educational Spec. on Educ.
mission                          Materials
Dec. 94                      2   2 Educ. Spec. (former and actual
TM)
Jan. 95 - Partial            I   Financial Mgmnt. Spec.
-28 -



mission
Feb. 95                      1  Task Manager (Educ. Spec.)
May 95                      11   Division Chief, Task Manager, 6   U             S
Eudc. Spec.; I Financial Mgmt.
Spec, Information Technology
and Disbursements.
June 95 - Partial            2   1 Financial Mgmt Spec. and I
mission                          Architect
December 95-                 1   Stud. Assessment Spec.
Partial mission
June 96 - Partial            2   1 Monitoring and Eval. Spec.
mission                          and I Assessment Spec.
Sept. 96 - Partial          3    1 Financial Mgmt Spec., I
mission                          Procurement, I Inform.
Technology Spec.
October 96 - Partial         I   Monitoring and Evaluation Spec.
mission
Feb. 97 - Partial            I   Financial Mgmt. Spec.
mission
April 97 - Partial           I   Financial Mgmt. Spec.
mission
June 97                      1   Task Manager (Educ. Spec.)         S             S
Feb. 98                     2    Task Manager and I Economist
April 98 - Partial           I   Procurement Spec.
mission
May 98 - Partial            2    Information Technology Spec.
mission
June 98                      1   Task Manager (Educ. Spec.)
August 98                    2   Financial Mgmt Spec.
Sept. 98                    2    Task Manager (Educ. Spec.) and
I Financial Mgmt. Spec.
Nov. 98                      2   Task Manager (Educ. Spec.) and
I Financial Mgmt.:Spec.
April 99                     5   Task Manager, Lead Spec, I         S             S
Procurement Spec, I Oper.
Analyst and I Financial
Mgmt.Spec.
August 99                    2   Task Manager (Educ. Spec.) and
I Financial Mgmt. Spec.
Dec. 99                     4    Task Manager (Educ. Spec.), i      S            S
Program Assistant, I Financial
Mngmt. Spec., I Architect.
July 2000                    1   Task Manager (Educ. Spec.)         S             S
Feb. 2001 -                 5    4 Educ. Specialists and I
Continuos                        Financial Mgmt. Spec.
Learning
Framework
(MAC) event on
educational reform
March 2001                  .2   Task Manager (Educ. Spec.) and     S            S
Information Technology Spec.
-29 -



May 2001-                    1  Task Manager (Educ. Specialist)
Continuos
Learning
Framework
(MAC) on
Management
Information
Systems (MIS)
ICR
July 2001                   1    Task Manager.                     S             S
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               n.a.                        94*
Appraisal/Negotiation                    n.a.                        94*
Supervision                              n.a.                       523*
ICR                                        7                         36*
Total                                    n.a.                       747*
* These table are based on the information currently available in SAP. The figures for identification/preparation
and appraisal negotiation are only estimated. For data before FY98, the infonnation system provides total
amounts, without disaggregating by number staff weeks and Project Cycle stage.
- 30 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
E Macro policies                      O H O SU O M    ON    ONA
O Sector Policies                     O H   *SUOM     ON    O NA
O Physical                            O H *SUOM       ON O NA
E Financial                           O H OSU*M       O N O NA
I Institutional Development           0 H O SU O M    0 N   0 NA
O Environmental                       O H   OSUOM     O N    P NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction             O H   OSUOM      O N *    NA
Ol Gender                       O H OSUOM ON *NA
O Other (Please specify)        O H   OSUOM      ON   *NA
O Private sector development          O H O SU O M     O N '  NA
rI Public sector management           0 H O SU O M     O N  * NA
LIOther (Please specify)              O H OSUOM       ON    * NA
- 31 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
El Lending                                           OHS OS       OU     OHU
El Supervision                                       OHS OS       OU     OHU
L Overall                                            OHS OS       OU     O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
LI Preparation                                       OHS OS       OU     O HU
El Government implementation performance             O HS OS      O  U   0 HU
L Implementation agency performance                  O HS OS      0  U   0 HU
O Overall                                            OHS OS OU O HU
- 32 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Bank preparation documents
-  Bank project files for project preparation and implementation.
-  Staff Appraisal Report. June 1994.
-  Agreed minutes of negotiations. 1994.
-  Legal documents for the project. 1994
Bank project implementation documents
-  Back to office reports and aide memoirs of supervision missions
-  Mid term review reports and evaluations
Main documents prepared during project implementation
-  Summaries of studies and evaluation reports (Cadernos) prepared under the project
-  Project components' status reports prepared by the Borrower
-  Financial and physical project MIS summary report
-  Evaluation reports for teachers' training
- Evaluation reports for assessment of students learning
-  Book fair instruction manual and implementation plan
-  Dez Anos de Educaqao no Parana
-  Statistical reports from CIE
-  Individual studies on the following project components:
* Instructional Materials
* Teacher Training
* Quantitative Assessment of Student Learning
* Management Information Systems
* Studies and Evaluation
-  MSI- Management Systems International- Avalia9ao Formativa do programa de Capacita,ao-
Relatorio de Avaliacao- 2001
- 33 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution
1. Project for Quality Public Education (PQE) - a step ahead in the education of the state of Parana
The Project for Quality in Public Education (PQE) was created by the government of Parana with the intent
of improving school performance and increasing the educational access of public school students from the
first through eighth grades in all state and municipal schools. At the end of a seven-year implementation
period and US$ 224 million of investments, the results are found to be extremely positive. The project
aided approximately 1.6 million students each year, and not only did it meet all of its objectives but it
exceeded all goals that had been established. PQE's legacy is a new panorama of fundamental education
under the responsibility of Parana's public sector.
The educational needs of the school population between the ages of 7 and 14 were almost entirely met:
access to school increased from 83.5% in 1991 to 99% in 1999. The student promotion rates of those
enrolled in the first through fourth grades rose from 78% in 1995 to 88% in 2000. In regards to students
enrolled in the fifth through eighth grades, the promotion rates increased from 70% to 82% in the samne
period of time.
At the same time, the school failure rates in public schools decreased from 13% to 10% in the first through
fourth grades, and from 14% to 11% in the fifth through eighth grades. The school evasion rates, which in
1995 were of 8% for the first through fourth grades and 16% for the fifth through eighth grades, decreased,
accordingly, to 2% and 7% in 2000.
The indicators pertaining to grade-level repetition were also significantly improved through the policies put
to use via the PQE. The project's goal was to increase the percentage of students who concluded the fourth
grade without any repetitions or with just one; according to the project's goal, this percentage was to
increased from 45% in 1990 to 60% in 1999. The actual results, however, outdid the goals by 51.6%;the
percentage of students increased to 91%.
Another highly meaningful result was obtained in relation to the percentage of students that completed the
eighth grade without any repetitions or with 2 repetitions at most. The goal established by the PQE was to
increase the percentage from 60% in 1990 to 85% in 1999. This goals was also outdone as the rate was
increased to 96%.
In what concerns the physical installations, 94 new schools were built; in all, 804 new classrooms were
constructed to meet the needs of 55 municipalities. This deed greatly influenced the public education
system's ability to tend to the needs of the 7-14 year-old population in a more significant way. In estimating
that two school periods are offered in each of these schools, and that night-school is offered in half of them,
expansion of the physical installations with PQE resources represents and additional 70 thousand openings
in the schools' capacity. The PQE also systemized and strongly urged human resource qualification
programs in Parana's public education system through investments in large-scale continued training. For
this, the Teacher's University(Universidade do Professor), located in Faxinal do Ceu in the municipality
of Pinhao, offered courses, workshops, and seminars to a total of 295 thousand participants. Since 1995,
US$74 million have been invested in this sphere of action. Another qualification / training modality is the
Vale Saber Program which provided scholarships to nearly 20 thousand teachers to aid them in developing
new teaching methodologies; US$ 15.9 million were invested in this program.
- 34 -



Another of PQE's priority was to stimulate participatory school management, through strengthened
parental participation; this fact is notorious for being able to improve children's performance in school. It
was undertaken through the Educational Mobilization Advisers (Assessoria de Mobiliza9do Educacional)
and has already lead to the participation of over three thousand parents in forums and seminars on the
importance of this joint-venture.
Rates of Students in Schools
7-14 year-old population - Parana
YEAR       RATE
1991      83.5%
1996      91.8%
1998      97.7%
2000      99.0%
Student Promotion Rates
Fundamental Education - Parani
Grade-level      1995    2000
Ist - 4th        78%      88%
5th - 8th         70%     82%
School Failure Rates
Public Fundamental Education - Parana
Grade-level      1995     2000
1st - 4th        13%      10%
5th-8th          14%       11%
School Evasion Rates
Public Fundamental Education - Parana
Grade-level       1995       2000
I st - 4th        8%         2%
5th - 8th         16%         7%
Percentage of Students that Completed the 4th Grade
without any or with one repetition.
1990 - Basis            45%
1999 - Goal             60%
Achievement             91%
Percentage of Students that Completed the 8th Grade
without any or with two repetitions at most
1990 - Basis              60%
1999 - Goal               85%
Achievement               96%
- 35 -



II. Beyond the Goals - investment and physical-financial performance
In order to evaluate the efficiency attained by the PQE in meeting its goals, it is worth observing the
indicators used to monitor the project's physical and financial scope. These indicators are numbers that
show the accomplishing or over-accomplishing of the goals defined for each of PQE's five components,
according to the denominations given to the areas into which the project was divided for the purpose of
planning and allocating resources. PQE implementation was started in 1995 and managed by the State
Education Secretariat (Secretaria de Estado da Educa,do - SEED). The program aimed to invest US$
198,431,200.00 over a five-year period. Of this amount, US$ 96 million were from a World Bank loan and
US$ 102,431,100.00 corresponded to the state government's cost-sharing.
Both the project's duration period and resources were increased. The PQE was extended for an additional
seven years and benefited approximately 1.6 million of Parana's fundamental education students per year.
The investments outdid the initial estimates in 13%, adding up to a total of US$ 224 million. Of this
amount, US$ 96 million were disbursed from the loan account and US$ 128 million were allocated by the
state government.
The project's Qualification for Human Resources in Education (Capacita,co dos Recursos Humanos
da Educa,cao) component counted on the participation of 186 thousand people in qualification and training
events. However, the US$ 74 million used for this purpose allowed for 295 thousand professionals to be
benefited, and hence established a new qualitative standard for the training of professionals in education
with basis on three fundamental blocks: quality of education, continued education, and in-school training.
As per the physical-financial performance, this component met 159% of its goals, and disbursed 106% of
the estimated amount.
The project's Pedagogical Material (Materiais Pedag6gicos) component, was the pivoting point for
changes in the relationship between the state and schools. It implemented the decentralization policy for
disbursement of financial resources for the purchase of pedagogical materials and books for school
libraries, as well as the purchase of shelves and cabinets for safe-guarding them. This strategy was put to
action through incentives to organize Parent-Teacher Associations (Associa,ces de Pais e Mestres - APM)
who then took over the management of resources and participated in the purchasing process. The total
amount used by this component was of US$ 85 million. As part of its cost-sharing in the PQE, the state
entirely funded the US$ 59 million spent on the purchase of 24 million school books. In addition, US$ 8.6
million were invested in the purchase of books for the libraries of approximately four thousand schools, and
US$ 17.8 million were invested in pedagogical material for about 2.4 thousand schools. Specific
implementation manuals approved by the World Bank served as a guide for the APMs in the process of
purchasing books and pedagogical materials.
This component, in its set of programs, met 104% of its goals and disbursed 124% of the corresponding
estimated amount.
In the Physical Network (Rede Fisica) component, the PQE allowed for the expansion and improvement
of the school network, and including the renovation and enlargement of the SEED's headquarters. This
component received US$ 40 million of the project's financial resources; it spent 114% of its revised
financial goals. With the construction of 804 new classrooms, 130% of this component's revised goals
were met. This component was developed under the responsibility of Parana's Institute for Educational
Development (Instituto de Desenvolvimento do Parana) (FUNDEPAR).
- 36 -



The project's Studies and Research (Estudos e Pesquisas) component, met its revised goals having
disbursed US$ I million in financial resources. 17 ample researches and evaluations on policies and
projects were carried out. This component worked as a support mechanism for the PQE by supplying
elements for diagnostic and correctional policies throughout the program. This component met 113% of its
goals, and disbursed only 48% of the estimated financial resources.
Finally, in the Institutional Development (Desenvolvimento Institucional) component US$ 24.6 million
were disbursed. This component was included in the PQE for three reasons:. 1) to guarantee the necessary
support for improving the management model of the state's educational system, based on a partnership
between the state and the municipalities, 2) to monitor the learning process through periodical evaluations
of school performance, and 3) to generate information to subsidize the monitoring of the education system.
Amongst the activities carried out, special mention should be given to the Evaluation of School
Performance (Avalia,do de Rendimento Escolar). Since its beginning, this activity has involved I million
students, reaching an annual maximum of 4 thousand evaluated schools, and an accumulated investment of
US$ 3.2 million. Another US$ 15.4 million were applied towards the Program for Improving Educational
Information Systems (Programa Aperfeiqoamento do Sistema de Informa,ces da Educa,do). This
program concluded and implemented automated systems for controlling school structure, school
functioning, registering of students, and the physical networks; it provided 3056 computer stations.
Resources for this component were also used for an event held in February 1997. This was a big event in
which mayors that had recently taken office discussed the state of Parana's social agenda with state
secretariats. Still in this component's sphere of action, the program provided technical and administrative
advice to 348 covenant municipalities, financed SEED's administrative re-organization, and helped schools
in defining, establishing standards, and distributing the Management Guide (Caderno de Gestdo). In its
entirety, this component met 140% of its goals, having disbursed 106% of the estimated resources. In
considering the set of components, PQE met 132% of its goals, and disbursed an amount equivalent to
113% of its financial goals. The exceed in the financial goals occurred as a result of the state of Parana's
having increased its cost-sharing amount in the World Bank loan, in relation to what was originally stated
in the loan agreement.
III. Conclusion
Through out its seven-year execution, PQE presented innovative solutions and re-defined postures in the
educational sector of ParanA. As a result, an improvement in educational indicators was obtained. Amongst
the marks of the project's implementation, the following aspects pertaining to policies should be mentioned:
the decentralization of financial resources through Parent-Teacher Associations, Evaluation of School
Performance, implementation of the Report Card for the Schools (Boletim da Escola), the selection process
for school directors, and the improvement in managerial efficiency of the state's education system. In what
regards activities carried out, the following aspects should also be mentioned: the Teacher's University and
its qualification / training center in Faxinal do Ceu, the Vale Saber project, the project for correcting school
flow, and the book fair project. PQE also implemented the culture or habit of monitoring and evaluating
the actions proposed; this allowed for the improvement of such actions with basis on technical criteria.
It is also important for us to remember the innovations that were implemented in managerial performance
and that lead the World Bank to chose the PQE as a prototype for implementing the Loan Administration
Change Initiative - a new disbursement procedure.
Elaborating and implementing the Project for Quality Public Education in the State of Parana was one of
the greatest challenges faced by the state govermment in the last six years. The previously-described results
- 37-



show that efforts were successful and at the same time point out the need to maintain improvement of
educational quality in the public school network in the government's top priority agenda.
Improvement in the quality of education requires a serious commitment on behalf of governments and
substantial financial resources allocated in a continuous manner. It is necessary for us to remember that
this sphere of action also demands time so that quantitative improvements can be obtained.
In Parana, as in the rest of the country, there is a lot to be done so as to improve student performance,
which is still insufficient. However, all data related to the PQE points out the project's sustainability and
allows for us to expect- constant progress in the public education of Parani.
That project has practically become universal in meeting the needs of public school students from the first
through eighth grades. It has lead to an important reduction in the school failure and evasion rates in the
fundamental education levels, resulting in an increase in efficiency and in a decrease in per-student cost.
The project also allowed for an increase in openings in adequate installations and for training opportunities
for teachers and administrators. Essential components such as evaluations and the training programs are
now institutionalized. Decentralized school management is now a reality and the involvement of parents
with the school greatly increased.
All of this constitutes a solid basis over which the quality in public education in Parana can continuously
improve. In addition, this is. a source of motivation to continue in the search for better results so as to build
a truly public and participatory school.
Without the World Bank's help, it would have been impossible for this great project to have improved
fundamental education in Parana's public schools. It would also have been impossible to guarantee that all
of these programs have continuity beyond the project's end and even beyond the term of the government
that is currently in office. The World Bank's belief in the project is a great honor to us and motivates us to
continue in the search for the best results for a truly public and participatory school.
- 38 -



Additional Annex 9. Summary of the Evaluation of the Teacher Training Program
In 2001 an evaluation of the teacher training program was carried out by outside international consultants.
Its objective was to assess the depth and coverage of the training program, the satisfaction of participants
and the extent to which training had produced changes in teachers' behavior in the classroom. Close to 700
individuals were interviewed and classrooms observed in 42 schools (including 10 municipal schools) in 31
Nucleo (SEED   Regional Offices).  Comparisons were made between training participants and
nonparticipants. Key data are summarized below.
Coverage
*  The program reached NREs unevenly, ranging from 32% to 100% of school professionals in the
sample, with an average of 67%; teachers in large NREs tended to participate relatively less than
smaller nucleos;
*  95% of directors, 75% to 85% of school professional staff (pedagogues and supervisors) and 65% of
teachers participated; directors participated in an average of over 4 events, supervisors in close to 3,
and teachers in between I and 2 (1.6 in state schools and 1.2 in municipal schools); and,
*  70% of participating teachers described their primary responsibility as teaching the 5th to 8th grades,
68% the 3 grades of ensino medio (last three grades of secondary school), and only 56% the first four
grades of primary school;
*  training reached mostly state schools, where 71% of teachers received training, while only about 47%
of municipal teachers participated in a training event. In one municipality where a high percentage of
the teachers interviewed operated in the first four grades of municipal schools, only 32% had
participated;
*  training attracted the more experienced teachers: less than 50% of teachers less than 30 years of age
participated in events, and only 37% of professionals with 1-3 years of experience participated; and,
* of training received by teachers, 32% was on motivation, 25% on curriculum contents, and only 10%
on pedagogy or contents and pedagogy combined (the latter only 2%); three fourth of those who had
participated in only one event reported that this event focused on motivation. These reported motivation
techniques as the most useful contribution of training.
Quality of Training
*  close to 80% of directors found the courses extremely useful;
*  50% of the pedagogic support teams found the training useful;
*  58% of teachers identified training in motivational techniques (32%) and subject matters (28%) as the
most useful;
*  although few teachers received pedagogical training, motivation seminars in CCFC (Faxinal do Ceu)
were quoted as successful in changing teachers behavior, as they tended to use the motivation
techniques learnt in Faxinal in their work, particularly techniques aimed at increasing self confidence
and team work.
*  86% requested more training, predominantly in disciplinary contents;
* no serious restriction was reported as impeding application of what was learnt in schools and
classrooms, although 53% did not reply to the question. Of those who replied, the most quoted
impediments were lack of materials (11%), training not adapted to the school reality (10%), lack of
physical space (3%), classroom size (4%), lack of time due to other professional responsibilities (2%);
and,
- 39 -



* 18% of participants suggested that training should be organized close to the school: this would allow
more colleagues to participate, reinforcing one another; and it would alleviate problems created by
absence away from home (over 80% of teachers are women).
Quality of Teaching
*  Over 85% of classrooms continue to be organized in lines of desks oriented towards the teacher;
*  Interactions with students predominate in classrooms, but over half of interventions are initiated by the
teacher and in the context of large groups. There is little difference between trained and untrained
teachers with respect to classroom behavior.
*   Trained teachers consistently use educational materials more than untrained teachers (60% of trainees
versus 40% of non-trainees).
Participation
*  Out of a total of 71,513 training spaces offered in 2000, 560%o were by CCFC, 17% by SEED central
departments, 16% by CETEPAR (distance training), 8% by NREs, and 2% by IES.
*  Participation was the highest in training offered by SEED central departments (86% of spaces offered),
and CCFC (84%), followed by NREs (78%), CETEPAR (50%), and IES (50%).
Characteristics of Participants
*  Participants tend to be well qualified (69% are universities graduates with pedagogic specialization),
and experienced (88% have more than four years of experience and 57% more than 11 years);
*  Only 48% of participants are teachers;
*  83% are women;
*  64% come from state schools;
*  33% operate in grades 1-4, 17% in grades 5- 8, 14% in secondary schools, 22% in more than one
cycle, and 14% in other modalities;
*  30% report to municipal authorities
Satisfaction Indexes
*  Training offered is generally considered very good, with the highest average scores for training
organized by ntucleos (0.89) and IES (0.88); followed by SEED central departments (0.85) and CCFC
(0.83);
*  Nzucleos account for 15% of events, IES for 19%, SEED central departments for 34% ,and CCFC for
31%;
*  Training organized by SEED central departments is rated as good to excellent on contents, but only
weak to acceptable on methodology, organization, and didactic materials. The worst rated department
is that in charge of pedagogic contents ("the essence of education");
*  IES are best rated on the high level of trainers and contents; applicability of methodologies, physical
conditions, general organization and need for more workshops are weaker points;
*  Extemal promoters are rated as acceptable to excellent in all criteria;
*  The best rated programs are those aiming at motivation and communication (acceptable to excellent on
all criteria), followed by management (acceptable on all criteria), then by pedagogy (acceptable to
weak);
-40 -



* Approaches to curriculum contents and human development are rated best (excellent to acceptable);
management of processes and participatory management are rated acceptable to excellent;
administrative and financial management, legal bases for curriculum development and management of
the pedagogic process are rated as weak to acceptable;
* 30% to 45% of participants consider that they need more training after the event (the lower 30%
corresponding to IES), particularly with respect to methodologies to promote student participation and
production and use of didactic pedagogic materials;
*  lack of time for discussion and of practical workshops are quoted as most in need of adjustment for all
four categories of sponsors, though to different extent.
-41 -



Additional Annex 10. Summary of the Evaluation of the Book Fair
In line with its policy of decentralization of education at school level, the Government proposed at mid-term
review to implement the entire text and reference books sub-component via a decentralized procurement
process based on direct financial transfers to eligible APMs, in a specific bank account, to be used under
their responsibility and accountability.
With the assistance of specialized book fair consultants, two alternatives were considered: (i) organization
of 5 regionalized book fairs; and (ii) organization of a single centralized fair. After evaluation, SEED
decided to organize one single fair in its large and well equipped training center at Faxinal do Ceu, in 8
consecutive events from October 6 to 21, 1997.
Book Fair Organization - The organization of the book fair required a very long and considerable effort of
planning, preparation and logistics.  The required actions were consolidated in a Decentralized
Implementation Plan. The main steps were: (i) selection of participating publishers and book titles by a
special commission; (ii) definition by the organization commission of the amounts to be transferred to each
school, on the basis of the number of students and about R$250 for each group of 50 students, up to a
maximum of R$4,500 per school; (iii) signing of agreements with APMs including accountability and
resource transfer mechanisms; (iv) preparation, testing, printing and distribution of an instruction manual;
(v) preparation and implementation of a training and dissemination program including a teleconference; (vi)
physical preparation of the event with co-financing by the publishers, and transport of participants; (vii)
organization of cultural parallel events; (viii) organization of an evaluation survey and a performance audit;
and (ix) the general evaluation of the sub-component. In addition, more than 100 persons collaborated in
providing logistic support duririg the fair events.
Other Features - The schools were authorized to use up of 20% of allocated resources during the fair, for
the direct purchase of furniture and equipment necessary for the organization of their library. In addition,
parallel cultural events were organized including conferences, educational techniques workshops, and story
teller workshops.
Book Fair Results - 3,847 schools with a legally organized APM, of which 2,008 municipal schools,
participated in one of the eight consecutive events. 7,499 school managers and teachers represented the
schools and could choose, directly negotiate, purchase and pay for about 1.5 million books from 49
preselected publishers presenting more than 10,100 titles. Total amounts paid during the fair reached
R$7.93 million, of which about R$655,000 for the purchase of bookshelves.  Total actual cost of the
sub-component was US$8.6 million, in line with appraisal and MTR estimates.
SEED target at project appraisal was to attend 11,488 schools. This target was downsized to 5,000 at
mid-term review to take into account demographic trends in Parana and the resulting decrease in young
school-age population, the urbanization process with increased concentration of the population in fewer
larger schools in urban areas, and the exclusion of a large number of schools with less than 30 students and
only one classroom. The 3,847 state and municipal schools which attended the book fair were those
schools of more than 50 students which were able to legally organize their APMs. They accounted for
about 1.51 million students, or 90% of all state and municipal school students in 1998 in grades I through
8 (1.67 million). In addition, as part of the didactic materials sub-component, 572 state schools of more of
100 students purchased library and reference books with funds transferred through the state revolving fund
at a total cost of US$1.8 million.
-42 -



Evaluation
An independent evaluation survey was carried out during the fair events, through questionnaires to school
and publisher's representatives. Main conclusions were that:
- 45.4% of schools already had a library;
- 99.9% of schools had planned their purchase before the fair;
- 99.2% of books purchased were literature books;
- 96% of school representatives were satisfied with books offered;
- 89.6% were satisfied with the recommendations given in the Instructional, Manual;
- 62% of participants found that a book fair is the best way to purchase library books.
-  90% of the 7,097 participants to the parallel events found events excellent or good, except for a few
ones;
- 91-95% found the fair organization excellent or good;
- 87-88% found the participating publishers excellent or good;
- 85-95% considered the services offered in Faxinal do Ceu during the fair adequate, in spite of heavy
rains which occurred during the fair; and
- 33 publishers' representatives who participated in the evaluation survey expressed their satisfaction
with the fair objectives, organization and results.
A quality evaluation, based on a sample of schools was carried out in June 1998 by independent
consultants. Its main conclusions were: (i) the irnportant role of school management before, during and
after a decentralized purchase; (ii) the need for more time for the purchase and participation in cultural
events during the fair; (iii) the instruction manual and decentralized training were considered adequate; (iv)
decentralized procurement was preferred over other options; (v) participation of the regional nucleuses was
important; (vi) parallel events were well accepted; (vii) resources were considered sufficient; (viii) books
were delivered on time; and (ix) satisfaction with the books purchased was general.
Finally, an August 1998 financial audit of a sample of 41 APMs of schools which participated in
decentralized procurement during the book fair concluded that APMs adequately followed the decentralized
procurement procedures in accordance with the instructions manual.
Outcome
The school library enrichment program attended most targeted schools,-and benefited 90% of the total state
and municipal school students of Parana in grades I through 8. The quality of books and the adequacy of
the purchasing process were recognized and appreciated by the beneficiaries. Implementation through a
book fair represented an important step towards school autonomy, resources decentralization and
participation of the school community in school management through APMs. An important incentive was
given to APMs via the management of transferred financial resources, and to school management and
teachers through their participation and responsibilities in the choice of books and the purchase process.
The diversity of publishers gathered together in the same place and the possibility of direct contact with
their representatives was praised. The right to choose the books more appropriate to each school reality,
the possibility to interact with other teachers and publishers, and the ease of purchasing within an available
budget, were also appreciated. Finally, the book fair was an opportunity for cultural events including
updating activities, contacts with renowned authors, and interchanges with other teachers.
-43-



Lessons
A book fair is an efficient decentralized procurement process for library and reference books for a
diversified system of schools of different sizes and cultural conditions. Through decentralization, the
process ensures quality and gives each school the right to choose in light of its own needs. However, its
organization is time consuming and requires a substantial planning and organization capacity.
- 44 -



Additional Annex 11. Parana Education Programs and Processes Influencing Project
Outcomes
Improved student flows: Since 1995, Parana education system experienced significant improvements in
promotion rates, repetition rates and dropout rates in grades I to 8. These improvements are the result of
two programs implemented in parallel.
* The Basic Alphabetization Cycle (Ciclo Bdsico de Alfabetizacdo-CBA): This program was introduced
in 1989 in grades I to 4. It consisted in the automatic promotion from grade I to 2, associated with
special additional reinforcement to lagging students. This "continuum"' was extended selectively to
grades 1 to 4 in state schools starting 1993 and generalized to all state schools in May 1997. All state
schools and all municipal schools with a partnership agreement with the state participated in this
program (that is, most grades 1-4 schools in Parana), which provided special training and educational
materials to teachers.
*   The Flow Correction Program (Programa de Corecao de Fluxo): This program was implemented
principally in grades 5 to 8 of state schools. It was implemented between 1997 and 1999 and it
regrouped all grades 5-7 students with significant age-grade distortions (at least two years) into a
single class and, using special materials and specially trained teachers. The program aimed to
accelerate this group of students so that most could be promoted to 8th grade (also a special class) after
one year. Over 300,000 students were enrolled in this program over a three-year period. In 1998/99,
the program's peak year, enrollment in flow correction shifts in grades 5 through 8 came to account for
23% of total enrollments in corresponding grades in the state system (including 32% in eighth grade).
About 70% of Flow Correction students in grades 5 to 7 were promoted to the second year of the
program, and of these, about 60% graduated from 8th grade. This program was responsible for the
large decrease in repetition rates in grades 5 to 8 between 1996 and 1999 (from 17% to 10.5%) and in
drop-out rates (from 12% to 8%) in these grades. A similar Flow Correction Program was
implemented in the first four grades of state schools, but it only represented 3% of state enrollments in
these grades in 1998/99 and, compared to the CBA program, its impact on repetition rates is
insignificant.
Evolution of Student Learning: There are several possible explanations for why students' performance in
SAEB and AVA has not generally improved. So far, a systematic analysis has not been presented. These
are the following: (i) accelerated municipalization, which left municipalities in charge of the first four
grades without much preparation and insufficient funding; (ii) poor implementation of CBA; (iii) flow
correction programs; (iv) insufficient teachers'qualification; (v) insufficient time in school to cover
prescribed curricula; and (vi) changes in test content that hampers historical comparisons.
(i) Municipalization of lrst to 4th grades: Until 1998, when FUNDEF was implemented, there is some
evidence that municipalities faced difficulties in assuming their role in the provision of education in grades
I to 4. A study carried out in 1996* to evaluate the impact of decentralization in municipalities services
under partnership agreements with the state indicated that most had incurred net losses relative to resources
obtained previously from the state. State transfers under partnership agreements were only 60% of what
was due based on a formula which sought to equalize average municipal spending per student to the state
average; state'transfers to municipalities to ensure the operation and maintenance of transferred schools
only accounted for about 7% of total municipal expenses in education. This was further complicated by the
high turnover of teaching staff resulting from a large part of seconded state teachers leaving shortly after
the transfer of schools and municipalities having to contract replacement teachers at their own expenses.
-45 -



Insufficient state transfers were the main reason why the larger municipalities were so slow to enter into
partnership agreements. The situation improved in 1997 and mostly after FUNDEF was established in
1998. Nevertheless, financial difficulties during this transition period may have affected the quality of
education for the students who reached fourth grade in 2000.
* (Avaliagao do Impacto da Municipaliza9ao do Ensino Fundamental no Estado do Parana- Outubro 1996-
Cademo 5 )
(ii) Acceleration and Automatic Promotion Programs (CBA) for Irst to 4th Grades: Acceleration and
automatic promotion programs were introduced by many states in Brazil, based on the finding that
repetition did not further educational achievement. This approach was made possible in the Lei de
Diretrizes e Bases (LDB) in 1996 and encouraged by the Ministry of Education, which developed special
methodologies and materials for that purpose. CBA, which involves automatic promotion from grade I to
2, was introduced in the first two grades (CBA2) in State schools in 1989 and was subsequently expanded
on a selective basis to the third and fourth grades in state schools in 1993. The four-year CBA (CBA4)
was originally introduced conditional on the presentation by individual schools of evidence of adequate
physical, pedagogic and administrative conditions. However, following an evaluation in 1996, CBA4 was
generalized to all state schools in 1997. Furthermore, the adoption of CBA in all schools of municipalities
with partnership agreements became compulsory. Thus, the bulk of students trained under CBA4 reached
fourth grade in 2000.
CBA is a teaching approach based on the premises that repetition does not improve student performance
and results in high dropout rates, in particular in the early years of alphabetization. CBA provides a
four-year continuum based on a single curriculum, with no repetitions. Special teaching approaches and
materials were developed for that purpose and special training programs were offered to CBA teachers. An
important element of CBA is the organization of special two-hour daily reinforcement shifts (contraturnos)
for students who lag behind, in addition to the regular four-hour shifts they attend together with the other
students.
As mentioned, the basis for the decision to generalize CBA4, was an evaluation carried out in 1996,
covering a sample of 150 state schools. Writing tests applied to 4,000 students in these schools showed
that there were no significant differences in the performance of traditional fourth-grade students and
students originating from CBA2 and CBA4. There were, however, significant cost reductions associated
with avoiding repetitions. These results led to the decision to generalize CBA4. However, this same
evaluation, complemented in 1997 by a more in-depth case study of ten state schools thought to have
implemented CBA successfully, also showed that only half of school coordinators and one third of teachers
clearly understood the concept of CBA, and the need for special training to implement it properly. Many
still saw CBA's principal feature as simply lack of repetition. Many directors and teachers also
complained about insufficient support (teaching materials, training) and lack of physical space to
implement the remedial shifts. Cautiousness was recommended before generalizing CBA4 to all schools.
Inplementation of CBA in municipal schools, which account for over 80% of enrollment in grades I to 4,
is likely to have been much more chaotic. A study carried out in October 1996 to evaluate the impact of
municipalization of basic education in Parana* reported many mnisgivings concerning implementation of
CBA2 in municipal schools. Despite their obligation to adopt CBA2 as part of partnership agreements,
many municipalities had not adopted CBA for lack of human resources, technical and pedagogic means,
and lack of space to establish remedial shifts. Two thirds of school teams complained about lack of
technical and material support, but conflicts between municipal teams and SEED regional offices made the
organization of such support difficult. Due to initially insufficient funding for municipal education, and
-46 -



high turn-over of teachers (seconded trained state teachers leaving their position), it is quite possible that
CBA in municipal schools did not even achieve the neutral results observed in state schools in terms of
student achievements. New teachers were hired at lower cost by municipalities, and many of them may not
have received the training required to implement CBA, as the state did not place much emphasis on training
municipal teachers. Proper implementation of CBA might also have been constrained by other factors
limiting the establishment of remedial two-hour shifts, including lack of physical space and unavailability
of teachers, often employed in a second or even third job.
*(Avaliqdo do Impacto da Municipalizajfdo do Ensino Fundamental no Estado do Parana- Outubro 1996- Caderno
5)
(iii) Acceleration Programs- Evaluation of the Flow Correction Program- Grades 5 to 8: There was no
special evaluation of the performance of students participating in Grades 5-8 Flow Correction Program.
However, the Parana 1998 and 2000 Assessments contain ratings obtained by participating students
compared to regular eighth grade shifts. The average proficiency of Flow Correction students was
substantially below that of students in regular shifts, placing them mostly in Level I (competencies and
contents not leamt). Their averages were also below proficiency levels of night shifts and young adult and
adult education shifts. Finally, they were below average proficiency levels of students in regular shifts with
equal numbers of repetitions. This does not mean, however, that they did not jimprove, as the program was
able to keep them in school. But this means that; in term of quality of education, students in these special
classes were not able to catch up with any of the other shifts, even with repeater students, and, for the most
part, they were not able to assimilate most of the curriculum. Given these outcome, the program was
substantially reduced in 2000.
In 1998, close to 30% of total eighth grade enrollment was in the flow correction program, and close to
20% of eighth grade students were tested in AVA in that year. Poor performance of Flow Correction
students may help explain in part the overall low average score for all students in 1998. AVA 2000 shows
substantially better average scores than 1998, and, in that year, there were considerably less Flow
Correction students. Firm conclusions, however, are hindered by methodological changes in the design of
AVA between 1998 and 2000. Also, Flow correction students were not tested by SAEB in 1999, yet
overall performance of eighth graders also deteriorated between 1997 and 1999.
(iv) Teachers' Qualifications in Mathematics: Based on the poor results obtained in mathematics in 1997,
a workshop was organized in 1998 in which teachers were administered the same tests as their 8th grade
students. Results showed that, although the percentage of correct answers was considerably above that of
their students, items where students failed, teachers also tended to fail more, which indicated that part of
the teachers had not assimilated curriculum contents. In exploring reasons for failure, the workshop
encountered that most teachers were not trained in teaching mathematics but science (with a subsequent
short proficiency course in mathematics), and that most thought that there was not sufficient time to cover
all aspects of the curriculum. The workshop pointed out the need to review teacher traininz at universities
and normal schools.
-47 -



(v) Teaching time in school: To increase their income, teachers tend to work two, sometimes three,
four-hour shifts a day. This workload precludes them to set aside time for (a) their own training to work
with CBA students in remedial shifts, and (b) continuous reinforcement to regular 5th to 8th shift students
who lag behind. As commented above, Correction Flow-type programs manage to keep students in school
and improve their knowledge, but not sufficiently for them to catch up with regular students. A different
strategy is therefore needed, leaving these students in regular shifts but supporting them throughout the
year with special, extra, reinforcement activities. This will be particularly necessary now that many
ill-prepared CBA fourth grade students are entering the second cycle, otherwise repetition rates will start
rising again.
(vi) Curriculum change: Another reason for increased time in school may also be the new National
Curriculum Parameters, which have introduced more demanding dimensions. In evaluations of the project's
training component, many teachers have complained that there was no time to teach all subjects required.
However, increased time in school for academic activities would lead to result either in hiring more teachers
and/or improving teachers' pay to compensate for lost income. Hence, budgetary allocations would have to
be increased. Whithout these adjustments it is unlikely that further improvements in education quality will
possible.
-48 -






IMAGING
Report No.:         24364
Type:     ICR



