Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12699-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
PARANA BASIC EDUCATION QUALITY PROJECT
JUNE 8, 1994
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of May 31, 1994)
Currency Unit: Cruzeiro Real(CR$)
US$1.00 = CR$ 1,844.03
US$1 million = CR$ 1,844,030,000
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBA                 Ciclo Bdsico de AlfabetizafdolBasic Literacy Cycle
CELEPAR             Parana State Statistical Agency
CETEPAR             Parana State Secretariat of Education Teacher Training Center
CONSED              Conselho Nacional de Secretdrios de Educacao
National Council of State Education Secretaries
DECOM               Departamento de Constru,cdo, Opera,cdo, e Manutencao
(State) Department of Construction and Maintenance
EDURURAL            Northeast Basic Education I Project
FAE                 Fundapao de Assistencia ao EstudantelFoundation for Student Assistance
FNDE                Fundo Nacional de Desenvolvimento da Educa,C4o
National Fund for Educational Development
FUNDEPAR            Instituto de Desenvolvimento da Educa9ao do Parand
Parana Foundation for Educational Development
IBGE                Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e EstattsticalBrazilian Institute of Geography
and Statistics
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
ICMS                Value Added Tax
INSS                Social Security Tax
IPI                 Imposto Sobre Produtos IndustrializadoslTax on Manufactured Goods
IPARDES             Instituto Paranaese de Desenvolvimento Economico e SociallParana Institute
for Economic and Social Development
ISS                 Municipal Tax on Services
LCB                 Local Competitive Bidding
MEC                 Ministerio da Educagco e do DesportolFederal Ministry of Education
OME                 Orgao Municipal de Educa'ao Bdsica/Municipal Education Office
PCU                 Project Coordination Unit
PNLD                Programa Nacional do Livro DiddticoINational Textbook Program
SAEB                Sistema Nacional de Avaliap2o da Educapdo Bdsica
National Student Assessment System
SEED                Secretaria Estadual da EducacdolState Secretariat of Education (Parana)
SEPLAN              Secretaria da Estado do Planejamento e CoordenafaolState Secretariat of
Planning & Coordination
UNDIME              Unido Nacional dos Delegados e Inspectores Municipais de Educagao
National Association of Municipal Secretaries of Education



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
PARANA BASIC EDUCATION QUALITY PROJECr
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN  AND  PROJECT SUMMARY   ......                               ................. iii
SELECTED STATISTICS .............................. vii
1. BACKGROUND, ISSUES AND STRATEGY ................. 1
A.  Overview  of Education Sector ..................... 1
B.  Organization and Administration of Primary
Education ................................. 2
C. Education Finance ............................ 4
D.  Sectoral Issues and Government Strategy  ....                     .......... 6
E.  Bank Strategy   .........                  ....................  11
F. Bank Lending and Lessons Leaned   ....                        ............  12
G.  Rationale for Bank Involvement   ..................  14
2. THE PROJECT ................................. 15
A. Introduction ............................... 15
B. Project Objectives  ........                   ...................  15
C. Project Components .......                     ...................  16
D.  Project Description   .......                 ...................  17
3. COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT, AND
DISBURSEMENTS .                  .............................. 26
A. Project Costs .............................. 26
B. Financing Plan ............................. 29
C. Procurement .............................. 30
D. Disbursements ............................. 35
E.  Accounting and Auditing  ......                    .................  37
This report is based on the finding of an apprmil mission that visited the state of Paann in June
1993, consisting of K Hovde (mission leader and task manager); E. Newfield (OPRIS; coas);
L. Rosenberg (teacher tmining); S. Dompieri (civil wvrs); E. Marquc (educational finanoes);
J. Esquivel-Alfaro (student asement); J. Amanral Sobrinho (instiutional development); A. Ramalho
and J. Vdlehl (procurtment). N. Pieleneier carried out a postpprmial mission on school heakh in
August 1993; J.B. de Oliveira (EDIHR) assisted on the insbuctional matcrials component; and JB.
Gomes Neto assisted on monitoring and evaluation. Reviewcn wre C. Vaivieso (MN2PH, lead
reviewer) and L. Wolff (MNIPH). R. Hecht, R. Horn, and A. Saliba (LAIHR) also provided advice
and comments. Messrs. A. Colliou, 0. Grimes, and R. Steckhan ae, rmpectively, the Division Chief,
Deparment Project Advisor, and the Deparbment Director for the operation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-11-
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING  ...                          ...... 37
A. Project Implementation ........................ 37
B. Monitoring and Evaluation ...................... 39
5. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ....... ..                       ............ 41
A. Project Benefits  ............................ 41
B. Risks ................ ................... 41
C. Environmental Impact ......................... 42
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ...... 42
7. ANNEXES .................................... 46
Annex 1: Educational Statistics ..................... 46
Annex 2: Project Cost Tables ...................... 57
Annex 3: Organization Charts ...................... 61
Annex 4: Educational Decentralization
in Parana   ......................... 63
Annex 5: Regional Implementation Strategy for Teacher
Training and Instructional Materials ....       ...... 66
Annex 6: Preliminary Indicators for Project Monitoring and
Evaluation  ......................... 69
Annex 7: Selected Documents Available in
Project File  ........................ 75
8. LIST OF TABLES IN MAIN REPORT
Table 3.1: Summary of Project Costs by Component ....                ........ 26
Table 3.2: Summary of Project Costs by Category
of Expenditure ........................... 27
Table 3.3: Financing Plan   ............................ 30
Table 3.4: Procurement Arrangements ..................... 33
Table 3.5: Allocation and Disbursement of Bank Loan  ....             ....... 36
Table 3.6: Estimated IBRD Disbursements  .................. 37



-iii-
PARANA BASIC EDUCATION QUALlTY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          State of ParanA
Guarantor:        Federative Republic of Brazil
Executing Agency: State Education Secretariat of Parand
Loan Amount:      US$96.0 million equivalent
Terms:            Payable in 15 years, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate, with a five year grace period.
Project Objectives: The goal of the project is to improve educational
attainment in the State of Parana, as defined by increases
in student learning and graduation from primary school.
The project's objectives are to: (a) improve children's
and teachers' access to adequate quantities of learning
materials; (b) improve teachers' competence in the
classroom; (c) provide children in low-income urban areas
with physical space adequate for learning; (d) provide
school, municipal, and regional level administrators, with
tools, skills and incentives to improve management
practices and take on new responsibilities; and (e) achieve
greater equity between state and municipal school systems
in terms of spending per student and the availability of
essential educational inputs. In support of Parana's
innovative efforts to administer the first four years of
primary school in partnership with municipalities, project
investments will be directed to the state education system
and to those municipalities in partnership agreements with
the state.
Project Description:
The project will consist of five components, as follows:
(a)   Instructional Materials (US$75.5 million equivalent,
including contingencies; 38 percent of total project cost).
The component will finance: (a) the regular provision of
textbooks to children in both state and municipal schools;
(b) a basic package of educational materials and
equipment to all state and participating municipal schools;
and (c) a school library enrichment program;
(b)   Teacher Training (US$27.1 million equivalent, including
contingencies; 14 percent of total project cost). The
component will finance an in-service training program for



-iv-
school principals, supervisors, and teachers through both
face-to-face workshops and distance training;
(c)   School Upgrading and Expansion of Access (US$75.4
million equivalent, including contingencies; 38 percent of
total project cost). The component will finance new
school construction and furniture in low-income areas
where schools are either in precarious condition or
population shifts have produced a surge in demand;
(d)   Institutional Development (US$18.0 million equivalent,
including contingencies; 9 percent of total project cost).
The component will support: (a) a project management
unit within the State Education Secretariat; (b) the
development of capacity at the state level for quantitative
assessment of student learning; (c) restructuring and
decentralization of existing management information
systems; (d) activities to strengthen management at
various levels, including training for regional
administrators and municipal staff; and (e) promotion of
quality improvements in schools and municipalities
through the establishment of a prize fund; and
(e)   Studies and Evaluation (US$2.4 million equivalent,
including contingencies; 1 percent of total project cost).
The component will support policy, project evaluation,
and impact studies.
Benefits:          The project is expected to benefit approximately 1.6
million primary school students in both the state and
municipal systems. By improving the quality of
education, it is expected that the project will contribute to
reductions in grade repetition and associated resource
waste, and improved student achievement. Although the
project is directed to all primary school children in public
schools, it should particularly benefit low-income
children, who are almost exclusively served by the public
school system. Targeted construction of new classrooms
should also directly benefit approximately 64,000 children
who live in urban low-income areas. Additional benefits
of the project include: (a) better information and
management practices within SEED and municipal
education offices; (b) the development of a
decentralization model in education that includes critical
quality and equity concerns; and (c) enhanced knowledge
of the relative cost-effectiveness and impact of various
educational interventions on system productivity through
evaluation studies and support for systematic student
assessment.



-v
Risks:            The project's principal risks include: (a) problems in
coordination between the state and the federal government
on textbook provision and financing; (b) the possibility of
diminished political support once the govemment changes
in March 1995; (c) problems in the implementation of the
state's decentralization strategy; and (d) delays in
implementation stemming from SEED's lack of familiarity
with Bank guidelines and procedures. With regard to
textbooks, the project aims to assure adequate provision
through requiring up-front coordination with FAE, while
at the same time requiring the state govemment to assume
full responsibility for textbook provision, regardless of the
nature of federal government support. Provision of
textbooks will be carefully monitored, and will be a key
element in the Bank's ongoing evaluation of project
implementation. Regarding (b), the inclusion of
municipalities should help foster a municipal constituency
for the project that will carry over beyond the change in
state government in 1995 (municipal administrations do
not change again until 1997). Regarding (c), Bank
support to the state in fulfilling its part of the
decentralization agreement (mainly through the provision
of training and educational materials) should provide an
incentive for the remaining 14 percent of municipalities
not yet in partnership agreements to join. With regard to
(d), the project design has attempted to minimize this risk
by building institutional capacity through the
establishment of a PCU, and early attention to the
development and use of standard bidding documents and
other procedures. The project Midterm Review will
provide an opportunity to reassess implementation risks
and make adjustments if necessary.
Poverty Category:  Consistent with the Bank's assistance strategy for Brazil,
the project contributes to human resource development
and poverty reduction through investing in a program of
targeted primary school interventions aimed at raising
educational attainment among less advantaged groups in
the State of Parana.
Rate of Return:    Not applicable.
Map:              IBRD No. 25988



-vi-
Summary of Project Costs by Component
(US$ millions)
% Total
Base
Local   Foreign    Total   Costs
A. Instructional Materials              57.3       11.5    68.8      38
B. Teacher Trining                      24.0        0.9    24.9      14
C. School Upgrading                     57.0        9.5    66.5      37
D. Institutional Development            12.7        4.0    16.7      10
E. Studies & Evaluation                  2.0        0.2      2.2      1
Total BASELINE COSTS                   153.0       26.1   179.1    100
Physical Contingencies                  4.0        1.1     5.1       3
Price Contingencies                    12.4        1.8    14.2       8
Total PROJECT COSTS                    169.4       29.0   198.4    111
Ls Taxes                                                    38.4
Financing Plan
(USS millions)
Local           Foreign             Total
1. Government                    95.3               7.1             102.4
2. Proposed BRD Loan             74.1              21.8              96.0
Total                         169.4              29.0             198.4
Estimated IBRD Disbursements
Total Costs, Induding Contingencies
(US$ millions)
Bank Fial Year        FY9S     FY9C      FY97    FY98   FY99  FY2000
Annual                 12.0     18.0      22.5     20.0   18.5       5.0
Cumulative             12.0     30.0      52.5     72.5   91.0      96.0



-Vii-
BRAZIL
STATE OF PARANA
BASIC EDUCATION QUALITY PROJECT
Selected Statistics
Brazil              Parana
Geznera
Area (khn2)                                      8,511,965           199,554
Population (1991, millions)                      146.9 (urban 75%)   8.4 (urban 75%)
Percent of Population under 14 years of age (1990,   35.4           33.1
millions)
GDP per capita (1991, US$)                       $2,890             $2,988
Infant Mortality (deaths per 1,000 live births)  58 (1990)(a)       30 (1991)(b)
EducAtion Sector                                           :_-..---
Adult Illiteracy Rate (1990)                     17                 17
Total Primary School Enrolhnents                 27,416,559 (1989)    1,712,528 (1990)
State schools                                  15,755,120 (57%)    1,053,449 (61%)
Municipal schools                              8,218,455 (30%)      512,046 (30%)
Other (private or federal)                     3,442,984 (13%)      147,033 (9%)
Percent of Students Completing 8th Grade         33                 47
Percent of Students Completing 8th Grade without   2.0               2.7
Repeating                                                                             l
Primary School Enrollment as Percent of Age      82.2 (1989         92.3
Cohort (7-14 years)                              estimate)                            l
Secondary School Enrollment as Percent of Age    16.5 (1990         20 (1990)
Cohort (5-19 years)                              estimate)
Primary School Enrollments as Percent of Total   76.5 (1989)        78 (1990)
Enrollment in Education
Expenditures on Education as % of GDP            3.7 (1988)                           l
Total Number of Primary Schools (thousands)      202 (1989)          10.7 (1990,
public = 96%)
Sources: SEED, IPARDES, IBGE, World Bank.
Notes: (a) World Bank estimates; (b) state statistics






BRAZIL
PARANAL BASIC EDUCATION QUALITY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. BACKGROUND, ISSUES AND STRATEGY
A. Overview of Education Sector
1.1.  Education levels of the Brazilian population are extremely low when
compared with those of other upper middle income countries. Despite the
country's relatively modem and strong industrial base, an estimated 17
percent of Brazilians over seven years of age are illiterate. In 1990, the
mean average schooling for the adult population was only 3.9 years,
approximately the same as El Salvador, Guatemala, and Nicaragua, countries
with less than half the income level of Brazil.
1.2.  In part, these statistics reflect past problems of access to education
which have been largely superceded. Brazil has made significant progress
over the past forty years in expanding access to primary school. Today, 92
percent of Brazilian children enter school, compared to less than 40 percent
in 1950. Boys and girls also attend primary school in virtually equal
numbers. These advances have not been accompanied, however, by
corresponding gains in the quality and efficiency of the educational system.
Two-thirds of Brazilian children never complete primary school, and learning
levels even for children who remain in school are extremely low. According
to 1989 data, fully 21 percent of children in the age group between seven and
17 years of age were illiterate. Educational differences also appear to be
particularly important in explaining the large disparity in income among
Brazilians. Research findings indicate that half the differences in average
incomes among urban dwellers in Brazil can be attributed to differences in
educational attainment. In addition to undermining the establishment of a
stable social and political system, this situation threatens long-term economic
growth. To a great extent, future economic progress in Brazil must be
achieved through the creativity and innovation of an educated labor force,
with the ability to function in an increasingly complex work environment.
1.3.  Despite the State of Parand's location in the more developed south of
the country, its educational system suffers from many of the same problems
experienced in the rest of Brazil. Access to primary school is good: nearly
100 percent of children enter primary school at some point in time.
Educational attainment, however, is poor: 60 percent of people over 10
years old have 4 years of schooling or fewer. Learning levels are also low,
although slightly above the national average: in one of the first national
assessments of student learning in Brazil done in 1990, seventh graders in



-2-
Parana answered only 49.1 percent of questions correctly on the Portuguese
portion of the test, 29.2 percent in mathematics, and 44.6 percent in science.
1.4.  Brazil's low educational attainment rates are directly related to high
repetition in primary education, particularly in the early grades. Nationally,
over 50 percent of students in the first grade of primary school each year are
required to repeat the grade, the highest first grade failure rate in Latin
America. The average Brazilian student currently spends 7.7 years in
primary school, longer than for any other Latin American country and almost
enough to complete the eight years of the primary cycle. Yet during those
7.7 years, the average student does not even complete the fourth grade. In
Parana, despite efforts initiated in 1988 to institute automatic promotion
between the first and second grades, officially reported repetition in the first
grade remained at 20 percent in 1990 -- an improvement, but still quite high.
Simulations of student flow during the 1989 school year indicate that of every
class of 100 students entering first grade in Parana, only 2.7 students
graduate from eighth grade without repeating, and only 47 eventually
graduate from primary school. The average number of years of instruction
per graduate is estimated at 11, with many graduates taking as long as 14
years.
1.5.  Such inefficient student flows create an enormous financial burden for
the public sector. Nationally, it is estimated that students repeating grades
cost the Brazilian education system over US$2 billion equivalent per year, or
30 percent of current public spending on education. In ParanA, the cost of
yearly repetition in the state system alone is estimated to be about US$80
million equivalent, or approximately 16 percent of total state spending on
education and 28 percent of state spending on primary education.
B. Organization and Administration of Primary Education
1.6.  Brazil supports an extensive and decentralized education system at all
levels, beginning with two years of pre-school (ages 4-6), continuing through
eight grades of primary school, 3-4 years of general secondary or technical
school, and higher education at the undergraduate, master's and Ph.D. levels.
Primary education has been compulsory for some time. The 1988
Constitution made pre-school compulsory as well, despite the fact that pre-
school coverage is currently very low (about 25 percent). All three levels of
government (federal, state, and municipal) are involved in the financing and
provision of education, with considerable overlap of responsibilities.'
1. 'Municipality in this report is used as a translation for the Portuguese 'municfpio, " a
local jurisdiction equivalent to either 'county' or 'municipality.'



-3-
1.7.  The quality of schooling varies considerably by region and by type of
provider. Generally, children from the upper and middle classes attend
private schools from pre-school through secondary school, while poor and
lower-middle class children attend public schools. Children from the public
school system are almost always inadequately prepared to compete with
students who have studied in private schools for spaces in the heavily
subsidized public university system. As a result, government expenditures on
higher education at both the state and federal levels disproportionately benefit
the upper and middle classes.
1.8.  In Parana, as in the rest of Brazil, the public sector dominates the
provision of basic education. In 1990, the public sector accounted for 91.5
percent of primary school enrollments (about 1.6 million students), and 82
percent of secondary enrollments (about 185,000 students). Access to
primary school is virtually universal (92 percent of children 7-14 were
enrolled in school in 1990), although there are still localized problems of
access and overcrowding stemming from the state's rapid urbanization over
the last two decades. In 1970, 36 percent of the population lived in urban
areas; by 1990, the urban population had climbed to 75 percent.
1.9.  Primary and secondary education in Parana is overseen by the State
Secretariat of Education (SEED), which is directly responsible for
administering about 35 percent of the state's 11,771 schools (pre-school
through secondary), and 67 percent of public primary enrollments.
Coordination with state schools and municipalities is carried out primarily
through 30 regional offices located throughout the state. SEED has an
executive arm, the Institute for Educational Development (FUNDEPAR),
which is responsible for civil works, procurement of goods, and management
of statistical information related to the education sector. Teacher training is
coordinated through SEED's Teacher Training Center (CETEPAR). SEED
employed about 76,000 people in 1992 (both full and part time), of whom 94
percent were teachers and administrative personnel located in schools.
1.10. Municipalities in Parand play an important role in the provision of
primary education, and are responsible for about 33 percent of primary
public enrollments. Educational administration in Parand's 371
municipalities is varied. In larger cities, municipal school systems generally
have secretariats of education similar in structure, function and administrative
capacity to the state secretariats. In smaller municipalities and particularly in
rural areas, there is typically only a small Municipal Education Office
(OME), and sometimes no distinct educational administration. The fragility
of many municipal education systems is a major issue throughout Brazil,
particularly since, as a result of the fiscal reform of 1988, government
revenues are increasingly being devolved to the local level with the



-4-
expectation that municipal authorities and institutions will assume increasing
responsibility for the delivery of social services.
C. Education Finance
1.11. Total public spending on education in Brazil by all levels of
government amounted to about US$11 billion equivalent in 1986 (the last
year for which consolidated public spending information is available) and
accounted for approximately 23 percent of total social spending and 4 percent
of GDP. At the primary level, states are the most important financiers,
accounting for about 65 percent of public expenditure, while municipalities
contribute 25 percent and the federal govemment the remaining 10 percent.
Under the 1988 federal Constitution, the federal government must apply at
least 18 percent of its total annual tax receipts to education. State and
municipal governments, in turn, must devote 25 percent of their total
revenues to education. Federal spending is channeled to state and municipal
schools through financial transfers administered by the National Fund for
Education Development (FNDE), which reports to the Ministry of Education
(MEC). FNDE is the principal source of funding for primary education at
the federal level in Brazil, with an annual budget of roughly US$1.5 billion
equivalent. FNDE revenues come from the saldrio educafdo, a payroll tax
on industrial employees earmarked for primary education. Two thirds of the
saldrio educacdo revenues are returned automatically to the states in
accordance with the revenues generated by the states themselves. The
remaining one third of the saldrio educacdo revenues is managed by the
federal government and allocated to states and municipalities on the basis of
criteria defined by MEC.
1.12. Like most of the southern and southeastern Brazilian states, Paranr
enjoys significant fiscal autonomy from the federal government. State
revenues come from a variety of sources, the most important of which in
Parana is the value-added tax (ICMS). Total revenues have remained quite
stable over the last five years averaging approximately US$1.6 billion per
year. Of these, state tax revenues plus some federal transfers are "counted'
as potential education resources for the purposes of calculating the
Constitutionally mandated minimum percentages of education spending. Of
the US$1.2 billion of revenues available for state education funding in 1992,
state revenues accounted for 85 percent while federal transfers made up 15
percent. Federal contributions include specialized educational programs such
as the federally funded textbook and school lunch programs, as well as the
state portion of the saldrio educap7o, which has averaged about US$26
million per year over recent years.



-5-
1.13. Efforts to contain a state budget deficit have led to declining state
expenditures over the last five years, which has also had a detrimental effect
on education spending. Total state expenditures on education have decreased
by approximately 15 percent in real terms between 1988 and 1992.
Education as a percentage of total state spending has been rising gradually,
however, reflecting an effort on the part of the state to protect the sector.
Total state expenditures on education in 1992 were approximately US$424
million, or 27 percent of total state spending. Educational expenditures as a
percentage of fiscal revenues were 37 percent in the same year, well over the
Constitutionally mandated 25 percent.
1.14. For primary education, both the total level of spending and the overaU
allocation of expenditures leave room for improvement. State spending on
primary education has averaged about 62 percent of total education spending
(all levels) over the last five years, and like overall expenditures has also
suffered a decline in real terms. Total spending by SEED and FUNDEPAR
on primary education amounted to about US$245.9 million in 1992, a 6
percent decline from 1988 levels. Expenditures on personnel accounted for
about 84 percent of this total, expenditures on construction and equipment
accounted for approximately 7 percent, and non-salary recurrent
expenditures, including school supplies (4 percent), books and educational
materials (0.3 percent), teacher training (0.7 percent), and equipment
maintenance and school repairs (4 percent) accounted for about 9 percent.
While this level of spending on personnel is in line with payroll expenditures
elsewhere in Brazil, it means that non-salary expenditures are modest. Given
per student expenditure in the state system of about US$255 (including both
recurrent and investment expenditures), non-salary recurrent costs per student
can be estimated at about US$23 per year, very little of which is going to
key educational inputs such as books.
1. 15. In contrast to the state, where tax revenues have been fairly steady,
municipal tax revenues in Parand have increased by 28 percent from 1989 to
1992. On the expenditure side, a sample of 42 municipalities revealed that in
1991, municipalities spent on average just under 25 percent of total
expenditures on education, 84.5 percent of which went to primary education.
Where expenditures on personnel range from 80 to 90 percent of recurrent
spending in the state system, in municipal systems spending on personnel as a
percentage of total recurrent costs rarely exceeded 70 percent. In aggregate,
municipalities in Parand also have greater per capita financial capacity (as
measured by potential per student spending) than the state. On average,
potential per student municipal spending for primary education in the sample
was US$431, as compared with US$255 for the state. This aggregate figure,
however, masks significant differences in municipal capacity and spending;



-6-
existing data also do not allow for disaggregation of investment and recurrent
expenditures at the primary level.
D. Sectoral Issues and Government Strategy
1.16. As elsewhere in the country, the overwhelming issue in education in
Parana is the low primary completion rate. In general, there is increasing
recognition in Brazil that the problems of low education attainment and the
relatively high rates of illiteracy among the young adult population are rooted
in the poor quality and low productivity of the public basic education system.
Studies also show that students repeating grades in Brazil are
disproportionately from the lowest income deciles, making higher rates of
repetition and dropout among poor children a contributing factor to the
perpetuation of a high degree of income inequality.
1.17. While to some extent these results are exogenous to the education
system (poor children are also under greater pressure to leave school for
income earning activities, for example), improving the quality, relevance,
and equity of basic education has become increasingly a focus of attention
and efforts by both the federal and state governments in recent years. At
the national level, the Ministry of Education recently published a Ten Year
Plan for Education for All, which emphasizes improvement of the quality of
education as its central theme while defining specific targets in a number of
key areas. This plan is being widely circulated and discussed within Brazil,
and has prompted states and municipalities to establish their own plans and
targets for improving education.
1.18. Parana's early recognition of problems related to the quality of
primary education has also led to a number of initiatives for reform. In
1988, along with the States of Sao Paulo and Minas Gerais, Paranl became
one of the first states to introduce the concept of the ciclo bdsico de
alfabetizaVao (CBA) to the state educational system. CBA provides for: (a)
automatic promotion from grades one to two; and (b) alterations to and
enrichment of the basic curriculum for these grades. The idea behind CBA
is to ensure that children acquire basic literacy and numeracy skills in the
first two grades, without being penalized by failure. Recently, the state
government has been encouraging municipal systems to adopt CBA, and has
extended the concept of automatic promotion to the first four years of
primary school in state schools.
1.19. Factors contributing to high repetition and low quality include:
(a) lack of books and instructional materials in the classroom; (b) cultural and
pedagogical practices prevailing among teachers; (c) institutional weaknesses;
and (d) issues of sectoral governance.



-7-
1.20. (a) Lack of Books and Instructional Materials. Research in Brazil
and elsewhere in the world has demonstrated that the provision of adequate
supplies of textbooks and supplementary materials is the single most cost-
effective factor in increasing learning achievement, particularly in situations
where the quality of teaching is poor. Responsibility for textbook provision
to all public schools in Brazil is centralized at the federal level and handled
by the Programa Nacional do Livro Diddtico (PNLD) under the auspices of
the Fundacto de Assistencia ao Estudante (FAE). This degree of
centralization in a country of Brazil's proportions and regional diversity has
given rise to problems. In 1992, FAE distributed 8.8 million books, or less
than 10 percent of the estimated need. Although in some years textbook
provision has been higher, less than one third of the estimated national
textbook requirements has been met by FAE on average over the last five
years. The primary causes of inadequate provision include irregular funding,
the absence of clear policy guidelines, and weaknesses in the implementing
agency. States and municipalities have been reluctant, however, to take
direct responsibility for providing textbooks or other educational materials.
In Parang, for example, expenditures on books and educational materials in
1992 amounted to a mere 0.3 percent of overall expenditures on primary
education.
1.21. In response to a proposal submitted by the National Council of State
Education Secretariats (CONSED), MEC recently issued regulations
(Resolud4o No. 6 of FNDE, dated July 13, 1993), which earmark funds for
textbook provision on a per public student basis. Under this resolution, the
federal government retains responsibility for financing, procurement, and
distribution of books throughout Brazil, while states assume a greater role in
book selection. It is hoped that this resolution will address some of the
problems of irregular funding which have plagued FAE in recent years.
1.22. (b) Low Quality of Teaching and the "Culture of Repetition".
Teachers in Brazil are socialized to assume that a substantial part of their job
is to weed out the good students from the bad, rather than provide learning
opportunities to all children. Pedagogical standards are demanding. The
practice -- common in developed countries -- of giving remedial assistance to
children lagging behind is alien to many Brazilian teachers. Classroom
management techniques for helping children of differential ability such as
small group work, after-school sessions, and cross-peer tutoring are
infrequent. Repetition is rarely perceived as a failure of the school or the
teacher: in a 1990 survey of teacher attitudes in Parana, for example, nearly
60 percent of teachers attributed repetition to "cultural and economic
problems about which the school can do little."



-8-
1.23. How teachers behave in the classroom is related to how they were
trained. Formal teacher training, in Parana as in Brazil, is considered to be
poor. Fully 81 percent of teachers in the municipal system and 97 percent in
the state system are considered to be 'qualified," having completed at least a
high school degree; about 50 percent have a higher education degree, most
with a specialization in teaching. Nonetheless, mastery of subject matter
and/or effective pedagogical practices is often tenuous, and there is no formal
process for evaluating teacher competence beyond the initial civil service
exam (in the case of state teachers). Like many public sector employees,
teacher salaries have also come under increasing pressure in recent years,
reducing the incentives for talented Brazilians to enter and/or remain within
the teaching field.
1.24. Investments in teacher training have been identified as one of the
priority areas in both state and national efforts to improve education quality.
As part of the Ten Year Plan for Education for All, MEC is currently
formulating a national program to be executed by universities, State
Secretariats of Education, and possibly other institutions, using alternative
educational technologies, such as educational television and distance
education. In Parana, as of 1990, the state established a new teacher training
policy under which each teacher was allocated 80 hours of training time
during the year. Training courses were organized by SEED regional offices,
and coordinated by CETEPAR. Since 1990, a total of about 875 courses and
100 seminars have been given, reaching an estimated 89,000 primary and
secondary school teachers. Existing data do not, however, permit an
evaluation of how many teachers attended more than one course, nor has a
formal evaluation of the quality of the training offered been done. In an
effort to broaden its training activities without substantially raising costs,
Parana has also been promoting several existing teacher training programs in
video format developed by private sector foundations. As of this year, these
programs are now available to at least one school in every municipality
through a closed circuit television network. In order to promote the
programs and guide teachers in their use, CETEPAR has developed a
training program for teachers who serve as "mentors" for their colleagues.
1.25. Parana has also placed priority on basic education through its salary
policy. Teacher salaries, which like those of other civil servants had
declined quite significantly during the late 1980s, have been given preference
in monthly salary adjustments over the past two years. While salaries are
still below 1988 levels, Parana has been one of the few states not to have
experienced a teachers' strike in the last three years.
1.26. (c) Institutional Weaknesses. State Secretariats of Education in
Brazil are frequently weak institutions. Administrators are often former



-9-
teachers recruited into administration, many with little specialized training.
Decision-making tends to be overly centralized, with a lack of performance
evaluation and information systems that would prompt managers and schools
to be accountable for results. Although State Secretariats of Education
collect large amounts of data on the education system, data are not routinely
analyzed and disseminated in a manner useful for decision making. In other
instances potentially crucial data are not collected. The lack of a common
measure of student learning achievement, for example, makes it impossible to
ascertain whether teachers are actually using non-achievement-related criteria
to fail students. Recognition of the need to establish standards and improve
the reliability and use of information systems has also led to a number of
initiatives at the national level highlighted in the Ten Year Plan for Education
for All, including efforts to strengthen the National System for Educational
Evaluation (SAEB).
1.27. Many of these same problems persist in Parana, despite its reputation
as having one of the stronger state civil services. Despite these weaknesses,
Parana has pioneered a number of innovations in management systems. For
example, the state developed a computerized system for the management of
personnel, which has since been adopted by other states, and in 1991
developed a new school-based data system to help monitor its decentralization
program with municipalities. Nonetheless, delays in data processing and
poor dissemination often mean that managers do not get information in a
timely and useful fashion. Physical distance between SEED, CETEPAR and
FUNDEPAR (all are located in different buildings in different parts of the
city) contributes to distinct institutional cultures and difficulties in
coordination. As noted earlier, administrative capacity at the municipal level
also varies widely.
1.28. (d) Issues of Sectoral Governance. Brazil's extreme variations in
school quality reflect, among other things, the failure of the federal and state
governments to set norms and redistribute spending so as to permit states (or
municipalities) of different income levels to achieve minimum quality
standards. The structure of education management in Brazil is complex and
ill-defined, with overlapping functions and poor coordination at different
levels of government. Population growth, migratory flows, and the absence
of coordination for physical planning between state and municipal systems
result in some areas having an excess of classrooms while in others
classrooms are under-utilized. In recognition of the problems associated with
competing educational systems, the 1988 Constitution encourages the
cooperation of the federal, state and municipal levels in the provision of
educational services. The Constitution also defines municipal responsibilities
as being mainly the provision of pre-school and primary education. While
the text is generally interpreted as opening the way for increased municipal



-10-
responsibility for primary education, there is little guidance as to how
decentralization should come about, nor what the specific roles of the federal,
state, and municipal governments should be in this new cooperative
environment.
1.29. Recent positive developments that can be cited at the federal level
include a number of policy changes instituted by MEC to improve the
efficiency and accountability of federal education spending. In late 1991,
after completing an evaluation of the FNDE, the Ministry concluded that
FNDE was not fulfilling its distributive role, in terms of equalizing state and
municipal spending on basic education, and that funds were often transferred
without clear criteria. Consequently, MEC established need-based, objective
criteria for FNDE transfers and publicizes these annually in a document
called Sistematica para o Financiamento dos Projetos na Area de Educafdo
Basica. The two main factors included in this funding formula are: (i) the
size of the school age population in each state; and (ii) state per capita
income. MEC has also moved to better define its own role in elementary
education as being one primarily of standard setting, dissemination of
information, and fiscal equalization, rather than provision of services.
1.30.  At the state level, Parana has also been breaking new ground in the
areas of educational decentralization and fiscal equalization. In 1991, SEED
initiated a program of "educational partnership" with municipalities. The
partnership initiative attempts to minimize some of the negative aspects of the
Constitutional overlap of state and municipal responsibility for the provision
of primary education, including lack of coordination in planning and
inequities in educational spending. Municipalities entering into a partnership
agreement with the state agree to: (a) spend the Constitutionally mandated
minimum of 25 percent of their tax revenue on education; (b) assume the
responsibility for administration, upkeep and maintenance of (formerly) state
schools serving the first four grades of primary school within its jurisdiction;
(c) maintain CBA in schools where it has been introduced; and (d) assume
responsibility for replacing state-seconded teachers who retire or otherwise
leave the system. For its part, the state assumes responsibility for: (a)
seconding state teachers to the municipality with full payment of salaries; (b)
renovating school buildings before turning them over to the municipality; (c)
providing training for teachers and technical assistance to municipalities; and
(d) providing supplementary funding to those municipalities not able to attain
a minimum expenditure per student within the mandated 25 percent of their
own budgets.
1.31. Currently a total of 320 municipalities in Parana, or 86 percent of the
total, have entered into partnership agreements. This has necessitated a new
level of joint planning and monitoring. Financial transfers are based on a



-11-
minimum percentage of the state portion of the saldrio educaOo, and are
made on a quarterly basis. In order to verify that a municipality has in fact
spent 25 percent of its tax revenue on education-related expenditures, the
partnership contract requires the municipality to provide a certification of
such by the state auditing agency. Since the transfer is based on a minimum
expenditure per student (about US$262 per year in 1992), it is crucial to
obtain an accurate number for students currently attending school within the
municipality. Whether a municipality receives additional funding, and how
much, can fluctuate from quarter to quarter depending on its tax situation and
school attendance records.
1.32. In addition to decentralizing responsibilities to municipalities, Parana
has concurrently been decentralizing responsibilities to state-run schools. As
of early 1993, SEED began a system of transferring selected non-salary
resources to state schools to cover school repairs and local purchases of
maintenance supplies. These funds are managed by school principals, in
conjunction with councils made up of the principal, school administrative
staff, teachers, students, parents, community organizations, and a
representative of SEED regional staff. School principals have been elected
directly by the school community in Parana since the mid 1980s, with SEED
playing an oversight role in the pre-qualification of candidates.
E. Bank Strategy
1.33. The World Bank's country assistance strategy for Brazil focuses on
reducing poverty and stimulating macroeconomic growth. Primary education
offers one of the best investments for attaining both, since research shows the
central importance of education in raising incomes, reducing income
inequality, and increasing labor productivity. Within primary education, the
Bank's objectives are to improve the quality, efficiency, and equity of
education, as measured by: (a) improvements in student cognitive
achievement; (b) reductions in the high repetition rates which currently
characterize the Brazilian public primary education system; and (c) a
narrowing of the large disparities in school quality and productivity (among
states, between states and municipal systems, and between schools
themselves) that result in part from disparities in spending per student. In
pursuing these objectives, the Bank strategy has emphasized: (a) support of
innovative approaches to improving educational quality which could serve as
models for the rest of Brazil; and (b) assistance to regions where problems in
educational quality and outcomes are most acute, particularly the Northeast.
1.34. Moreover, since states play a critical role in financing and provision
of primary education (they are responsible for 55 percent of enrollments and
65 percent of spending at the primary level), state-level projects, whether



-12-
free-standing or linked to MEC, have become an increasing focus of the
Bank's lending program. A key feature in this strategy is to strengthen state-
level education institutions so that they in turn can assume appropriate state-
level roles, including system-wide quality control, teacher training and
certification, and fiscal equalization. The Bank sees this as a prerequisite for
a primary education system that is fully decentralized to the municipal level.
Although all Bank-supported projects share certain features, project designs
vary in accordance with local circumstances, capacity, and priorities.
F. Bank Lending and Lessons Learned
1.35. World Bank lending to Brazil for education began in the early 1970s.
Initially, Bank lending emphasized skills training, especially at the secondary
level. Early projects were in the ares of vocationally-oriented secondary,
technical, and agricultural education. In line with a shift in overall World
Bank policy, Bank education lending to Brazil since the early 1980s has
focused increasingly on primary education, particularly in disadvantaged
regions. The Bank's first primary education project was the Northeast
Basic Education I Project (Loan 1867-BR, US$32 million), known as
EDURURAL, which was approved in 1980. EDURURAL was followed by
the Urban Basic Education Project (Loan 2412-BR, known as Monhangara,
US$40 million, approved in 1983), which was designed to expand and
improve the quality of primary school systems in selected rapidly growing
regions of the North and Center-west regions. After many delays and a two-
year extension, the project ended in early 1991 and approximately 18 percent
of the Bank loan was cancelled.
1.36. The third project is the Sao Paulo Innovations in Basic Education
Project (Loan 3375-BR, US$245 million, approved in 1991), which is now
in its second year of implementation. It supports a range of interventions,
including the extension of the school day for grades one and two and
consolidation of CBA. No information on its impact is available yet.
Because of Sao Paulo's greater financial and institutional capacity, this was
conceived as a free-standing state project. The most recent operations are the
twin projects, Northeast Basic Education II and m  (respectively US$212
and US$206.6 million, both approved in 1993), which like EDURURAL,
focus on the nine Northeast states, and the Minas Gerais Basic Education
Quality Improvement project (US$150 million, approved May 17, 1994).
With the addition of the proposed state-based projects in Parana and Espfrito
Santo, the Bank would be associated with basic education projects in 13
states in Brazil, for a combined total financing of about US$1 billion.



-13-
1.37. Past and ongoing education projects in Brazil and Bank sector-wide
experience include the following lessons, which have guided the development
of the proposed project:
1.38. (a) Textbook provision and school upgrading are highly efficient
investments. An important feature of the EDURURAL project was support
for a comprehensive longitudinal study to evaluate the impact on student
learning and the cost-effectiveness of the various types of investments
financed under the project. Findings from the EDURURAL evaluation
showed that textbook provision and school upgrading are highly efficient
investments -- in fact, each dollar invested in these areas under the project
more than paid for itself in terms of budgetary savings in the project states
due to lower student repetition.2 The EDURURAL experience has led to an
emphasis on the provision of textbooks and educational materials, an area
where Parana has clearly been underinvesting.
1.39. (b) Teacher training should focus on performance. The
EDURURAL study also demonstrated that student achievement on
standardized tests is highly correlated with teacher competency, as measured
by teachers' performance on the same tests. Teacher training continues to be
an important element of primary education projects, but emphasis on
upgrading skills and on classroom management techniques seems to be more
appropriate than on certification or subject matter training. The proposed
project has focused on in-service training, and encourages a more hands-on
approach through the linking of training with materials provision.
1.40. (c) Projects must balance policy reforms and investments.
Evaluations of both the EDURURAL and Monhangara projects indicate that
investment loans are likely to be more appropriate given Brazil's low level of
institutional development in the education sector. Even investment loans,
however, should incorporate an appropriate balance of policy changes,
hardware and software investments, institutional development, and technical
assistance activities to promote sectoral reform. Effective implementation
and longer term sustainability of education projects depend strongly on the
improvement of management at all government levels, and on the
establishment of effective management systems, including systems to manage
sector and school level information and project monitoring, procurement, and
2.    See Gomes-Neto, J.B., and Eric Hanushek, 'Grade Repetition, Wastage and Educational Policy",
March 1991; Armitage, Jane, Joao B. F. Gomes-Neto, Ralph Harbison, Donald Holsinger, and
Raimundo Leite, 'School Quality and Achievement in Rural Brazil", World Bank Education and
Training Series No. EDT25, 1986; and Harbison, R.W., and Eric Hanushek, Educational
Performance of the Poor: Lessons from Rural Northeast Brazil, World Bank/Oxford University
Press, 1992.



-14-
disbursement information. Through its institutional development component,
the proposed project supports and expands upon current efforts to strengthen
monitoring systems and management at both the state and municipal levels.
G. Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.41. There are several reasons for Bank support of Paranl's educational
reforms. First, they are consistent with the Bank's human resource strategy
in Brazil. Through its adoption of CBA, the partnership program with
municipalities, and other policy initiatives, Parana has already demonstrated a
commitment to improving the quality of public primary education. Second,
like the recently approved (May 17, 1994) project in the State of Minas
Gerais and the proposed project in the State of Espfrito Santo, Parana's
experience could prove an excellent testing ground for strategies that could
serve as models elsewhere in Brazil. All three states have adopted CBA
(although at different stages), and all three are experimenting with different
forms of decentralization (Minas Gerais and Parana to schools; Espfrito Santo
and Parana to municipalities). To fully implement its educational reforms,
however, Parana needs additional resources and advice in their deployment.
Given its extensive involvement in basic education both in other countries
and in other Brazilian states, the World Bank is well placed to provide
technical advice and facilitate a cross-fertilization of ideas and approaches
that could be vital to the success of the proposed project.
1.42. Finally, the proposed project builds on the lessons of experience from
both other Bank projects in the education sector and previous Bank
experience in Parana. Recent Bank lending to the State of Parana has
focused mainly on the urban sector, reflecting needs resulting from the state's
rapid urbanization (in 1990, the urban population was 75 percent of the total)
and the changing responsibilities at both the state and municipal levels as a
result of the 1988 Constitution and tax reform. Ongoing projects include the
Parand Municipal Development Project (Loan 3100-BR, US$100 million) and
Paranr Land Management Project (Loan 3018-BR, US$63 million), both
approved in 1989, and the Water Quality and Pollution Control Project (Loan
3504-BR, US$119 million) approved in 1992. Both the Land Management
and the Municipal Development projects have had excellent implementation
records over the last two years. Although implementation capacity may be
weaker in the education sector for the reasons earlier noted, the proposed
project has benefitted from prior state experience with Bank projects, and the
work already done in support of decentralization and state-municipal
coordination in other areas.



-15-
2. THE PROJECT
A. Introduction
2.1. The project was identified during the field-based project identification
exercise carried out by Bank staff in FY92 for building a lending pipeline for
education in Brazil. The state prepared an initial proposal and received
federal government approval of creditworthiness in March of 1992, prior to
the first formal Bank mission (October 1992). Project preparation also
benefited from workshops sponsored by the Government and the Bank on
educational decentralization and procurement.
B. Project Objectives
2.2.  The goal of the project is to improve educational achievement in the
State of Parana, as defined by increases in student learning and graduation
from primary school. To reach this goal, the project will support the
delivery of a package of essential educational inputs to primary schools and
improvements in educational management. The project's objectives are to:
(a) improve children's and teachers' access to adequate quantities of learning
materials; (b) improve teachers' effectiveness in the classroom; (c) provide
children in low-income urban areas with physical space adequate for
learning; (d) provide school, municipal, and regional level administrators
with tools, skills and incentives to improve management practices and take on
new responsibilities; and (e) achieve greater equity between state and
municipal school systems in terms of spending per student and the availability
of essential educational inputs.
2.3.  The State of Parana has reaffirmed its commitment to these objectives
in a Declaration on Policies for the Improvement of Basic Education in
Parana. In this Declaration, the State has also committed itself to
guaranteeing the continuity of a number of important policy initiatives which
form the context for the project, including: (i) the CBA; (ii) the partnership
program with municipalities; (iii) community participation in the choice of
school principals; and (iv) promoting greater autonomy of decision-making at
the school level, through the transfer of non-salary resources to schools by
means of a revolving fund (para. 6.1a).
2.4.  The project will benefit approximately 1.6 million children in grades
one through eight in public schools, but will give particular emphasis to
grades one through four, which include 63 percent of primary school
children. In support of Parana's innovative efforts to administer the first
four years of primary school in partnership with municipalities, most project
investments will be directed to the state education system and to those



-16-
municipalities having concluded partnership agreements with the state. The
exceptions to this rule will be textbooks and student assessment, which will
incorporate all municipalities regardless of the existence of partnership
agreements.
C. Project Components
2.5.  The project consists of five components:
(i)   Instructional Materials (US$75.5 million equivalent, including
contingencies; 38 percent of total project cost). The component
supports: (a) the regular provision of textbooks to children in both
state and municipal schools; (b) a basic package of educational
materials and equipment to all state and participating municipal
schools; and (c) a school library enrichment program;
(ii)   Teacher Training (US$27.1 million equivalent, including
contingencies; 14 percent of total project cost). The component
supports an in-service training program for school principals,
supervisors, and teachers through both face-to-face workshops and
distance training;
(iii)  School Upgrading and Expansion of Access (US$75.4 million
equivalent, including contingencies; 38 percent of total project cost).
The component will finance school construction and furniture in low-
income areas where schools are either in precarious condition or
population shifts have produced a surge in demand;
(iv)  Institutional Development (US$18.0 million equivalent, including
contingencies; 9 percent of total project cost). The component
supports: (a) the establishment of a project coordination unit within
SEED; (b) the development of capacity at the state level for
quantitative assessment of student learning; (c) restructuring and
decentralization of existing management information systems; (d)
activities to strengthen management at various levels, including
training for regional administrators and municipal staff; and (e)
promotion of quality improvements in schools and municipalities
through the establishment of a prize fund; and
(v)   Studies and Evaluation (US$2.4 million equivalent, including
contingencies; 1 percent of total project cost). The component
supports policy, project evaluation, and impact studies.



-17-
D. Project Description
Component 1: Instructional Materials
(US$75.5 million equivalent, including contingencies)
2.6.  A major aim of the project is to create a richer learning environment
for children in primary schools. Under the project, instructional materials
will be provided to students and schools through three programs: (a) a
textbook program; (b) provision of a package of educational materials and
equipment to all state and eligible municipal schools; and (c) a program to
enrich school libraries. The project would also finance the provision of
cabinets and bookcases to schools for storage, and activities to promote the
use of the materials provided.
2.7.   Textbook Program (US$35.9 million equivalent, including
contingencies). The goal of the textbook program is to ensure that every
child in grades one through eight in Parana has a set of textbooks of
reasonable quality appropriate to his or her grade-level at the beginning of
the school year. As in the rest of Brazil, federal provision of textbooks to
school children in Parana has been extremely unreliable. While it is hoped
that the new MEC policy on textbooks (Resolufao No. 6 of FNDE, dated
July 13, 1993) will serve to improve FAE's performance, it is still too early
to evaluate the resolution's effectiveness. Under the project, therefore, the
state has assumed full responsibility for the adequate and timely provision of
textbooks to children in both state and municipal schools, regardless of the
nature of federal government support (para. 6.2a). This commitment
includes increasing the state role in monitoring textbook quality and selection
procedures, as well as financing, procurement, and distribution of textbooks
should the federal textbook program through FAE fail to provide books in
the numbers and specifications agreed to in the project. Textbooks will be
financed entirely through counterpart funds.
2.8. While the State of Parana is committed to working with MEC and
FAE to implement the textbook subcomponent within the context of the
FNDE resolution, the resolution itself does not resolve the persistent problem
of lack of planning for timely textbook delivery. It will be the state's
responsibility to establish a workplan in coordination with FAE for meeting
textbook needs under the project. This workplan will cover, inter alia: (a) a
clear definition of state and federal responsibilities within the framework of
the resolution; (b) when resources for textbooks will be available to FAE; (c)
the timetable for selection, procurement, and distribution of textbooks,
including a breakdown by years, grades, and numbers of books; and (d)
mechanisms for evaluation of FAE's performance. A draft of this workplan
was submitted as a condition of negotiations (para. 6.1b). Submission of a



-18-
final version of the plan, acceptable to the Bank, is a condition of project
effectiveness (para. 6.3a).
2.9.  The project will provide two textbooks to children in the first two
years of primary school; four textbooks to children in grades three and four;
and five textbooks to children grades five through eight. Implementation
arrangements call for beginning selection and purchase arrangements in 1994,
in order to have books available by the beginning of February 1995. In all,
the project will provide approximately 7 million books for grades one and
two; 6.2 million books for grades three and four; 4.7 million books for
grades five through six; and 2.3 million books for grades seven through
eight. The average life of books is assumed to be one year for grades one
and two, two years for grades three and four, and three years for grades five
through eight.
2.10. Educational Materials and Equipment (US$31.2 million equivalent,
including contingencies). In order to guarantee a minimum standard of
instructional materials available to teachers, SEED has established a list of
materials to be provided to both urban and rural schools, including maps,
games, reading and math aids, and science materials. TVs and VCRs would
also be provided to larger urban schools, to be used both in teacher training
and in the classroom. Both state and eligible municipal schools will receive
an initial standardized package of materials. Funds for replacement of
materials in state schools have been included in the project; upkeep and
replacement of materials in eligible municipal schools would be the
responsibility of the municipality, as specified in the state-municipal
partnership agreement. Purchase and distribution of educational materials
would follow a regional implementation strategy, and would be linked to the
teacher training component.
2.11. In addition to providing ready-made materials to schools, the project
will include financing for a small pilot project (US$500,000) to promote the
development and dissemination of experimental materials to be used in the
teaching of science. This program will be developed by the recently
established State Science Center (A Casa de Ciencia), in close collaboration
with SEED.
2.12. Library Enrichment Program (US$8.3 million equivalent, including
contingencies). Most schools in Parana do have small school libraries or
reading corners; however, books are generally bought infrequently and rarely
replaced when no longer usable. The project would finance the upgrading of
school library collections. For both municipal and state schools, SEED will
prepare, with the help of a commission, a basic list of books it considers
relevant to the primary school curriculum and age group to serve as a guide



-19-
to purchases. Schools serving grades one through four would receive
approximately 160 new titles over the life of the project, while larger schools
serving the entire primary cycle (grades one through eight) would receive
approximately 300 new titles. Book collections will be accompanied by
explanatory information regarding care, inventory control, and strategies for
classroom use by students.
Component 2: Teacher Training
(US$27.1 million equivalent, including contingencies)
2.13. As mentioned in the background section, in 1990 the State of Parana
instituted a new training policy, under which teachers were allocated 80
hours to be devoted to training activities (both traditional classroom courses
and self-directed). Under the project, the state proposes to expand its current
training program and institute a more systematic approach which would
include enhanced quality monitoring and outside evaluation as well as
increased emphasis on classroom management and use of materials. School
principals, supervisors, teachers of pre-school through eighth grade, and
school librarians will receive a total of 240 hours of training over the life of
the project, divided between classroom-based coursework and distance
learning activities, including homework, school-based group work, and work
with instructional videos and educational television programs. The total
number of hours of instruction for the majority of trainees will not surpass 80
hours per year. Training courses are expected to reach approximately 93,000
state and municipal teachers, supervisors, and principals over the duration of
the project.
2.14. Training courses and workshops will follow a regional implementation
plan. For the purposes of project implementation, SEED has divided the
state into three regions. Training will be phased so that the project would
not be working in more than two regions at any one time, and will be
coordinated with the provision of instructional materials in each of the three
regions during the first three years of the project.
2.15. SEED has opted for a process approach to training, whereby school
principals will receive an initial orientation training and will be subsequently
involved in identifying the training needs of their staff. Regional SEED
offices and municipal education offices will be responsible for working with
schools to consolidate training needs into a Regional Training Plan, which
will be approved by SEED and further consolidated into an Annual Training
Plan. This Annual Training Plan will include, inter alia: (a) terms of
reference for the contracting of universities and/or training institutions; and
(b) standard terms of reference for individual teachers hired as trainers under
the project, as well as standardized qualifications, pay scales, and contract



-20-
conditions. The Annual Training Plan will be incorporated into the Annual
Implementation Plan to be submitted for Bank review and approval (para.
6.2b). Courses will be organized at the local level by the regional SEED
offices, while contracting of individual trainers and/or training institutions
would be the responsibility of CETEPAR in conjunction with SEED's
Primary Education Department and the Project Coordination Unit (PCU).
The approximately 1,000 municipal and SEED regional staff involved in the
organization of the training program will also receive orientation training
organized by SEED.
2.16. Courses will cover methodological issues such as classroom
management, use of materials, and evaluation, as well as the principal areas
of the Parand curriculum, including early literacy and numeracy (the CBA
curriculum), math, Portuguese, science, and geography. In order to help
assure consistency across courses, all trainers to be contracted under the
project will undergo an eight-hour "training of trainers' course, which will
place particular emphasis on methodological issues.
2.17. The project will finance approximately 70 person-months of
consulting for specialized course development and technician services for the
distance training program; course materials, and the costs of actual course
instruction, including compensation to course instructors; per diems to cover
transport, and expenses for both trainers and trainees; and the purchase of
instructional videos and basic video equipment for distance training activities.
Ongoing evaluation of the teacher training program is contemplated as one of
the studies under the Studies and Evaluation component of the project. A
condition of disbursement for the component will be the submission of a
Training Plan acceptable to the Bank for the first 12 months of the project
(para. 6.4a).
Component 3: School Upgrading and Expansion of Access
(US$75.4 million equivalent, including contingencies)
2.18. Parand has made significant strides in expanding access to education
over the last three decades despite very rapid urbanization. Nonetheless,
access problems in the form of overcrowding, makeshift classrooms, and
long distances to schools are still common, particularly in the new urban
periphery. Over the last two years, SEED (through FUNDEPAR) has made
a substantial effort to improve the conditions of existing schools through a
thorough renovation program. Given this fact, it was agreed during appraisal
that the project will concentrate on new construction.
2.19. Under this component, the project will finance construction and
furnishing of a total of 183 new schools (1,147 classrooms) in 66



-21-
municipalities over five years. Of these, 170 classrooms will be constructed
to alleviate overcrowding (a third daily shift of students) in neighboring
schools where expansion of existing schools is impossible; 104 classrooms
will replace existing buildings in need of total reconstruction; 456 classrooms
will be built to replace makeshift classrooms; 231 classrooms will be built in
areas where children currently have to travel long distances to schools; and
186 classrooms will be built in areas where local population growth figures
indicate repressed demand. According to state estimates, this investment
represents about 38 percent of Parana's current additional classroom needs in
both the municipal and state systems.
2.20. FUNDEPAR's initial selection of municipalities to be targeted for
new construction was made on the basis of high rates of population growth in
the 7-14 age group and growth in primary school enrollments, mostly due to
rural-to-urban migration. Within these municipalities, construction will be
targeted to low-income areas, as defined by a majority of households earning
three minimum salaries or less. Priority will be given in the first year of the
project to construction of schools in areas where existing schools are either in
sub-standard condition and in need of total reconstruction, or where
construction of the new schools would eliminate the need for a third daily
shift of students in neighboring schools.
2.21. As part of the Annual Implementation Plan, the Secretariat will submit
for Bank approval an investment plan for school construction during each
year of the project (para. 6.2b). This investment plan should contain: (a)
the number and location of civil works to be constructed for the year; (b) a
description of the areas to be targeted and supporting data on income levels;
(c) evidence of the availability of land for construction; (d) a current analysis
of the demand for classroom seats, based on actual school surveys; and (e)
proposed procurement arrangements, including an analysis of municipal
capacity for procurement and supervision of works should this responsibility
be transferred to a municipality. A condition of disbursement for the
transfer of project funds to a municipality will be submission to the Bank of
evidence that an agreement between the municipality and the state (convgnio),
satisfactory to the Bank, has been executed (para. 6.4b).
2.22. Bank approval of the yearly investment plan for civil works will be
contingent on its evaluation of the technical aspects of the plan, as well as on
the state's performance on two non-civil works aspects of the project: (a)
adequate provision of textbooks, reading books, and instructional materials to
schools, as verified by both system-wide information and from a monitoring
survey of schools; and (b) completion of regular assessments of student
learning and dissemination of results.



-22-
2.23. In addition to new classrooms and school furniture, this subcomponent
will also finance the limited renovation and rewiring of the Secretariat of
Education building. The Secretariat is located in a former convent, which
has not been renovated since the early 1960s. Workspace is inadequate, the
plumbing system is precarious, and re-wiring is a prior condition to installing
any type of computer equipment.
Component 4: Institutional Development
(US$18.0 million equivalent, including contingencies)
2.24. Parana's policy of gradual decentralization of administrative
responsibility to both schools and municipalities has prompted a series of
important changes in the management of the educational system. At the state
level, SEED has assumed a greater role in financial oversight and system
quality control, which has created a need for access to and dissemination of
timely and reliable information. School directors and municipalities are in
turn assuming a greater managerial role than in the past, a role for which
they are not always well prepared. The principal goal of this component of
the project is to improve managerial tools, capacity, and incentives at both
the state and local level.
2.25. Project Management (US$2.6 million equivalent, including
contingencies). In order to build SEED capacity for project implementation,
this sub-component will support the establishment of a Project Coordination
Unit (PCU) reporting directly to the Secretary of Education. The PCU will
at all times be staffed by a full-time core of professionals with qualifications
and experience acceptable to the Bank (para. 6.2c). These will include at a
minimum: (a) a Project Manager; (b) an Administrator/Financial
Coordinator; and (c) a Technical Coordinator. At negotiations, the State of
Parana presented evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the PCU has been
formally established and adequately staffed (para. 6.1c).
2.26. The project will finance: (a) equipment and furniture for PCU
operation; (b) training in procurement, disbursement, planning, and other
areas for PCU and other staff involved in implementation; (c) the
development, implementation, and operation of a computerized accounting
and monitoring system for the project; and (d) technical assistance and
consulting services for the PCU, including the annual project audit.
Incremental operational costs, including salaries of full-time staff plus
secretarial help, staff travel and supervision, communications, publications,
and consumable supplies have also been included in project costs to be
financed entirely through counterpart funds.



-23-
2.27. Development of Assessment Capacity (US$2.5 million equivalent,
including contingencies). Parana's first experience with the application and
analysis of quantitative educational testing was in 1989, when it was one of
two states selected for the pilot testing of the National Evaluation System for
Basic Education (SAEB) sponsored by MEC. It subsequently participated in
the 1990 national version of the test, although the results (which in most
areas and grades show Parana slightly above the national averages) were not
widely circulated. The project will support: (a) continuing work with the
SAEB system at the state level, including greater dissemination of results to
policy makers, teachers, and school principals; and (b) elaboration and
validation of separate tests based on the state curriculum.
2.28. Under the current national schedule, SAEB tests are planned to be
given alternate years to odd-numbered grades; SEED has proposed that tests
based on the Parana curriculum be given every other year to selected even-
numbered grades. Testing will begin in 1994, and will initially be limited to
testing fourth graders in Portuguese and math. SEED plans to give tests on a
sample basis, rather than a census of the entire school population within
selected grades, and has also initially decided to develop criterion-referenced,
rather than norm-referenced tests. In order to guarantee coordination
between the two proposed testing programs, SEED will develop an
implementation plan with MEC/SAEB during the first year of the project, to
be included in the Annual Implementation Plan for 1995 submitted to the
Bank (para. 6.2b).
2.29. The project will finance technical assistance in quantitative testing
methodologies, sampling, and test development and evaluation; training for
SEED technical staff and for test administrators; test printing, packaging,
distribution, and data processing; and equipment for test processing and
analysis.
2.30. Development of an Integrated and Decentralized Management
Information System (US$9.2 million equivalent, including contingencies).
Like many State Secretariats of Education, Parana has several different
computerized data systems that are generally complicated to use, do not
allow cross-referencing of data between systems, and produce data in a
format not always useful or even comprehensible to managers. Moreover,
several of the educational data systems in Parana are centralized in the state
data processing agency (CELEPAR). Processing of educational data is
usually slow, and SEED is also charged for the production of reports. The
critical need for up-to-date information for monitoring under the partnership
program with municipalities recently prompted the creation of an entirely
separate data base, but which, like several others, is also not immediately
accessible to managers in SEED, let alone the municipalities.



-24-
2.31. To address these problems, the project will support an evaluation and
revision of the current data collection and reporting systems at the central
(SEED) and regional level, as well the installation of computer equipment in
selected municipalities and larger schools. Systems will be computerized
using microcomputers, instead of relying exclusively on the mainframe
system used currently. Municipalities, SEED regional offices, and schools
provided with microcomputers will increasingly be expected to provide
routine system information in a computerized format, thereby facilitating data
processing. All system information will also be connected to a statewide data
base available to the public.
2.32. The project will finance the purchase of microcomputers, printers,
and software for SEED, FUNDEPAR, and CETEPAR, as well as for
approximately 200 municipalities and 200 larger schools; training courses for
approximately 8,000 users and managers; technical assistance and
programming services; and equipment maintenance.
2.33. Strengthening Management and Planning (US$2.6 million
equivalent, including contingencies). This subcomponent will support a
number of initiatives to improve management and planning at the central,
regional, municipal, and school level. Activities include: (a) the definition,
in conjunction with municipalities, of "fundamental quality indicators" to aid
in tracking school-level data in both state and municipal schools; (b) technical
assistance and management training for approximately 1,880 SEED and
municipal staff in the use of the indicators for planning, human resource
management, budgeting, as well as other areas; (c) an evaluation of current
management mechanisms under the partnership program with municipalities;
(d) the development in the first year of the project of a proposal for
reorganization of SEED to better reflect changing responsibilities within an
increasingly decentralized system; and (e) the development of a series of
school management manuals, to aid principals and school councils in
managing non-salary resources currently being transferred directly to schools,
as well as in other areas of responsibility.
2.34. The project will finance approximately 60 person-months of technical
assistance; costs associated with management training, including per diems
and travel expenses for trainers and trainees; and printing and other services
involved in the development of school management manuals and definition of
minimum quality indicators.
2.35.   Education Quality Improvement Prize Fund (US$1.1 million
equivalent, including contingencies). As part of SEED's dissemination
efforts and in order to give schools, municipalities, and regional SEED
offices an additional incentive to improve quality, the project will finance a



-25-
prize fund. Prizes are to be awarded to approximately 50 schools, ten
municipalities, and one regional SEED office per year, on the basis of a set
of easily verifiable criteria, including improvements in student promotion
rates from year to year. Prizes will range in size from US$2,000 for a
school to a maximum of US$10,000 for a municipality. Schools, SEED
offices, and municipalities interested in competing for the prize would fill out
a simple application, which would indicate, inter alia, how the prize money
would be used. Prize money may be spent at the discretion of the school,
municipality, or SEED regional office, but will have to be spent for
educational purposes. Schools and municipalities in poor areas will be given
an extra margin of preference. Prizes will be awarded starting in the second
year of the project, once monitoring systems are in place and an operational
manual containing guidelines for the program is developed and approved by
the Bank. Submission of an operational manual for the prize fund,
satisfactory to the Bank, will be a condition of disbursement for the sub-
component (6.4d).
Component 5: Studies and Evaluation
(US$2.4 million equivalent, including contingencies)
2.36. This component will finance policy and project evaluation studies, and
dissemination of results. Policy studies contemplated under the project will
include (but will not necessarily be limited to): (a) an evaluation of the
implementation of CBA in the state, in terms of teacher attitudes, and use of
techniques in the classroom; (b) a study of the long-term financial
implications of decentralization on both state and municipal finances; (c) a
study examining factors affecting early repetition, including cultural attitudes
of families and teachers; and (d) a series of diagnostic studies on secondary
education, with particular emphasis on the strengths and weaknesses of
formal teacher training and certification. Project evaluation studies will
include: (a) a project monitoring study, which would supplement system-
wide monitoring done by SEED with periodic surveys in a sample of schools;
(b) ongoing evaluation of the teacher training component; and (c) an impact
evaluation of the project which would include an assessment of learning
achievement of children in a stratified sample of schools.
2.37. All studies will be contracted to outside institutions and/or individuals
on the basis of terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. Most studies will
be contracted in two stages: a design, and then an implementation phase. To
facilitate the contracting and management of these studies, the State has
proposed to form a working group (Nucleo de Estudos e Pesquisas
Educacionais) composed of representatives from SEED, the Secretariat of
Planning (SEPLAN), FUNDEPAR, and the Parand Institute for Economic
and Social Development (IPARDES) to supervise study implementation.



-26-
Preliminary terms of reference for the studies were presented and discussed
during appraisal and at negotiations (para. 6.1d).
3. COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT, AND DISBURSEMENTS
A. Project Costs
3.1.  The total cost of the project, including physical and price
contingencies, is estimated at US$198.4 million equivalent. This amount also
includes local taxes and duties, estimated at US$38.4 million equivalent, or
about 19 percent of total project costs. Base costs amount to US$179.1
million. Foreign exchange costs of US$29.0 million amount to 15 percent of
total project costs. Tables 3.1 and 3.2 summarize estimated project costs by
component and expenditure account. A further breakdown of project costs is
provided in Annex 2.
Table 3.1: Summary of Project Costs by Component
(Us$ million)
% Total
Base
Local   Foreign    Total   Costs
A.    Instructional Materials         57.3        11.5   68.8      38
B.    Teacher Training                24.0        0.9    24.9      14
C.    School Upgrading                57.0        9.5    66.5      37
D.    Institutional Development        12.7       4.0    16.7      10
E.    Studies & Evaluation             2.0        0.2      2.2      1
Total BASELINE COSTS                  153.0      26.1   179.1    100
Physical Contingencies           4.0       1.1      5.1      3
Price Contingencies             12.4        1.8    14.2      8
Total PROJECT COSTS                   169.4      29.0   198.4    111
Less Taxes                                               38.4



-27-
Table 3.2: Sunmary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure
(US$ million)
% Total
Local       Foreign     Total   Base Costs
A.   Civil Works                   50.3          8.9    59.2         33
B.   Equipment & Furniture          9.5          8.7    18.2          10
C.   Instructional Materials       13.8         4.3    18.1           10
D.   Textbooks                     31.8          1.7    33.5          19
E.   Reading Books                  6.6          0.5     7.1          4
F.   Technical Assistance           7.4          0.8     8.2          5
G.   Training                      24.9         0.8    25.7           14
H.   Other Services                  1.3         0.1     1.4           1
I.    Prize Fund                     1.0        -        1.0           1
J.    Operations & Maintenance      5.9          0.3     6.2          3
K.   Incremental Salaries           0.5         -        0.5          -
Total BASELINE COSTS                153.0        26.1   179.1         100
Physical Contingencies        4.0          1.1     5.1          3
Price Contingencies           12.4         1.8    14.2          8
otal PROJECT COSTS                  169.4        29.0   198.4          1
3.2.   Base Costs. Price estimates were based on dollar equivalent costs in
June 1993, and were adjusted and/or reconfirmed during negotiations in
May, 1994. Estimated costs of civil works and school furniture were based
on recent experience in the state. Estimated costs of materials and supplies,
including books, were based on recent price quotations from major suppliers,
past experience at FAE, and expert opinion. Equipment costs were based on
prices for similar imported or locally available items. The costs of foreign
and local consultants were based on prevailing standards. Incremental
operating costs were based on current estimates of salaries and other
operating expenses.
3.3.   Contingencies. Total contingencies amount to US$19.3 million
equivalent, or 11 percent of total project costs. Physical contingencies of 5
percent were applied to base costs for civil works, equipment, furniture, and
educational materials (excluding textbooks). Price contingencies of 3.2
percent for 1994 and 3.6 percent in subsequent years were applied to all
components. This is the expected rate of increase for international prices
during the life of the project. This rate of price increase was used for both



-28-
foreign and local cost components of the project because it is expected that
the depreciation of the local currency would compensate for differences
between U.S. dollar and local currency inflation rates.
3.4.  Foreign Exchange. The foreign exchange component, estimated at
US$29.0 million, or 15 percent of total project cost, is based on Bank
experience with similar projects in Brazil. Aggregate foreign exchange
estimations were based on the following percentages: (a) 15 percent for civil
works; (b) 10 percent for furniture; (c) 80 percent for equipment; (d) 10
percent for technical assistance; (e) 3 percent for training; (f) 25 percent for
instructional materials; (g) 5 percent for books, services, and operations and
maintenance; and (h) zero percent for salaries and school quality prizes.
3.5.  Taxes and Duties. Local taxes and duties are reflected in the base
costs of the project, and amount to approximately US$38.4 million or 19
percent of total project costs overall. Locally procured furniture, equipment
and materials (excluding books) are subject to two taxes: the ICMS value
added tax (17 percent) on goods, fuel, energy, transport, and
communications; and the IPI (15 percent on average) tax on manufactured
goods. Books and construction products such as cement, sand, rock, etc. are
subject only to the ICMS tax. Consulting and other services also incorporate
two taxes: the ISS municipal tax of 5 percent, and the INSS social security
tax of 20 percent. Imported manufactured goods are usually subject to duties
at least equal to the value of the ICMS and IPI taxes combined.
3.6. Recurrent Costs and Financial Sustainability. By the time of the
closing date of December 31, 1999, it is estimated that additional resources
of approximately US$12.2 million per year would be needed to sustain
project investments. This estimate excludes financing for textbook provision
(about US$7 million per year on average), which the recent FNDE resolution
reconfirmed as a federal government obligation. Approximately US$9.5
million of this total reflects increases in non-salary recurrent spending, of
which maintenance of buildings and equipment would constitute 22 percent,
costs associated with ongoing programs such as student assessment and
refresher courses for teachers would represent 36 percent, and replacement of
instructional materials (other than textbooks) would represent 42 percent.
Incremental salary costs associated with the staffing of new schools are
estimated at about US$2.7 million per year. Of the total of 1,147 new
classrooms planned, 961 are either to house existing classes or replace
existing classrooms. SEED therefore expects to be able to redeploy existing
personnel in order to staff these classrooms. Additional staff would have to
be contracted only for the 186 classrooms estimated to be needed in order to
satisfy repressed demand.



-29-
3.7.  Assuming no municipal contributions to project recurrent costs, this
increase would represent about 5 percent of state spending on primary
education in 1992, which is considered sustainable with government
commitment. Under the partnership initiative, however, municipalities are
expected to assume the maintenance costs of buildings and equipment
transferred by the state, including replacement of instructional materials and
any new staffing of classrooms serving grades one to four. Given that
municipalities in Parana have in aggregate greater potential per-student
spending capacity than the state, over the medium term increased municipal
contributions to the administration of primary education (particularly
personnel costs) should mean that the state will have greater flexibility both
to subsidize poorer municipalities and to devote additional resources to non-
salary recurrent costs. Assuming full municipal capacity to shoulder these
counterpart contributions (i.e. contributions would not be off-set by state
subsidies of poorer municipalities), the state's portion of the project's
recurrent cost obligations would fall to approximately US$8.3 million per
year, or about 3 percent of current spending levels. No declining financing
is being proposed, given that even the high estimate of US$12.2 million is
less than the approximately US$13.4 million per year that the state would be
required to budget as counterpart funds during project implementation.
B. Flnancing Plan
3.8.  The total amount of the proposed loan to the State of Parana is
US$96.0 million. The proposed Bank loan will finance 48 percent of total
project costs, or 60 percent of total project costs net of taxes. Bank
financing will cover about 75 percent of the foreign exchange expenditures
and 44 percent of local currency expenditures. The loan will be for 15 years
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate, on a fixed amortization schedule
including a five year grace period. The financing plan and loan allocations
by category of expenditure are presented in Table 3.3.
3.9. Retroactive financing of up to US$5 million (5 percent of the total
loan equivalent) is recommended for expenditures made in accordance with
Bank procurement guidelines for a period of up to twelve months prior to the
date of loan signing. Retroactive financing is recommended to cover
contracting of technical assistance and equipment necessary for the
establishment of monitoring systems, and renovation of the Secretariat of
Education building in order to install computer equipment.



-30-
Table 3.3: FThancing Plan
(USS million)
IBRD   State   Total  % IBRD
A.   Civil Works            33.6   33.6   67.2      50
B.   Equipment & Furnite    14.9    5.3   20.2      74
C.  Instructional Materials  14.9    5.4   20.3     73
D.   Textbooks               -      35.9   35.9      -
E.   Reading Books           5.6    2.6    8.2      67
F.   Technical Assistance    6.7    2.0    8.7      77
G.   Training               18.4    9.5   27.9      66
H.   Other Services          1.1    0.4    1.5      73
I.   Prize Fund              0.8    0.3    1.1      73
J.   Operations & Maintenance   -    6.9    6.9      -
K.  Incremental Salaries    --       0.5    0.5      -
Total                        96.0  102.4  198.4       48
C. Procurement
3.10. Country-wide Procurement Issues. Procurement problems have
been common in past projects in Brazil because of discrepancies between
Bank procurement guidelines and both federal and state procurement laws.
A new national procurement law (Law 8.666) was passed by Congress in
June 1993. Although the new law appears to resolve most of the previous
conflicts with Bank guidelines, there remain a few outstanding differences in
interpretation. A short term solution to these differences has been found
through the publishing of temporary executive orders (medidas provs6fias)
giving special exceptions to internationally financed projects. A longer term
solution is being sought through ongoing discussions between the Bank and
the federal government.
3. 11. Procurement Responsibility. Most of SEED's procurement of goods
is done through its semi-independent affiliate, FUNDEPAR. FUNDEPAR
also possesses an engineering department which designs basic specifications
for school buildings. Procurement and supervision of school building
construction for state schools is generally done through the State Department
of Construction and Maintenance (DECOM), according to technical
specifications developed by FUNDEPAR. The capacity of both DECOM and
FUNDEPAR to procure works and goods under the project is satisfactory,
although some technical assistance to FUNDEPAR with regard to



-31-
procurement and distribution of books and other educational materials is
contemplated under the project. While the bulk of procurement under the
project will be handled by these two agencies, some civil works procurement
would be decentralized to municipalities having concluded partnership
agreements with the state. Transfers to municipalities for payments to
contractors would be made via specific legal agreements, or convenios,
acceptable to the Bank, specifying, inter alia, the use of standard LCB
bidding documents developed for the project, and reporting requirements. At
negotiations, the State of Paranl submitted to the Bank a draft model
convenio and criteria for evaluating municipal capacity for carrying out civil
works under the project (para. 6.le). A condition of disbursement will be
that no withdrawals shall be made under the civil works component, unless
the Bank has been fumished with evidence that the state and municipality
have entered into a convenio satisfactory to the Bank (para. 6.4b).
3.12. Procurement Arrangements. The project would involve
procurement of civil works, equipment and fumiture, educational materials
including textbooks and reading books, consultant services, including
training, technical assistance, evaluation, and auditing, as well as other goods
and services, including publicity, printing, data processing, and packaging.
Most procurement would be carried out centrally using competitive methods,
although in some cases procurement would be decentralized to schools and
would be done through local shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Where ICB procedures are used, goods manufactured locally would be given,
for the purpose of bid evaluation, a preference margin of 15 percent. All
procurement would be carried out according to Bank guidelines. All
competitive bidding (both LCB and ICB) would make use of standard bidding
documents (para. 6.2d). Prior to negotiations, the State of Parana
presented to the Bank draft standard LCB documents for goods and works,
and legal opinions as to their acceptability under state law (para. 6.1f).
Final versions of the bidding documents incorporating the Bank's comments
will be included in the final version of the Project Operational Manual, to be
submitted as a condition of effectiveness (para. 6.3b). Specific
arrangements for procurement of goods and services to be financed with the
proceeds of the project are presented in Table 3.4.
3.13. Civil Works totalling US$66.2 million equivalent, including
contingencies. Packages for new construction are estimated to range between
US$200,000 and US$500,000 equivalent. Considering that no civil works
contracts are expected to exceed US$5 million equivalent, ICB procedures
would not be appropriate. Contracts exceeding US$100,000 but below US$5
million equivalent will be awarded following Local Competitive Bidding
(LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank. At this point (based on SEED's
prioritization of new construction) no use of Local Shopping procedures is



-32-
expected. It was agreed at appraisal that no construction under the project
will be carried out via force account.
3.14. Equipment and Furniture totalling US$20.2 million equivalent,
including contingencies. Bid packages in excess of US$300,000 equivalent
would be procured on the basis of ICB procedures. It is estimated that about
70 percent of contracts for goods fall in this category. Local manufacturers
would be granted a 15 percent margin of preference. Smaller packages
would be procured through Local Competitive Bidding (for contracts between
US$50,000 and US$300,000 equivalent), up to an aggregate limit of US$4
million equivalent. Local Shopping will be permitted up to an aggregate
limit of US$1 million equivalent for packages of equipment and furniture up
to US$50,000 equivalent.
3.15. Instructional Materials (other than books) totalling US$20.3 million
equivalent, including contingencies. Most instructional materials are
expected to be procured centrally in the first three years of the project.
Initial bid packages in excess of US$300,000 equivalent will be procured on
the basis of ICB procedures. Smaller packages will be procured through
Local Competitive Bidding (for contracts between US$50,000 and
US$300,000 equivalent), up to an aggregate of US$5.5 million equivalent.
Replacement of materials in state schools may be done in a decentralized
manner through local shopping by schools for contracts under US$50,000
million, up to an aggregate limit of US$2.9 million equivalent.
3.16. Textbooks totalling US$35.9 million equivalent, including
contingencies, will be financed entirely through counterpart funding, and
procured according to local procedures already in place.
3.17. Reading and Reference Books totalling US$8.2 million equivalent,
including contingencies. Initial purchases of books will be done centrally,
through SEED and FUNDEPAR. Initial packages are expected to exceed
US$300,000, and would be procured under ICB procedures. Once schools
have been provided with a standard package of books, it is proposed that the
purchase of additional books be done in a decentralized manner, via the
organization of book fairs in different regions of the state. State and
municipal schools would be guaranteed a "library fund" equivalent to
US$0.50 per student per year. Purchases would be made via a voucher
system, whereby publishers would be paid centrally by SEED or by local
banks upon receipt of evidence of delivery of books to schools. Since prices
would be established by publishers and selection would be left to the schools,
the mode of procurement would be direct purchase from publishers. The
maximum size of individual contracts under direct contracting will not exceed
US$5,000.



-33-
Table 3.4: Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
ICB        LCB         Other   NBF    Total
Civil Works                              67.2                    67.2
(33.6)                 (33.6)
Equipment & Furniture     15.2            4.0      1.0/d         20.2
(12.4)         (2.0)    (0.5)         (14.9)
Instructional Materials   11.9            5.5      2.9/          20.3
(9.4)         (3.6)    (1.9)         (14.9)
Textbooks                                                35.9   35.9
(0.0)  (0.0)
Reading Books              3.4                     4.8"'          8.2
(2.2)                  (3.4)          (5.6)
Technical Assistance                               8.7/b          8.7
(6.7)          (6.7)
Training                                          27.9/c         27.9
(18.4)         (18.4)
Other Services                                     1.51d          1.5
(1.1)          (1.1)
Prize Fund                                                        1.1
(0.8)          (0.8)
Operations &                                              6.9    6.9
Maintenance                                               (0.0)  (0.0)
Incremental Salaries                                      0.5    0.5
(0.0)  (0.0)
Total                     30.5           76.7    47.9   43.3  198.4
(24.0)        (39.2)   (32.8)   (0.0)  (96.0)
Notes: Values in parentheses reflect Bank financing.
/a - Direct purchase by schools from publishers/local shopping
/b - Consulting Services
/c - Training includes approximately US$5.8 million of consulting;
US$3.0 million for materials; and US$19.1 million of non-procured items
such as travel, scholarships and per diems.
/d - Local shopping
*NBF: Not Bank-financed
3.18. Technical Assistance and Studies totalling US$8.7 million
equivalent, including contingencies, would be contracted in accordance with



-34-
the August 1981 "Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency.'
3.19. Training Services totalling US$27.9 million equivalent, including
contingencies. Training costs include approximately US$5.8 million
equivalent for consulting, curriculum development, and trainers' fees;
US$3.0 million for materials; and US$19.1 million for non-procured items
such as travel, scholarships, and per-diems. Where the hiring of a firm,
university, or individual trainer is involved, the August 1981 'Bank
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" would apply. In the case of contracting
of individual trainers through the executing agency, the Bank and SEED will
develop standard letters of invitation, terms of reference, forms of contract,
payment scales, and a computerized tracking system to help ease the
supervision burden. Standardized terms of reference and qualifications of all
individual trainers to be contracted under the project will be subject to Bank
approval as part of the Annual Implementation Plan (see para. 2.15).
3.20. Other Services totalling US$1.5 million equivalent, including
contingencies. Costs include contracting out of publicity, printing, graphics,
packaging, and data-processing services associated with the implementation
of the student assessment and management subcomponents. As contract
packages are expected to be under US$50,000 equivalent, Local Shopping
procedures will be used.
3.21. Quality Improvement Prize Fund totalling US$1.1 million
equivalent, including contingencies. Prizes will be given starting in the
second year, and would range in size from US$2,000 equivalent to
US$10,000 equivalent. Schools, municipalities, and SEED regional offices
could use the prize funds as they wish, but funds would have to be used for
educational purposes and proposals for use would have to receive prior
approval from SEED. These could include purchase of materials, training,
funding of school trips, and other activities. Given the small sizes of the
grants, local shopping procedures would be most appropriate for the
acquisition of goods or services.
3.22. Operations and Maintenance totalling US$6.9 million equivalent,
including contingencies. Operations and maintenance includes costs for
maintenance of buildings and equipment, staff travel and supervision, and
consumable supplies. These would be financed with counterpart funding
using SEED's standard procedures and guidelines.
3.23. Incremental Salaries totalling US$0.5 million equivalent covers the
costs of the three full-time Project Coordination Unit coordinators plus



-35-
secretarial support. Salaries will be financed entirely through counterpart
funds.
3.24. Bank Review Requirements. The Bank would review and approve
before contract award: (a) all ICB documentation and contracts; (b) the first
two LCB contracts for goods and civil works, regardless of size; and (c) all
contracts for civil works above US$400,000 equivalent. Prior review
procedures for consulting services would follow the August 1981 'Banlk
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency," with the exception of contracts with (a)
individual consultants valued at less than US$50,000 equivalent; and (b)
contracts with firms valued at less than US$100,000, where prior review
would generally be limited to terms of reference. Full prior review
procedures would apply to contracts of a specialized nature, regardless of
value. Expected prior review coverage would be approximately 50 percent
of the value of Bank-financed contracts, which is considered acceptable. All
procurement documentation would also be subject to select ex-post review by
the Bank and external auditors, and would be kept by the PCU for periodic
review during supervision.
D. Disbursements
3.25. All disbursements will be made upon receipt of full documentation,
except for payments in connection with goods, civil works, and consultant
contracts valued at less than US$400,000 equivalent for civil works, less than
US$300,000 equivalent for goods, and contracts less than US$100,000 with
consulting firms, and less than US$50,000 for contracts with individual
consultants, for which disbursements will be made against statements of
expenditure (SOEs). SOEs will be certified locally by SEED. Supporting
documentation will be retained by the PCU, and will be available for
inspection during Bank supervision missions and by independent auditors.
The proceeds of the US$96 million loan will be disbursed against categories
and percentages summarized in Table 3.5.
3.26. Special Account. To ensure the efficient and timely implementation
of the project, the Borrower will open a Special Account denominated in
U.S. dollars in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. The authorized
allocation for the Special Account will be US$6.0 million, which is
equivalent to an average of approximately four months of disbursements.
Funds from the Special Account will be available for financing only the
Bank's share of eligible project costs. The Borrower and the Bank will
review project development from time to time, and may reach agreement on
changes to the authorized allocation for the Special Account. The Bank will
replenish the Special Account as requested upon receipt of satisfactory



-36-
evidence that expenditures paid were eligible for financing out of the account.
Replenishment requests will be submitted monthly, or whenever one third of
the amount deposited has been withdrawn, whichever occurs first.
Conversions from crnzeiros reais to U.S. dollars or any other currency will
be made in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Table 3.5: Allocation and Disbursement of IBRD Loan
Amount of the     Percent of Expenditures to
Loan Allocated     be Fmnanced
(USS million)
1. Civil Works                        30.2   50 percent of total
expenditures.
2. Equipment and Furniture             14.2   100 percent of foreign and
50 percent of local
expenditures.
3. Instructional Materials             14.2   100 percent of foreign and
65 percent of local
expenditures.
4. Reading Books                       5.3   100 percent of foreign and
65% of local
5. Technical Assistance                 6.8   100 percent of foreign and
75 percent of local
expenditures.
6. Training
(a) Teacher Training           17.5   100 percent of foreign and
65 percent of local
expenditures.
(b) Other Training              0.9   100 percent of foreign and
65 percent of local
expenditures.
7. Other Services                       1.1   100% of foreign and 70%
of local expenditures.
8. Prize Fund                          0.8   70 percent of total
expenditures.
9. Unallocated                         5.0
TOTAL                         96.0
3.27. Schedule. The disbursement schedule is based on a five and one-half
year implementation period, with loan effectiveness expected by early



-37-
September, 1994. Retroactive financing of up to US$5 million equivalent is
recommended for eligible expenditures incurred up to 12 months prior from
the date of signing. The project completion date will be June 30, 1999, and
the project closing date will be December 31, 1999. The expected schedule
of disbursements is found in Table 3.6.
Table 3.6: Estimated IBRD Disbursements
Total Costs, Induding Contingencies
(US$ million)
XIBRD TscaI Year  FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98  FY99  FY2000
Annual          12.0   18.0  22.5   20.0  18.5      5.0
Cumulative      12.0   30.0  52.5   72.5  91.0    96.0
E. Accounting and Auditing
3.28. The Borrower will maintain separate accounts for all project
expenditures. Copies of the audited statements from SEED will be sent to
the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year (June 30). The
auditors' reports will include an opinion (and comments, as necessary) on the
quality of the methods employed in compiling the statement of expenditures,
the relevance of supporting documents, their eligibility for financing with
loan proceeds, and the quality of record-keeping and internal controls. At
negotiations, assurances were given that all project accounts, including the
Special Account, will be audited annually in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles by independent auditors with qualifications acceptable to
the Bank (para. 6.2e).
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
A. Project Implementation
4.1.  Project Management. Primary responsibility for project
implementation will be vested in SEED, which will be responsible for
coordination between departments internally, with other state institutions, and
with municipal agencies. SEED's training institute, CETEPAR, will be
responsible for the administration of courses and contracts under the teacher
training component. SEED's semi-independent affiliate, FUNDEPAR, will
be responsible for: (a) preparation and analysis of architectural designs for



-38-
construction under the project; (b) purchase of goods, furniture and other
materials; and (c) oversight and production of educational statistics. The
State Department of Construction and Maintenance (DECOM) in conjunction
with FUNDEPAR will be responsible for procurement and supervision of
civil works, including oversight of any civil works relegated to
municipalities.
4.2. Coordination has been enhanced by the creation of a Coordinating
Committee and the creation of a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in SEED
Members of the Coordinating Committee include: the Secretary of
Education, the President of FUNDEPAR, a representative of the Association
of Municipalities of Parana, and the General Coordinator of the PCU. The
Coordinating Committee will be maintained during the life of the project
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank (para. 6.2f). As defined in
the Operational Manual, the responsibilities of the Coordinating Committee
include: (i) facilitating internal bureaucratic processes and procedures; (ii)
reviewing progress and taking measures to resolve difficulties in project
implementation; and (iii) serving as a conduit both to receive and disseminate
information about the project to and from municipalities and other interested
parties. The Coordinating Committee will meet at least six times a year.
4.3. The PCU is located in SEED, and reports directly to the Secretary of
Education (see also Annex 3). The PCU is responsible for internal
coordination with SEED and FUNDEPAR administrative units involved in
project implementation, as well as with municipalities, and is to be the
principal liaison with the Bank with regard to project monitoring and
reporting. The PCU will at all times be staffed by a full-time core of
professionals with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank. To
aid in reporting, the PCU will also maintain and operate a computerized
control system, acceptable to the Bank, for tracking commitments,
contracting, procurement, and disbursement under the project (para. 6.2c).
At negotiations, the State of Parana presented evidence, satisfactory to the
Bank, that both the Coordinating Committee and the PCU had been formally
established by government decree (para. 6.1c).
4.4. Municipal Participation in the Project. It was agreed at appraisal
and confirmed at negotiations that, with the exception of textbooks and
student assessment, only those municipalities with valid 'partnership
agreements' with the state will be eligible for the transfer of benefits to the
municipal system (paras. 6.2g and 6.4c). All state schools, however, will
benefit regardless of location. At negotiations, municipalities with
partnership agreements constituted about 86 percent of the total. For the
most part, municipalities will benefit from in-kind transfers of instructional
materials, equipment, and training, although in some instances municipalities



-39-
would also receive monetary transfers for civil works construction. Where
responsibility for construction is decentralized to a municipality, the state will
enter into an agreement (convenio), satisfactory to the Bank, specifying, inter
alia, the use of Bank-approved standard bidding documents and procedures in
civil works construction, as well as extent of municipal responsibility for
maintenance and/or staffing of the newly constructed building. A draft
version of this agreement was discussed at negotiations (para 6.1e);
presentation of a signed version of this agreement will be a condition of
disbursement to a municipality (para. 6.4b).
4.5.  Operational Manual. Further definition of institutional
responsibilities, procurement guidelines, disbursement guidelines, and
accounting requirements, will be outlined in an operational manual for the
project. Prior to negotiations, the State of Parana presented a preliminary
version of this manual to the Bank, including a list of indicators for
measuring progress in the implementation of the project (see Annex 6), and
copies of the standard bidding documents to be used in project
implementation (para. 6.1f). Submission of a final version of the
Operational Manual, revised in accordance with Bank comments will be a
condition of project effectiveness (para. 6.3b).
4.6.  Inplementation Schedule and Strategy. The project is expected to
be implemented over a five and one-half year period, with a project
completion date of June 30, 1999, and a closing date of December 31, 1999.
Whereas certain project activities will follow their own implementation logic
(civil works, for example), teacher training and instructional materials other
than books will follow a regional implementation strategy (see Annex 5). All
regions of the state are expected to receive project benefits in these two areas
by the third year of the project. Prior to negotiations, the state furnished to
the Bank: (a) a revised version of the Project Implementation Plan, including
detailed implementation timelines for each component for the first 18 months
of the project (para. 6.1g); and (b) evidence that it has allocated sufficient
counterpart funds in the 1994 budget for carrying out project activities during
the first year of implementation (para. 6.1h).
B. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.7. Project Monitoring. The PCU will be responsible for overall project
monitoring and evaluation on the basis of pre-established monitoring
indicators. These indicators will consist of both input and output indicators,
including trends in repetition and student flow. Repetition and pass rates will
be monitored both at a system-wide level and at the school level (via a
sample). Based on simulations done with existing statistics and discussed
with the Secretariat of Education and FUNDEPAR, the following project



-40-
targets were established: the percentage of students reaching fifth grade with
a maximum of one repetition would increase from the current level of
approximately 45 percent in 1993, to 60 percent by the end of the project,
and the percentage of students concluding the eighth grade with a maximum
of two repetitions would increase from approximately 15 percent in 1993 to
25 percent by the end of the project. Given that passage from lower primary
to higher primary grades is highly correlated with the likelihood of
completion of eighth grade, improvements in this measure are also taken as a
trigger of improvements in the overall rate of completion of primary school.
A draft list of monitoring indicators is included in Annex VI, and in the
preliminary version of the Operational Manual, to be presented in final
version to the Bank as a condition of project effectiveness (para. 6.3b).
4.8. Reporting and Implementation Reviews. By March 15 of each
year, starting in 1995, the PCU will prepare and send to the Bank for review
an Annual Progress Report, assessing progress toward meeting the specific
targets established the previous year (para. 6.2h). By June 30 of each year,
the PCU will prepare a detailed Annual Implementation Plan for all project
components for the subsequent year (para. 6.2b). This Annual
Implementation Plan would include: (a) a description of the major tasks to
be initiated and completed and/or continued during the year; (b) an activity
budget by component and subcomponent for all tasks to be implemented,
including physical and financial objectives and requirements; (c) a detailed
schedule of activities; and (d) additional information as requested relating to
the civil works, training, and student assessment components (see paras.
2.15 and 2.21). No later than April 30 of each year, starting in 1995, SEED
and the Bank will conduct a joint annual implementation review to analyze
the previous year's performance, and set guidelines for the preparation of the
Annual Implementation Plan (para. 6.2i).
4.9.  In addition to annual implementation reviews, no later than 30 months
after project effectiveness, the govemment and the Bank will carry out a
Midterm Review of project execution. This review will focus particularly on
progress towards achieving project targets and intermediary outcomes. It
will also, however, address overall system management issues such as state
and municipal expenditures on education. The costs of project components
will also be reassessed, and reallocations made as necessary. SEED will
prepare for the Midterm Review: (a) a mid-term progress report; (b) a
report covering sources and uses of education funds; and (c) any other
reports as the Bank may reasonably request (para. 6.2j).



-41-
5. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefts
5.1.  The project is expected to benefit approximately 1.6 million primary
school students in both the state and municipal systems. By improving the
quality of education, it is expected that the project will contribute to
reductions in grade repetition and associated resource waste, and improved
student achievement. Although the project is directed to all primary school
children in public schools, it should particularly benefit low-income children,
who are almost exclusively served by the public school system. Targeted
construction of new classrooms should also directly benefit approximately
64,000 children who live in low-income urban areas. Additional benefits of
the project include: (a) better information and management practices within
SEED and municipal education offices; (b) the development of a
decentralization model in education that includes critical quality and equity
concerns; and (c) enhanced knowledge of the relative cost-effectiveness and
impact of various educational interventions on system productivity through
evaluation studies and support for systematic student assessment.
B. Risks
5.2.  The project's principal risks include: (a) problems in coordination
between the state and the federal government on textbook provision and
financing; (b) the possibility of diminished political support once the
government changes in March 1995; (c) problems in the implementation of
the state's decentralization strategy; and (d) delays in implementation
stemming from SEED's lack of familiarity with Bank guidelines and
procedures. With regard to textbooks, the project aims to assure adequate
provision through requiring up-front coordination with FAE, while at the
same time requiring the state govemment to assume full responsibility for
textbook provision, regardless of the nature of federal government support.
Provision of textbooks will be carefully monitored, and will be a key element
in the Bank's ongoing evaluation of project implementation. Regarding (b),
the inclusion of municipalities should help foster a municipal constituency for
the project that will carry over beyond the change in state government in
1995 (municipal administrations do not change again until 1997). Regarding
(c), Bank support to the state in fulfilling its part of the decentralization
agreement (mainly through the provision of training and educational
materials) should provide an incentive for the remaining 14 percent of
municipalities not yet in partnership agreements to join. With regard to (d),
the project design has attempted to minimize this risk by building institutional
capacity through the establishment of a PCU, and early attention to the
development and use of standard bidding documents and other procedures.



-42-
The project Midterm Review will provide an opportunity to reassess
implementation risks and make adjustments if necessary.
C. Environmental Impact
5.3.  The project is not expected to have any adverse environmental impact.
Environmental safeguards would be incorporated into contract arrangements
as well as site-selection criteria for new school construction.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMIENDATION
6.1.  Prior to negotiations, the State Government provided to the Bank:
(a) a Declaration on Policies for the Improvement of Basic Education
in Parana, signed by the Governor, and acceptable to the Bank (para.
2.3).
(b) a draft workplan for the provision of textbooks under the project
within the framework of the new MEC resolution (para. 2.8);
(c) copies of governmental decrees establishing the structure and
composition of the PCU and Coordinating Committee, as well as
curriculum vitae of the Project Manager, Administrative and Financial
Coordinator, and the Technical Coordinator, all of which were found
acceptable to the Bank (para. 2.25 and 4.3);
(d) preliminary terms of reference for the evaluation studies proposed
under the project (para. 2.37);
(e) criteria for evaluating municipal capacity for procurement of civil
works under the project, and a draft legal agreement (convgnio) to be
signed with municipalities implementing civil works (para. 3.11 and
4.4);
(f) a preliminary version of the Project Operational Manual, including
inter alia, project monitoring indicators and draft model bidding
documents for LCB procurement of goods and works, as well as legal
opinions as to their acceptability under state law (para. 3.12, 4.5);
(g) a revised version of the detailed timeline and implementation
targets for all components over the first 18 months of the project
(para. 4.6);



-43-
(h) evidence that sufficient counterpart funding has been included in
the 1994 state budget to cover the first year of project implementation
(para. 4.6); and
6.2.  At negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Borrower will:
(a) assume full responsibility for ensuring the adequate and timely
provision of textbooks to children in both state and municipal schools,
starting in 1995, regardless of the nature of federal government
support (para. 2.7);
(b) submit for Bank review and approval by June 30 of each year,
starting in 1994, an Annual Implementation Plan for all project
components for the following year, including a detailed schedule,
physical and financial targets, and proposed budget (paras. 2.15; 2.21;
2.28; and 4.8);
(c) maintain, at all times, a Project Coordination Unit with a project
manager and core staff with qualifications and experience acceptable
to the Bank, which would, inter alia, maintain and operate a
computerized control system, acceptable to the Bank, for tracking
commitments, contracting, procurement, and disbursement under the
project (paras. 2.25 and 4.3);
(d) carry out all procurement of goods, civil works, and consulting
services in accordance with Bank guidelines, including the use of
Bank standard bidding documents for ICB procurement of goods and
works, and the use of standard LCB bidding documents for goods and
works as developed by the Borrower and approved by the Bank (para.
3.12);
(e) forward to the Bank, by June 30 of each year, starting in 1995,
annual audits of all project accounts, including the Special Account,
which will be audited annually in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles by independent auditors with qualifications acceptable to the
Bank (para. 3.28);
(f) maintain, at all times, a project Coordinating Committee under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.2);
(g) unless the Bank should otherwise agree, and with the exception of
textbooks and student assessment, direct project benefits exclusively to
those municipalities with valid partnership agreements with SEED
(para. 4.4);



-44-
(h) submit for Bank review, by March 15 of each year, starting in
1995, an annual implementation report, assessing progress toward
meeting the specific targets established the previous year (para. 4.8);
(i) conduct in conjunction with the Bank, no later than April 30 of
each year, an annual review of project implementation (para. 4.8);
(j) no later than 28 months after the date of project effectiveness,
submit to the Bank a Midterm progress report according to terms of
reference mutually agreed, and no later than 30 months after the date
of effectiveness, conduct in conjunction with the Bank, a Midterm
review of project implementation (para. 4.9);
6.3.  As conditions of project effectiveness, the Borrower would:
(a) provide to the Bank a final version of the workplan, for
implementing the project's textbook provision subcomponent in
cooperation with FAE (para 2.8);
(b) provide to the Bank a revised version of the Operational Manual
satisfactory to the Bank, including final project monitoring indicators
and revised LCB bidding documents incorporating Bank comments at
negotiations (paras. 3.12, 4.5, and 4.7);
6.4.  As conditions of disbursement:
(a) no withdrawals would be made for the teacher training component
prior to Bank approval of a Training Plan for the first year of the
project (para. 2.17);
(b) no withdrawals would be made for expenditures incurred by a
municipality under the civil works component, unless the Bank has
been furnished with evidence that the state and municipality have
entered into an agreement (convPnio) satisfactory to the Bank (paras.
2.21, 3.11, and 4.4);
(c) unless the Bank should otherwise agree, no withdrawals would be
made for expenditures by, on behalf of, or for the benefit of a
municipality, other than a municipality that has concluded a
partnership agreement with the state (para. 4.4);
(d) no withdrawals would be made for the prize fund, unless the Bank
has been furnished with an operational manual, acceptable to the
Bank, for the implementation of the fund (para. 2.35).



-45-
6.5.  Recommendatlon. Subject to the above conditions and assurances,
the project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$96.0 million
equivalent to the State of Parana, with the Guarantee of the Federative
Republic of Brazil, to be repaid over a period of 15 years on a fixed
amortization schedule with a five-year grace period. Retroactive financing of
up to US$5 million equivalent for eligible expenditures incurred up to 12
months before the signing date is also recommended (para. 3.9).






-46-
Annex 1
Table 1: Parant Basic Education Indicators
Average Educational Attainment of Population Over 10 Years of Age
Total Years of Schooling          Mmn    Women         TaI    % of Total
No instruction, or less than one year  435,384   565,229  1,001,613      14.1
One year                               180,130   172,691   352,821          5
From 2 to 4 years                    1,426,464  1,463,939 2,896,563        40
From 5 to 8 years                      854,145   755,947  1,641,080        23
From9to 11 years                      396,982   413,830   810,632          11
12 years or more                      180,573   201,871   382,350           5
Unknown                                 240 05
TOTAL                                3,476,045 3,575,081 7,089,004        100
Source: Pesquisa Nacional por Amostra de Domicflios, 1990



-47-
Annex
Table 2: Brazil and Parana: Comparison of Mean Student
Test Scores by Subject and Grade, 1990
: i i:i0i  :Subjecti:     
Grade                 klath      Science    Portuges
tXtFirstG rade  --0ii:ti:t  0 4 : ti-00            ii ;i;t4440t      t t:;  t t
Brazil                     52.8         -          56.8
Parana                     58.5         -          62.2
State                     60.3        -          62.7
Municipalities            56.6        -          61.6
ThirdGrde
Brazil                     50.2         -          61.9
Parand                     58.4         -          66.5
State                     58.8        --         67.6
Municipalities            57.9        -          65.3
Brazil                     31.6       41.7         51.9
ParanA                     31.6       41.8         51.9
State                     30.9       41.5         51.1
Municipalities            35.5       44.5        56.4
SevnthGrade;                                 : 0:?j
Brazil                      30        43.3         48.6
Paranf                     29.2       45.2         49.4
State                     28.4       44.5        48.8
Municipalities            35.5       50.6        54.1
Note: Maximum score is 100.
Source: SAEB, 1990.



IW&  s rMm -__ted  _aj 19
T~~~m1Az Vmw~~~~~~ -  i........ ....
51   1    a        1         _          _         _    1                       I2         L   IL  L1 a                     1 M  1  A  1    a
I           1,000     352       124        44         16        6        2          1         0         0       0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0             1,54
2             0       627       401        193        83        34       14         5         2         1       0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0             1I360
3             0        0        419        370       219       109       49        21         *         3       1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0             1,19
4             0        0         0         292       315       215       11I       57         28        11      4     1    0    0    0    0    0    0    0            1,39
5             0        0         0          0        203       307      233       205        128        74      40   20    9    4    2       1    0    0    0         1,276
6             0        0         0          0         0         97       132      201        171       123       0   48  27    14    7    3    2        I    0          956
7             0        0         0          0         0         0        54        118       147       139     110 77   49   29   16    9    4    2    1                755
3             0        0         0          0         0         0        0         34         32       III     112   94  59   46   2        16    9    4    2           07
-    -g " i ... ll" ...-  ....:  .. ;7
0e  O              0         0          0 O       0        0         27         63        83      36  72      3   36   21   14    8    4    0             467
ghdalS               7        6         7         9          19        19       20        21         13        16      11    *    5    2    2    0    0    0    0              165
Ys~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
*0I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
"fl    ...... 4                                                                                                              .2 gg..14.....A. *.  - 45 ..
WEdWwi            Witjadrcwf.. Wlibdreu/'  
auamdzmg                       *.7                 11.5                 5.7                 7.5                 3.3
*N-mbd of *mdes.yc-n Of ia2 ui  pcr g_duaD is 18.7.
S-'CG   Nolo calo-'sim  Rbeibr ani Kle, usng SEED/PUNDPAR da.



-49-
Annex 1
Table 3B: Parana - Total Repetition Rates, 1989
Grade   Rwtition  Promotin  Withdrew/approved Withdrew/not approved
First      0.352     0.627          0.014               0.007
Second     0.288     0.668          0.038               0.006
Third      0.243      0.697         0.049                0.01
Fourth     0.197     0.695          0.095               0.013
Fifth      0.433      0.48          0.049               0.038
Sixth      0.359     0.562          0.048               0.031
Seventh    0.292     0.635          0.033                0.04
Eighth     0.213     0.758            0                 0.029
Average    0.297      0.64          0.04                0.022
Source: SEED/FUNDEPAR



.t
Table 4A: Paraim - Enrolknent by Ivel of Schooling and Sector, 1985 - 1990
Lelofhoi;nL          Xa        edral       A        SFal       I      Municipa      A       Privae      I
Pre-School           1985        29,868    21        32,064    23         23,021    16        55,371    40        140,324
1990        1,225   .80        37,214    24         57,559    37        60,313    39        156,311
Primary              1985         1,096   .07       909,361    58        501,462    32       148,351    10-    1,560,270
1990         687   .04       1,053,449    62       512,046    30       146,346     9      1,712,528
Secondary            1985         7,010    4        135,675    75            58   .03         39,209    22        181,952
1990        6,214    3        178,561    78           236   .10         43,635    19        228,646
Higher               1985        16,894    19        32,013    36         12,822    14        28,250    31         89,979
1991       15,357    16        44,117    45          7,031    7         31,159    32         97,664
Note: 1990 nunbers not available.
Source: SEED/FUNDEPAR



Table 4B: Paramn - Primary School EnroLlment by Grade, 1990
t gmad    2nd emde   3rd grae   4th emde          5th ga       6th gmde   7    th grade          Taw
Federa                      358          158         111-        60          -           -           -           -         687
State                     136,198      141,474     119,568     101,633     218,413     150,545     107,639     77,979    1,053,449
Municipal                 160,077      129,970     108,886      88,257      10,591      6,922       4,377      2,929     512,009
Private                   23,859       22,519      22,124       19,809      17,935     15,368      13,374      11,358     146,346
Total                     320,492      294,121     250,689     209,759     246,939     172,835     125,390     92,266    1,712,491
LA
Source: FUNDIEPAR 1990 Tnitial Enroilnmen



Table 5: Parana - School-Age Population and Enrollment at Primary and Secondary Levels, 1986-1990
School-age   Primary school         Secondary school           Total
Year      Dopulation    enrollment    9G        enrollment       6     enrollment    %
1986      1,517,646    1,335,003     87.97        6,341         0.42    1,341,344    88.38
1987      1,523,471    1,330,788     87.35        8,368         0.55    1,339,156    87.9
7-14 years       1988      1,531,120     1,356,229    88.58        8,246         0.54    1,364,475    89.12
1989      1,541,070    1,395,421     90.55        10,349        0.67    1,405,770   91.22
1990      1,552,969    1,425,516     91.79        9,163         0.59    1,434,679   92.38
1986      882,057       175,367      19.88       137,880       15.63    313,247    35.51
1987      870,733       160,944      18.49       138,723       15.93    299,667    34.42
15-19 years      1988       860,425       172,731     20.08        147,631       17.16    320,362    37.23
1989      850,978       181,406      21.32       159,555       18.75    340,961    40.07
1990      842,355       190,604      22.53       168,061       19.95    358,665    42.58
Note: Total enrollment figures in this table reflect only specified age groups - combined totals hence differ
from Table 4A, where all age groups are included.
Source: SEED FUNDEPAR



TabIe 6pwar    State Expeaditres by Sector, 1931592 (i 12 lISS M  iN
1983156                                        1590                     159                         15
US$         X           S          X USS        X$                      USS          X           USS            %
01 Legislative                 34,277    1.72         41,654    2.00           47,724    2.67          48,004    2.93              42,58    2.70
02 Judiciay                    37,112    4.38        126,195    6.07          149,513    3.37          151,543    9.26             128,184    3.19
03 Admin. Plnning             380,753   19.12        636,194   30.60          3S6,134   21.61         253,190   15.47              134,396   11.81
04 Agricutue                   66,487    3.34         92,350    4.44           66,418    3.72          75,220    4.60              71,094    4.54
05 Connunicawin                  718    0.04            509    0.02             1,033    0.06             356    0.02                   0    0.00
06 Public Safety              113,907    5.97        120,907    5.82          130,153    7.28          129,650    7.92             125,235    8.00
07 RcgioE Dcvelqwm             65,467    3.29         13,443    0.65           16,S50    0.94           35,220    2.15             78,242    5.00
0  FduCation&Cukur            488,801   24.55        500,963   24.10          460,280   25.76         441,391   26.96             423,740   27.06
09 EneD h Mining               14,668    0.74          4,565    0.22           22,223    1.24           30,656    1.87          _  21,346    1.36
10 Husing                      5,698    0.29          3,578    0.17            2,680    0.IS           15,739    0.96              39,207    2.50
1 1 Iugy & Comnuncre          25,680    1.29          5,752    0.28            8,411    0.47           23,752    1.45              44,70S    2.86
12 Foip RelJtior                 0    0.00               0    0.00               0    0.00                0    0.00                   0     .00
13 Hah and Welfam             59,406    2.98         89,339    4.30           76,832    4.30           65,924    4.03              79,207    5.06
14 Labor                       2,186    0.11          5,294    0.25            5,370    0.33            3,753    0.23              2,202    0.14
15 Socil Seority             234,099   11.76        245,879   11.83          249,928   13.99          230,610   14.09             244,571   15.62
16  Tunp o                   406,609   20.42        192,353    9.25          163,006    9.12          131,939    8.06              80,917    5.17
TarAL              1,990,868   100.0     2,079,025   100.0         1,737,061   100.0       1,636,946   100.0           1,565,807   100.0
SoLue: Ste Balances
(*)Avenkp 1992 DoBar appid to conat 1992 Crizo valus.



Table 7: Egpesab.u at Seandariot of E arksm md FUINDEPAR, bY Pr.pin
(m*1992 US$uilmu
Administration                         24,303           45,883          32,424          32,726             532           37,346       .  37,523           42,5SS
Secrtriat of Education                19,897          40,458          27,600           28,034            532           32,677           37,482          42,256
FUINDEPAR                             4,906            5,425           4,823            4,693              0            5,169              41             329
Primay Education                      252.022          321,010         332,100         287,035          319,825         303,376         272,409          245,905
Secrctariat of Educaon               221,625         277,558         296,627          249,694         278,197         267.293          272,409         245,904
FUNDEPAR                              30,397          43,452          35,473           37,341          41,628          36,083               0               1
Secondary Edca-ton                     33,174           37,524          45,119          31.525           28,914          24,831          25,428           26,995
Secretariat of Educaion               32,446          36,364          44,411           30,590          28,401          24,407           25,428          26,995
FUNDEPAR                                723              659             708             935              513             424               0               0
HigSer Education                       68,620           97,551         112,944          123,795         138,688         116,120             .0                0
Secretariat of Education              68,620          97,551          112,944         123,795         138,688          116,120              0               0
FUNDEPAR                                  0               0                0               0               0                0               0               0
Adult Education                         2,310            3,323           4,324           2,974            3,435           3,006           3,432            4,361
SecretAriat of Education               2,310           3,323           4,324            2,974           3,435           3,006            3,432           4,361
FUNDEPAR                                  0               0                0               0               0                0               0               0
Sporu Edcation                             64             341               54              54              45                0           2,959           2,780
Secretariat of Education                 64              341              54              54               45               0             283             285
FlUNDEPAR                                 0               0                0               0               0                0            2,676           2,495    4'
Student Asisance                          282             265              482              19              51               69              91               0
SecretaristofEducation                  282             265              482              19              51               69              91               0
FUNDEPAR                                  0               0                0               0               0                0               0
Culture                                    31              13                2               0               0                0               0               0
Secretariat of Education                 31               13               2               0               0              .0                0               0
FUNDEPAR                                  0               0                0               0               0                0               0               0
Special Education                        1,750           1,353           2,402           3,160            4,763           4,276           5,82          - 9,283
Secretariat of Education               1,750           1,853           2,402            3,160           4,763           4,276            5,882           9,283
FUNDEPAR                                  0                0               0               0                0               0               0               0
Special Programs                       45,38f           45,182          37,481           39,759          34,308              59               0               0
Secretariat of Education              39,515          42,017           36,891          39,723          34,808              59              36               0
FUNDEPAR                               6,333           3,165             590              36                0               0               0               0
TOTAL                                  428,954         552,945         567,332          521,047         531,112         489,5S4          347,724         331,909
Secretariat of Eduation              386,539         500,244          525,738         473,042         438,972          447,908         345,042         329,065
FUNDEPAR                              42,414          52,701           41,595          43,005          42,140           41,676          53,656           2,824
Corred Total 2)                        329,708         421,329         429,029          367,549         363,960         340,752          312,60          308,436
(1) Incbd5g Eaviroiaal Prtection, Specil, and IntpWdtd Prgrm.
2) Exduding trfer fom dte Secetariat to FUNDEPAR. Tbe  tnfen  wold be counted twice once included in intergovenment trafa.
(0) 1992 dollar avea   applied against value of 1992 comatnt azmiroa.



-55-
Annex I
Table 8: ParanA - Potential Spending Capaidty on Primary Education - Sample of Munidpalltles, 191
(in 1992 US dollars)
Education         Enrollment In        Per Student
Munidnalities            Expenditures      Primary Education     Expenditures
1 Arapoti                                763,733              2,029                376
2 Barbosa Ferraz                         399,120                867                460
3 Boa Erpean9a                           375,410                199              1,886
4 Campo Mourao                         1,651,573              3,974                416
S Cantagalo                              468,215              3,664                128
6 Cap.Le6nidas Marques                   566,438              1,493                379
7 Catanduvas                             374,811              1,217                308
8 Cerro Azul                             366,547              1,879                195
9 Clevelindia                            395,598              1,493                265
10 Imbituva                              477,873               1,898                252
12 Irati                                  942,059              1,671                564
13 Ivaipora                               691,927              4,428                156
14 Jandaia do Sul                        480,557                712                 675
15 Japira                                 97,921                  37              2,647
16 Laranjeirs do Sul                    1,113,679              5,805                192
17 Londina                             13,482,909             24,732                545
18 Mallet                                 334,947                567                591
19 Maringa                              7,004,232              7,343                954
20 Mormtes                                246,792              1,138                217
21 Noaa Sm. das Gracas                    156,764                 87               1,802
22 Nova Aurora                            513,097              1,079                476
23 Nova Olimpia                           209,115                114               1,834
25 Ortigueira                             589,789              3,538                167
27 Palmas                               1,058,330              3,879                273
28 Ponta Groma                          6,697,560             14,766                454
29 PortoVit6ria                           181,165                278                652
31 Quer6ncia do Norte                     272,123              1,499                182
32 Sabaudia                               137,799                 63              2,187
33 Sto.Antonio do Paaiso                  140,352                163                861
34 Sao Jose das Palmeiras                 260,500                367                710
35 Sapopema                               200,383                666                301
36 Senges                                 469,373              1,564                300
37 Tamboara                               188,473                 54              3,490
38 Telemaco Borba                       2,050,280              6,544                313
39 Terra Boa                              573,102                273              2,099
40 Terra Rica                             443,874                617                719
41 Tibaji                                 704,789              3,338                211
42 Turvo                                  448,634              1,640                274
TOTAL                               45,529,841            105,675                431
Source: Tribunal de ContaB do Estado do Parana
(*) 1992 dollar average applied against value of 1992 cruzeiro.



-56-
Annex 1
Table 9: ParanA Teaching Staff by Level of Training, Location and Sector, 1990
Grades I - 4                 Grades 5 - 8                     Total
Location        State     Mun,    Total       State     Mun.    Total       State     Mun.    Total
Urban
Primary Education
Completed             160       127       287        2        --        2         162      127       289
Incomplete            115       176       291       24        --        24       139       176       315
Secondary Education
Complete             7,796     5,989    13,685     948        74       1,022     8,744    5,963     14,707
Incomplete            398       370       768       71         1        72       469       371       840
Higher Education
Complete             8,475     3,689    12,164    24,385     804      21,189    28,860    4,493    33,353
Incomplete           2,397     1,363     3,760     1,213      116      1,329    3,610      1,479    5,089
Total                19,341    11,614    30,955    22,643    995      23,638    41,984    12,689    54,593
Rural
Primary Education
Complete              131      1,431     1,562      --         1         1        131      1,432     1,563
Incomplete            212      2,040     2,252       1        --         1       213       2,040     2,253
Secondary Education
Complete             1,486     6,908     8,354      162       81       243       1,568     6,989     8,557
Incomplete            148       643       791        8         3        11        156      646       802
Higher Education
Complete              389       634       943      1,477     285       1,762     1,786     919      2,705
Incomplete            226       549       775      308        68       376       534       617       1,151
Total                2,432    12,205    14,637    1,956      438      2,394     4,388    12,643    17,031
Total
Primary Education
Complete              291      1,558     1,849      2          1        3        293       1,559     1,852
Incomplete            327      2,216     2,543      25        --        25       352      2,216     2,568
Secondary Education
Complete             9,202    12,797    21,999    1,110       155      1,265    10,312    12,952    2,364
Incomplete            546      1,013     1,559      79        4         83       625       1,017     1,642
Higher Education
Complete             8,784     4,323    13,107    21,862    1,089    22,951    30,646    5,412    36,058
Incomplete           2,623     1,912     4,535     1,521      184      1,705    4,144     2,096     6,240
Total               21,773    23,819    45,592    24,599    1,433    26,032    46,372    25,252    71,624
Source: SEED/FUNDEPAR



Table 1:
Parana Basic Education Quality Improvement Project
Components by Financiers
(USS '000)
IBRD             State Govt.            Total                  Local (Excl.  Duties &
Amount      %       Amount      %       Amount       %     For. Exch.    Taxes)     Taxes
A. Instructional Materials
Textbooks                                 49.6     0.1    35,894.5    99.9    35,944.1    18.1    1,798.9       34,145.2
Didactic Materials                    22,993.0    73.5      8,273.8    26.5    31,266.8    15.8   10,369.6      20,897.2
Reading Books                          5,607.9    67.2      2,732.6    32.8     8,340.5     4.2      583.5       7,757.0
Subtotal Instructional Materials        28,650.5    37.9    46,900.9    62.1     75,551.4    38.1    12,752.0     62,799.4
B. Teacher Training                      17,986.0    66.3     9,132.0    33.7    27,118.0    13.7      983.4      26,134.5
C. School Upgrading                      36.311.8    48.1    39,120.6    51.9    75.432.4    38.0   10,737.0      64,695.4
D. Institutional Development
Project Management Unit                 1,172.0    44.8     1,444.1    55.2     2,616.1     1.3      241.8       2,374.3
Assessment Capacity                     1,347.2    54.8     1,113.3    45.2      2,460.5    1.2      283.0       2,177.6
MIS Development                        6,904.3    75.1      2,292.3    24.9     9,196.6     4.6    3,580.6       5,616.0       -
Management Reform                        984.7    38.1      1,598.6    61.9     2,583.4     1.3      173.9       2,409.4       -
Prize                                    776.1    70.0        332.6    30.0      1,108.7    0.6          -       1,108.7       -
Subtotal Institutional Development       11,184.3    62.3     6,781.0    37.7    17,965.3     9.1    4,279.3      13,686.0
E. Studies & Evaluation                   1,832.3    77.5       531.9    22.5     2,364.2     1.2      236.4       2,127.8
Total Disbursement                       95,964.9    48.4   102,466.4    51.6   198,431.2   100.0   28,988.1      169,443.1
X
N,



Table 2:
Parana Basic Education Quality Improvement Project
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
94/95      95/96      96/97      97/98      98/99       Total
A. Instructional Materials
Textbooks                             11,113.6    5,069.9   12,171.9    5,561.9    2,026.8    35,944.1
Didactic Materials                     8,487.3    7,896.3   12,096.8    1,368.6    1,417.9    31,266.8
Reading Books                             99.8    3,901.9          -          -    4,338.7      8,340.5
Subtotal Instructional Materials        19,700.6   16,868.2   24,268.6    6,930.5    7,783.4    75,551.4
B. Teacher Training                      3,355.2    5,732.3    8,272.8    6,449.5    3,308.1    27,118.0
C. School Upgrading                     16,579.1   15,712.3   16,550.4   13,066.8   13,523.7    75,432.4
D. Institutional Development
Project Management Unit                  519.2      536.8      501.8      519.8       538.5     2,616.1
Assessment Capacity                      481.2      394.3      501.5      510.9       572.6     2,460.5
MIS Development                        5,087.4    3,210.0      413.0      238.8       247.4     9,196.6                              1
Management Reform                        578.7      630.9      654.6      377.2       341.9     2,583.4                             oo
Prize                                        -      262.6      272.1      281.9       292.0     1,108.7
Subtotal Institutional Development       6,666.4    5,034.7    2,343.0    1,928.6    1,992.5    17,965.3
E. Studies & Evaluation                    629.9      651.4      348.3      360.8       373.8     2,364.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                      46,931.3   43,998.9   51,783.1   28,736.3   26,981.6   198,431.2
:
tD
X



Tabbl 3
Parana Basic Education Quality Improvement Project
Expenditure Accounrts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(USS '000)
Instttutlonal Development
Instructional Materials                            Project
Didactic   Reading    Teacher    School  Management Assessment    MiS    Management                 Studies &
Textbooks   Materials    Books    Tfalning   Upgrading    Untt      CapacIty  Developmerit  Reform      Prize    Evaluatlon   Total
L Investment Costs
A CMI Works                                                   -                -   67,178.5                      -                                                  67,1785
S. Equipment & Furniture
1. Furniture                               -      4,473.3        -           -     4,950.1                                                       -          -      9,423S
2. Equipment                                      6,341.5                152.6          -       114.5      157.8      3,974.9                    -          -     10,741.3
Subtotal Equipment & Fumiture                      10,814.8                152.6    4,950.1       114.5      157.8      3,974.9         -          -          -     20,164.7
C, Technical Assistance
1. Policy Support                                -          -                -          -          -                       -          -          -     2.3642      2,342
2. Impkementation Support                33.3       33.3       33.3      175.2          -      1,090.1      26.8      3,270.7       12.0         -          -      4,674.7
3. Institutional Developmnent               -          -                     -          -           -      852.1           -       882.9         -          -      1,735.0
Subtotal Technical Assistance              33.3       33.3       33.3      175.2                1,090.1      878.9      3,270.7      894.9         -     2,364.2     8.773.8
D. Training                                   -          -          -    26,469,9         -       103.3      117.7      1,199.1         -          -          -     27,890.0
E. Instructional Mteriais                     -    20,130.4         -      177.7                      -          -           -                                      20,308.1
F. Textbooks                           35,844.2          -          -          -                                 -           -          -                           35,844.2
G. Reading Books                              -          -    8,240.7          *          -           -          -           -          -                     -      8.240.7
H. Goods & Serices                         33.3       33.3       33.3      138.7          -       218.0      624.2                   407.3                    -      1,488.0
I. Prize                                      -          -          -          -          -           -          -           -                1,108.7         -      1,108.7
J.  intenanrce & Operation                 33.3      255.0       33.3        4.0    3,303.7       545.1      682.0       751.8     1,28112         -                 6,889.3
K. Incremental Salaries                       -          -          -                             545.1          -           -           -         -          -        545.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                       35,944.1    31,266.8   8,340.5    27,118.0   75,432.4    2,616.1    2,460.5     9,196.6     2,583.4    1,108.7   2,364.2    198.4312
Taxes                                                         -                           -           -          -
Foreign Exchange                        1,798.9    10,369.6     583.5      983.4    10,737.0      241.8      283.0      3,580.6      173.9         -       236.4    28,9A81



Table 4:
Parana Basic Education Quality Improvement Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
94J95      95/96      96/97      97/98      98/99      Total
I. Investment Costs
A Civil Works                         15,468.3   14,326.1   14,793.9   11,217.7   11,372.5    67,178.5
B. Equipment 8 Furniture
1. Furniture                         2,193.9    2,482.9    3,070.7     832.3       843.6     9,423.5
2. Equipment                         6,430.6    2,478.9    1,754.2      38.1        39.5    10,741.3
Subtotal Equipment & Furniture         8,624.5    4,961.8    4,824.9     870.4       883.1    20,164.7
C. Technical Assistance
1. Policy Support                     629.9      651.4      348.3      360.8       373.8     2,364.2
2. Implementation Support            2,487.7    1,486.7     224.2      233.8       242.2     4,674.7
3. Institutional Development          348.3      390.2      477.7      257.6       261.2     1,735.0
Subtotal Technical Assistance          3,465.9    2,528.2    1,050.2     852.2       877.2     8,773.8                               1
D. Training                            3,251.6    6,290.1    8,544.6    6,472.2    3,331.6    27,890.0                              o
E. Instructional Materials             3,944.4    5,339.0    8,353.0    1,312.2    1,359.5    20,308.1
F. Textbooks                          11,013.7    5,069.9   12,171.9    5,561.9    2,026.8    35,844.2
G. Reading Books                            -    3,901.9          -          -    4,338.7      8,240.7
H. Goods & Services                     522.9      247.3      266.6      221.6      229.6      1,488.0
I. Prize                                    -      262.6      272.1      281.9      292.0      1,108.7
J. Maintenance & Operation              538.3      966.7    1,397.2    1,833.4    2,153.7      6,889.3
K. Incremental Salaries                 101.6      105.1       108.8     112.8       116.8      545.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                     46,931.3   43,998.9   51,783.1   28,736.3   26,981.6   198,431.2
x



-61-      ~~~~~Annex 3
.   |           ,~~~~~~
gX



Strudure of the State SeCetariat of Education
State Secriaria      l
of Education
Stawe Counaci for Education
PUNDEPAR
Office of the SaWd*t|y                                                                             TeChnical Aaistanc
(TA)
Directo Cw                                                                                                             0
Sectoral Adminisration
Sectogal Prning Goup                                                                                        Group
(GPS)                                                                                             (GAS)
Human Rcsourcea
Sectoral Finance Group                                                                                     Gr|p
(GFS)                                                                                            (GRHiS)
SuperinIendes of Education
4"Ila EAhxada                      Came for                Sti Tmacbsr T1mhhg
De nK (DE                    hm)  omt                    CA.r (CETEPAR)
lIi~ 1111
Id R~omn It                                                                                                        X



-63-                          Annex 4
EDUCATIONAL DECENTRALIZATION IN PARANA
Since the mid 1980s, the State of Parand has been implementing a
policy of "municipalization," in education as well as other sectors,
consisting of the gradual decentralization of selected responsibilities and
resources to the municipal level. As of 1986, the state government stopped
hiring teachers for grades one through four. Municipalities were encouraged
to hire' teachers to fill positions in state schools while the Secretariat of
Education (SEED) transferred resources to the municipalities to pay for
salaries.
With the adoption of a new state constitution in 1991, the state
stopped transferring resources to the municipalities to pay for the teachers
they had hired. Instead, it revised its "municipalization" program through
the establishment of a "cooperative agreement of education partnership." Out
of 371 municipalities, 92 signed the agreement in the beginning of 1992
while at the end of the year the number had risen to 260. As of July 1993, a
total of 303 municipalities in Parana, or 81 percent of the total, had entered
into partnership agreements.
Municipalities entering into a partnership agreement with the state
agree to: (i) spend the Constitutionally mandated minimum of 25 percent of
their tax revenue on education; (ii) assume the responsibility for
administration, upkeep and maintenance of (formerly) state schools serving
the first four grades of primary school within its jurisdiction; (iii) assume the
responsibility for replacing state-seconded teachers who retire or otherwise
leave the system; (iv) establish and maintain minimum qualifications for
teachers; (vi) regularly provide SEED with enrollment and expenditure
information; and (v) maintain the ciclo basico in primary schools turned over
to the municipality.
For its part, the state assumes responsibility for: (i) seconding state
teachers to the municipality with full payment of salaries as well as pensions
upon retirement; (ii) investing in renovations to school buildings before
turning them over to the municipality, and maintaining those buildings
serving grades 1-8; (iii) providing training and technical assistance; and (iv)
providing supplementary funding to those municipalities not able to attain a
minimum expenditure per student within the mandated 25 percent of their
own budgets. Currently, the only direct way of transferring educational
resources to the municipalities is under the "municipalization" program.
Financial transfers are based on a minimum percentage of the state portion of
the "saldrio educafao," and are made on a quarterly basis. In order to
verify that a municipality has in fact spent 25 percent of its tax revenue on
education-related expenditures, the partnership contract requires the
municipality to provide a certification of such by the state auditing agency.
In order to determine which municipalities are entitled to receive resources
and how much each one will receive, SEED uses a formula' that takes into
consideration a municipality's average monthly revenue (established by the
Constitution), total enrollment of state and municipal schools, and a pre-



-64-                         Annex 4
established monthly cost-per student determined by SEED. While transfers
are done on a monthly basis and used for recurrent expenditures, the formula
is calculated every three months. Whether a municipality receives additional
funding, and how much, can fluctuate from quarter to quarter depending on
its tax situation and school attendance records.
In order to examine how the transfer system is working in the State of
Parana after the process of "municipalization" started, a sample of 42
municipalities representing the 373 existing municipalities was selected and
analyzed. The following were some of the findings about the behavior of
educational expenditures in 1991: a) 20.5 percent of the resources of the
"non-municipalized" municipalities were from taxes, while only 5 percent of
the resources of the "municipalized" municipalities were from taxes.
Municipalities with the least tax collection capacity appear to be the ones
who are most likely to benefit from "municipalization," and they therefore
have an incentive to sign an agreement (convenio) with the state government;
b) capital expenditures of the "non-municipalized" municipalities represented
28.2 percent of the total expenditures while for the "municipalized" ones that
percentage was 15.6 percent, leading to the conclusion that non-
municipalized municipalities have greater capacity to invest in construction
and equipment; c) in terms of total education spending as a percentage of the
municipal budget, there does not seem to be much variation between
"municipalized" and "non-municipalized" municipalities: an average of 24.7
percent of the total expenditure was allocated to education in the 42
municipalities, with a variation of only 2 percent between the
"municipalized" and "non-municipalized" ones.
In the short-run, the formula being used for the transfer of resources
is advantageous for the municipalities that have greater enrollment than their
financial capacity, since they receive additional resources to support the
additional enrollment. However, for those municipalities that have financial
capacity greater than enrollment the agreement is disadvantageous since they
will have to shoulder the responsibility of the state schools while not
receiving any transfers from SEED. For this reason, several of the larger
and richer municipalities have not yet signed a partnership agreement with
the State government.
The long-run tendency is that municipalities will be responsible for
more expenses as they undertake the responsibility of maintaining and
increasing the number of schools in the municipal system, as well as hiring
teachers to substitute state teachers that have retired. Since teachers retire
with 25 years of service and since the state stopped hiring new teachers in
1986, after the year 2011 all the teachers for grades 1-4 in the education
system of Parana could presumably be hired by municipalities. Thus, state
expenditures should gradually decline while municipal expenditures increase.



-65-                                       Annex
1.                 The trnsfer formula is calculated in the following way:
Formula I -                                     CFM  - (RTMA * 25%)ICAM
Where:             CFM ->  Financial ceapacity for current enrollment
CAM -> Monthly Student Cost (cetablished by SEED)
RTMA - > Average monthly tax revenues are calculated making the adjustment for monthly
inflation;
Note:              If formula I yields a nurnber larger tham the total number of students in both mnunicipal and
stte schools, the municipality will not receive any state transfers. Otherwise, the municipality
will receive state transfers.
Formuls 2 -                                     VPCA = [(MAM * 100)/CFMI - 100
Where:             VPCA -> Variable percentage of enrollment capacity (this number is a % and can be either
positive or negative)
MAM - > Current enroHmnent in municipality
Note:              When the  umlt is positive, it means that the municipality is spending more than 25 % of its
resources on education; when the result is negative it means that the municipality is spending
less than 25% of its resources on education.
If VPCA is > or - 80 % SEED will increase by 20% the monthly sudent cost
using the following formula:
CAM * 1.20 X (MAM - CFM)
If VPCA rangs from .01 % to 79.99 % then:
CAM * (MAM - CFM)
If VPCA rangcs from -20% to 0% then:
CAM *35



-66-                        Annex 5
REGIONAL IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGY
FOR TEACHER TRAINING AND INSTRUCIIONAL MATERIALS
For the implementation of the teacher training component and ins'ructional materials
other than books, SEED has defined a gradualist strategy of implementation by region. In
the first year of the project, SEED would distribute materials and train teachers and other
personnel associated with the seven SEED regional offices (Nucleos Regionais de Ensino) in
the Curitiba Metropolitan and Northwest regions of the state. In the second year of the
project, training activities would be extended to state and municipal schools associated with
an additional ten SEED regional offices. Schools in these regions would also receive
instructional materials in the second year of the project. By the third year of the project, all
schools will have received materials and will have been incorporated into the training
program.
Table 1: Overall Schedule for Implementing the Project
Y-=ea                      SEED Regional Offices (Ntcleos)
1994
North Metropolitan Area
South Metropolitan Area
Curitiba
Assis Chateaubriand
Cascavel
Foz do Iguacu
Toledo
1995                       Paranagua
Ponto Grossa
Telemaco Borba
Uniao da Vit6ria
Wenceslau Braz
Jacarezinho
Apucarana
Paranavaf



-67-                       Annex
Table 1: Overall Schedule for Implementing the Project
Maringa
Londrina
1996                      Irati
Nova Londrina
Ivaipora
Umuarama
Cianorte
Campo Mourao
Goioere
Pitanga
Cornelio Proc6pio
Francisco Beltrao
Dois Vizinhos
Pato Branco
Guarapuava



-68-                                      Annex S
Table 2: Parana Basic Education Teacher Training
Target Number of Trainees by Region
Region I Rcgion 2 - egjon 3-
State Schools
Urban
Principals            799      1107       984
Specialists           883      1223       800
Pre-school            493       470       417
Grades 1-4           5876      8019      6300
Grades 5-8           7528      8907      7220
Spec. Ed.             297       395       334
Librarians            810      1110       960
Rural
Principals             74        54       133
Specialists            27        23        28
Pre-school             20        40        23
Grades 1-4            584       954      1003
Grades 5-8            569       375      1099
Spec. Ed.               0        13         6
Librarians             90        60       120
Municipal Schools
Urban
Principals            266        35       277
Specialists           268       543        75
Pre-school            429      1325       593
Grades 1-4           3599      6456      2026
Grades 5-8            239       679       121
Spec. Ed.              81        96        19
Librarians            270       540       240
Rural
Principals             79        59        55
Specialists            32        24         0
Pre-school            116       128       154
Grades 1-4           2837      3384      6529
Grades 5-8            115       223       120
Spec. Ed.               4         8         6
Librarians             90        60        60
Total Number of Trainees              26,475    36,310    29,702
Source: FUNDEPAR 1990



-69-                               Annex 6
PRELIMINARY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT MONITORING AND EVALUATION
As agreed during project preparation and specified in draft form in the project's
Operational Manual, monitoring under the Parana Basic Education Quality project will be
divided into two phases: (i) monitoring of the physical and financial implementation of the
project; and (ii) monitoring of indicators related to project goals. Monitoring activities will also
take place at two levels: (i) the level of central executing agencies, regional SEED offices
(NREs), and municipalities; and (ii) the level of the schools themselves. Aggregate level data
available at the SEED, NRE, and municipal levels through existing or newly created information
systems will be checked through annual surveys done in a random sample of schools. These
surveys will involve actual visits by researchers to schools, and not merely responses to mailed
questionnaires. Responsibility for oversight of monitoring activities will be vested in the Project
Coordination Unit, with outside technical assistance as needed.
IMPLEMENTATION INDICATORS
Implementation indicators are here defined as quantitative measures of each component's
physical implementation targets, and are intended as a checklist for supervision and reporting
purposes. More qualitative evaluation (for example, of the teacher training component) will
be done through separate studies or surveys. The principal indicators to be regularly tracked
are listed in Table 6A.
OUTCOME INDICATORS
The project's overall goal is to improve educational attainment in the state of Parana, as
defined by increases in student learning and graduation from primary school. Progress toward
this goal will be measured by the following indicators: (i) percentage of students reaching fifth
grade with a maximum of one repetition; (ii) the percent of students reaching eighth grade with
a maximum of two repetitions; (iii) changes in the overall success rate for children in the first
to fourth grades; (iv) changes in the overall success rate for children in the fifth to eighth grades;
(v) results on standardized tests in portuguese given to fourth graders; and (vii) results on
standardized tests in mathematics given to fourth graders. A summary of these indicators and
the methodology to be used in calculating them are presented in Table 6B.
Although it will only be possible to attribute changes in these indicators to project
activities through a structured project impact study (contemplated under the Studies and
Evaluation component), these overall indicators, like the implementation indicators, will be
tracked on an annual basis. Simulations of student flow done using the Kline/Costa Ribeiro
methodology for correcting official statistics found that in 1990, 45 percent of students
completed 5th grade with a maximum of one repetition, while 15 percent of students completed
8th grade with a maximum of two repetitions (see Table 6C). Taldng these rates as a baseline
for the start of the project, the targets for improving system efficiency by the end of the project



-70-                               Annex C
were set at 60 percent of students reaching 5th grade with a maximum of one repetition, and 25
percent of students reaching 8th grade with a maximum of two repetitions (see Table 6D).
Given that passage from lower primary to higher primary grades is highly correlated with the
likelihood of completion of eighth grade, improvements in this measure are also taken as a
trigger of improvements in the overall rate of completion of primary school. The first round
of standardized tests to be developed by the state (scheduled for fall of 1994) will serve as the
baseline for monitoring learning achievement. Although success rates from 1985 to 1990 are
presented in Table 6E, it was decided that given the fairly recent introduction of the CBA (ciclo
bdsico de alfabetizapao) in 1988, more recent data was needed in order to establish a reliable
baseline and set targets.



-71-                                       Annex 6
Table 6A - Parana Basic Education Quality Project - Implementation Indicators
Compont                                         .Indicator(s)
I. Instructional Materials
Textbooks                                     (a) percent of textbooks provided relative to
planned;
(b) percent of children with textbooks
Educational Materials                         (a) percent of schools receiving educational
materials;
(b) percent of children benefitting
Library Enrichment                            (a) percent of schools receiving books and/or
vouchers;
(b) percent of children benefitting
II. Teacher Training                             (a) percent of teachers, principals, supervisors, and
librarians trained relative to planned
Ill. School Upgrading                            (a) number of new classrooms built;
(b) percent of estimated demand covered;
(c) number of students directly benefitting
IV. Institutional Development
Assessment Program                            (a) percent of schools receiving analysis of
assessment results
Information Systems                           (a) percent of microcomputers distributed to
schools, NREs and municipalities relative to
planned;
(b) percent of administrators trained in use of
computers;
(c) average delay (days, months, years) in
availability of selected system information
Management Reforms                            (a) percent of schools receiving management
manuals;
(b) percent of municipalities in partnership
agreements with the State;
(c) percent of students in grades 1-4 in municipal or
municipalized schools;
(d) percent of municipalities receiving training
under the project
Quality Improvement Prize                    (a) percent of schools, NREs and municipalities
participating in program;
(b) number of schools, NREs and municipalities
receiving prizes



-72-                                      Annex 6
[Component                                       Indicator(s)
V. Studies and Evaluation                      (a) number of studies contracted and completed
relative to planned;
(b) percent of schools, NREs and municipalities
receiving study findings
Table 6B - Parana Basic Education Quality Project - Outcome Indicators
[Indicator(s)                  |_Methodology                   [Level of Data Aggregation
Indicators of System Efficiency
Percent of students reaching 5th    Ruben Kline/Sergio Costa Ribeiro   State (both state and municipal
grade with maximum of one      PROFLUXO model for cohort       systems)
repetition                     simulation
Percent of students reaching 8th   Idem                        Idem
grade with maximum of two
repetitions
Success rate for grades 1-4    Total number of students        Municipality by system (state and
promoted in the first four grades    municipal)
divided by the initial enrollment
minus transfers in same grades.
Success rate for grades 5-8    Idem                            Idem
Indicators of Leaning
Achievement
Results of Portuguese tests given   Criterion-referenced standardized    NRE by system (municipal and
to 4th graders in both state and    tests, given to a random sample    state)
municipal systems              of 4th graders.
Results of Mathematics tests   Idem                            Idem
given to 4th graders in both state
and municipal systems



-73-                                      Annex 6
Table 6C - Paramn - Estimates of System Efficiency Indicators Based on Simulations of Student Flow
Year    Percent of Students Reaching 5th   Percent of Students Finishing 8th
Grade with a Maximum of One     Grade with a Maximum of Two
l_____  Repetition                       Repetitions
1981    26                              9
1982    29                              8
1983    29                               10
1984    26                              8
1985    35                               12
1986    28                              8
1987    39                               15
1988    46                               18
1989    39                               14
1990    45                               15
Table 6D - Parana Basic Education Quality Project - Annual System Efficiency Targets
Year    Percent of Students Reaching 5th   Percent of Students Finishing 8th
Grade with a Maximum of One     Grade with a Maximum of Two
Repetition                      Repetitions
1994*   45                               15
1995    48                               17
1996    51                               19
1997    54                              21
1998    57                              23
1999    60                              25
Base Year



-74-                                         Annex6
Table 6E - Paman - Estimated Success Rates (Primary School)
Year       Total Success Rate: Grades 1-4     Total Success Rate: Grades 5-8
1985       71                                 78
1986       70                                 77
1987       71                                 78
1988       72                                 78
1989       73                                 76
1990       76                                 77



-75-                        Annex7
BRAZIL
PARANA BASIC EDUCATION QUALlTY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
1.    Estado do Parana, Secretaria de Estado do Planejamento e
Coordenacao Geral. Proposta do Plano Plurianual. 1992-1995.
September 1991.
2.    Estado do Parana, Secretaria de Estado da Educacao. Plano Global
Educaco Basica. 1992-1995. 1991.
3.    Original Project Proposal - SEED/PR. Projeto Qualidade no Ensino
Publico do Parana. July 1992
4.    SEED/PR. Projeto Qualidade no Ensino Publico do Parana -- Roteiro
para Discussao. October 1992
5.    SEED/PR. Projeto Qualidade no Ensino Publico do Parana --
Resumo Executivo June 1993.
6.    SEED/PR. Projeto Qualidade no Ensino Publico do Parana --
Capacitagco dos Recursos Humanos da Educaco, June 1993; revised
version May 1994.
7.    SEED/PR. Projeto Qualidade no Ensino Publico do Parana --
Desenvolvimento Institucional, June 1993; revised version, May 1994.
8.    SEED/PR. Projeto Qualidade no Ensino Publico do ParanA -- Saude
Escolar, June 1993
9.    SEED/PR. Projeto Qualidade no Ensino Pu'blico do Parana --
Materiais Pedag6gicos e Equipamentos, June 1993; revised version
May 1994.
10.   SEED/PR. Projeto Qualidade no Ensino Publico do Paran5 --
Expansao da Rede Ffsica -- October 1993
11.   SEED/PR. Projeto Qualidade no Ensino Publico do Paran5 --
Estudos, Pesquisas e Avaliaqao, July 1993
12.   SEED/PR. Projeto Qualidade no Ensino Publico do Parana -- Rede
Ffsica. Detalhamentos Complementares, July 1993
13.   SEED/PR. Informac6es Sobre o Processo de Parceria
Educacional/Munipalizacao 1992-1993.
14.   Marques, A.E.S. and Xavier, A.C.R. 0 Financiamento da Educaco
no Parana. Brasflia: October 1993 (final version)



-76-                       Annex7
15.   Klein, Ruben and Ribeiro, Sergio Costa. 0 Fluxo dos Alunos do
Primeiro Grau no Estado do Parana na Decada de 1980. November
1993.
16.   Bank Appraisal Mission Back-to-Office Report, July 28, 1993.
17.   Pielemier, Nancy. Parana Basic Education Project -- Final Appraisal,
School Health Component. Consultant Report.
18.   SEED/PR. Manual de Operacoes. Preliminary Version, May 1994.
19.   Declaration on Policies for the Improvement of Basic Education in
Parana, May 1994.
20.   Govemo do Estado do Paranl. Copies of Decrees Number 3134 and
3135, Establishing the Conselho Consultivo (Coordinating Committee)
and the Project Management Unit.
21.   Preliminary terms of reference for studies proposed under the Studies
and Evaluation Component.












BRAZIL                                                                       SAO           PAULO
STATE OF PARANA
BASIC EDUCATION QUALITY PROJECT
,   . .-A  Region Centers
I'  J                                                                                          f Jocarez,ntr-                         Region Boundories
MATO   GROSSO                          ,6                   i                                                                      . .....r                                   State Capitol
MOrnqo  co               J               )                    -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~State Boundaries
D O     S U L                                                                                    A , A  , '                                                                 International Boundaries
-                   *        ~        I                   A..:um              As   ro>                                     -is              44                                              1      
>*   ty   ;             LC         \  /       8 .        >         t                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOmETERS
>~~~~~~Uoor 0s,}Cmosora                                       ,                     6-   
/~~~~~_n
PARAGUAY                                                                                                             /
;                  ~~ACascaeI                                                                                                   f                          (
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The  o-no -  .      -                                                                                   I-                     a.-       -5i/5.        oonto G-rso
other Informot,on show,.n                                                                         LMr .A 
nithy.  o po   of            /                                         _                                                          I              j
The .World Book Groop.                                                                                           A
ony jadgmns.n on the iego0  ,                                        r. II  g,
status of ony territory,   'i                                                                                                                                  g            **       ( oEff   
or any   endorsement                                                                                                                                                         Cu tba
boandar,es                    4r                s                                       sc h                                                                                                 PoraCUagob
COcDsBr>    \t>.. (L GM
rAg.   rcclPATO  BRANCO                            UniodoV 6o
K., _                 BRAZIL RZ I L
i   \            4 Bro~tns IIQ          Z   I                                                    __ 
9. "LLA                                     z                                  
_ CHII Y                                                                                        i  '[                 G  - \ ! SAN TA  CATARINA
_        /  ArScErN rNA                                                                                                                                                                                                    10 /h
P  0
[UPUAY                  Af                                                                                                                                                                   co



