Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3766 BR
Loan Agreement
(Parana Basic Education Quality Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF PARANA
Dated October 26, 1994
LOAN NUMBER 3766 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 26, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF PARANA (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of 
the Project; and
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as sub-paragraph (l) and 
a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)
An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 
3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Annual Implementation Plan" means the plan referred to in Section 3.07 
of this Agreement;
(b)
"ARE" means Avaliac§o do Rendimento Escolar, the Borrower's system to 
evaluate the Basic Education (as hereinafter defined) within its territory;
(c)
"Basic Education" means grades one (1) through (8) of primary education 
in the territory of the Guarantor;
(d)
"Conselho Consultivo" means the committee established pursuant to the 
Borrower's Decree No. 3134, of March 30, 1994, for purposes of coordinating the 
different agencies and departments of the Borrower involved in the implementation of 
the Project;
(e)
"Convenio" means any of the agreements referred to in Section 3.01 (f) of 
this Agreement;
(f)
"Education Policy Letter" means the letter from the Borrower to Bank 
dated September 23, 1994 describing the Borrower's policies and actions in the 
educational sector, as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement between 
the Bank and the Borrower;
(g)
"Eligible Municipality" means any of the municipalities located in the 
Borrower's territory that has entered into a Partnership Agreement (as hereinafter 
defined);
(h)
"Eligible School" means any State School (as hereinafter defined) or 
Municipal School (as hereinafter defined) of an Eligible Municipality, which complies 
with the relevant eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual (as 
hereinafter defined);
(i)
"MBD" means the model bidding documents for the procurement of goods and 
works in accordance with Part C.1 of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, set 
forth in the Operational Manual;
(j)
"Monitoring Indicators" means the monitoring indicators set forth in the 
Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined);
(k)
"Municipal School" means a Basic Education school administered by a 
municipality within the Borrower's territory;
(l)
"Municipal Subproject" means any civil work under Part C.1 of the Project 
to be carried out by an Eligible Municipality under a Convenio;
(m)
"Operational Manual" means the manual attached to the letter from the 
Borrower to the Bank dated September 16, 1994, as the same may be amended from time to 
time by agreement between the Bank and SEED (as hereinafter defined);
Page  3
(n)
"Other Services" means services, other than consultants' services, 
including, inter alia, printing, graphics, packaging, data processing and advertising;
(o)
"Partnership Agreement" means any of the agreements entered, or to be 
entered into between the Borrower and a municipality, in accordance with Section 3.01 
(e) of this Agreement, providing for the administration by such municipality of State 
Schools located in its territory;
(p)
"PCU" means the Project coordination unit established pursuant to the 
Borrower's Decree No. 3135, of March 30, 1994, for purposes of coordinating the 
execution of the Project;
(q)
"Project Implementation Plan" means the 5-year plan to implement the 
Project set forth in the Operational Manual, as the same may be amended from time to 
time by agreement between the Bank and SEED (as hereinafter defined);
(r)
"SEED" means Secretaria Estadual de Educac§o, the Borrower's Secretariat 
of Education;
(s)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(t)
"State School" means a Basic Education school administered by the 
Borrower; and
(u)
"Textbook Plan" means the plan set forth in the letter from the Borrower 
to the Bank dated September 16, 1994, as the same may be amended from time to time by 
agreement between the Bank and SEED.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of ninety six million Dollars 
($96,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals  of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
Page  4
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined 
in respect of such Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%). On each of the dates specified 
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
pay interest accrued on 
the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, 
calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify  the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings 
determined in respect of 
such Quarter."
"(c)
(iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, in accordance with the Annual Implementation Plan, the Education 
Policy Letter and the manual referred  to in Section 3.05 (a), with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate educational, administrative, 
engineering, training, managerial and environmental practices, and shall provide or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall maintain the Conselho Consultivo, with members, 
structure and functions all satisfactory to the Bank, such members to include 
representatives of the directors of the Borrower's agencies and departments involved 
in the implementation of the Project.
(c)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
Page  5
this Section, the Borrower shall maintain the PCU, with management, structure, funds, 
equipment and functions all satisfactory to the Bank, and with staff in adequate 
number and with adequate qualifications.
(d)
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (a), the Borrower 
shall carry out all Parts of the Project other than Part F, in accordance with the 
Operational Manual which includes, inter alia, the Monitoring Indicators, the Project 
Implementation Plan, the eligibility
criteria for schools to take part in Project implementation and the MBD.
(e)
The Borrower shall enter into Partnership Agreements, underterms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, with municipalities that shall take part in the 
execution of the Project.
(f)
The Borrower shall enter into agreements, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank (the Convenios), with Eligible Municipalities to be selected 
in accordance with the Operational Manual, providing for the implementation by such 
Eligible Municipality of civil works under the Project within its jurisdiction. Such 
Convenios to include, inter alia:
(i)
the obligation of the Borrower to transfer to the relevant 
Eligible 
Municipality the part of the proceeds of the 
Loan allocated from time to time 
to Category (1) of the table set forth 
in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, required by such 
Eligible Municipality to carry out Part C.1 of the 
Project within its 
jurisdiction; and
(ii)
the obligation of the respective Eligible Municipality to comply, 
in relation 
to the portion of the Loan disbursed to such Eligible 
Municipality, with all 
relevant provisions of this Agreement and the 
General Conditions, including, 
inter alia, the provisions related to 
procurement, insurance, use of services, 
records, reports, audits, 
maintenance, land acquisition and environment.
(g)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Partnership Agreements 
and Convenios in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, the 
Guarantor and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower  shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or 
fail to enforce the Partnership Agreements and Convenios or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) Unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, not later than the first 
school day of each school year, beginning in the school year of 1995, the Borrower 
shall provide, or shall cause to be provided, textbooks to all students in Basic 
Education grades of State Schools and Municipal Schools, for their use during such 
school year.
(b)
The Borrower shall implement the Textbook Plan in a manner and under a 
timetable satisfactory to the Bank; the implementation of such plan in relation to the 
students of Municipal Schools in a municipality other than an Eligible Municipality 
shall be considered satisfactory to the Bank if carried out to the extent permited by 
such municipality.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)
adopt a manual, satisfactory to the Bank, detailing the criteria and 
procedures for implementing Part F of the Project. Such manual shall establish, inter 
alia, the criteria for selection and approval of rewards, including a margin of 
preference to be given to Eligible Municipalities and Eligible Schools located in poor 
areas; and
(b)
implement Part F of the Project in accordance with the manual referred to 
in paragraph (a) above.
Page  6
Section 3.05. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank:
(a)
not later than March 15 of each year during the execution of the Project, 
starting in 1995, an annual implementation report on the Project for the previous 
calendar year, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
including, inter alia, an assessment of  the Borrower's and the Eligible 
Municipalities' progress in the implementation of the Project, in accordance with the 
Monitoring Indicators; and
(b)
not later than 28 months after the Effective Date, a mid-term progress 
report (mid-term progress report), of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonable request, including, inter alia, a report on the Borrower's and Eligible 
Municipalities' sources and uses of educational funds.
Section 3.06. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than April 30 of each year during the execution of the Project, 
starting in 1995, hold annual reviews jointly with the Bank, such reviews to be based 
on the reports referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement and to focus, inter 
alia, on the progress in the execution of the Project during the preceding year and in 
the guidelines for the preparation of the Annual Implementation Plan;
(b)
not later than 30 months after the Effective Date, review with the Bank 
(mid-term review), in addition to the items referred to in paragraph (a) above: (i) 
the overall progress of the Project based on the Monitoring Indicators; (ii) Project 
management issues, if any; and (iii) the state and municipal education sector spending 
and its effects on the Project's implementation and goals; and
(c)
take or cause to be taken all such action which shall have been agreed by 
the Bank and the Borrower during the reviews referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) 
above, as necessary for the efficient execution of the Project or the achievement of 
its objectives, such action to be taken in a manner and within the timetable agreed 
upon during such reviews.
Section 3.07. By no later than June 30 of each year during the execution of the 
Project, the Borrower shall  furnish to the Bank an annual implementation plan, 
satisfactory to the Bank (the Annual Implementation Plan), detailing the activities 
under the Project to be carried out during 
the next succeeding year, including, inter alia, the civil works under Part C of the 
Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a training plan, 
satisfactory to the Bank, detailing the training activities for the first twelve (12) 
months of training under the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the respective operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year the report of 
Page  7
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested;
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank monthly certified statements of the Special 
Account; and
(iv)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts as well as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Bank has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account or payment out of the 
Special Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the Guarantor's Central 
Bank; and
(b)
all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be performed or given by 
the Guarantor, the Borrower, by an agency thereof, or otherwise to be performed or 
given in order to authorize the carrying out of the Project and to enable the 
Guarantor and the Borrower to perform their  respective obligations pursuant to the 
Guarantee Agreement and this Agreement, together with all necessary powers and rights 
in connection therewith, have been performed or given.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the Guarantor's 
Central Bank; and
(b)
that all necessary acts, consents and approvals, together with all 
necessary powers and rights in connection therewith, have been duly and validly 
performed or given and that no such other acts, consents or approvals are required in 
order to authorize the carrying out of the  Project and to enable the Guarantor and 
the Borrower to perform all of their respective covenants, agreements and obligations 
contained in the Guarantee Agreement and this Agreement, respectively.
Section 5.03. The date January 25, 1995 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Page  8
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary of Education of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For the Borrower:
Secretaria de Estado da Educacao
Av. Agua Verde 1680
80240-900 Curitiba
Parana
Brazil
Telex:
(41) 32197
With copies to:
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Secretaria de Planejamento, Orcamento e
Coordenacao da Presidencia da Republica
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco "K", 5o andar
70040-906, Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
61-1146
Secretaria de Estado do Planejamento
   e Coordenacao Geral
Rua Marechal Hermes 999
Edificio Presidente Castello Branco
Centro Civico
80530-230 Curitiba
Parana
Brazil
Telex:
41-6172
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
Page  9
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
STATE OF PARANA
By /s/ Mario Pereira
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Civil works              30,200,000        50%
(2)  (a) Equipment and        14,200,000        100% of foreign
         and furniture                          expenditures and
                                                50% of local
                                                expenditures
     (b) Reading               5,300,000        100% of foreign
         books                                  expenditures and
                                                65% of local
                                                expenditures
     (c) Other instruc-       14,200,000        100% of foreign
         tional materials                       expenditures and
                                                65% of local
                                                expenditures
(3)  (a) Consultants'          6,800,000        100% of foreign
         services                               expenditures and
                                                75% of local
                                                expenditures
     (b) Training:                              100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
         (i) for teachers     17,500,000        65% of local
                                                expenditures
Page  10
        (ii) other               900,000
     (c) Other Services        1,100,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                70% of local
                                                expenditures
(4)  Education Quality           800,000        70% of the
     Improvement                                expenditures
     Rewards
(5)  Unallocated               5,000,000
                              __________
          TOTAL               96,000,000
                              ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "Training" means the costs of course development and 
implementation, including, inter alia: transportation and per diem of trainers and 
trainees, fellowships, and course materials; and
(d)
the term "Education Quality Improvement Rewards" means the rewards to 
Eligible Schools, Eligible Municipalities or SEED's regional offices under Part F of 
the Project, selected by the Borrower in accordance with the manual referred to in 
Section 3.05 (a) of the Loan Agreement, used by such schools, municipalities or 
regional offices for educational activities .
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
$5,000,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1) through (3) on account of payments 
made for expenditures before that date but after a date which is the latter of June 
28, 1993 or a date twelve (12) months before the date of this Agreement;
(b)
payments for expenditures incurred by, on behalf of, or for the benefit 
of a municipality other than an Eligible Municipality;
(c)
payments for expenditures incurred under a Municipal Subproject, unless 
the Bank has been furnished with evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the 
respective Convenio has been executed;
(d)
payments made for Part B of the Project, unless the Bank has been 
furnished with the training plan referred to in Section 3.08 of the Loan Agreement;
(e)
payments made for textbooks; and
 
(f)
payments made for Part F of the Project, unless the Bank has been 
furnished with the manual referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of the Loan Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for goods and works not 
exceeding the equivalent of $300,000 for goods and $400,000 for works, and contracts 
for consultants' services not exceeding
$100,000 equivalent for firms and $50,000 equivalent for individuals, under such terms 
and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Page  11
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve learning achievement and 
educational attainment among Basic Education school students in the territory of the 
Borrower, through programs aimed at: (a) improving children and teachers' access to 
adequate quantities of learning materials; (b) improving teachers' effectiveness in 
the classroom; (c) providing children and teachers working in low-income urban areas 
with physical space adequate for learning; (d) providing Eligible Schools and Eligible 
Municipalities with tools, skills and incentives to enhance management practices and  
assume new responsibilities; and (e) achieving greater equity between the state and 
municipal school systems in terms of spending per student and availability of 
essential educational inputs.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Instructional Materials
 
1.
Yearly provision of textbooks to each student in the Basic Education grades of 
State Schools and Municipal Schools.
2.
Provision to students in Eligible Schools of instructional materials, other than 
books, including, inter alia:
(a)
maps, games and reading, science and mathematics aids to urban and rural 
schools; and
(b)
television sets and video-cassette recorders, to large urban schools.
 
3.
Establishment and upgrading school library collections of Eligible Schools.
 
Part B:
Teacher Training
 
1.
Provision of training to approximately 93,000 principals, supervisors, teachers 
and librarians of Eligible Schools, including:
(a)
training in methodological issues such as classroom management, 
utilization of materials and student evaluation; and
(b)
training in the principal areas of the Borrower's Basic Education 
curriculum, including Mathematics, Portuguese, Science, History and Geography.
2.
Provision of training to approximately 1,000 SEED and Eligible Municipalities' 
staff involved in the development and implementation of training programs.
3.
Development of trainers for Part B.1 of the Project.
 
Part C:
School Upgrading
 
1.
Construction and furnishing of approximately 1,150 new classrooms in low-income 
areas.
2.
Renovation of SEED's central offices.
 
Part D:
Institutional Development
 
1.
Provision of training in procurement, disbursement, planning and other 
managerial and administrative areas to staff involved in Project implementation.
2.
Development, implementation, and operation of a Project computerized accounting 
and monitoring system.
3.
Development of the Borrower's assessment capacity, through the implementation of 
the ARE, including dissemination of results to policy makers, school principals and 
Page  12
teachers.
4.
Development of an integrated and decentralized management information system, 
including:
(a)
evaluation and revision of the data collection and reporting systems at 
SEED's central and regional offices;
(b)
installation of computer equipment in SEED,  Eligible Municipalities and 
Eligible Schools; and
(c)
provision of computer training courses for managers and approximately 
8,000 users.
Part E:
Strengthening of Management and Planning
 
Strengthening of the management and planning of Basic Education within the 
Borrower's territory, including:
(a)
definition, in conjunction with Eligible Municipalities, of minimum 
quality indicators;
(b)
technical assistance to the Borrower and Eligible Municipalities and 
management training for approximately 1,880 staff members of SEED and the Eligible 
Municipalities;
(c)
evaluation of management mechanisms under the Partnership Agreements;
 
(d)
development of a proposal for the reorganization of SEED aimed at 
reflecting changing responsibilities within a decentralized system; and
(e)
development of a series of school management manuals, aimed at assisting 
school councils and principals in managing non-salary resources.
Part F:
Education Quality Improvement Activities
 
Rewards to Eligible Schools, Eligible Municipalities or SEED's regional offices 
for activities aimed at the improvement of basic education.
Part G:
Studies and Evaluation
 
1.
Carrying out of education policy studies, including, inter alia:
 
(a)
an evaluation of the implementation of the Borrower's basic literacy 
cycle (Ciclo Basico de Alfabetizac§o);
(b)
a study on the long-term financial implications of decentralization on 
both state and municipal finances; and
(c)
a study on the factors contributing to student repetition.
 
2.
Carrying out of Project evaluation studies, including, inter alia:
(a)
a project monitoring study, aimed at supplementing SEED's monitoring with 
periodic surveys;
(b)
ongoing evaluation of Part B of the Project; and
 
(c)
an impact evaluation of the Project in a stratified sample of schools.
 
3.
Dissemination of study results.
 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Page  13
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
 
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning February 15, 2000
through August 15, 2009
4,800,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a 
percentage per annum) applicable 
to the Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.87
Page  14
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two  predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one 
to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the local currency 
component of the bid price.  Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the 
bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part A, the 
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank for the 
use of its borrowers, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to 
be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding 
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based 
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped into 
bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more for goods and of 
more than $5,000,000 for works.
3.
For purposes of this Schedule, the term "works" includes Other Services.
 
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with the provisions of the Guidelines, provided, however, that:
1.
All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly indicate any 
preference which would be granted, the information required to establish the 
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages that 
will be followed in the comparison of bids.
2.
After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the following two 
groups:
(a)
Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil if the bidder shall 
have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that such goods 
contain components manufactured in Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of the 
complete goods.
(b)
Group B: bids offering any other goods.
 
3.
On order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group, all evaluated bids 
in each group shall first be compared among themselves, without taking into account 
customs duties and other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or 
the sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery of the 
goods pursuant to the bids. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be compared with 
Page  15
each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from group A is the lowest, 
it shall be selected for the award.
4.
If, as result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above, the lowest evaluated 
bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall be further compared with the lowest 
evaluated bid from Group A after adding:
(a)
to the evaluated bid price of goods to be imported in each group B bid an 
amount equal to the smaller of: (i) the amount of customs duties and other import 
taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation of the goods 
offered in such group B bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods; and
(b)
to the evaluated bid price of goods supplied domestically offered in each 
group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (i) the amount of customs duties and 
other import taxes which would be levied on the goods offered in such group B if they 
originated from the same foreign country as the bid included in group B which enjoys 
the lowest customs duties and other import taxes; or (ii) 15% of the evaluated bid 
price of such goods. If, as result of this comparison, the bid from group A is the 
lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if not, the lowest evaluated bid from 
group B, as determined under paragraph 3 above, shall be selected for the award.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
The following items may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Bank:
(a)
works estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $5,000,000 per 
contract;
(b)
goods, other than instructional materials, estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $300,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$4,000,000; and
(c)
instructional materials, estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or 
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $5,500,000.
2.
The following items may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under 
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank:
(a)
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $50,000 per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,000,000 for goods other than instructional 
materials, $2,900,000 for instructional materials other than books, and $4,800,000 for 
reading and reference books;
(b)
goods and works under Part F of the Project; and
 
(c)
works estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $100,000 percontract, 
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $16,800,000.
3.
Reading and reference books estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000 or less 
per contract, up to an amount equivalent to $5,000 for Eligible School and up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $4,800,000, procured by the relevant Eligible School 
directly from the publishers in book fairs, may be procured by direct contracting, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
4.
In the procurement of goods and works, including Other Services, in accordance 
with Part C.1 above, the Borrower shall use or cause to be used the MBD.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract to be awarded pursuant to the 
provisions of Part A of this Section; (ii) the first two contracts awarded under the 
procedures set forth in Part C.1; and (iii) each contract for works estimated to cost 
Page  16
the equivalent of $400,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be 
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the 
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Part E:
Other
 
For purposes of this Schedule and the Guidelines the term "custom duties and 
other import taxes" includes the Guarantor's Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the 
Merchant Marine (Adicional ao Frete para a Renovacao da Marinha Mercante - AFRMM), 
established by Decree Law 1.142 of December 30, 1970, as amended to December 31, 1987, 
or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, may 
substitute it, in whole or in part, after January 1, 1988.
Part F:
Special Provisions
 
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the 
Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement of goods and works to be 
undertaken pursuant to Part C.1 hereof:
1.
Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to be the 
lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever appropriate, 
to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in paragraph 2.51 of 
the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall always be based on 
factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for such quantification 
shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid.
2.
Whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised for at 
least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil.
3.
The arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for a joint-venture (consorcio) 
of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank in each case.
4.
The invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptances of bids, 
minimum and/or maximum amounts for the contract prices.
5.
The purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any change 
order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the quantity 
of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or other terms 
and conditions of sale.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower 
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). 
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under 
Page  17
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the 
Bank for the use of its borrowers, with such modifications as shall have been agreed 
by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, the  Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to
contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each with firms or to 
contracts estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each with individuals. 
However, this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to the terms of reference 
for such contracts or to single source selection of consultants, to assignments of a 
critical nature as reasonably determined by the Bank or to amendments of contracts 
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above for contracts with firms or 
$50,000 equivalent or above for contracts with individuals.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of  Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $6,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
Page  18
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unlss the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for Eligible 
Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
