Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2815-TUN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
SOCIETE TUNISIENNE DE L'ELECTRICITE ET DU GAZ
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
SECOND NATURAL GAS PIPELINE PROJECT
May 15, 1980
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Tunisian Dinar (DT)   =   US $2.5
1 US Dollar                  o 0.4 DT
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)                     =  0.62 miles
1 metric ton                         =  2,204 lb
1 ton of oil equivalent
(toe)                              =  39.7 million British Thermal
Units (btu)
1 ton of crude oil (360 API)         =  7.45 barrels
1 barrel of oil                      =  42 US gallons
1 cubic meter (m3)                   =  35.3 cubic feet
1 million cubic meters
Hassi R'Mel gas                    =  1000 toe
1 million cubic meters
El Borma gas                       =  1100 toe
Megawatt (MW)                        =  1000 kilowatts
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
LNG               -  Liquified Natural Gas
LPG               -  Liquified Petroleum Gas (a mixture of propane and butane)
ENI               -  Italian State Oil and Gas Company (Ente Nazionale
Idrocarburi)
ETAP              -  Tunisian Petroleum Company (Entreprise Tunisienne
d'Activites Petrolieres)
SNAM              -  State Pipelines Management and Gas Distribution
Company (Societa Nazionale Aziende Metanodotti), a
subsidiary of ENI
SOFREGAZ          -  French Gas Research and Engineering Company
(Societe Francaise d'Etudes et de Realisation
d'Equipements Gaziers)
'SONATRACH         -  Algerian National Company for Hydrocarbons
(Societe Nationale pour la Recherche, la Production,
le Transport, la Transformation et la
Commercialisation des Hydrocarbures)
SOTUGAT           -  Tunisian Trans-Tunisia Gas Pipeline Company (Societe
Tunisienne du Gazodue Transcontinental)
STEG              -  Tunisian Electricity and Gas Company
(Societe Tunisienne de l'Electricite et du Gaz)
TESA              -  Tunisia Engineering (S.A.)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TUNISIA
SECOND NATURAL GAS PIPELINE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Societe Tunisienne de l'Electricite et
du Gaz (STEG).
Guarantor:                Republic of Tunisia.
Amount:                  US$37 million equivalent.
Terms:                    17 years including 4 years of grace, with
interest at 8.25 percent per annum.
Project Description:    The project will help supply natural gas from the
Algeria-Italy pipeline to industrial users and power
plants in Tunisia's major cities. It comprises a
system of 330 km of main pipelines to Tunis, Sousse,
Gafsa and Tadjerouine, and about 170 km of branch
lines. It also provides for the conversion of cus-
tomers' equipment to enable them to use gas as well as
oil. The project includes consultancy services for
project design, engineering and management, as well
as studies on the technical, financial and economic
feasibility of supplying natural gas to small scale
industry and domestic consumers, and optimization
studies for Phase II of the pipeline system. Further-
more, a training program will be carried out in
Tunisia and abroad, for the management, technical and
operational staff for the purposes of the project.
Benefits and Risks:      The project will substitute natural gas, imported
on favorable terms, for higher cost fuel oil, thus
yielding a net foreign exchange saving of not less
A                                   than $120 million a year.  It will contribute to the
improvement of air quality in Tunisia's cities. The
risks associated with the project relate to dependency
on a single pipeline and a single supplier for some 50
percent of Tunisia's energy supplies, the possibility
of having to pay for gas even if not taken (such as
could arise should there be a major unforeseen slow-
down in the economy), and the risk of not finding
outlets on the international market for all fuel oil
to be exported. However, these risks are circumscribed
and therefore not likely to endanger the viability of
the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                            US $ Million
Local    Foreign    Total
Pipelaying                    16.0        16.0       32.0
Linepipe                         -         11.7       11.7
Valves, fittings
and metering                 1.7        11.0       12.7
Conversion                      2.5         5.0        7.5
Land and right of way           0.5          -         0.5
Studies and consultant
services                     1.8         2.0        3.8
Physical contingencies          1.6         2.7        4.3
Price contingencies             4.1         7.1       11.2
Taxes                          4.3           -         4.3
Total                     32.5         55.5      88.0 1/
Financing Plan:                                            US $ Million
Local    Foreign    Total
Bank                                      37.0       37.0
Government Equity              19.0         2.0       21.0 2/
Export credits                             12.0       12.0
Other                         13.5          4.5       18.0
Total                         32.5         55.5       88.0
Estimated
Disbursements                                            US $ Million
FY   1981        1982       1983
Annual                         20.0        14.0        3.0
Cumulative                    20.0         34.0       37.0
Rate of Return:       About 50 percent.
Staff Appraisal
Report             Report No. 2878-TUN of May 1, 1980
1/   Excludes $4.0 million of interest during construction which will be                        _A
provided by the Government.
2/   In addition, the Government will provide $4 million to cover interest
during construction, bringing its contribution to a total of $25 million.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE SOCIETE TUNISIENNE DE L'ELECTRICITE ET DU GAZ FOR A
SECOND NATURAL GAS PIPELINE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Societe Tunisienne de l'Electricite et du Gaz (STEG) with the guarantee
of the Republic of Tunisia, for the equivalent of US$37.0 million to help
finance the foreign exchange cost of a Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project.
The loan would have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with an
interest rate of 8.25 percent per annum. Financing for the remaining foreign
exchange cost of US$18.5 million would be obtained through export credits
(US$12.0 million) and from the Government (US$2.0 million) and from commercial
sources (US$4.5 million).
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic mission visited Tunisia in June 1978. Its report
entitled "Economic Position and Prospects of Tunisia" (No. 2201-TUN) was
issued on November 16, 1978. This part reflects its findings and those of an
updating mission which visited Tunisia in July 1979. Country Data sheets are
attached in Annex I.
3.        Tunisia is rather poorly endowed with agricultural resources.  Much
of the country is arid or semiarid. Agricultural activity is concentrated
along the coast in the North but continues to play an important role in
Tunisia's economic structure. The main crops are wheat and olives. These
crops are subject to sharp annual output fluctuations because of irregular
rainfall in the case of wheat and a natural production cycle for olives.
Tunisia's most important raw materials are phosphates and petroleum. The
large phosphate deposits are of low quality. Known oil reserves are rela-
tively small. Industrial development, although rapid, has been hampered by
shortages of industrial entrepreneurs, the small domestic market and difficul-
ties in marketing Tunisian products abroad. The most important sector is
services; during 1970-78 it generated about half of GDP, a quarter of that
sector's contribution consisting of government services. Tourism has developed
rapidly during the 1970s. Workers' remittances have become a significant item
A         in the balance of payments, generating about 12 percent of current account
receipts during 1970-78.
4.         Tunisia's economy has performed remarkably well during 1970-78.
Real GDP grew at an average annual rate of 8.1 percent, nearly twice as fast
as during the 1960s. Per capita GNP in 1978 reached $998, which in real terms
is some 67 percent above its level of 1969. Tunisia was one of the few
countries in the world whose per capita GNP during 1970-76 increased at an
average annual rate of 6 percent or more.
1/   Substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report No. P-2778-TUN
of April 18, 1980 for a Fourth Highways Project.



-2-
5.        This performance was partly attributable to improved economic man-
agement, and partly to fortuitous factors. In 1969, Tunisia changed its
inward-oriented investment strategy dominated by state activities. The new
policy orientations, announced during the 1970s, resulted in a change towards
a more open and export-oriented economy in which private initiative could play
an increasing role. A number of decontrol measures were introduced, albeit
slowly. Overall, the new policy orientation proved beneficial for the country.
In addition, the economy benefited from favorable weather conditions resulting
in good agricultural crops while the change in world market prices during
1973/74 brought sizeable windfalls as the terms of trade improved sharply.
This allowed domestic savings to increase to 21 percent of GDP during 1970-78,
compared with 15 percent during the 1960s.  Tunisia's dependence on external
financing declined from about 32 percent of investment in 1969 to 29 percent
in 1978; the share was as low as 15 percent during 1973-76, when gains from
the terms of trade were at their peak.  The balance of payments had been in
continuous overall surplus since 1967.  But after 1975, this was no longer the
case as the terms of trade began to deteriorate while imports continued to
increase rapidly.  In 1978 there was another turnaround and reserves increased
in the wake of heavy capital inflows. However, Tunisia's debt service payments
in relation to exports of goods and non-factor services (debt service ratio)
in 1978 were still a low 10.9 percent, compared with 20 percent in 1970.
6.        Rapid economic growth allowed Tunisia to make substantial social
gains during the 1970s. By 1976, primary school enrollment had reached 100
percent and secondary enrollment 20 percent of the relevant age groups.
Education is free through university. Public health services have been
expanded, with many services provided free. A family planning program has
been introduced and since 1973 has met with substantial success. The birth
rate declined from 43.8 per thousand in 1966 to 32.0 per thousand in 1978
while the rate of natural population growth declined from 3.0 to 2.6 percent
in the same period. Attempts have been made to reduce regional imbalances and
to improve the lot of the poor. The share of the population living in absolute
poverty declined from 30 percent in 1966 to 18 percent in 1975. However,
important disparities remain between income levels among individuals and
regions. In coping with the social aspects of development, Tunisia is con-
fronted with strongly increased aspirations of its population in the face of
limited natural and financial resources.
7.        The most important problem for the Tunisian economy is widespread
open and hidden unemployment. In 1978, about 13 percent of the labor force--
some 231,000 people--were unemployed and the unemployment rate is rising.
In addition, there is considerable hidden unemployment in agriculture which                    A
provided 39 percent of employment in 1978. If one considers that about
40 percent of this labor force does not have full time jobs, the effective
overall unemployment rate is more like 25 percent. An increasing number of
young people born during the high birth rate years are reaching working age
and a growing number of women are joining the labor force. About half of the
registered unemployed are young people seeking their first employment. These
are mostly relatively educated people whose job aspirations cannot be met.
8.        During 1970-78, agriculture provided more than 40 percent of total
employment, 25 percent of merchandise exports and 17 percent of GDP. Food
processing accounted for another 4 percent of GDP and comprised 35 percent



- 3 -
of value added in manufacturing. Agricultural production rose substantially,
largely as a result of favorable weather. Current policy, which emphasizes
projects that make a rapid and direct contribution to production, recognizes
various constraints on agricultural development: insecurity of land tenure;
inadequate access to agricultural credit; inadequate extension services;
insufficient agricultural education; and underutilization of irrigation
investments. Under the Fourth Plan (1973-76) about $140 million was allocated
to a rural development fund executed by the provincial administrations. These
rural development efforts are being continued under the current Plan (1977-81).
9.        During the 1960s, manufacturing production in Tunisia increased by 8
percent annually. This growth rate accelerated during 1970-78 to 10 percent
annually, due partly to record years for the olive oil processing industry and
to favorable developments in the textile and chemical industries. The early
thrust of industrialization came from large import substitution projects.
These suffered, however, from the small domestic market and shortages of
experienced staff and management. Since 1970, more emphasis has been put on
export-oriented private industries, particularly in food processing, textiles
and mechanical and electrical industries. Foreign and domestic private invest-
ment is now stimulated by a comprehensive incentive framework and facilitated
by streamlined approval procedures of the investment promotion agency. Apart
from finance, foreign investors are expected to contribute know-how and over-
seas marketing capability. Although an agreement between Tunisia and the
European Economic Community signed in April 1976 provided for duty free entry
into the Community of nearly all Tunisian industrial products, import restric-
tions on some of them were imposed in 1977 and 1978. The Government has estab-
lished a special fund to encourage growth of small industries and industrial
decentralization, and it has started a program to establish industrial estates.
10.       The development of tourism in Tunisia is relatively recent.  Foreign-
visitor arrivals reached 1.1 million in 1978, with an average annual rate
of growth during 1970-1978 of 13 percent -- sharply higher than that of the
Mediterranean tourism market as a whole. Since 1970, tourism has become a
major source of foreign exchange earnings, reaching $412 million in 1978; this
was slightly more than earnings from all manufacturing exports and was exceeded
only by petroleum exports. The rapid development of tourism in Tunisia has
created new demands on infrastructure (particularly recreational facilities),
trained manpower, and related services, which have been met only partly. The
Government is endeavoring to alleviate these constraints through a variety
of measures including revised investment incentives, increased marketing and
training efforts, codes to enforce quality standards, more stringent zoning
4             laws, and development of recreational facilities.
11.       The main objectives of the current Five-Year Plan (1977-81) are:
(i) full employment of the additions to the labor force; (ii) self-sufficiency
in major foodstuffs (defined as a balanced trade account for agricultural
goods); (iii) increases in the standard of living; and (iv) social stability
through incomes policies and wage and price harmonization. The Plan foresees
an average annual rate of real GDP growth of 7.3 percent. This is somewhat
below the 9.2 percent achieved during 1970-76, mainly because the fortuitous
factors prevalent during the early 1970s were not expected to continue.



Investment is projected at TD 4.2 billion ($9.8 billion) in current prices
during the Plan. In real terms, average annual investment would be 54 percent
greater during 1977-81 than during the preceding Plan. Nonetheless, the
targeted average annual rate of growth of real investment during the Fifth
Plan is only 4.1 percent, as this rate is influenced by the very high invest-
ment level achieved in the base year, 1976.
12.       The Fifth Plan's strategy emphasizes in particular export-oriented
industrial development and agricultural growth. Special attention is given to
employment creation and to balance of payments considerations. Substantial
investments are to be made in hydrocarbons, manufacturing, water development,
transport and housing. The Plan prescribes increased domestic production and
processing of Tunisia's mineral resources (phosphates, petroleum) to raise the
value-added component of exports as much as possible. Private sector initia-
tive is expected to dominate investment in textiles, mechanical and electrical
industries, and tourism. It is in these activities that the authorities
expect most employment creation to take place. Employability of the labor
force is to be increased through education and training programs. Efforts
towards regional development are to be pursued through establishing regional
planning structures, strengthening regional administration and developing
incentives for the decentralization of productive activities. The strategy
proposed for the Fifth Plan does not represent any major departure from the
strategy pursued successfully during the preceding Plan.
13.       Tunisia's existing resource base, its institutional and infrastruc-
tural framework, its good performance in the earlier part of this decade,
and the desire of the authorities to support further development with appro-
priate policy measures and institutions are fundamental factors pointing
towards continuing rapid economic growth during the Fifth Plan. The 7.3 per-
cent growth target is in line with the possibilities of the economy although
the actual performance may fall somewhat short of this target in the wake of
the recent slowdown of the international economy. The investment priorities
formulated in the Plan are considered necessary to support the sectoral
strategies. There are, however, some less favorable signs. Tunisia will have
to rely increasingly on its own resources since the fortuitous circumstances
of the early 1970's are unlikely to be repeated.    As the resource base is
relatively narrow, available resources need to be more efficiently deployed.
Achieving the Plan targets presupposes the timely introduction and successful
execution of measures to: (i) strengthen the absorptive capacity for invest-
ment, especially for labor intensive projects; (ii) promote exports; (iii)
base economic management on an efficient price and incentive system and
improve productivity; and (iv) mobilize the resources needed to realize the
comprehensive social development targets while maintaining domestic and
external financial stability. The Tunisian authorities have begun to intro-
duce measures in these respects.  To increase the absorptive capacity for
investment, institutions like the Investment Promotion Agency and the National
Center for Industrial Studies were strengthened. The activities of the Export
Promotion Center were widened to include investigations on non-traditional
markets, especially in the Middle East and Japan.



-5-
14.       Substantial efforts in domestic and external resource mobilization
in particular will be of crucial importance to finance the planned level of
investment. On the domestic side, there is a need for increased savings
and improved financial intermediation. The Government sector, in particular,
will again be called upon to contribute substantially to the savings effort.
The Plan suggests that this should be done by prudent expenditure policies ar.d
increased revenue collections (selective tax increases and better tax collec-
tion). Measures to this end have been taken by curtailing the growth of
budgetary expenditures, increasing taxes on real estate and luxury consumer
goods and making payment of taxes a pre-condition for obtaining administra-
tive licences of all kinds. In addition, the public enterprise sector will
have to increase substantially its contribution to public savings through
better management and especially through cost-related increases in the sale
prices of selected enterprises. Steps in this direction have been initiated
through tariff raises on water, power and port services. Externally, Tunisia
would have total financing requirements (disbursement basis) of some $3.1
billion during the Fifth Plan, of which $1.3 billion have already been obtained
during 1977-78. Given the country's creditworthiness, Tunisia should be able
to mobilize the remaining $1.8 billion of such financing without straining the
country's debt servicing capacity (para. 16).
15.       Since the early 1960s, Tunisia has obtained large amounts of offi-
cial aid. A Consultative Group chaired by the Bank provided a forum for aid-
coordination among major donors in the past. During 1970-78, annual loan
commitments from public sources averaged $395 million, or about $47 per
capita.  About 50 percent of these commitments came from bilateral public
sources, chiefly from France, Canada, and the Federal Republic of Germany.
About 15 percent of the bilateral aid came from oil-producing countries, whose
share increased rapidly from 8 percent in 1970 to 29 percent in 1978. Commit-
ments from the Bank Group during 1970-78 accounted for 20 percent of total
public commitments. Most aid has been obtained on relatively soft terms; in
1978 the average terms of borrowing were 5.4 percent interest and 20 years
maturity, including 5 years of grace. During 1970-78, Tunisia also received
annually some $40 million in grants. Loan commitments from private sources
averaged $125 million a year. While direct foreign private investment has
been comparatively small, it has gained momentum since 1974 following incre-
ased activity in the petroleum sector and new incentives offered to foreign
investors in manufacturing. Net direct foreign investment increased from $19
million in 1969 to $96 million in 1978, with most of it going to the petroleum
sector.
4             16.        At the end of 1978, total foreign debt (disbursed and outstanding)
was estimated at about $2.4 billion, or 41 percent of GDP. The debt service
ratio in 1978 was 10.9 percent, compared with 20 percent in 1970. This sig-
IV           nificant decline in the debt service ratio was mainly due to the sharp increase
in export earnings following the changes in world market prices in 1973/74.
External borrowing at the rate projected for 1977-81 (para. 14) would increase
debt service obligations to around 14 percent of exports of goods and non-
factor services by 1981 and 15 percent by 1986, according to current Bank
projections. At these levels, the debt service burden would be manageable,
particularly when seen in the light of Tunisia's long record of prudent and



- 6 -
skillful balance of payments and external debt management. Tunisia is there-
fore considered creditworthy for further Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA
17.       Since 1962, Tunisia has received a total of thirty-nine loans and
eleven credits amounting respectively to $672.6 million and $70.1 million,
net of cancellations. 1/ Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans,
IDA credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1980, and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects. While disbursements of some loans and credits
have been slower than foreseen at appraisal, on the whole project execution
has been satisfactory. In a number of sectors, important institutional
improvements have been achieved and autonomous agencies have been created or
strengthened.
18.       The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aims at supporting Government
efforts to (a) increase employment, (b) encourage more balanced growth and
distribution of income among regions and income groups, (c) promote export-
oriented policies and investments, and (d) provide selective support for the
development of infrastructure and for institution building in key public
services. The main supporting feature of this strategy is to support the
Tunisian authorities in timely and well-coordinated preparation of projects,
with emphasis on technical assistance. The Bank is also cooperating with the
Government in its efforts to increase the mobilization of domestic and foreign
resources, in part through encouraging project cofinancing; the latter is
particularly important in view of the extent of Tunisia's external resource
needs, the large size of many priority projects and the limited availability
of Bank resources relative to the country's needs.
19.       Within this broad framework, past lending emphasized support for
long-term investments in infrastructure and social development. Lending for
urban and social development, including water supply, sewerage, education,
family planning, urban low-cost housing, and the Tunis planning and public
transport project has accounted for 28 percent of Bank/IDA commitments in
Tunisia since 1971. Lending for transport, power and tourism infrastructure
has accounted for 36 percent. Agriculture and fisheries have received 20
percent of total commitments. Industrial and hotel financing, through the
Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET), has accounted for 12
percent, and the Gafsa phosphate development project for 4 percent.
20.       Projects in various stages of processing for consideration in the
remaining months of this and in subsequent fiscal years include those for
agricultural credit to small and medium farmers and agroindustries, agricul-
tural development in the Northwest, population and health, vocational training
and development of small-scale, textile, and electrical and mechanical indus-
tries.
1/   This includes a loan of $36.5 million for the Fourth Highway project
considered by the Executive Directors on May 13, 1980.



21.       The Bank Group accounted for about 13 percent of total public
commitments to Tunisia during 1970-78. The Bank Group's share of total debt
outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1978 (including loans from private
sources) was 11 percent and of debt service during 1978 was 12 percent. The
Bank Group's share in Tunisia's disbursed external debt by 1986 is expected
to remain unchanged at about 11 percent, and its share in debt service would
remain at about 12 percent.
22.        IFC has invested in NPK Engrais (a fertilizer plant), in Banque de
Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET, Tunisian Development Finance Company),
in Compagnie Financiere et Touristique (COFIT, a company to promote and invest
in tourism projects), in Societe Touristique et Hoteliere RYM (a large hotel
development) and in Industries Chimiques du Fluor, which will produce aluminium
fluoride from local fluorspar for export, and in the Sousse-Nord integrated
tourism development project. IFC's net commitments in Tunisia total $14.5
million, as of March 31, 1980.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
The Context
23.       Hydrocarbons are the major source of energy in Tunisia, representing
95 percent of the commercial energy market, of which 81 percent is oil and 14
percent gas. For the foreseeable future, Tunisia will have to depend on
these sources of energy as opportunities for greater use of hydropower (1
percent) and coal (4 percent) or renewable sources are limited. The country
is currently a net exporter of oil. It exports its total domestic production
of 5 million tons of high quality oil at a premium, and imports 2 million tons
of lower cost crude oil for local refining and consumption, thus yielding a
substantial net benefit in foreign exchange.
24.       Petroleum consumption, which has been growing at 8 percent per annum
since 1971, is now 1.8 million tons per year, and is expected to maintain the
same growth rate through the 1980s. During this decade, production from known
oil reserves will sharply decline. The two major oil fields, El Borma and
Ashtart, will be fully depleted by the end of the 1990s. Indigenous gas
production from active wells is expected to cease by 1986. For both strategic
and economic considerations, the Tunisian Government has deferred exploitation
of the Miskar gas field. Given the estimated consumption growth, the forecast
A            decline in crude oil production is expected to result in a net import position
by the mid-1980s. In order to maintain, to the extent possible, oil exports
at their present level, Tunisia intends to substitute natural gas for fuel
oil.  Natural gas could potentially meet more than 50 percent of the country's
increasing energy requirements particularly in the heavy industry and power
sectors.
25.       As of 1982, and under a long-term contract, Tunisia will purchase
natural gas from Algeria's Hassi R'Mel field. In addition, royalties will be
derived from the gas transiting through its territory in the Algeria/Italy



- 8 -
Intercontinental Gas Pipeline. The availability in large quantities of favor-
ably priced natural gas and its substitution for oil will help ensure energy
supply up to the 1990s and, by making more fuel oil available for export, will
reduce the impact of the decline in crude oil production on the balance of
payments. This is, however, a major undertaking which will require highly
integrated planning as it will drastically affect the supply pattern and the
structure of the industrial energy sector. The Government is preparing
a national energy strategy to deal particularly with two major issues: the
expansion, to the extent possible, of the country's energy resource base and
the elaboration of a long-term energy pricing policy.
Energy Resources
26.       Hydrocarbons.  Tunisia's oil and gas reserves are concentrated in
three major fields: the two oil fields, El Borma, in the southwestern desert
area bordering Algeria, and Ashtart, offshore in the Gulf of Gabes, have
been operational since 1966 and 1974 respectively. The Miskar gas field, a
reservoir of 30 billion m3 recoverable gas (27 million tons oil equivalent
(toe)) discovered offshore, near Ashtart, represents a major untapped reserve.
El Borma, currently producing 2.3 million tons of oil per annum is 62 percent
depleted and will be fully depleted by the early 1990s. Ashtart, also produc-
ing 2.3 million tons per annum, is 27 percent depleted and expected to last
until the late 1990s. Six other minor fields, yielding together 0.4 million
tons of oil per annum, will cease production by 1995. Commercial gas produc-
tion, mainly associated gas (gas produced together with oil) transported from
El Borma to the Gabes area and from a small reservoir at Cap Bon to Tunis, has
peaked at 385,000 toe in 1979; it is sharply declining and will be depleted by
1986. There has been no major oil or gas find since the discovery of Miskar
gas by Elf Aquitane in 1974. No definite plans exist for the exploitation of
four small oil fields discovered between 1974 and 1977, representing together
an estimated recoverable reserve of 14 million tons; one of them is in a
disputed territory bordering Libya. Three minor gas fields, located in the
vicinity of Miskar, are still being evaluated.
27.       Other Resources.  Hydropower potential is relatively small.  The
total installed capacity represents four hydroplants of about 29 MW concen-
trated in the northwestern part of the country. A further 25 MW will be
developed when the Sidi Salem plant, part of a multipurpose project in which
the Bank is participating, will be completed. The total requirements of coal
for steel processing are imported. There are some lignite (brown coal) depo-
sits in the Cap Bon area, but their importance has not yet been assessed.
Serious efforts are being made to promote research, studies and other activi-
ties to assess and test the potential of renewable and non-conventional
sources of energy but the eventual exploitation of these new energy sources is
not expected to have a significant impact on the sector during this decade.
28.       A recently established National Commission on Energy has designed
an energy conservation program for the industrial sector and commissioned
preliminary studies on the assessment and exploitation of renewable and
non-conventional sources of energy. Preliminary basic data has been gathered
on the possible uses of biomass, conversion of wood and agricultural wastes,



- 9 -
of biogas, geothermal and wind energy. Solar and nuclear energy have attracted
a considerable amount of interest. A number of studies and experimental acti-
vities are under way with the assistance of France's Elf Aquitaine, the
U.S. Agency for International Development, the European Economic Community and
the United Nations Development Program. As for nuclear energy, the Tunisian
Government is looking into the possibility of extracting uranium from phos-
phates, and the Societe Tunisienne de l'Electricite et du Gaz (STEG) has
undertaken preliminary economic and technical studies for the construction of
a nuclear power plant. The Government has requested for this purpose the
assistance of the International Atomic Energy Agency and is currently planning
to launch, in 1985, the construction of a first nuclear plant which would be
operational by 1995.
Energy Supply and Demand
29.        Since 1971, total commercial energy consumption has increased by an
average of 9 percent per annum from 1.2 million toe to 2.3 million toe in
1978. GDP increased over this period at a similar rate, giving an energy/GDP
growth in line with the norm for middle income countries.  During the same
period, Tunisia's crude oil and gas production increased from 4.1 million toe
to 5.3 million toe, allowing an increase in net exports. The Bizerte refinery
operating on imported high sulphur crude oil has produced 1.2 million tons per
annum through the 1970s. The growth in petroleum products demand has exceeded
domestic production and was met by imports, particularly of gas oil and fuel
oil.
30.       The power and industrial sectors consume 56 percent of total commer-
cial energy (94 percent of fuel oil and 28 percent of gas oil), and this
proportion is expected to grow further over the next 10 years as a result of
the strong emphasis on heavy industry in the current Development Plan. Energy
demand for power and industry is expected to rise from 1.3 million toe in
1978 to 3.4 million toe in 1990. The Bizerte refinery expansion will cut the
import bill, especially for middle distillates (gas, oil, kerosene and heat-
ing oil) as supply patterns for these products allow only limited substitution
by natural gas. Eighty-seven percent of the total power and industrial sector
demand could be supplied by gas. Substitution of natural gas for oil products
will result in petroleum products consumption of less than 2 million tons in
1985, and only 2.7 million tons by 1990 assuming the purchase of Algerian gas
as envisaged under the proposed project (para. 43) and additional purchases
of 800,000 toe per annum starting in 1986. By 1990, the proposed refinery
capacity at Bizerte will have reached 4 million tons; large quantities of fuel
A            oil will therefore have to be exported.
Government Organization and Policies
31.       The energy sector operates under the Department of Energy of the
Ministry of Industry, Mines and Energy; as a result of a recent (April 23,
1980) Cabinet reshuffle this Ministry, merged with the Ministry of Commerce to
become the Ministry of National Economy. The functions of the Department of
Energy have been to approve projects, to negotiate exploration and development
agreements, to establish standards for the operation of the sector and to



- 10 -
approve fuel prices and power tariffs. The abundant supply of hydrocarbons
over the last decade and the lack of alternative sources of energy led to a
limited government role in energy planning and coordination. Recent policy
measures have consisted in strengthening the Department's planning struc-
ture and capabilities and reinforcing control over the oil and gas sectors
(paras. 32 to 35).
32.       Planning and Control.  Under the Second Power loan (No. 1355 of
January 12, 1977), the Government had agreed to undertake a pricing policy
study for oil, gas and power. The scope of this study has since been expanded
into a sector planning study for preparing an energy master plan covering all
potential sources of energy as well as detailed demand analyses. A consultant
firm, Gordian Associates of London, has been contracted to conduct this study
and develop an energy planning model which is expected to be ready by the end
of 1980. The Bank will review the results of the study and discuss them with
the Government.
33.       The Government controls the energy sector in many ways.  For each
state company it appoints the president and members of the board, incorporates
investments in the national plan, controls the provision of long-term finance
and approves salary scales and prices. As regards oil and gas exploration,
control is exercised through a licensing system, entailing minimum work
obligations, and requiring regular renewal. Production is also controlled
through the licensing system. At the retail level, the Government sets
petroleum prices and the allowable distribution costs, and power tariffs.
34.       Exploration and Production.  The fully Government-owned Tunisian
Company for Petroleum Activities, ETAP (Entreprise Tunisienne d'Activites
Petrolieres), is the principal company for petroleum exploration and produc-
tion. It participates in hydrocarbon exploration and development activities,
markets most Tunisian oil abroad and imports crude oil for refining and other
petroleum products for local consumption. It has wide coordinating powers for
the whole sector. The Government has created a favorable climate conducive to
foreign participation in exploration. Over 90 percent of the prospective
areas are currently licensed to fifteen overseas companies; the Government
retains the option of a 50 percent share in oil and gas discoveries. The
three production companies in the sector are 50 percent Government owned. One
of them operates El Borma, a second Ashtart and the third a number of small
gas and oil fields. The state-owned Tunisian Refineries Company (Societe
Tunisienne des Industries de Raffinage) owns and operates the country's only
refinery. It will also own and operate the expanded refinery under construc-
tion at Bizerte.                                                                                e
35.       Transmission, Distribution and Marketing.  STEG, a wholly-owned
state enterprise, has major responsibility for electric power generation and
distribution providing 90 percent of the country's requirements in this
sector. STEG is also in charge of distribution and marketing of gas. The
introduction of Algerian natural gas will considerably enlarge STEG's gas
activities. The distribution of oil products is handled by twelve companies,
of which the largest is the state-owned National Company for Petroleum Market-
ing (Societe Nationale de Distribution Petroliere) servicing 40 percent
of the market. Esso, Shell and Mobil share 35 percent of the market.



- 11 -
36.       Sector Investment Program (1977-1981).  The investment program for
primary energy under the Fifth Development Plan (1977-81) was to absorb $1,330
million, i.e. 17 percent of Tunisia's total capital investments, which is high
for a country at this stage of its development. Half of the $260 million
budgeted for exploration during the Plan period have been spent during the two
first years; expenditure over the five years is likely to reach $400 million,
to be financed almost entirely by the foreign oil companies. The Plan included
a provision of $162.5 million for the expansion of the refinery at Bizerte, to
be financed 65 percent from foreign sources. Expenditures will be carried
over beyond 1981 for the completion of this investment. The plan also provided
$290 million for oil field development, mainly for a program of water injection
at El Borma. The largest investment in the Plan, $620 million, was for Miskar
and its related on-shore distribution system (paras. 26 and 39). Seventy-five
percent of the costs were expected to be met from overseas sources. The
deferral of the Miskar gas project will decrease actual investment expenditure
during the Plan period by about $500 million. The electricity industry is
planned to absorb $500 million to be financed through foreign loans, customer
contribution and internal cash generation. Implementation of the Plan in the
power sector is proceeding according to schedule.
37.       Energy Pricing:  Problems and Policies.  The major issue to which
the Government will have to address itself during the next few years is
related to the elaboration of an overall energy pricing strategy which would
appropriately induce the needed restructuring of the energy sector. Domestic
prices for LPG and premium and regular gasoline exceed world market prices
while prices of middle distillates and fuel oil are highly subsidized, both
to keep down the general price level and to assist Tunisian industry. These
products are presently priced in a range of 33 percent to 67 percent below
international levels. Kerosene, heating oil and the gas oil used for fishing
and agriculture represent a relatively small percentage of domestic demand.
Furthermore, kerosene consumption is expected to diminish as rural electrifica-
tion expands. The main issue is the volume of subsidies to fuel oil and gas
oil which are both used in large quantities by the industry and power sectors.
Overall pricing policies for all petroleum products will be reviewed and
discussed with the Government by the end of this year upon completion of the
on-going consultant sector planning study (para. 32). Fuel oil and gas
pricing policies are addressed in the context of the proposed project (paras.
52 and 53).
Role of the Bank in the Energy Sector
A          38.        The Bank has been involved with STEG in both the primary energy and
power sectors since 1971. Three loans totalling $34 million have been made
during the 1970s. The first loan (724-TUN of February 1971) financed the
construction of a compressing and treatment plant at the El Borma oil field
to collect the gas being flared and transmit it through a high pressure
pipeline to the Gabes industrial area. In spite of difficulties related to
the compression and treatment plant, taxing STEG's inexperienced maintenance
staff, the project was satisfactorily completed in 1972. The audit rate of
return on the project, 72 percent, was substantially higher than estimated at
appraisal, primarily due to higher oil prices. The First Power Project (815-
TUN of April 20, 1972) was a follow-up to the previous project since it helped



- 12 -
to put to productive use the gas recovered from El Borma by financing the
construction of two 20 MW gas turbines. It also financed the expansion of the
distribution and transmission system and consultant services for the construc-
tion of future plants and for institutional development. In spite of diffi-
culties, reviewed in the Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR No. 2521 of
May 24, 1979) related to the operation of the gas turbines and which are not
unusual in this type of climate and in countries of similar level of techno-
logical development, the project has been satisfactorily completed. The PPAR
concluded that the increase in the oil price after 1972 contributed to the
high rate of return of the project, that the consultants employed under the
project helped toward improving STEG's organization and efficiency and that
the project's financial objectives were largely met, partly due to the intro-
duction of a new tariff structure based on marginal cost. The Second Power
loan (1355-TUN of January 12, 1977) is near completion. It financed the gas
turbines component of STEG's 1977-1981 Development Plan, which comprised the
generation of 150 MW of combustion turbine capacity in seven units of equal
size to be installed in different locations. The funds made available through
these loans provided STEG with a valuable experience in the operation and
management of a high pressure gas pipeline and assisted this company in
maintaining its least cost development strategy in the power sector. As a
result of its consistent association with the Bank over the last ten years,
STEG has developed into an efficient and well-managed company.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
39.       In 1974, the Miskar gas structure was discovered offshore in the
Gulf of Gabes and was delineated steadily between then and 1978. During
an appraisal of the Miskar project, in 1977, the Bank suggested that Tunisia
investigate the feasibility of purchasing gas from Algeria as an alternative
to investing $600 million in a single gas field. Tunisia had shown interest
in importing gas from Algeria since the signature of the Algeria/Italy gas
supply contract in 1973. By 1977, the terms of a gas pipeline transit contract
had been agreed between Tunisia and the Italian state oil company, ENI. Nego-
tiations for the purchase of Algerian gas and delineation of Miskar proceeded
simultaneously, providing Tunisia with two feasible alternatives. Provisional
agreement on purchase terms was reached at the same time as determination of
the overall Miskar reserves proceeded. Reserves turned out to be lower than
was hoped for.  This, taken together with strategic and economic risk con-                    k
siderations, led the Government to proceed with the gas purchase plan, and to
defer Miskar exploitation to an unspecified date.
40.       In mid-1979, the Government requested Bank assistance to help
finance a project which would supply major industrial centers with natural gas
drawn from the Algeria/Italy gas pipeline. The project was prepared by STEG
with the assistance of a French firm of consultants, SOFREGAZ, in association
with the Tunisian firm TESA. It was appraised in October/November 1979. The
Government and STEG have provided information on all aspects of the project in
order to enable the Bank to evaluate the project's technical, economic and



- 13 -
financial feasibility. Negotiations were held in Washington from April 21 to
May 2, 1980.  The Tunisian delegation was headed by Mr. Salah Jebali, President
Director General of Societe Tunisienne de l'Electricite et du Gaz (STEG) and
included Mr. Tahar Ennaifer of the Ministry of Planning.  The main features of
the project are mentioned in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III.
Details, which have been confirmed by the Government and STEG to reflect
accurately the information provided to the Bank, are given in the Staff
Appraisal Report No. 2878-TUN entitled "Tunisia - Second Natural Gas Pipeline
Project", and dated May 1, 1980. A map showing the location of the on-shore
gas distribution system is attached.
Project Objectives
41.       The objectives of the project are (i) to help improve Tunisia's
energy situation by substituting gas for fuel oil thereby decreasing domestic
fuel oil consumption and increasing fuel oil exports and (ii) introducing
energy planning and pricing measures which will permit Tunisia to develop a
rational energy policy for its future, beyond the mid-1990s when, based on
present expectations, it may no longer be able to rely on domestic hydro-
carbons as its major primary energy resource.
The Intercontinental Pipeline
42.       The Algeria/Italy pipeline will extend over 2,500 km from the Hassi
R'Mel gas field in Eastern Algeria to Bologna in Northern Italy. The Tunisian
section of the pipeline is being constructed by SNAM, a subsidiary of the
Italian State Oil and Gas Company, ENI.  After commissioning in October 1981,
this section will be owned by the Tunisian Trans-Tunisia Gas Pipeline Company
SOTUGAT (Societe Tunisienne du Gazoduc Transcontinental), a subsidiary of ETAP
(para. 34). A separate company, jointly owned by ETAP and SNAM, will manage
and operate the Tunisian section of the pipeline for the first five years.
Subsequently, this responsibility will be transferred to Tunisia which will
have the majority share in the company. The Government will receive royalties
from ENI on gas transitting Tunisia through the inter-continental pipeline.
These royalties will be receivable in the form of royalty gas or cash, at the
option of the Tunisian Government, rising from 200,000 tons of oil equivalent
(toe) in 1982 to 800,000 toe in 1986 and remaining constant thereafter.
43.       STEG intends to purchase natural gas from the Algerian Oil and Gas
Company SONATRACH as of November 1, 1981, for 20 years, for delivery through
the same pipeline. The purchase contract will provide for delivery of 635,000
A          toe of gas in 1982 rising to 1.2 million toe by 1986.  The gas would be pur-
chased at the Algerian border at 60 to 70 percent of the current international
price for fuel oil. Purchased gas will be subject to take-or-pay. A legal
opinion certifying that the royalty and gas purchase contracts are effective
and legally binding would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan
(Loan Agreement, Section 7.02 (a) and (b)).
Project Description
44.       The proposed project constitutes the first phase in the construc-
tion of a gas distribution network in Tunisia. It will supply gas from the
Algeria/Italy pipeline to about thirty industrial customers and the power
utility, about in equal proportions. The project would include:



- 14 -
(a)  240 km of buried pipeline 18" to 20" in diameter, supplying gas from
different points on the intercontinental pipeline to Tunis, Sousse
and Gafsa, and 90 km of a 8" buried pipeline for supplying
Tadjerouine, together with 170 km of branch pipelines;
(b) fittings and ancillary equipment including injection and
delivery terminals, cathodic protection equipment and metering;
(c) conversion of the customers' oil-using plant and equipment
to dual firing (oil and gas);
(d) consultancy services for engineering, procurement, project
management and construction supervision as well as studies;
(e) training of staff.
45.       A second phase, to start up by about 1985, would extend the system
by adding connecting lines from Tunis to Bizerte and Gafsa to Gabes. At a
later stage Sousse would be linked to Gabes and, eventually, the Miskar off-
shore field to the on-shore system. Pipe diameters have been optimized on
the basis of 1990 forecast demands, to avoid compression in the initial years,
and on the basis of an eventual loop system connecting Gafsa and Sousse
through Gabes. The final system is expected to provide maximum operational
flexibility and would be capable of receiving gas from almost any field off
Tunisia's east cost.
46.       The consultant companies, SOFREGAZ, in association with TESA,
have assisted in preparing the project optimization, detailed design, route
and technical surveys and market studies will continue to advise STEG through
the construction and the initial operational stages. In addition, consul-
tants will be required to (i) study the technical, economic and financial
feasibility of supplying gas to small-scale industrial users and households
and (ii) evaluate alternatives for a follow-up project to expand Tunisia's
on-shore gas network and prepare an optimization system. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the consultants to perform the services under
(i) and (ii) above will be recruited by June 30, 1981 and June 30, 1982,
respectively, and that their reports and recommendations will be forwarded
to the Bank for review and comment by June 30, 1982 and December 31, 1982,
respectively (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02).
The Borrower
47.       STEG would be the borrower and would be responsible for project
implementation and its Gas Directorate would supervise and coordinate the
activities under the Project (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(a)).  The company                  r
was formed in 1962 and is today the largest commercial establishment in
Tunisia, with 4000 employees and total assets of about $700 million. It is
operating as a successful power and gas utility and, in most respects, func-
tions as an autonomous company. STEG's Board of Directors of eight members,
appointed by the President of the Republic, is headed by a President Director



- 15 -
General (PDG). The current PDG took up his appointment on February 1, 1980,
and is reviewing the need for a simpler organization. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that STEG will inform the Bank of any measures which would
affect its structure and organization and that it will take into account the
Bank's views before implementing them (Loan Agreement, Section 4.05). The top
management consists of the PDG, his deputy, a Manager of Development and
Coordination and a Manager of Administration as well as a number of functional
directors, including one for gas. In 1972, STEG's gas division successfully
completed a previous Bank financed project, the natural gas pipeline from El
Borma to Gabes (para. 38). To ensure the efficient operation of the gas
pipeline system STEG has developed a comprehensive training and upgrading
program for its Gas Directorate's staff and management. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that by September 30, 1981, STEG will recruit
and complete the training of all operational, technical and managerial per-
sonnel required for operating the gas pipeline system to be established under
the project (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06).
Project Cost
48.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$88.0 million
(excluding interest during construction of $4.0 million, but including taxes
of $4.3 million) with a foreign exchange component of $55.5 million. The cost
estimates are based on January 1980 prices and include inflation at 10 percent
and 9 percent for 1980 and 1981. Only 6 percent has been allowed for physical
contingencies reflecting the thoroughness and the advanced stage of the
engineering work. Project engineering, management and construction supervision
are expected to require 420 man-months, and are expected to cost $12,000 per
man-month for expatriates and $6,000 per man-month for Tunisians, including
all costs. These amounts are in line with the cost of similar services in the
area.
Financing Plan
49.       The proposed Bank loan of $37 million would finance 67 percent of
foreign cost of the project or about 44 percent of total cost, net of customs
duties and taxes. Export credits of $12 million for equipment and materials
are expected on the basis of Tunisian experience in purchasing similar items.
Signed agreements on $5 million of export credits will be a condition of
effectiveness for the Bank loan, while the remaining $7 million are to be
arranged by October 31, 1980 the approximate date by which the equipment to be
financed under these credits will be needed (Loan Agreement, Recital (B) and
4            (C) and Section 7.01).  The Government will contribute $25 million equivalent
to STEG towards the project as equity including $4 million for interest during
construction. This contribution would cover both local expenditures ($19
14          million) and foreign exchange requirements ($6 million).  Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the Government will contribute the amounts
indicated (Guarantee Agreement, Section 2.02(b)). The Borrower will obtain
commercial loans of $18 million equivalent to finance both local ($13.5
million) and foreign ($4.5 million) expenditures (Loan Agreement, Section
3.01(b)). The Government contribution will be made available and the commer-
cial loans will be obtained according to timetables agreed to between the
Bank, the Government and the Borrower, respectively.



- 16 -
Procurement and Disbursements
50.        All procurement will be through international competitive bidding.
Prequalification of foreign suppliers for pipelaying has been satisfactorily
completed. In addition a Tunisian company in a joint venture with an expe-
rienced foreign contractor is expected to participate in the bidding for the
works. The Bank will be informed of the joint venture's qualifications before
it is formally prequalified. The bidding documents will permit the works to
be let as four individual contracts or in any combination thereof. Contracts
for pipelaying are expected to be signed in July 1980. The various pipelines
will be commissioned between November 1981 and February 1982, with an allow-
ance of one month for testing. Orders for materials and equipment amounting
to US $24 million will be placed during the first five months of 1980. For
bid evaluation purposes, a 15 percent margin of preference or the actual
customs duties, whichever is lower, will be allowed for materials and equip-
ment manufactured in Tunisia. Foreign suppliers, however, are expected to be
awarded virtually all of these contracts, as nearly all of the materials and
equipment are of a very specialized nature and are not produced in Tunisia.
51.       The proposed Bank loan would cover:  (a) 100 percent of foreign and
50 percent of local expenditures of pipelaying; (b) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures of valves and fittings of metering and conversion works; (c) 100
percent of foreign and 65 percent of local expenditures of feasibility studies
on gas supplies to small-scale industrial consumers and households and of
the studies for a second phase project. Retrcactive financing in an aggre-
gate amount of up to $600,000 has been prcviA.ed to permit payments on sup-
plies required before the expected date of signature of the legal documents
(Schedule 1, para 4). The loan would be disbursed by June 30, 1983. The
closing date would be December 31, 1983.
Pricing Policy - Natural Gas and Fuel Oil
52.       The major energy pricing problem in Tunisia is the pricing of fuel
oil. Its current price at $60/ton is one-third of the price prevailing on the
Italian spot market. By contrast, in 1980 prices, the delivered cost of gas
to be purchased from Algeria is $120/toe. The Government has decided to
increase domestic prices of all energy products to international levels as
rapidly as possible while providing the energy consumers sufficient time to
adjust themselves to the changing market patterns.
53.       Whilst the Government does not, in principle, wish to make any
subsidies to STEG for gas, it may have to provide such subsidies in cash and
in royalty gas during the first two years of Algerian gas operations. However,
the Government will gradually increase the price charged to STEG for royalty
gas from 1982 onwards, so that by the end of 1986, full import prices would be
charged for all Algerian gas sold in Tunisia, whether in cash or in the form
of royalty gas. Assurances confirming the above arrangements were obtained
during negotiations (Loan Agreement, Section 5.04 (a)(ii)-and Guarantee Agree-
ment, Section 3.03). Assurances were also obtained that the Government will
(i) review the selling price of Algerian gas every six months starting july 1981,
with a view to determining its adequacy to meet STEG's rate of return and cash



- 17 -
generation obligations under the Loan Agreement; and (ii) ensure that the
domestic selling price of fuel oil is at least equivalent to that of natural
gas (Guarantee Agreement, Sections 3.02(b) and 3.04). Achievement of the
above pricing obligations and objectives will be an important factor in ensur-
ing both the economic and financial viability of the project.
Financial Position
54.        STEG's financial accounts at present integrate its gas and power
operations. With the advent of gas from Algeria, gas will assume a major
proportion in STEG's overall operations. To permit proper financial control,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that by January 1, 1982, STEG
will establish separate internal accounts, on the one hand, for power includ-
ing gas from El Borma, and, on the other hand, for Algerian gas (Loan Agree-
ment, Section 5.01 (b)). All accounts will be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Sec:tion 5.01(b)). Financial covenants
under the previous Bank loan (Loan 1355-TUN) will continue to apply to STEG's
power division including El Borma gas (which will be depleted by 1986).
55.       The most notable features of the future gas operations are the small
asset base in relation to turnover and the relatively small net profits. The
rate of return of 8 percent on net revalued assets required in association
with the proposed loan leads to net profits in relation to turnover of about
1 percent. Throughout the 1980s, STEG's primary financial need, with regard
to its gas operation, will be to generate sufficient working capital. To
achieve this aim, assurances were obtained at negotiations that (i) by
October 31, 1981, STEG will introduce appropriate hilling procedures for
Algerian gas sales to ensure paym-:nt of gas by its customers in parallel
with the company's own payment ooligations; and (ii) STEG's selling price of
Algerian gas will produce sufficient revenue to cover working capital require-
ments (Loan Agreement, Sections 5.01(c) and 5.04). To ensure that the company
will be able to meet its debt service obligations arising from the project,
assurances were also obtained during negotiations that projected net revenues
from gas operations will fully cover expected debt service payments after 1984
(Loan Agreement, Section 5.05).
Project Benefits and Risks
56.       The gas purchased under the project from Algeria will cost approx-
imately 70 percent of the international fuel oil price at the present price
relationship between gas and fuel oil. The main benefit of the project would
be its effect on Tunisia's balance of payments.  By substituting gas for
exportable fuel oil, the project will yield a net benefit to the national
economy of not less than $120 million a year, equivalent to 8 percent of
Tunisia's 1978 exports.  The project will provide 130 full time permanent jobs
and several hundred temporary jobs during construction. The use of a sulphur
free gas, apart from substantially reducing atmospheric pollution in Tunisia's
cities, will reduce plant maintenance costs.   The favorable cost of imported
gas vis-a-vis imported fuel oil, together with the proposed gas purchase price
formula, will reduce the burden on the Government's budget of subsidies on



- 18 -
fuel oil. This will free budgetary funds for other high priority needs and
lead to a more rational allocation of resources in the economy. The project's
economic return is estimated at about 50 percent.
57.       The project faces no special risks.  There is sufficient lead
time to construct the pipeline, an experienced consultant company to supervise
the works has been engaged, and the pipeline should be ready in good time.
A physical risk arises from the fact that about half of Tunisia's energy
supply will depend on a single pipeline. However, gas users will retain their
oil storage tanks and will be able to switch to oil should there be any
disruption. The financial risk arises from the take-or-pay clause of the gas
purchase agreement, as gas will have to be paid for, even if not taken. How-
ever, it would take a major downturn in the economy and a substantial decrease
in demand for energy for this event to occur, which is unlikely. Nevertheless,
the development of energy demand including the progress in implementation of
high energy consuming projects will be monitored closely to take preventive
action, if necessary. The political risk is a consequence of a major portion
of Tunisia's energy supply coming from a single foreign country. Apart from
their friendly relations, the close inter-relationships between Tunisia and
Algeria in the energy field (inter alia an Algerian oil pipeline traverses the
country to a Tunisian port) mitigate Tunisia"s exposure. The economic risk
arises from potential difficulties in selling fuel oil in excess of 2 million
tons per year in the second half of the 1980s as this commodity is widely
available on the international market. However, this is unlikely to be a
major problem.
Ecology and Safety
58.       The project has no adverse ecological impact.  Agricultural activity
may be disrupted temporarily during pipelaying but will revert to normal upon
completion. Atmospheric pollution, which is becoming a problem in Tunisia's
cities, will be reduced through use of sulphur-free clean-burning gas in place
of the sulphur-bearing soot-producing fuel oil presently used. There will
also be a reduction of pollution by avoiding movement of oil by road. No sig-
nificant safety problems are envisaged, and an acceptable training and safety
program has been arranged.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Societe Tunisienne de
l'Electricite et du Gaz and the Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between
the Republic of Tunisia and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided
for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. In addition to the fea-
tures of the proposed project, which are referred to in the text and listed
in Section III of Annex III, conditions of effectiveness consist of: (a)
assurances that export credits of one amount of $5 million will be made
available to the Borrower (draft Loan Agreement, Sections 7.01(a) and 7.02
(c)); and (b) certification in a legal opinion that the gas purchase and



- 19 -
royalty contracts are effective and legally binding in accordance with
their terms and conditions (draft Loan Agreement, Sections 7.01 (b) and 7.02
(a) and (b)).
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 15, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 20
ANNEX 1
TABLE 3A                                             Page  1  of  5
TUNISLk - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RAEFERENCE GROUPS (ADJU'STED AyERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. X.)                      ISIA                         - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL            i64.0                                                    SAME        SAME     NEXT RICHER
AGRICULTURAL      76.6                                 MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        -INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c   GROUP /d   GFPjt?P le
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  210.0       350.0     960.0           1367.7      926.1       1748.5
ENERGY CONSUMBPTION PER CAPITA
(KIL-.RAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      190.0       26L.0     456.0           838.1       73Q.7      1646.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       4.2         5.1       5.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 36.0         44.0      48.0             49.0       49.0         51.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (YILLIONS)                        9.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         14.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Xn.                       26.0         31.0      36.0             19.9       44.6        28.2
PER SQ. xnB. AGRICULTURAL LANO    55.0         67.0      77.0            99.0       140.7       100.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         43.3         46.2      43.0             45.6       41.3        35.4
15-64 YRS.                         52.5         50.0      53.0            51.4        55.3        56.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.2          3.8       4.0              2.8        3.5         5.1
POPUL.ATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.8 If      2.0/f     2.3/k            3.0        2.-          1.7
URBAN                                *-         3.8       3.6              5.2        4.5         3.0
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      47.0        39.0      32.0             43.7       31.1        27.5
CRUDE DFATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      19.0        14.0      12.0             13.5        9.2         9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.1         3.4       2.2              3.2        2.2          1.8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..         29.2      73.5
USERS (PERCENT OF HARRIED WOMEN)   ..           8.0      18.0               ..       34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOP PRODUCTION
FER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          122.3        98.0     125.0            90.8       104.4       102.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRE2ENTS)                   86.0         93.0     102.0            99.0       105.0       120.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          54.0         63. O/    67.4            63.6        64.4        80.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        13.0        14.01     20.0             16.0       23.5        31.3
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      29.0        20.0      15.0             15.9        8.6          5.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    48.0         54.0      57.0             53.8       60.2        65.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER THOUSAND)  ..        135.0        ..               ..       46.7        45.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         49.0      70.0             56.4       60.8        69.4
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..            83.4        75. 7       85.1
RURAL                                ..          ..        ..             34.3       40.0        43.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..           ..        ..             59.1       46.0        70.1
URBAN                               ,.           ..      30.0            78.2        46.0        88.3
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..             26.4       22.5        33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         10000.0       5950.0    4800.0          3677.0      2262.4      1343.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..       730.0    1070.0           1730.6     1195.4       765.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            360.0/h      410.0     410.0/j21       577.0       453.4       197.6
URBAN                               ..        280.0     230.07i             ..      253.1       260.2
RURAL                               ..        930.0    1040.0:             ..      2732.4      1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        24.1         .             21.8       22.1         17.3
HOUSING                                                                                                                                       V
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          5.1 /i    6.0              5.8        5.3         4.7
URBAN                               ..          5.1 /i    5.8              5.5        5.2         4.4
RURAL                               ..          5.1 7T    6.1             6.0         5.4         5. 1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          3.2 /i     *-               *-        1.9         1.1
URBAN                               ..          2.77       ..               ..        1.6         1.2
RURAL                               ..          3.6 /0     ..               ..        2.5         1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                *-        24.0 /i     ..             45.1       50.0        66.0
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..            67.9        71.7        85.1
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..               ..       17.3



- 21                                              ANN; 1
TABLE 3APae2o                                                          
TUNISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                   Page  2  of  5
TUJNISIA                    REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AfRAGES
- MOST RECENESIA) 
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 ib     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  66.0       100.0      100.0             85.0        102.5       101.7
MALE                  88.0        120.0     118.0            103.7        108.6       110.0
FEMALE                43.0         79.0      81.0             66.0         97.1        92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  12.0        23.0       20.0             27.6         33.5       51.2
KALE                  19.0         33.0      26.0             39.2         38.4        56.4
FEMALE                 5.0         13.0      14.0             20.8         30.7        43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Y OF SECONDARY)  24.0           12.0      17.0              4.3         11.5        18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             61.0        48.0       40.0             32.6         35.8        27.1
SECONDARY                           16.0        28.0       23.0             23.4         22.9        25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         15.5         24.0/i    55.0             41.4         64.0        86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPUIATION                          11.0         13.0      18.0             16.7         13.5        53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          41.0         77.0     141.0            147.9        122.7       225.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.1        10.0       27.0             36.0         38.3       102.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   19.0         16.0      33.0             17.9         40.0        78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0             ..       2.3               2.9         3.7         3,6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1400.0       1300.0/t  1700.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     6.1          7.7       8.5              8.6         25.0        24.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               56.5        49.8       43.0             43.0         43.5        28.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  17.6        21.0       23.0             23.7         21.5       30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 27.0         23.7      23.7             26.7         33.5        33.8
MALE                                  50.2         44.2      44.0             46.4         48.0        51.3
FEMALE                                 3.3          3.6       4.0              5.1         16.8        16.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4          1.8/t      1.4              1.8          1.4        1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..      17.0             21.4         20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..             ..      42.0             48.6         52.1        57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..       6.0              5.3          3.9         3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..      15.0             15.0         12.6        11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      204.0            201.3        270.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..       97.0            134.2        183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      193.0            288.6        282.5       550.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     193.0            170.0        248.9       403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       20.0             22.9         20.5
RURAL                                 ..          ..       15.0             31.2         35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the mast populated country in each group. Coverage of countries aaong the
indicators depends un availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer co any year becween 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    North Africa & Middle East;   /d   Intermediate Middle Income (5551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /e  Upper Middle
Income ($1136-2500 per capita, 1976);   /f  Due to emigration, population growth rate is lower than rate of
natural increase;   /g  Av. 1964-66;   /h  1962;   /i   1966;   /i  1972;   /k  Official intercensal
(1966-75) estimate;   /I  Government hospital establishments only.
May, 1979



- 22 -
TUNISIA                                              ECONOMIC DEVELOPHENT DATA SHEET                                                        Anne.
Page 3 of 5
Actual                 Prelim.          Proet  1/               Growth Rates
1972      1976      1977        1978          1981    1986           1973     1977    1982          1978
1976     1981    1986      Share af GOP
A. NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
(Dinars millions; 1972 constant
prices)
1. Gross domestic product                 1,078.0  1,396.0   1,456.5      1,572.0    1,936.8   2,655.3         6.7       6.8     6.5           100.0
2.  Gains from terms of trade                 -       33.2      50.8         91.1      131.6    200.4            -        -       -              5.8
3.  Gross domestic income (14Z2)          1,078.0  1,429.2   1,507.3      1,663.1    2,068.4   2,855.7          7.3      7.7     6.7           105.8
4.  Imports                                 282.9    437.3     509.6        540.2      588.9    781.0          11.5      6.1     5.8            34.4
5.  Exports-volume                          270.6    310.2     327.7        328.9      413.8     570.7          3.5      5.9     6.6            20.9
6.  Exports - TT adjusted                   270.6    343.4     378.5        420.0      545.4     771.1          6.1      9.7     7.2            26.7
7.  Resource Gap - TT adjusted (4-6)         12.3     93.9     131.1        120.2       43.5       9.9           -        -       -              7.6
B.  Total Consumption                       857.8  1,167.4   1,275.5      1,388.7    1,680.6   2,286.5          8.0      7.6     6.4            88.3
Public consunption               150.9    218.0      241.6       267.3       336.5    485.3          9.6       9.1     7.6           17.0
Private consu.ption              706.9    949.4   1,033.9      1,121.4    1,344.1   1,801.2          7.7       7.2     6.0           71.3
9.  Total investment                        232.5    355.7     362.9        394.6      431.3    579.1          11.2      3.9     6.9            25.1
Fixed investment                  214.0    341.9      368.3       403.2      430.0    575.0          12.4       4.7     6.0           25.6
10. National Savings                        209.4    241.9     218.2        272.5      370.8    540.1           3.7      8.9     7.8            17.3
11. Domestic Savings                        201.7    248.0     237.2        283.0      387.8    569.2           5.3      9.4     8.0            18.0
12. GDP at current prices (USS millions) 2,259.0  4,448.5   5,007.0       5,908.2    8,836.8  16,109.8         18.5     14.7    12.8
13. Fixed investment at current prices      448.4  1,296.6   1,503.5      1,814.0    2,192.9   4,596.4         29.0     10.5    15.9
(USS H)
14. Fixed investment/GDP (current)           19.8     29.1      30.0         30.7       24.8      28.5           -        -       -
B. SECTOR OUTPUT                                           (Distribution in percentages; 1972 constant prices)
1.  Agriculture                              23.8     20.8      18.5         18.0       16.5     3T4 6         2.9       1.6     4.0
2.  Industry                                 23.5     23.7      15.0         25.5       26.4      28.3          6.7      8.7     8.0
3.  Service                                  52.7     55.4      56.5         56.5       57.1      57.1          7.8      7.1     6.5
C. PRICES (1972: 100)
1.  Export price index (incl. NFS)          100.0    1S1.2     197.9        228.0      312.8     387.7        16.0      11.5     4.4
2.  Import price index (incl. NFS)          100.0    163.7     171.4        178.5      246.7     286.9         13.1      8.5     3.1
3.  Terms of trade index                    100.0    110.7     115.5        127.7      126.8     135.1          2.6      2.8     1.3
4.  CDP deflator                            100.0    136.6     147.5        156.4      206.3     244.7          8.1      8.6     3.5
5. Average exchange rate (dinars per S)   .4772    .4288       .429         .4162      .4034     .4034
0. SELECTED INDICATORS
(Computed st 1972 constant prices)         1973-76    1977-81    1982-86
1.  ICOR                                          3.2        3.6        3.4
2.  Import elasticity                             1.48       1.16       0.8
3.  Average national savings rate/GDY            18.0       16.5        17.7
4.  Marginal national savings rate/COY            9.3       20.2        21.5
5.  Imports/GDY                                  28.2       31.0       27.9
6.  Investment/MOY                               21.3       22.4       20.6
7.  Resource gap/GDY                              6.6       10.8        8.0
E. PUBLIC FINANCE (General Gov't)            1972       1976       1977
(as S of Gso at current prices)
1.  Current revemie                          21.5       25.3       27.0
2.  Current expenditure                      17.8       19.3       20.0
3.  Current surplus       .                   3.7        6.1        7.0
4.  Capital expenditure                       6.1        8.1        11.1
5. Loans and advances (net)                   2.4        2.1        4.1
F. LABOR FORCE                               1972       1976       1978
(in thousands)
1.  Total labor force                        1450       1671       1782
2.  Employment                               1277       1440       1522
2.1 Agriculture                           589        593        595
2.2 Industry                              344        437        484
2.3 Services                              344        410        443
3. Unemployment                               173        231        260 2/
Staff estimates
1nclujdes 29 zhoussnd Tunisians that left to work abroad.



- 23 -
BALANCE OF P4AYENTS AND EXTEPNAL ASSISTANCE                                  ANNEA I
,Millions of US dollars: current prices)                                    Pae 4 of 5
Actual                           Pruli3_                     projected I/
1969        1972          1976         1977          1978         1979          19S1          1986
A. SUH4ARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMNTS
1.  Exports (incl. NFS)                          287.8        567.1      1,311.1       1,511.7       1,802.0      2,332.7        3,026.9      5,487.
2.  Imports (incl. NFS)                           346.2       592.8       1,669.8      2,035.7       2,316.9      2,774.2        3,268.0       5,557.4
3.  Resource balance                              -58.4       -25.7        -358.7       -524.0        -514.9       -441.6         -241.1         -70.2
4.  Net factor service income                     -45.9       -22.7         -58.2        -42.9          -7.2        -55.9          -97.8        -222.6
1.  Net investment income                    -24.4        -43.0        -73.9         -93.9       -132.2        -184.9         -233.5       -369.1
2.  Workers  remittances                      21.9         62.0        143.0         168.3        216.3         235.6          264.7        354.3
3.  Net other servics income                 -43.4        -41.7       -127.3        -117.2        -91.3        -106.6         -129.0       -307.7
5.  Net current transfers                           7.9         6.1          -0.5         -0.9           -            -              -
6.  Balance on current account                    -96.4       -42.3       -417.4        -567.8       -522.1        -497.4         -338.9        -292.8
7.  Private direct investment                      19.0        36.7         102.6         92.3          96.1        110.0          137.5         221.4
8.  Official grants                               43.6         37.3          53.2         47.3          38.2         40.0           38.0         30.0
Public M&LT loans
9.  Disbursements                                  92.4       139.8         224.4        643.3         636.0        599.8          537.1         714.5
10. Amortization                                  45.0         71.9         65.7          88.6         103.1        160.8          261.2       -526.8
11. Net disbursements                             47.4         67.9        158.7         554.7         532.9        439.0          275.9         187.7
12. Short-term capital and errors
and omissions                                5.2       -22.4          59.9        -183.2       -110.1           -              -            -
13. Changes in reserves                          -18.8        -77.2         43.0          56.7        -35.0         -91.5         -112.5       -146.3
( increase)
14. Net foreign eKchange reserves                 -4.0        192.1        304.5         247.8         282.8        374.5          545.8      1,389.4
B. GRANT AND LOAN COMMITIENTS
1. Official grants                                43.6         36.7        102.6          92.3          96.1
2. Total public M&LT loans                       172.8        187.7        774.5         888.6         592.5
2.1  IBRD                                      34.4         36.0         60.0          77.5         67.0
2.2  IDA                                        8.5         10.0          4.8           -            -
2.3  Other multilateral                         -            1.0         95.8          36.4          12.3
2.4  Goverraents                               71.2        106.0        454.8         341.4        251.2
2.5  of ,hich centrally planned
2.6  Suppliers                                 23.2          7.3         16.3          69.2
2.7  Finawnial institutions                    29.1         27.5        118.8         364.1        262.0
2.8  Other                                      6.4          -           24.0           -
C. MEMORANDUM ITEMS
1. rrent element of total comitments                ..         ..            34.6         23.8          18.3
2.  Average interest (percent)                      ..         ..             5.0          6.2           7.2
3.  Average maturity (years)                        ..         ..            20.8         16.4          14.1
1/ Staff estimates                                                      -  Nil or less than half of unit shown                           EMENA CPIIB
.. Not available                                                 September 1979



- 24
ANNEX 1
TUNISIA                                              DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS                                   Page 5 of 5 pages
Actual                                                   Prelim.
1969       1973       1974        1975        1976        1977        1978
MEDIUM AND LONG-TERM DEBT
(millions of US doilars)
1.  Total debt outstanding (DOD; end of period)          501.6       826.4      938.9    1,038.1      1,171.9    1.774.3        2,424.5
2.  Including undisbursed                                 768.3    1,306.3    1,518.5    1,762.6      2,430.3    3,321.9        4,015.6
3.  Public debt service                                    60.4       88.7        91.5      101.6       104.3       142.3         196.6
1.  Interest                                          15.4-       27.7       30.7        35.1        38.6        53.7          93.5
DEBT BURDEN (percentage)
1.  Debt service ratio                                    21.0        12.4        7.3         7.6         8.0         9.4          10.9
2.  Debt service and direct investment incone ratio        22.0       14.8         7.3        8.7         9.9        10.8          12.6
3.  Debt service/GDP                                        4.6        3.2         2.6        2.4         2.3         2.8           3.3
4. Public debt service/Governrent revenue                  19.2       13.9        10.9        9.2         9.3        10.5
5.  Total DOD/GDP                                          37.9       29.7       26.7        24.2        26.3        35.4          41.0
TERMS (percentage)
1.  Interest on total DOD/total DOD 1/                      3.3        4.0         3.7        3.7         3.7         4.6           5.3
2.  Tctal debt service/total DO  1/                       13.0       12.7        11.1       10.8        10.0        12.1          11.1
DEPENDENCY RATIOS FOR KMLT DEBT (percentage)
1. Gross disbursements/imports (including NFS)             26.7       19.6        11.6       12.3        13.4        31.6          27.5
2.  Net transfer/imports (including NFS)                    9.2        8.2         4.2        5.8         7.2        24.6          19.0
3. Net transfer/gross disbursements                        34.6       42.1        36.4       46.8         53.5       77.9          69.1
EXPOSURE (percentage)
1.  IBRD disbursemente/Total diebursements                  6.4       13.8        16.3       14.1        11.3         7.4           5.2
2.  Bank Group disbursements/Total dieburseents            10.2       17.3       20.6        20.7        15.2         8.3           5.3
3.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                      3.6        8.5         9.4       10.5        10.9         9.4           7.8
4.  Bank Group D0D/Total DOD                                6.3       12.9        13.9       15.9         16.3       13.2          10.6
5.  IBRD debt service/Total debt service                    2.6        9.1        12.0       13.7         16.0       1.5.0         13.6
6.  Bank Group debt service/Total debt service              2.6        9.6        12.4       14.1        16.6        17.4          13.9
EX1ERNAL DEBT (disbursed only)                                             Outetw tino. Dec. 31. 1978
(millions of US dollars)                                                      Amount         Percent
1.  IBRD                                                                       189.4           7.8
2.  IDA                                                                         67.4           2.8
3.  Other multilateral                                                          62.6           2.6
4.  Goverriments                                                             1,214.5          50.1
5.  Suppliers                                                                  102.9           4.2
6.  Financial institutions                                                     767.3          31.6
7.  Other                                                                       20.3           0.9
8.  Total public M&LT debt                                                   2,424.5         100.0
9.  Total public M&LT debt (including undiebursed)                           4,015.6         165.6
DEBT/PROFILE
1. Total debt service 1979-1983/Total DOD end of 1978 (percent): 86.3
__
1/ DOD at the end of previous year                                  -   Nil or less than half of unit shown                            EMENA CPIIB
Not availeble                                                 September 1979



- 25 -
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1980)                   ANNEX II
Page I of 8
Loan* or
Credit                                                                                US $ Million
Number  Year   Borrower                            Purpose                           Amount (less
Cancellation)
Bank   IDA b/ Undis.
Twenty-four Loans and Credits Fully Disbursed                                     139.4  60.5
238      1971   Republic of Tunisia                Population                              4.8    1.5
858      1972   Republic of Tunisia                Tourism Infrastructure          14.0           4.0
937      1973   Republic of Tunisia                Urban Planning & Public
Transportation                 11.0           1.5
989      1974   SONEDE                             Water Supply                    23.0           1.8
1029      1974   Republic of Tunisia                Hotel Training                   5.6           2.3
1042      1974   Compagnie des Phosphates et
Chemin de Fer de GAFSA           Phosphate Development           23.3           3.6
1068      1974   Republic of Tunisia                Irrigation Rehabilitation    12.2              5.4
1088      1975   Republic of Tunisia                Urban Sewerage                  28.0          16.7
1155      1975   Republic of Tunisia                Education                        8.6           8.3
1188      1976   Republic of Tunisia                Highways                        28.0          24.6
1189      1976   Banque de D6veloppement
Economique de Tunisie (BDET)  Development Finance Co.            20.0           0.8
238-1   1976   Republic of Tunisia                 Population                              4.8    1.1
1340      1976   Banque Nationale de Tunisie    Agricultural Credit                 12.0           6.1
1355      1976   Societ6 Tunisienne de
l'Electricit6 et du Gaz          Power                           14.5           0.6
1431      1977   Republic of Tunisia                Irrigation Development          42.0          23,0
1445      1977   SONEDE                             Water Supply                    21.0          18.8
1504      1977   BDET                               Development Finance Co.         30.0          13.1
1505      1977   Republic of Tunisia                Small-Scale Industrial
Project                         5.0           4.7
1601      1978   Republic of Tunisia                Rural Roads                     32.0          32.0
1675      1979.  Republic of Tunisia                Urban Sewerage                  26.5          26.5
1702      1979   Soci6t6 Nationale d'Exploi-    Fifth Water Supply
tation d'Eau                                                     25.0          25.0
1705 a/  1979   Republic of Tunisia                 Second Urban Development        19.0          19.0
1746 a/  1979   Republic of Tunisia                 Second Fisheries                28.5          28.5
1796 a/  1980   Republic of Tunisia                 Southern Irrigation             25.0          25.0
1797 a/  1980   Office des Ports Nationaux          Third Port                      42.5          42.5
TOTAL                                        ..                            *636.1  70.1  336.4
Of which has been repaid                    ..                              61.3   4.7
Total now outstanding                       ..                             574.8  65.4
Amount Sold                         14.4
of which has been repaid            7.8                                    6.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA b/           ..                             568.2  65.4
Total Undisbursed                                                          333.8   2.6  336.4
a/ Not vet effective        b/  Prior to exchange adjustment.
*    In addition a loan of $36.5 million for a Fourth Highway Project
. was considered by the Executive Directors on May 13, 1980.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
B.  STATEMENT OF lFC INVESTMENTS IN TUNISIA (as of March 31, 1980)
Amount in US $ Million
Year  Obligator                                 Type of Business                Loan   Equity Total
1962  NPK Engrais                               Fertilizers                        2.0   1.5    3.5
1966  Societe Nationale d'Investissement        Development Finance Co.                  0.6    0.6
1969  COFIT (Tourism)                           Development Finance Co.            8.0   2.2   10.2
1970 Soci6te Nationale d'Investissement
(SNI) now (BMET)                        Development Finance Co.                  0.6    0.6
1973 Socidt6 Touristique & HMtelitre
RYM SA.                                  Tourism                           1.6   0.3    1.9
1973 Soci6t6 d'Etudes & de D6veloppement
de Sousse-Nord                           Tourism                            -    0.0    0.0
1975 Societe d'Etudes & de Developpement
de Sousse-Nord                           Tourism                           2.5   0.6    3.1
1974  Industries Chimiques du Fluor             Chemicals                                0.7    0.7
1978  BDET                                      Development Finance Co.                  1.3    1.3
Total Gross commitments                                                      14.1   7.8   21.9
Less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales                        5.8   1.6    7.4
Total commitments now held by IFC                                             8.3   6.2   14.5
Total undisbursed                           ..                                --    0.5    0.5



27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. 238:    Population Project; US$4.8 million credit of April 5, 1971; Date
of Effectiveness: December 29, 1971; Closing Date: (Original)
June 30, 1976; (Current) December 31, 1980.
Cr. 238-1: Population Project: US$4.8 million Supplemental Credit of
October 13, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: March 21, 1977;
Closing Date: (Original) December 31, 1979; (Current) December 31,
1980.
Progress in the physical implementation of the project has been slow
and new delays have occurred in equipping of project facilities. The con-
struction of the maternity hospitals in Sousse, Tunis and Sfax is complete;
the one in Bizerte will be completed in early 1980. Twenty-five of the 29
maternal and child health/family planning centers have been completed; three
will be completed early in 1980. The center at La Hafsia may have to be
deleted because the Government has been unable to obtain a suitable site.
Cr. 270:    Fisheries Project; US$2 million credit of September 24, 1971; Date
of Effectiveness: May 24, 1972; Closing Date: (Original) December
31, 1976; (Current) December 31, 1979.
All the 190 boats ordered have been constructed and the remainder
of the credit has been used to finance fishing gear. About 98 percent of the
credit funds are disbursed, the balance is committed, and the project will
close on schedule. The recovery of loans provided under the project to the
fishermen remains a matter of concern as the recovery rate has been low and
measures to improve the situation are only slowly succeeding. In May 1979,
agreement was reached with the Tunisian Government and BNT on a program to
bring the rates up to 80 percent by 1983.
Ln. 858:  Tourism Infrastructure Project; US$14 million loan  of September 28,
-  1972; Date of Effectiveness:  June 29, 1973; Closing Date:
(Original) December 31, 1977; (Current) June 30, 1980.
The project has entered its final implementation stage. About
90-95 percent of project work is completed. The remainder is expected to
be completed early in 1980. Total project cost, including price escalation
allowances, is still estimated at TD 31.5 million. Of the total Bank financ-
ing of $24 million (including the fully disbursed credit 329-TUN of $10 mil-
lion), about 85 percent has been disbursed.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Ln. 937:  Tunis District Urban Planning and Public Transport Project; US$11
Cr. 432:  million loan and US$7 million credit, both of October 5, 1973; Date
of Effectiveness: September 24, 1974; Closing Date: (Original)
December 31, 1976; (Current) December 31, 1980.
The project has been completed except for construction of a bus
depot which is expected to be ready by June 1980. The project helped estab-
lish and strengthen the Tunis District, the first regional planning authority
in Tunisia. Work carried out by the District in the housing and transport
sectors has been instrumental in bringing about substantial changes in public
programs and policies, such as the adoption of measures to encourage the use
of buses and restrain the use of private cars. The project also assisted the
public transport company Societe Nationale des Transport (SNT) in renewing its
bus fleet and railway rolling stock, improving its organization and finance,
and upgrading the maintenance of its vehicles with the construction of a new
bus depot. In parallel, the city of Tunis adopted a new traffic plan with
a one-way street system, reserved bus lanes and restricted parking zones,
which contributed substantially to the improvement of bus services in Greater
Tunis. This, combined with an increase in the SNT bus fleet, and improved bus
maintenance has led to an increase in the use of SNT transport facilities
by about 27 per-cent above the level which would have been achieved in the
absence of the project.
Ln 989:   Third Water Supply Project; US$23 million loan of May 29, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness:  September 24, 1974; Closing Date:  (Original)
June 30, 1979, (Current) June 30, 1980.
Ln. 1445: Fourth Water Supply Project; US$21 million loan of July 5, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: January 30, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1982.
All the water production facilities programmed under the third
project are now in operation. As a result of this major increase in water
production, water supply services in Sfax have substantially improved. The
remaining loan amount will be disbursed for works in the city's distribution
network, which are expected to be completed by March 1980. Good progress
has also been achieved in the execution of the works included in the fourth
project. Procurement under this project is now expected to be completed by
mid-1980. Having increased the average water rates last year by about 44
percent, the borrower's financial situation is expected to remain satisfactory
for the next two years.
Ln. 1029: Hotel Training Project; US$5.6 million loan of Julv 17, 1974; Date
of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975; Closing Date: (Original)
October 31, 1978; (Current) October 31, 1980.
The hotel schools at Hammamet and Sousse Nord are now open. The
practice hotels attached to the schools are both to open later in 1980.
Requests for disbursements of the remaining funds should be received by March
1980.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Ln. 1042: Gafsa Phosphate Project; US$23.3 million loan of October 1, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: March 14, 1975; Closing Date: (Original)
June 30, 1979; (Current) December 31, 1980.
Underground mining operations using the longwall method were in-
tended to supply phosphate rock to the Sehib beneficiation plant which was
commissioned at the end of 1979. Following the failure of the related under-
ground mining tests to reach satisfactory production levels, a partial
reformulation of the project is being carried out with the assistance of
experienced consultants whose services are financed by the unused portion of
the Bank loan. The services include: (i) 6 months' technical assistance in
further testing the longwall method, (ii) a feasibility study for open pit
mining of an alternative deposit from which the supply of rock to the washing
plant could be supplemented, and (iii) a review of Gafsa's five-year invest-
ment program and the design and implementation of an improved cost control
system. Meanwhile, the Company is experiencing financial difficulties due
mainly to high operating costs coupled with a large investment program which
has not yet succeeded in raising production levels or reducing costs, and the
accompanying heavy debt load.
Ln. 1068: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$12.2 million loan of
December 31, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: September 18, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Progress in construction and rehabilitation works in the Medjerda
sub-project area continues to be satisfactory, except for water supply to
farmers on which a common decision is expected by SONEDE and OMVVM, regard-
ing the latter's contribution to the investment costs. Enforcement of the
Agrarian Reform is progressing slowly, especially in the Medjerda area.
In Nebhana, the land consolidation program is developing well and farmers have
been settled on nearly 60 percent of the total area. OMVVM continues to
encourage large owners to improve cultivation of land and marked progress has
been reported in the distribution of medium- and short-term credit. Progress
in construction and rehabilitation of irrigation, drainage and road networks
continues to be satisfactory.
Ln. 1088: First Urban Sewerage Project; US$28 million loan of February 18,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1975; Closing Date:
(Original) December 15, 1979; (Current) December 15, 1981.
The project suffered considerable delay as a result of a number
of factors, some beyond the control of the project entity, ONAS. As a result,
considerable cost escalation has occurred, chiefly in local cost components.
However, bids for most of the works have now been received and construction is
under way on all major components. The project is expected to be completed in
mid-1982. One of its major benefits will be release of land for development
around the Lake of Tunis, which until now has been impossible because of the
pollution of the lake waters by untreated sewage. Consultants financed under
the project have produced a land-use plan for the area, and acquisition of the
land has begun by Government.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
Ln. 1155: Third Education Project; US$8.9 million loan of August 13, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: March 1, 1976; Closing Date: (Original)
June 30, 1980; (Amended Project) March 31, 1983.
Implementation of this project was delayed following a change in
education priorities in Tunisia.  The project was subsequently amended to
reduce the number of ITM centers to be equipped under the project, increase
the facilities to train teachers for ITM, and increase technical assistance.
The total cost of the amended project is estimated at $11.3 million and the
Bank loan has been decreased by $0.3 million to $8.6 million, representing
the full foreign exchange cost of the amended project. Implementation of
the project is proceeding satisfactorily; construction of extensions to one
teachers' college has commenced and the four other extensions are under
design. Equipment procurement for the teachers' colleges and the ITM centers
is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. 1188: Second Highways Project, US$28 million loan of January 26, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: June 16, 1976; Closing Date: (Original)
December 31, 1979; (Current) December 31, 1982.
Civil works of Lot 10 of the Tunis-Bizerte highway are complete and
in progress on Lot 9 on the same route. Works are behind schedule although
quality is generally satisfactory. Construction is in progress on Lot 6 in
Nabeul. Construction works of Lots 5, 7 and 11 have not started yet due to
lack of local financing and problems with expropriation. The Sfax bypass
has been deleted. The local financing issue has been discussed with the
Ministries of Public Works and Planning and the work on remaining items will
commence in 1980. The final report of the transport coordination study is
behind schedule, since the Government is still discussing some of the draft
recommendations with the consultants.
Ln. 1189: Sixth Development Finance Company Project; US$20 million loan of
January 26, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 7, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980.
Disbursements are about 6 months ahead of the schedule projected in
the appraisal report. BDET has shown consistent improvements over the past
three years in the key areas of management effectiveness, arrears recovery,
financial practices and resource mobilization.  The institution plays an
increasingly important role in financing industrial development, extending
about one-third of all term credit available to the industrial sector in
Tunisia.
Ln 1340:  Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$12 million loan of
November 23, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980.
About 33 percent of the loan amount is disbursed and about 55 per-
cent is committed. Subloans for small farmers are being made at an accelerated
pace. Under this small farmer category, lending to production cooperatives
which meet the revenue criteria applied to small farmers will be taken up very



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
soon. Prospects are good for the commitment of funds for service cooperatives
whose members are small and medium size farmers.  Commitments of funds to
commercial farmers and agro-industries are progressing satisfactorily but
subloan applications of farmer associations for the establishment of date palm
plantations have not yet been processed. The sub-loan recovery rate has been
low and new procedures to remedy this have recently been initiated.
Ln. 1355: Second Power Project; USS14.5 million loan of January 12, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: May 4, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The Project has been completed and the seven gas-turbines are in
operation. The consultants for the energy pricing study have been selected.
It is expected that the study will be ready by the end of 1980.
Ln. 1431: Sidi Salem Multi-purpose Project; US$42 million loan of July 5, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: July 31, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
For the project as a whole, progress in implementation continues to
be satisfactory. Implementation of the diversion scheme of the Medjerda river
during construction of the Sidi Salem dam was completed on schedule, as was
the cofferdam. Progress in implementation of the railroad substructure is
slightly behind schedule. The land reform and consolidation program is
underway.
Ln. 1504/1505: Industrial Finance Project consisting of Seventh Loan to
Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET) and a Pilot
project for assistance to SSI; Loans of $30.0 million to BDET and
of $5.0 million to the Government, of January 25, 1978; Date of
Effectiveness: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The start up of the project suffered from difficulties in finalizing
legal arrangements concerning the SSI Pilot Project component, which delayed
effectiveness by about six months. Nevertheless, commitments under the loan
to BDET have built up rapidly after effectiveness and disbursements are
in line with appraisal estimates. Under the project, BDET is giving priority
in its financing to projects which are located in the least developed regions,
sponsored by new entrepreneurs, characterized by high labor intensity or
export-orientation.  Although with some delay, commitments have also begun
under the SSI pilot project showing that the commercial banks' initial reluc-
tance to utilize Bank funds for SSI financing is being overcome. Considerable
progress has been made by the Tunisian authorities toward setting up a network
of Tunisian and foreign technical assistance experts, specifically catering to
the needs of SSI, as agreed under the project.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Ln. 1601: Rural Roads Projects; US$32.0 million loan of July 24, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
Preparation of project works in the first three of the provinces to
be covered under the project is progressing satisfactorily, and tenders have
been called for road works in a fourth province (Nabeul).
Ln. 1675: Second Urban Sewerage Project; US$26.5 million loan of April 13,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: August 31, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Consultants have been contracted and detailed design is progressing
as planned.
Ln. 1702: Fifth Water Supply Project; US$25.0 million loan of May 31, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: October 19, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
The physical execution of the project is progressing well and
according to schedule. SONEDE has already prepared 9 sub-projects for a
total investment cost of US$5.3 million.
Ln. 1705: Second Urban Development Project; US$19.0 million loan of May 31,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: Not yet effective; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Staffing requirements and preparation of tender documents is pro-
gressing satisfactorily. Effectiveness is pending receipt of land acquisi-
tion rights in three areas.
Ln. 1746: Second Fisheries Project; US$28.5 million loan of July 20, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: Not yet effective; Closing Date: June 30,
1985.
Loan effectiveness is pending signature of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and BNT. Preparation of tender documents
for port infrastructure and boat engines has begun.



- 33 -
ANNEX III
TUNISIA: SECOND NATURAL GAS PIPELINE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to                About 2 years, from October
prepare the project:                      1977 to September 1979
(b)  The agency which prepared the               Societie Tunisienne de
project:                                  l'Electricite et du Gaz (STEG)
with the assistance of consul-
tants
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank:  February 1979
(d) Date of first Bank mission to
consider the project:                     September 1979
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:             September 30, 1979
(f)  Negotiations completed:                     May 2, 1980
(g)  Loan effectiveness planned:                 September 1, 1980
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Effective and legally binding royalty and gas purchase contracts
as a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 43).
(b) Export credit agreements for the financing of material and equipment
amounting to $5 million as a condition of effectiveness and $7 mil-
lion to be arranged by October 1, 1980 (para. 49).
(c) Agreement by Government to contribute the equivalent of $25 million
for the finance of local expenditures ($19 million equivalent) and
$6 million for part of foreign cost (para. 49).
(d) Agreement on commercial loans to be obtained by the Borrower for an
amount of $18 million equivalent (para. 49).
(e) Semi-annual reviews of the selling prices of Algerian gas and of
fuel gas starting July 1981 (para. 53).



I



IBRD 14849
FEBRUARY 1980
-      d/f E   s7  t  r  ~~~F  'V  'E  A                                N  .          E    A
c    Menzel                             CA8 BON
_ourguiba                              r
'  '   srborka                                   \isUNI 3/                         /         '
- _ )  \ /     abeul
(I+                                                                   /     /< Hiammamet
(           oEI Kef                                           /o
36  (     aTodierouine
cA)           0 iN/j oKairouan
,     Diefmsal
i L 0 F R                         ,                                                  I
A  L  G E R I A  (                    I >  t   9 El Djemo',    \>
/ I Kasserine
-35'/\<                                                                                ,E/        i                                355
I, enppdaro  M,sto-
'- -.  ISL ANDS
f 0<0    >/Mo5Aores  \                                                  ,Z'         S FA
t~~~~~~~~~as                                                                       - -fs
Metlooui  __ /7  
y -- c Di. MAdilla   >   /?J                                            Di
-34'                                                                                                                                                               34'_ X,  _   0   5   s
Tozeur  5---                                                                    GB -                      Hourt Souk
)  . _ - x-~~~~^-.      :  '.   >       ,      A~~ChnrFo/ /Fdiod  ./ i,                                 D,prbo~
\  -S        ~~Ch o ft  ,/D,e,irf   ^<-                                                                       IF v ' 9y
GA';                                                   t - < T U I\IISIA  Medenine  F
t_<0;  ~~~~V_ :>-GOSLAVIA  NATURAL GAS TRANSPORTATION NETWORK                                                                                 - -- -----
.P hase I P.-lin
TAL\Y                                --        Phase D  Pipeline                                                                      i*
~~diardisrso  ~ ~ ~    ~      ~     ------Longer term possibilities
*      Future Compressor Station
-    -    Pipeline under construction
is  4r                                               Ports
7    Salt Lakes                                           i                                     \
JO    />                                                      National Capital
126                                                 -    - -- International Boundaries                                                    .
> J                   This n,ep~~~7   has bee prepared by the World ba-ks tffanovi for 5th.00515C
ALGERIA                                 of tnP - ead-ar.e-n!threpitob ,t,satt@ehad Th. da-l-t-noss sad and the  0   20      40     60   s       LI   B  YA
t i  L I n   A          bPotndsmes shown on tis map do not -mp4, o the Part of teh Word ea-k and it
Y  A            t ;efftas enybodnant nun th-iagi aotfahof any tarhoryty or ny nd-rsKtLent or   KILOMETERS        I
aapaeof -ah bsond..ias



