O     I          LOAN NUMBER 1864 TUN
DOCUMNTS V      (Amendment)
Loan Agreement
(Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SOCIETE TUNISIENNE DE L'ELECTRICITE ET DU GAZ
Dated October 22, 1980
As amended on                      , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1864 TUN
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated            , 1981, amending Loan Agreement,
dated October 22, 198 , between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank) and
SOCIETE TUNISIENNE DE L'ELECTRICITE ET DU GAZ (hereinafter called
the Borrower), an Etablissement Public a Caractare Industriel
et Commercial or the Republic of Tunisia (hereinafter called the
Guarantor) established and operating under the Guarantor's
Decree-Law No. 62-8 of April 3, 1962, as amended by the
Guarantor's Law No. 70-58 of December 2, 1970 (hereinafter
collectively called the STEG Law) as the same has been or may
be amended further from time to time.
WHEREAS (A) by a Loan Agreement dated October 22, 1980,
between the Bank and the Borrower, the Bank agreed to make a
loan to the Borrower in various currencies equivalent to thirty-
seven million dollars ($37,000,000) to assist the Borrower in
the financing of part of the foreign exchange cost of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the said Loan Agreement;
(B) by a Guarantee Agreement dated October 22, 1980,
between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor agreed to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower and to undertake
certain other obligations pursuant to the terms and conditions
set forth in the said Guarantee Agreement;
(C) the Guarantor and the Borrower have now requested the
Bank, prior to the Effective Date of the said Loan and Guarantee
Agreements, to amend the said Loan and Guarantee Agreements;
(D) an onshore and offshore intercontinental pipeline is
being constructed for the transportation of natural gas, from
the territory of the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
(hereinafter called Algeria), across the Guarantor's territory
and on to the territory of the Republic of Italy (hereinafter
called Italy); and
(E) certain amounts of said natural gas produced in Algeria
and purchased by a state-owned company incorporated in Italy shall
accrue to the Guarantor as a transit fee payable in cash or in
natural gas pursuant to the terms and conditions of a transit
agreement (hereinafter called the Royalty Contract) providing for,
inter alia, the right of the Guarantor to freely operate the


﻿- 2 -
portion of the intercontinental pipeline referred to in paragraph
(D) of this Preamble extending across the Guarantor's territory;
and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to amend the said Loan Agreement in the manner set
forth below, and to amend the said Guarantee Agreement as set
forth in an agreement of even date herewith amending said Guaran-
tee Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree to amend the
provisions of the said Loan Agreement, including all schedules
thereto, which shall henceforth read in their entirety as
follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Gas Directorate" means the Borrower's division respon-
sible for carrying out natural gas and related operations;
(b) "Tunisian Dinars" and "DT" mean the currency of the
Guarantor;
(c) "Royalty Gas" means the natural gas accruing to the
Guarantor under the Royalty Contract;
(d) "Purchased Gas" means the natural gas purchased by
the Borrower including Royalty Gas so purchased and excluding
natural gas supplied from El Borma;


﻿-3-
(e) "Intercontinental Pipeline" means the onshore section,
located on the territory of the Guarantor, of an onshore and
offshore intercontinental pipeline extending from Algeria across
the Mediterranean Sea to the northern part of Italy; and
(f) "Prior Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement dated
January 12, 1977, between the borrower and the Bank for the Second
Power Project, and "Prior Guarantee Agreement" means the guarantee
agreement dated January 12, 1977, between the Guarantor and the
Bank, providing, inter alia, for the guarantee by the Guarantor of
the loan under the Prior Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-seven
million dollars ($37,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the doan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿-4-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and twenty-five hundredths per cent (8.25%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public
utility practices; and (ii) supervise and coordinate the activi-
ties under the Project through its Gas Directorate.
(b) For the purposes of financing part of the expenditures
required under the Project, the Borrower shall take all such
measures within its powers to obtain loans from commercial banks
(hereinafter called the Commercial Loans) in an aggregate prin-
cipal amount equivalent to not less than eight million two
hundred thousand Tunisian Dinars (DT 8,200,000) on appropriate
terms and conditions and in accordance with a timetable agreed to
between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in: (i)
carrying out the studies under Part C of the Project, (ii) imple-
menting the training program under Part D of the Project, and
(iii) carrying out the construction, supervision, and initial
operation of the Project, and the procurement of goods and
services required thereunder, the Borrower shall employ engineer-
ing and management consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Bank.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall: (i) not later than December 31, 1981, employ the con-
sultants to carry out Part C.1 of the Project, and not later than
June 30, 1982, forward to the Bank for its review and comment, a


﻿report on the recommendations of said consultants and on the
results of the study carried out under Part C.1 of the Project;
and (ii) not later than June 30, 1982, employ the consultants to
carry out Part C.2 of the Project, and not later than December 31,
1982, forward to the Bank, for its review and comment, a report on
the recommendations of said consultants and on the results of the
study carried out under Part C.2 of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents; (iii) furnish to the Bank, at quarterly
intervals, detailed reports on the progress of the Project in-
cluding all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds;
and (iv) forward to the Bank copies of each report prepared by
the consultants referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement
promptly upon completion of each such report.


﻿-6-
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of
the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived
from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(e) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire not later than
July 31, 1981, or such later date as the Bank and the Borrower may
otherwise agree, all such land and rights in respect of land as
shall be required for the construction (and operation) of the
facilities included in the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, upon its request, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for pur-
poses related to the Project.
Section 3.06. Not later than March 31, 1982, the Borrower
shall have completed the recruitment and training under Part D
of the Project of all such staff within the Gas Directorate as
shall be required for the execution of Parts A and B of the
Project in accordance with a staffing program agreed to between
the Bank and the Borrower.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, at all times, carry
out its operations, manage its affairs, plan its future expansion
and maintain its financial position, all in accordance with


﻿-7-
appropriate engineering, business, financial and public utility
practices, and under the supervision of experienced and competent
staff.
(b) The Borrower shall at all times maintain its corporate
existence and right to carry on its operations, and take all
steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers,
privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in the
conduct of its business and for the execution and operation of
the Project.
(c) Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not take any corporate or other action
within its power or control, or concur in any action, which would
have the effect of terminating or assigning, or adversely inter-
fering with, the natural gas operations undertaken or to be
undertaken by the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, in accordance with appro-
priate engineering and public utility practices: (i) operate and
maintain its plant, equipment and properties; (ii) make all
necessary renewals and repairs thereof; and (iii) cause its
natural gas pipeline network to be periodically inspected.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall obtain title to all goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan free and clear of all encumbrances.
(b) Except in the normal course of its business, the
Borrower shall not, without the prior approval of the Bank, sell,
lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property or
assets which shall be required for the efficient operation of its
business and undertaking.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall: (i) inform the Bank of any
measure it proposes to take which would materially affect the
Borrower's structure or organization and take into account the
Bank's comments in implementing such measure; and (ii) period-
ically inform the Bank of any other modification of its structure
affecting its management or operations.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records ade-
quate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the generality
of Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement and for the purposes of
computing its income and expenditures pursuant to the provisions
set forth in Sections 5.01 (e), 5.02 (b), 5.04, 5.05 and 5.06 of
this Agreement, not later than January 1, 1983, the Borrower shall
establish and thereafter maintain internal non-statutory itemized
accounts (including separate annual cash accounts) and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for:
(A) the operations relating to Purchased Gas supplied
to customers as natural gas (such accounts and
financial statements being hereinafter called the
Purchased Gas Accounts);
(B) the gas operations relating to gas supplied from El
Borma; and
(C) all other operations of the Borrower, including
operations relating to Cap Bon gas and manufactured
gas supplied to Tunis.
(c) Not later than April 1, 1982, the Borrower shall
establish and thereafter apply at all times a bill collection
system ensuring that amounts charged by the Borrower to its
customers for Purchased Gas shall be paid to the Borrower within
a time period compatible with the Borrower's payment obligations
to its suppliers.
(d) Not later than July 1, 1982, the Borrower shall:
(i) measure periodically the heating value of Purchased Gas
received by the Borrower; and (ii) ensure that all permanent
modifications in said heating value of such Purchased Gas be
reflected promptly in the price charged by the Borrower for the
corresponding amount of Purchased Gas delivered to its customers.


﻿-9-
(e) Not later than December 31, 1981, or such later date as
the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower and
the Bank shall consult with each other so as to determine the
principles and procedures to be applied by the Borrower in
establishing and maintaining its Purchased Gas Accounts.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements relating thereto (balance sheets, state-
ments of income and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of its accounts and financial
statements related thereto for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(b) Beginning in its fiscal year 1983 and in each fiscal
year thereafter, the Borrower shall:
(i) have its Purchased Gas Accounts audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
certifying that said Purchased Gas Accounts
have been established and thereafter maintained in
accordance with such accounting principles and
procedures as shall have been agreed to between the
Borrower and the Bank pursuant to Section 5.01 (e)
of this Agreement;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than nine months after the end
of each such year, (A) certified copies of its
Purchased Gas Accounts and financial statements
related thereto for such year as so audited, and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information con-
cerning the Purchased Gas Accounts of the Borrower


﻿- 10 -
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfac-
tory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that
the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall promptly take all such measures within its
powers (including, in particular, adjustments of its charges for
Purchased Gas) as shall be required to produce revenues generated
from Purchased Gas operations sufficient:
(i) to earn a rate of return of not less than eight per
cent (8%) per annum on the average current net
value of the Borrower's fixed assets in operation
for Purchased Gas, commencing with the year
beginning January 1, 1983; and
(ii) to enable the Borrower, out of its internally-
generated resources: (A) to meet the Borrower's
interest and amortization of debt incurred for
Purchased Gas operations; (B) to maintain adequate
working capital; (C) to establish and maintain
reserves adequate to meet contingencies; and (D)
to finance the cost of renewal or replacement of


﻿- 11 -
plant and equipment and, to the extent possible,
a portion of the cost of major expansion and
development works.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated by
dividing the Borrower's net operating income
for the fiscal year in question by one-half of the
sum of the current net value of the Borrower's
fixed assets in service at the beginning and
at the end of that fiscal year, such annual rate
of return to be expressed as a percentage;
(ii) the term "net operating income" means gross
revenues generated from the sale of Purchased Gas
less all expenses accountable to Purchased Gas
operations, including transportation, administra-
tion, adequate maintenance and taxes or any
payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for
depreciation on a straight-line basis at a rate of
not less than 5% per annum of the average current
gross value of the Borrower's fixed assets in
service; it being understood that, for the purposes
of this Section, interest and other charges on debt
are not considered to be operating expenses; and
(iii) the term "current net value of the Borrower's
fixed assets in service" means the gross value of
the Borrower's fixed assets in service relating to
its Purchased Gas operations less the amount of
accumulated depreciation, both revalued not later
than December 31, 1982, and annually thereafter on
the basis of a methodology acceptable to the Bank.
(c) The Borrower shall ensure that the surplus funds
accruing from natural gas operations shall be applied to purposes
unrelated to gas operations only after ensuring that sufficient
funds are available to meet the requirements set forth in Section
5.04 (a) of this Agreement.
Section 5.05. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not incur any debt for or
pertaining to its operations related to Purchased Gas in any year
unless a reasonable forecast of the Borrower's projected net


﻿- 12 -
revenues for each year during the term of the debt to be incurred
shall be, for each year commencing with 1983, not less than 1.2
times its projected debt service requirements for such year, on
all debt of the Borrower including the debt to be incurred. For
the purpose of this Section:
(a) the term "debt" means all debt, including debt assumed
or guaranteed by the Borrower for or pertaining to Purchased Gas
operations, except debt incurred in the ordinary course of
business and maturing by its terms on demand or less than one
year after the incurrence thereof;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred:
(i) under a contract or loan agreement, on the date the
contract or loan agreement providing for such debt
is entered into; and
(ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the
agreement providing for such guarantee is entered
into;
(c) the term "net revenue" means the aggregate revenues
generated from all operations relating to Purchased Gas less the
costs of purchase of said Purchased Gas and transportation,
operating and administrative expenses, excise duties, fees, taxes,
rcyalties, and other levies, if any, but before provisions for
depreciation and interest and other charges on debt;
(d) the term "debt service requirements" means the aggre-
gate amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if
any), interest and other charges on debt;
(e) the term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared
by the Borrower in the fiscal year in which the debt in question
is to be incurred, which both the Bank and the Borrower have
agreed to as being reasonable, provided no event has occurred
since such agreement which has or may reasonably be expected in
the future to have a material adverse effect on the financial
condition or future operating results of the Borrower; and
(f) whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of Tunisian Dinars debt payable in
foreign currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing
lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the


﻿- 13 -
time of such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the
purposes of servicing such debt.
Section 5.06. Not later than July 1, 1982, the Borrower
shall adjust its method of calculation under Sections 5.04 and
5.05, respectively, of the Prior Loan Agreement so as to exclude
from the scope thereof all activities of the Borrower related to
Purchased Gas and, as the case may be, all future activities
related to new supplies of natural gas.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) the STEG Law shall have been suspended, abrogated or
terminated, repealed or materially amended without the Bank's
prior written consent;
(b) any event shall have occurred in connection with the
transpocLaLion or supply of Royalty Gas or Purchased Gas or the
terms and conditions of s-ch transportation or the terms and
conditions of such supply which will affect materially and
adversely the efficient use of the facilities constructed under
the Project, or the operations or financial condition of the
Borrower with respect to the Project or the performance by the
Borrower or by the Guarantor of their respective obligations under
this Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement;
(c) (i) a first tranche of the Commercial Loans referred
to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to about seven million two hundred thousand
Tunisian Dinars (DT 7,200,000) shall have failed to become
effective by December 31, 1981, and (ii) the balance of the
Commercial Loans referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement
in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to one million Tuni-
sian Dinars (DT 1,000,000) shall have failed to become effective
by December 31, 1983 or such other date as may be agreed between
the Borrower and the Bank, it being understood that the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph (c) shall not apply if the Borrower
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds
for the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources


﻿- 14 -
on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement; and
(d) (i) subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the Commercial Loans made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project as
provided in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agree-
ment, shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part pursuant to
the respective terms of the agreements provid-
ing therefor; or
(B) said Commercial Loans shall have become
due and payable prior to their respective
agreed maturities; and
(ii) sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction
of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancella-
tion, termination or prematuring is not caused by
the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
respective obligations under such agreements; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any of the events specified in paragraph (c) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and
(b) any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) or
(d) (i) (B) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional matter within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the


﻿- 15 -
General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to
be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Royalty Contract has
been duly authorized and ratified by the Guarantor and any other
party thereto, respectively, and executed and delivered on behalf
of the Guarantor and any such party, respectively, and is legally
binding upon the Guarantor and any such party in accordance with
its terms and conditions.
Section 7.02. The date6i(    L-Q   /s  'go, is hereby speci-
fied for the purpose of Section 12.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INTBAFRAD                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Soci6te Tunisienne de 1'Electricite
et du Gaz
38 rue Kemal Ataturk
Tunis
Tunisia
Cable address:                        Telex:
GAZELEC                              12020
Tunis


﻿- 16 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement amending the Loan Agreement referred to in paragraph (A)
of the Preamble hereto to be signed in their respective names in
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
SOCIETE TUNISIENNE DE L'ELECTRICITE ET DU GAZ
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Pipelaying works            6,000,000          100% of foreign
under Parts Al,                               expenditures,
A2, A3, A4 and                                and 50% of
A7 of the                                     local expendi-
Project                                       tures
(2) Linepipe for                6,000,000          100% of foreign
Parts Al, A2,                                 expenditures
A3 and A4 of
the Project
(3) Engineering,                9,500,000          100% of foreign
equipment and                                 expenditures
construction
and installa-
tion works
under Parts
A5, A6, A8, A9
and A10 of
the Project
(4) Pipelaying works            6,500,000          100% of foreign
under Parts Bl,                               expenditures
B2, B3 and B5 of                              and 50% of local
the Project                                   expenditures
(5) Linepipe for                2,000,000          25% of foreign
Parts Bl, B2                                  expenditures
and B3 of the
Project


﻿- 18 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(6) Engineering,               2,000,000          100% of foreign
equipment and                                expenditures
construction
and installa-
tion works under
Parts B4, B6, B7
and B8 of the
Project
(7) Studies under                500,000          100% of foreign
Part C of the                                expenditures
Project
(8) Unallocated                4,500,000
TOTAL            37,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice


﻿- 19 -
to the Borrower, decrease the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such item as required to be consistent with the afore-
mentioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to October 22, 1980.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a) with respect to expenditures under and related to
Part B.1 of the Project, until such time as the Bank shall have
been satisfied with the economic justification of the investments
proposed to be carried out under Part B.1 of the Project;
(b) with respect to expenditures under and related to
Part B.2 of the Project, until such time as the Bank shall have
been satisfied with the economic justification of the investments
proposed to be carried out under Part B.2 of the Project; and
(c) with respect to expenditures under Part A.3 of the
Project, until such time as the installation of a gas turbine
planned by the Borrower for the manufacturing of electricity in
the Kasserine area shall have been completed or the condition
prior to disbursements provided for in paragraph (a) above shall
have been satisfied.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expendi-
tures in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures.
7.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without it, any way restricting
or limiting any other right, vower or remedy of the Bank under


﻿- 20 -
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to expand the Borrower's
onshore natural gas pipeline distribution network and to connect
said network to the Intercontinental Pipeline. The Project con-
sists of the following Parts:
Part A:
(1) Engineering for, and acquisition, construction and
installation of a 20-inch diameter buried pipeline (including
the installation of tie-ins for compressors) measuring about 85 km
extending from a point on the Intercontinental Pipeline north
to the Tunis metropolitan area.
(2) Engineering for, and acquisition, construction and
installation of a 10-inch diameter buried pipeline measuring
about 55 km and extending from a point on the Intercontinental
Pipeline south to Cap Bon.
(3) Engineering for, and acquisition, construction and
installation of an 8-inch diameter buried pipeline measuring
about 13 km from a point on the Intercontinental Pipeline north
to Kasserine.
(4) Engineering for, and acquisition, construction and
installation of a distribution system to consumers connected to
the pipeline network constructed under Parts A (1), (2) and (3)
of the Project, comprising about 40 km of lateral pipes.
(5) Engineering, acquisition of equipment and installation
works for: (i) about 100 delivery terminals for pressure reduc-
tion, straining and metering; (ii) block valves to be installed
about every 20 km on the pipelines and at the branching points of
the latefal pipes constructed under Parts A (1), (2) and (3) of
the Project; and (iii) scraper trap assemblies to be installed at
both ends of each section of the pipeline network constructed
under Parts A (1), (2) and (3) of the Project.
(6) Construction of 3 injection terminals and acquisition
and installation of metering equipment and filtration facilities.


﻿- 22 -
(7) Engineering for, and acquisition and installation of a
cathodic protection system for the pipeline network constructed
under Part A of the Project.
(8) Engineering for conversion equipment for the Borrower
and for other consumers connected to the pipeline network con-
structed under Part A of the Project.
(9) Acquisition and installation of conversion equipment for
the Borrower's power and town gas plants connected to the pipeline
network constructed under Part A of the Project.
(10) Acquisition and installation of conversion equipment for
other consumers connected to the pipeline network constructed
under Part A of the Project, including consumers in the city of
Tunis.
Part B:
(1) Engineering for, and acquisition, construction and
installation of an 8-inch diameter buried pipeline measuring about
77 km and extending from Kasserine north to Tadjerouine.
(2) Engineering for, and acquisition, construction and
installation of a 20-inch diameter buried pipeline measuring
about 70 km and extending from a point on the Intercontinental
Pipeline south to Sousse.
(3) Engineering for, and acquisition, construction and
installation of a distribution system to consumers connected to
the pipeline network constructed under Parts B (1) and (2) of the
Project, comprising about 50 km of lateral pipes.
(4) Engineering, acquisition of equipment and installation
works for: (i) about 50 delivery terminals for pressure reduction,
straining and metering; (ii) block valves to be installed about
every 20 km on the pipelines and at the branching points of the
lateral pipes constructed under Parts B (1) and (2) of the
Project; and (iii) scraper trap assemblies to be installed at both
ends of each section of the pipeline network constructed under
Parts B (1) and (2) of the Project.
(5) Engineering for, and acquisition and installation of a
cathodic protection system for the pipeline network constructed
under Part B of the Project.


﻿- 23 -
(6) Engineering for conversion equipment for the Borrower
and other consumers connected to the pipeline network constructed
under Part B of the Project.
(7) Acquisition and installation of conversion equipment for
the Borrower's power plants connected to the pipeline network
constructed under Part B of the Project.
(8) Acquisition and installation of conversion equipment for
other consumers to the pipeline network constructed under Part B
of the Project.
Part C:
(1) Feasibility studies for the supply of natural gas to
households and small-scale industrial consumers in selected areas
in Tunisia.
(2) A feasibility and optimization study to prepare a future
project for the further expansion of Tunisia's onshore pipeline
network.
Part D:
Carrying out of a training program in Tunisia and abroad
for management, technical and operational staff as required
for the purposes of the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1985.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning September 1, 1984
through   September 1, 1996                 1,425,000
On March 1, 1997                                 1,375,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 25 -.
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                1.45%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                       2.90%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                5.35%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                                7.30%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                                8.25%


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods and civil works shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
.Lorward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender or prequalification documents relating there-
to, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3    With respect to the procurement of civil works under Parts A
and B of the Project:
(i) bidders shall be prequalified as described in
paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines; and
(ii) contracts shall be grouped, to the extent practi-
cable, to form four bid packages.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or


﻿- 27 -
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Tunisia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
Republic of Tunisia if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Tunisia equal to at least
20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further


﻿- 28 -
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customw
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluat-ed bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   The Borrower shall, before qualification is invited, inform
the Bank in detail of the procedure to be followed, and shall
introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together
with a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for
the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification shall be
furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its comments before the
applicants are notified of the Borrower's decision, and the
Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifi-
cations in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.


﻿- 29 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdradal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 25% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this         -day of       , 1981.
FOR SECRETARY


