OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTI
LOAN NUMBER 1864 TUN
Guarantee Agreement
(Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1864 TUN
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated (       6, 1980,
between REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA (hereinafter called the Guarantor)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Societe Tunisienne de l'Electricitg et du Gaz
(hereinafter called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to
the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to thirty-
seven million dollars ($37,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that
the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower
in respect of such loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as


﻿-2-
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth
in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) Without limitation or restriction upon
the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause
to believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the
carrying out of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory
to the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the
Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet
such expenditures.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically
undertakes to: (i) make available to the Borrower funds required
to enable the Borrower to meet certain expenditures in respect of
the Project, such funds to be provided by way of contributions to
the Borrower's equity in an amount of not less than ten million
Tunisian Dinars (DT 10,000,000) in accordance with a timetable
agreed to between the Guarantor and the Bank; and (ii) take
all such measures within its power, including the issuance of
authorizations, as shall be required to enable and facilitate
the Borrower's obtaining of loans from commercial banks pur-
suant to the provisions set forth in Section 3.01 (b) of the
Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the


﻿-3-
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost to the
Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating
or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express
provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any
constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be made
with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its political
or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and
at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public
assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)  The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c)   As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Guarantor.
Section 3.02. (a) The Guarantor shall take all necessary
steps within its powers to enable the Borrower to meet the rate of
return and cash generation requirements set forth in Section 5.04
(a) and 5.04 (b), respectively, of the Loan Agreement.
(b) Without limiting or restricting the provisions of
Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, the Guarantor shall carry
out semi-annual reviews on the adequacy of the Borrower's charges
for imported gas to be applied during the next succeeding six-
month period, and shall take all such measures as shall be appro-
priate, pursuant to Sections 5.04 (a) and 5.04 (b) of the Loan
Agreement, taking into account, as appropriate, the results of the
study carried out under Section 3.04 (a) of the Prior Guarantee
Agreement, it being understood that the first such review shall be
carried out in July 1981 and every six months thereafter.


﻿-4-
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall take all such measures
as shall be required to ensure that the prices charged to the
Borrower for Royalty Gas provided to the Borrower shall pro-
gressively be increased to achieve parity with the prices due
by the Borrower for the Purchase Gas, such parity to be reached
within a period of 5 years from January 1, 1982, or within such
other reasonable period from January 1, 1982, as shall be agreed
upon between the Guarantor and the Bank.
Section 3.04. Without limitation or restricting upon any
of its obligations pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement,
the Guarantor shall take all such measures as shall be required
to ensure that, whenever natural gas replaces or is intended
to replace fuel oil, the domestic selling price of fuel oil
shall be at least equivalent to the domestic selling price of
natural gas.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Planning and Finance of the
Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministare du Plan
et des Finances
1, rue de Beja
Tunis, Tunisia
Cable address:                       Telex:
Ministre du Plan                    MIPLAN - 12117
et des Finances                 TN
Tunis


﻿-5-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
represencatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Byer               L4       Z
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  "-d-day of 1        , 9t2.
FOR SECRETARY


