Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  12/09/2009 
Report No.:  52144
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Liberia 
Project ID:  P105282 
Project Name:  Health Systems Reconstruction 
Task Team Leader:  Yi-Kyoung Lee 
Estimated Appraisal Date: March 26, 2007 
Estimated Board Date: June 14, 2007 
Managing Unit:  AFTHE 
Lending Instrument:  Emergency Recovery 
Loan 
Sector:  Health (56%);Central government administration (28%);Tertiary education 
(16%) 
Theme:  Child health (33%);Health system performance (33%);Population and 
reproductive health (17%);Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (17%) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
8.50 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
0.00
0.00 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [X] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [X] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
The overall goal of the project is to help Liberia to recover from the damage done to the 
health sector during the years of civil war. Under the National Health Policy and Plan, the 
Government has reaffirmed its commitment to working towards achievement of the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) with a particular focus on activities that will 
contribute to overall improvements in maternal and child survival.  
 
During and after the years of conflict, the health sector in Liberia benefited from 
extensive donor assistance focused on addressing the basic health care needs of the 
population.  However, the foundations of the health sector such as policymaking, 
governance, human resources, physical infrastructure and equipment were destroyed.  
Many of the precious resources brought by other donors are now at risk of being wasted 
due to the collapse in the underlying health systems.  
 
The Project aims to help address these issues by helping the Government rebuild some 
of the critical underlying building blocks needed for a functioning health sector.  
 
The initial project objectives were, in partnership with other donors, to contribute to: (a) 
strengthening policy making and management functions of the Ministry of Health and 
Page  2
Social Welfare; and (b) providing critical inputs to sustain the referral system needed to 
support essential health services.  
 
Following two years of implementation and the mid-term review, a project restructuring 
is being proposed to the Board to realign the Project with the current sector situation and 
needs.  The proposed revised project development objectives are: (i) strengthen the policy 
framework and selected management functions of the Ministry of Health and Social 
Welfare (MOHSW); and (ii) improve pre-service training and selected components of 
basic package of health services.   
 
3. Project Description 
The restructured Project will achieve these revised objectives by:  
 
-
Strengthening policy making, planning, management, monitoring and evaluation 
capacity of the MOHSW;  
 
-
Increasing the number of doctors, nurses, and allied health workers in critical areas of 
selected facilities, through recruitment and training; and supporting public education 
institutions in the health sector;  
 
-
Contributing to the infrastructure rehabilitation and equipment of selected medical 
facilities and teaching institutions, including for services used by mothers and children.  
 
The project changes, as proposed in the restructuring, are described below.  The original 
three components remain the same, although there are changes in some of the activities 
under each component:  
 
Component A.  Support System  
 
-
Supporting the operational capacity of MOHSW to effectively manage the Project by, 
inter alia, strengthening its management capacity, and expanding its monitoring and 
evaluation mechanisms, all through the provision of technical advisory services, training 
and Incremental Operating Costs. (No change)  
 
-
Provision of technical assistance and training to MOHSW staff to: (a) develop policy 
in the following areas: (i) health financing ; (ii) contracting with health providers; (iii) 
health labor market dynamics; and (iv) decentralization of health services; and (b) 
strengthen their administrative and technical capacities to manage and implement the 
Recipient's National Health Plan and related policies. (Revised: Development of policy in 
the following areas: (a) health financing; (b) human resources for health; and (c) 
decentralization of health services  
 
Development of capacity for selected MOHSW management and technical functions.)  
 
-
Provision of information communication technology to MOHSW staff to support a 
health management information system. (No Change).  
 
Component B.  Human Resource  
 
-
Hiring of clinical teachers, including medical doctors, nurses, midwives and allied 
health workers for purposes of training and supervision of Recipient's clinical care staff.  
 
Hiring of medical officers, laboratory technicians and radiographers to fill in critical 
staffing needs in the Recipient's health clinics and hospitals. (Revised: Hiring of medical 
doctors, nurses, midwives, allied health workers to (a) train and supervise clinical care 
staff; and (b) fill in critical staffing needs in selected health facilities.)  
Page  3
-
Providing technical assistance and training to Recipient's public education institutions 
to reform their curriculum to enhance the education level of medical doctors, nurses and 
allied health workers. (Revised: Supporting public education institutions in the health 
sector by (a) providing them with select training equipment and materials; (b) hiring pre-
clinical and clinical professors in areas of critical shortage; and (c) providing training 
allowances).  
 
-
Providing training, technical advisory services and equipment to enhance the technical 
and managerial capacity of key staff in the Recipient's health sector including, inter alia: 
(a) transportation costs of trainers and trainees; (b) per-diem of trainers and trainees; (c) 
workshops; (d) seminars and courses; (e) rental of training facilities and equipment; (f) 
acquisition of training equipment and teaching material; (g) internet access to online 
learning; and (h) study tours. (Revised: this subcomponent has been deleted).  
 
Component C.  Infrastructure and Equipment  
 
-
Rehabilitation of Recipient's essential medical facilities and medical teaching 
institutions, including the maternal and child wards at the John F. Kennedy Hospital and 
the A .M. Dogliotti College of Medicine. (Revised: Rehabilitation of Recipient's selected 
medical facilities and teaching institutions, including the maternal and child wards at the 
John F. Kennedy Hospital and the A .M. Dogliotti College of Medicine.)  
 
-
Acquisition of basic medical supplies, medical emergency equipment, radiology and 
laboratory equipment, communications equipment, energy generating equipment, internet 
connection equipment, ambulances for MOHSW clinics and health centers, county 
hospitals and the John F. Kennedy Hospital. (Revised:  Provision of basic medical, 
radiology and laboratory equipment and supplies, energy generating equipment, an 
elevator, and ambulances for  target health facilities and public education institutions; 
provision of waste management equipment and supplies for selected medical facilities; 
and renovation of waste management facilities at target hospitals.)  
 
The revised project will include strengthened project implementation arrangements, 
including for the Steering Committee which will be undertaken by the existing Deputy 
Minister's Briefing, and a monthly Project Monitory and Coordination Meeting will be 
added to the existing arrangements.  
 
The proposed restructuring also includes a one-year extension of the closing date of the 
project to October 1, 2011.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
Selected facilities include the maternal and child wards of the John F. Kennedy Hospital 
and the A .M. Dogliotti College of Medicine.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Thomas E. Walton (AFTEG) 
Ms Kristine Schwebach (AFTCS) 
Ms Nyaneba E. Nkrumah (AFTEN) 
Mr Abdelaziz Lagnaoui (ENV) 
Page  4
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
The project was classified, and remains, as a Category B.  The restructuring does not 
trigger any new Safeguards Policy.  
 
As this is an Emergency Recovery Lending, following Operational Procedures OP/BP 
8.0, the Environment and Social Management Framework and the Medical Waste 
Management Plan were to be carried out within six months after Grant Effectiveness. 
They were produced with some delays due to difficulties encountered by Government in 
hiring consultants willing to work in the country. The main environmental issues for this 
project relate to the handling and disposal of supplies such as medical laboratory 
substances, X-Ray films and other medical products and waste generated during the 
provision of health care.  It also involves some waste generated during rehabilitation of 
JFK Hospital and Dogliotti College of Medicine, however these buildings, although 
currently in use as health facilities, are stripped down concrete shells, so there would be 
no asbestos removal/disposal issues.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
The project, original and revised, will not finance insecticides and/or larvicides for 
malaria control. No new constructions are financed under the project and there will be no 
land acquisition.  The environmental issues relevant to the project not only include 
medical waste management issues, but also construction related issues like health and 
safety, contamination of surface water, soil erosion, loss of vegetation, etc.  These are  
addressed within the Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF), which 
includes the production of a Medical Supplies and Medical Waste Management Plan 
(MWMP).   The two documents were completed with some delays in November 2009 
and have been reviewed and approved by the Bank.  The documents have been sent to 
InfoShop for Disclosure in December 2009.  The ESMF is being disclosed in draft form 
Page  5
at this stage, while some revisions are made and final version will be released shortly 
thereafter.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
The project being small (US$8.5 million) in scope and having a short implementation 
period (3 years initially, 4 years after restructuring), incinerators would not be a realistic 
option.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
These issues are addressed in the Environmental and Social Management Framework 
(ESMF), including in the Medical Supplies and Medical Waste Management Plan 
(MWMP), which are being disclosed.  
 
Liberia has put in place several policies and signed a number of protocols aimed at 
improving environmental management in the country.  However, for a better inclusion of 
environmental and social requirements in the preparation and implementation of the 
HSRP activities, some recommendations have been made in the ESMF and MWMP to be 
followed by the MOHSW.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
All implementing partners are instructed to carry out the MWMP in the areas where they 
intervene.  The ESMF covers environmental and social issues related to the health sector 
in general and help produce a national plan to be implemented beyond project life.  
 
Although there is some civil works to be implemented by the project, it is only minor 
rehabilitation of selected health services and training facilities. These health facilities are 
all currently in operation, so no issues of involuntarily displaced persons are expected as 
a
result of the project.  While the ESMF was being prepared, all contractors involved in 
facilities and rehabilitation work were guided by standard conditions that were included 
in their contracts to prevent or mitigate adverse environmental and social impacts.  
 
The ESMF includes the following recommendations which are necessary before the 
identification of the sites intended to receive the HSRP sub-projects:  
 
(i) 
identify good environmental practice measures (environmental and social clauses) 
to be included in the terms of references of the implementation of activities to be 
achieved;  
 
(ii) 
 Organize frequent environmental supervision missions of the HSRP project and 
ensure that the mitigation measures of the HSRP project recommended by the EIA are 
complied with. During the project implementation, evaluation missions will include 
environmental agents and members trained in environmental issues who will produce a 
report on the implementation of the environmental and social management plan.  
 
More specifically, the project will have to focus on the following recommendations:  
 
#
Recruit a ESMS within the HSRP Secretariat of the MOHSW;  
Page  6
#
Organization of meetings in the areas concerned by the sub-projects in order to 
provide some information on the project and define with them the collaboration 
conditions in the framework of the implementation monitoring.  
 
#
Requiring national expertise in EIA (specialized firms in EIA) environmental 
training sessions.  
 
#
Formalize with EPA the institutional arrangement proposed in the screening 
process in order to empower the ESMS and the HSRP Secretariat in screening the HSRP 
sub-projects.  
 
In addition, the following recommendations need to be followed:  
 
The contractors should:  
 
#
Comply with the environmental guidelines described in Annex 5  
 
#
Comply with all of the requirements of the EA and ESMP and shall, in 
accordance with accepted standards, employ techniques, practices and methods of 
construction that will ensure compliance with this standard and, in general, minimise 
environmental damage, control waste, avoid pollution, prevent loss or damage to natural 
resources, and minimize effects on surrounding landowners, occupants and the general 
public.  
 
RECOMMENDATIONS SPECIFIC TO MOHSW:  
 
To further ensure a sustainable and effective environmental stewardship within the 
Liberia Health Sector the following key recommendations have been proposed:  
 
(i) Recommendations for Improvements of Current Status of Health Facilities and Basic 
Healthy delivery Services  
 
The Health-care waste management issues should be tackled seriously.  Modern and 
efficient technologies of waste collection, segregation, treatment and disposal should be 
adopted to replace the present situation in areas where improper technologies and 
practices are being adopted. Additionally the waste handlers must be adequately trained 
so as to ensure some professionalism in the health-care waste management.  
 
In order to achieve acceptable practices in Health-care waste management and 
compliance with policies it is essential for all managers and other personnel involved 
receiving appropriate skills.  
 
(ii) Recommendation for Liberia#s National Legislation pertaining to the Generation 
and Disposal of Hospital Wastes  
 
Liberia has no framework legislation that seeks to address hospital wastes management 
in the country.  It is therefore recommended that legislation must be enacted.  
 
The legislation must be clear as to the following elements:  
 
#
Scope or coverage i.e. the specific type of wastes preferably to be stated in an 
appendix;  
Page  7
#
The institutional basis for waste disposal (Private Sector Participation, if allowed 
must be specified);  
 
#
The various methods of disposal must be stated;  
 
#
Prohibited acts;  
 
#
Deterrent penalties.  
 
There must be broad consultations so that all stakeholders would see the final output as 
their own.  This way, efficiency and effectiveness would be assured.  
 
(iii) Recommendation for appropriate Environmental and Social Capacity Building 
within the MOHSW  
 
There is the need for a management structure to run through all levels of the Ministry of 
Health and Social Welfare.  At each level, the components of the management structure 
should work in collaboration with all other stakeholders such as the Ministry of Rural 
Development, the Ministry of Public Works, Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, the 
County Health Teams, Liberian Health Service, the Teaching Hospitals, the 
Environmental Protection Agency and the Regional and District Authorities with a 
responsibility of environmental management.  
 
The roles of the identified collaborating Ministries, Departments and Agencies should 
be clearly defined.  The proposed role of the MOHSW should be to ensure the 
formulation of policies, guidelines and provision of general direction for implementation.  
 
Any other potential social safeguards issues for the project are included in the ESMF 
described above.  Broader social issues for the health sector are  covered in the national 
plan for the longer term.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 N/A 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
12/08/2009 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
12/31/2009 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
12/09/2009 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Page  8
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
No 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
No 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
Page  9
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Ms Yi-Kyoung Lee 
12/09/2009 
Environmental Specialist: 
Ms Nyaneba E. Nkrumah 
12/09/2009 
Social Development Specialist 
 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Mr Benjamin P. Loevinsohn 
12/09/2009 
Comments:   
