Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
(UPDATE) 
Report No.: AB5291 
Project Name 
Health Systems Reconstruction 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Health (100%) 
Project ID 
P105282 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF LIBERIA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Health and Social Welfare 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
December 8, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 26, 2007 
Date of Board Approval 
June 14, 2007 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
The civil war which spanned from 1989 to 1997 and from 2001 to 2003 left Liberia as one of the 
poorest countries in the world.  It had a devastating impact on health, leaving the country with 
among the worst life expectancy and maternal mortality and child survival in the World. It 
destroyed the economy, basic housing, water, electricity, sanitation systems, roads and 
transportation education and all levels of the health care system 
–
all the necessary pre requisites 
for good health. The Comprehensive Nutrition and Food Security Survey conducted in Liberia in 
2006 revealed that 68 percent of households covered by the study had no access to improved 
water sources and 76 percent had no access to sanitary facilities, both of which are basic 
prerequisites for good health. The Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy (IPRS 2006) reports that 
41% of the population has access to health services. 
The Government faces a major challenge in securing a smooth transition from humanitarian 
relief to longer term development assistance in a context where almost 80 percent of health 
facilities, a significant share of human resources, supply chains and financing are currently 
supported through humanitarian assistance by international NGOs. 
In partnership with other donors, the Project aims to assist in addressing these issues by helping 
the Government rebuild some of the critical underlying building blocks needed for a functioning 
health sector. 
 
2. Objectives 
 
The initial Project objectives were, in partnership with other donors, to contribute to: (a) 
strengthening policy making and management functions of the Ministry of Health and Social 
Welfare; and (b) providing critical inputs to sustain the referral system needed to support 
essential health services. 
Page  2
Following two years of implementation and the mid-term review, a project restructuring is being 
proposed to the Board (December 2009) to realign the Project with the current sector situation 
and needs.  The proposed revised project development objectives are: (i) strengthen the policy 
framework and selected management functions of the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare 
(MOHSW); and (ii) improve pre-service training and selected components of basic package of 
health services.   
 
3. Description 
 
The restructured Project will achieve these revised objectives by:  
 
•
Strengthening policy making, planning, management, monitoring and evaluation capacity of 
the MOHSW;  
 
•Increasing the number of doctors, nurses, and allied health workers in critical areas of selected 
facilities, through recruitment and training; and supporting public education institutions in the 
health sector; 
 
•Contributing to the infrastructure rehabilitation and equipment of selected medical facilities 
and teaching institutions, including for services used by mothers and children.     
 
The project changes in the proposed restructuring are described in the table below.  The original 
three components remain the same, although there are changes in some of the activities under 
each component: 
 
Original
 
Revised
 
Component A.  Support System
 
Supporting the operational capacity of 
MOHSW to effectively manage the Project 
by, inter alia, strengthening its management 
capacity, and expanding its monitoring and 
evaluation mechanisms, all through the 
provision of technical advisory services, 
training and Incremental Operating Costs.
 
No change
 
Provision of technical assistance and training 
to MOHSW staff to: (a) develop policy in the 
following areas: (i) health financing ; (ii) 
contracting with health providers; (iii) health 
labor market dynamics; and (iv) 
decentralization of health services; and (b) 
strengthen their administrative and technical 
capacities to manage and implement the 
Recipient's National Health Plan and related 
policies
 
Development of policy in the following 
areas: (a) health financing; (b) human 
resources for health; and (c) decentralization 
of health services
 
Development of capacity for selected 
MOHSW management and technical 
functions.
 
Provision of information communication 
technology to MOHSW staff to support a 
No change
 
Page  3
technology to MOHSW staff to support a 
health management information system.
 
Component B.  Human Resource
 
Hiring of clinical teachers, including medical 
doctors, nurses, midwives and allied health 
workers for purposes of training and 
supervision of Recipient's clinical care staff.
 
Hiring of medical doctors, nurses, midwives, 
allied health workers to (a) train and 
supervise clinical care staff; and (b) fill in 
critical staffing needs in selected health 
facilities. 
 
Hiring of medical officers, laboratory 
technicians and radiographers to fill in 
critical staffing needs in the Recipient's 
health clinics and hospitals.
 
Providing technical assistance and training to 
Recipient's public education institutions to 
reform their curriculum to enhance the 
education level of medical doctors, nurses 
and allied health workers.
 
Supporting public education institutions in 
the health sector by (a) providing them with 
select training equipment and materials; (b) 
hiring pre-clinical and clinical professors in 
areas of critical shortage; and (c) providing 
training allowances
 
Providing training, technical advisory 
services and equipment to enhance the 
technical and managerial capacity of key staff 
in the Recipient's health sector including, 
inter alia: (a) transportation costs of trainers 
and trainees; (b) per-diem of trainers and 
trainees; (c) workshops; (d) seminars and 
courses; (e) rental of training facilities and 
equipment; (f) acquisition of training 
equipment and teaching material; (g) internet 
access to online learning; and (h) study tours.
 
Delete
 
Component C.  Infrastructure and Equipment
 
Rehabilitation of Recipient's essential 
medical facilities and medical teaching 
institutions, including the maternal and child 
wards at the John F. Kennedy Hospital and 
the A .M. Dogliotti College of Medicine.
 
Rehabilitation of Recipient's selected medical 
facilities and teaching institutions, including 
the maternal and child wards at the John F. 
Kennedy Hospital and the A .M. Dogliotti 
College of Medicine.
 
Acquisition of basic medical supplies, 
medical emergency equipment, radiology and 
laboratory equipment, communications 
equipment, energy generating equipment, 
internet connection equipment, ambulances 
for MOHSW clinics and health centers, 
county hospitals and the John F. Kennedy 
Hospital.
Provision of basic medical, radiology and 
laboratory equipment and supplies, energy 
generating equipment, an elevator, and 
ambulances for  target health facilities and 
public education institutions; provision of 
waste management equipment and supplies 
for selected medical facilities; and renovation 
of waste management facilities at target 
Page  4
Hospital.
 
hospitals.
 
4. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
IDA Grant 
8.5 
 Total 
8.5 
 
5. Implementation 
 
World Bank support follows the four pillars of the health plan, adding to the resources provided 
to the sector by the Government and other donors in order to achieve the greatest effect. The 
Project also built on existing Bank experience in emergency reconstruction (Afghanistan, 
Bosnia, Chad, DRC, Guinea, Rwanda and Sierra Leone) and human resources strategies 
developed for similar conditions in other African countries. The Project built on the already 
existing fiduciary experience arrangements established under other Bank projects.  
1. 
Financial management, disbursement, and audit functions for the Project are undertaken 
in the following manner.  The Administrative branch of the MOHSW will have an Office of 
Financial Management (OFM), supported by DFID (staffed by a manager hired by DFID), which 
are responsible for all aspects of financial management, accounting, budgeting, disbursement and 
auditing of the Project.  The financial capacity of the OFM is also supported through recruitment 
of additional personnel in financial management and auditing financed under the project.  It has 
the responsibility of: designing and establishing a computerized fiduciary management system, 
approving disbursement of funds to implementing partners, maintaining up-to-date accounting 
records and ledgers, recording fiduciary transactions for all activities pertaining to the Project, 
submitting audit reports, and ensuring that a proper internal control system is in place to achieve 
accountability at all levels.   
 
2. 
The restructuring will not involve any changes to the project financing mechanism or 
financing plan. FM was transferred from the PFMU of the MOF to the OFM of the MOHSW as 
was envisaged in the Financing Agreement after due assessment of the adequacy of OFM 
systems for financial management.   A recent FM supervision rated the project FM as 
satisfactory on all aspects of FM except Internal Audit which was rated unsatisfactory on account 
of a non-existent Internal Audit Unit within MOHSW.  However, there are adequate control 
measures in place to counter any potential threat; nonetheless the MOHSW is in the process of 
recruiting a substantive Internal Auditor. 
 
The Project uses already existing procurement processes established under other Bank projects. 
The MOSHW has established a Procurement Committee and Procuring Unit, as mandated by the 
Public Procurement Law, but these units needed to be strengthened.  They benefitted from the 
support of a Procurement Firm which contract is now finished and responsibilities transferred to 
MOHSW.  Despite some initial adjustments, most procurement packages have now been 
processed. 
Page  5
The key issues and risks concerning procurement for implementation of the Project were 
identified and included (i) limited institutional capacity of the MOHSW to manage the 
procurement process; (ii) lack of knowledge of Bank’s procurement policies and guidelines, and 
of the newly enacted GoL Public Procurement and Concessions Act of 2005; and (iii) possible 
delays in executing procurement activities. To address these weaknesses, it was agreed that 
MOSW would recruit the services of an independent Procurement Management Firm with a 
proven track record in executing Bank projects, which they did.  Several formal and informal 
workshops were held on Bank procurement policies and guidelines. To mitigate the risk of 
delays in processing, 
procurement procedures such as procurement through UN agencies, 
Shopping and Direct Contracting are being used whenever possible and adequate.
 
The revised project will include strengthened project implementation arrangements, including for 
the Steering Committee which will be undertaken by the existing Deputy Minister’s Briefing, 
and a monthly Project Monitory and Coordination Meeting will be added to the existing 
arrangements. 
 
The proposed restructuring also includes a one-year extension of the closing date of the project 
to October 1, 2011. 
 
6. Sustainability 
 
Under the National Health Policy and Plan, the Government has reaffirmed its commitment to 
working towards achievement of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) with a particular 
focus on activities that will contribute to overall improvements in maternal and child survival. 
During and after the years of conflict, the health sector in Liberia benefited from extensive donor 
assistance focused on addressing the basic health care needs of the population.  However, the 
foundations of the health sector such as policymaking, governance, human resources, physical 
infrastructure and equipment were destroyed.  Many of the precious resources brought by other 
donors are now at risk of being wasted due to the collapse in the underlying health systems.   
The overall goal of the Project is to address these issues by helping the Government rebuild some 
of the critical underlying building blocks needed for a functioning health sector. The project will 
support three of the four pillars of the national health plan. The activities of the project were 
designed and revised also in accordance with the defined basic package of health services. The 
MOHSW defined at all level of the system a basic package of health services. Qualification and 
number of the personnel, tasks, equipment and necessary supplies are defined in details in this 
package. The bank’s project supports Liberia health system reconstruction, in the following 
areas: health human resources, equipment and capacity building, as it is defined in the national 
health plan and more specific in the basic package.   
As shown above, many of the other development agencies are helping the government to address 
basic health care needs by supporting service-providing organizations.  However, as noted, the 
war destroyed the foundations of the health sector, including governance and financing systems, 
the institutional environment, the organizational structures, and the regulatory framework, along 
with many of the physical facilities and much of the equipment. These foundations need to be re-
established if the MOHSW is to have the capacity to manage the transition period.  The Project is 
designed to complement but not duplicate actions taken by the other donors (USAID, EU, DFID, 
Page  6
Irish AID, PMI, Global Fund, GAVI, and UNITAID), UN partners (UNICEF, WHO, and 
UNFPA), and NGOs as they work to support the implementation of the National Health Policy 
and National Health Plan.  The revised project takes into account the current sector situation and 
needs, including current donor contribution and financing. 
 
7.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
This Project aims to build on
 the Bank’s current engagement in other sectors in Liberia while addressing 
the needs that are most urgent for the health sector during a three-year period.  In doing so, the Project 
takes into consideration the planned activities of other donors in the sector, so as to avoid wasteful 
duplication in effort and scarce resources. 
The LRDC framework, under which the Bank has taken a lead in infrastructure and basic services, 
emphasizes the need to increase access to basic social services.  This is also a central component of the 
Government’s I-PRSP and ISN, which lays out a comprehensive 18-month development strategy for 
Bank engagement in Liberia.
1
The Project deepens and complements other Bank funded projects in 
infrastructure, including EIP, EIPSC, IRP, and the upcoming AID.  It takes advantage of ongoing 
interventions in sanitation, infrastructure and public utilities (electricity and water).  And it helps ensure 
that Ministry-approved community health clinics that are supported by the Bank through the LACE 
project are adequately staffed, equipped and supplied. 
 
8.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
4.01) [X] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X] 
Physical Cultural Resources (
OP/BP 4.11
)
[
]
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OP
/
BP
4.10)
 
[
]
[X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
7.50)
 
[
]
[X] 
The Project is classified as Category B.   The restructuring does not trigger any new Safeguard 
Policies nor does it change the current environmental Category. This is an Emergency Recovery 
Lending, following Operational Procedures OP/BP 8.0, where the Environment and Social 
Management Framework (ESMF) and the Medical Waste Management Plan (MWMP) were to 
be carried out within six months after Grant Effectiveness. They were produced with some 
delays due to difficulties encountered by Government in hiring consultants willing to work in the 
1
Board document reference to be inserted once available 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  7
country.  Both the ESMF and the MWPMP have been reviewed and cleared by the Bank and are 
currently being disclosed at 
the Bank’s Info Shop as well as in country. 
 
9. 
List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
Liberia, Ministry of Health and Social Welfare Health Policy and Plan, 2007  
The Comprehensive Nutrition and Food Security Survey conducted in Liberia in 2006
 (
WHO-UNICEF) 
Rapid Assessment of the Health Situation in Liberia, June, 2006 (USAID and Ministry of Health and 
Social Welfare)
 
Liberia National Nutrition Survey, 1999-2000, Division of Family Health from MOHSW, Christian 
Health Association of Liberia, UNICEF 
Liberia Millennium Development Goals Report, September 2004 
Ministry of Health and Social Welfare: National Health and Social Welfare Policy, August, 2006 
(MOHSW, Policy, August, 2006) 
Human Development Report, 2005, immunizations rates among one year old and UNICEF Database 
WHO, 2006 Report 
UNICEF 2006: Liberia country in Crisis 
http://www.unicef.org/emerg/liberia
10. Contact point:  Yi-Kyoung Lee 
Title: Health Specialist, AFTHE 
Tel: (202) 473-4342 
Fax:  
Email: 
ylee1@worldbank.org
For more information contact: 
The Info Shop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
 
