Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13119
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(IBRD LOAN 1922-TH/IFAD LOAN 45-TH)
JUNE 7, 1994
Agriculture and Natural Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Baht per US$)
Fiscal Year                        Exchange Rate
1979 (Appraisal Year)                      B 27.20
1992 (Completion Year)                     B 25.44
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
October 1 to September 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 rai            -    0.16 hectare
1 hectare (ha)   -    6.25 rai
Abbreviations
ACNARP  - Australian Cooperation with the National Agricultural Research Project
AIDAB   - Australian International Development Assistance Bureau
BOB     - Bureau of Budget
CSC     - Civil Service Commission
DOA     - Department of Agriculture
DOAE    - Department of Agricultural Extension
IFAD    - International Fund for Agricultural Development
LCB     - Local Competitive Bidding
MOAC    - Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
NESDB   - National Economic and Social Development Board
NIDA    - National Institute for Development Administration
NRC     - National Research Council
PPB     - Program Planning and Budgeting



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 7, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:        Project Completion Report on Thailand -
National Agricultural Research Project
aBRD Loan 1922-TH/IFAD Loan 45-TH)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Thailand -National Agricultural Research
Project (IBRD Loan 1922-TH/IFAD Loan 45-TH) prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional
Office. Part II of the report, prepared by the Borrower, is in agreement with Parts I and m of the
report.
Although there were some design deficiencies, the project outcome is assessed as
satisfactory. Institutional development was substantial in research planning and organization and in
improvement in human resources. The research system has reached a stage which should enable it
to continue to develop without the need for significant external assistance, so that sustainability is
rated as likely. Co-financing by the Australian Government provided long-term support to the
research institutions and post-graduate training of researchers. It proved especially beneficial.
The Project Completion Report provided an accurate and analytical account of project
implementation.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(IBRD Loan 1922-TH/IFAD Loan 45-TH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .i
Evaluation Summary ........... ...                                             ii
PART I      PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Project Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Background  .1......  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ...  ..             . .
Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Project Design and Organization ............... . 3
Project Coordination and Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Project Results ...............  ......  ..  .  6
Project Sustainability ................... . 12
Bank Performance ...................... . 12
Borrower Performance .................... . 13
Project Relationship .................... . 13
Consulting Services ..................... . 14
Project Documentation and Data ............... . 14
PART II     PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . .15
Bank Performance .15
Borrower Performance .16
Relationship Between the Bank and the Borrower  . . . .17
Performance of Co-financiers  . . . . . . . . . . . . .17
PART III  STATISTICAL INFORMATION .19
Related Bank Loans    ..19
Project Timetable    ..20
Loan Disbursements .21
Project Implementation    ..22
Project Costs and Financing   ..28
A. Project Costs .28
B. Project Financing .29
Project Results   ..30
Status of Covenants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Use of Bank Resources .33
A. Staff Inputs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
B. Missions .33
MAP IBRD 14832R1
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanco of their
offiial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(IBRD Loan 1922-TH/IFAD Loan 45-TH)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) of the National
Agricultural Research Project (NARP) in Thailand, for which IBRD Loan 1922-TH in
the amount of US$30.0 million was approved on November 25, 1980. The Loan was
closed on June 30, 1992, three years behind schedule. The final disbursement was
made on December 9, 1992 and an undisbursed balance of US$258,401.23 was
cancelled at that time.
Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the East Asia and Pacific
Region based on the findings of a Bank mission that visited Thailand in December
1992; a Project Completion Report prepared by the Department of Agriculture
(DOA), the implementing agency; and a Project Completion Report prepared in
November 1990 by the Australian Cooperation with the National Agricultural
Research Project.   The PCR incorporates information obtained from the Staff
Appraisal Report (Report 2891-TH) dated November 6, 1980; the Loan Agreement
dated December 19, 1980; the Bank's Supervision Reports and project files; visits
to selected project sites; and interviews with the Borrower's project staff.
Part II was prepared by DOA.
The Bank wishes to thank officials of the Borrower for their valuable
assistance in preparing this PCR.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(IBRD Loan 1922-TH/IFAD Loan 45-TH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obi ectives
1.          The project aimed at assisting the Royal Thai Government (RTG) in
achieving one of its major development objectives of improving the incomes of the
poorest segments of the population, thereby reducing income disparities and
strengthening the economy, by the expansion and strengthening of national
agricultural research programs, projects and facilities.   It focused on the
establishment of 19 regional research centers under the administration of the
Department of Agriculture (DOA), decentralization of DOA organization and
research from Bangkok to these centers, and on human resource development and
technical assistance. The full development of the national agricultural research
facilities and research capability at the centers was expected to take ten years
or more. Specifically, the project was to: (i) strengthen and reorganize DOA to
implement national agricultural research programs; and (ii) provide relevant
technology (by crop, farming system and location) to farmers, with emphasis on
adaptive research for rainfed agriculture which involved the majority of the
poorer farmers, through the agricultural extension service.
Implementation Experience
2.          Project implementation took over twelve years compared to nine years
planned at appraisal. Both the Bank loan (US$30.0 million) and the IFAD loan
(SDR 11.4 million, or US$15.0 million equivalent) were closed on June 30, 1992,
three years behind schedule. The amounts of US$258,401.23 and SDR 2,333,503.38
were cancelled from the loans, respectively. Cofinancing of technical assistance
and training was provided by the Australian International Development Assistance
Bureau (AIDAB) under the Australian Cooperation with the National Agricultural
Research Project (ACNARP), and the total grant disbursed amounted to A$16,158,122
(US$14.4 million).
3.          The project's main objectives were completed by the original loan's
closing date of June  30,  1989.   The date was,  however,  extended at the
Government's request to enable the implementation of some civil works at the
regional centers, including irrigation, internal roads and staff housing, which



- iii -
had been rescheduled to phase in with the deployment of staff to the centers and
the return of scholars from the fellowship program. Institutional development
activities supported under the project by ACNARP were completed on schedule,
including the establishment of the revised organizational structure for DOA,
staff development and staffing of the regional research centers, rationalization
of research planning and programming, and research quality control. The number
of the regional centers was increased from 19 to 22, by including support for
three rubber research centers which was not envisaged at appraisal.
4.          The nine-year implementation period used in the project design was
entirely appropriate. A main focus of this project supported by ACNARP was human
resource development at the tertiary level, involving a long process of selection
of suitably qualified candidates, development of proficiency in English (which
was lacking inmost of the applicants, who were otherwise technically qualified),
followed by post graduate training, mainly in Australia.   In addition,  the
project included the reorganization of a major Government department, set against
the background of a very traditional Thai bureaucracy. In fact, the three-year
extension of the project was required, not due to delays in the implementation
of civil works, but due to the fact that all project activities had to be
subordinated to the progress of the fellowship program, i.e. to the development
of skilled human resources at the regional centers.
5.          Although there were problems during project implementation which
slowed down progress, their impact overall was not significant.   Purchase of
suitable land was particularly difficult. Due to insufficient budgetary funds
and the market prices being higher than the authorized Budget Bureau unit prices
for land, DOA had to depend on the generosity of the Government agencies and
ended with inadequate facilities.   Better grouping of procurement items and
increased standardization of equipment would have resolved some of the
procurement delays experienced. Cooperation between RTG, AIDAB and the Bank/IFAD
was effective.   The Bank Loan was reallocated to enable the financing of a
greater share of costs of civil works  for staff housing.   The technical
assistance and training programs were implemented on schedule.
Results
6.          Overall,  the  project  was  satisfactory  and  had  a  substantial
institutional impact.  The project target of upgrading 19 existing experiment
stations to research centers was successfully achieved. At project completion,
these centers were fully operational. Staff allocation for these centers was
completed, and all beneficiaries of the ACNARP fellowship program have completed
their studies and returned to their centers.
7.          The ACNARP fellowship program aimed at producing MSs and PhDs has
been very successful. The academic qualifications of researchers at the regional
centers have been significantly enhanced, although the number of PhDs targeted
under the project was not reached. This problem was addressed by designing an
upgraded MS program tailored to the needs of the project.  It focused on the
development of research leadership and self-confidence of each researcher.  The
impact of the fellowship program in producing independent researchers and
improving research quality is already apparent at the regional centers.   To
attract researchers and retain them at the centers, a separate career path was



- iv -
developed, giving the researchers the opportunity for promotion without having
to go into management. A process was set up for the evaluation and reward of
individual performance in terms of research quality, and not quantity, as was
previously the case.
8.          The quality of research programs was improved by the rationalization
of objectives, programs, projects and experiments. Unproductive research
programs were terminated, and the remaining programs were trimmed to become more
focussed. Bottom up planning, program budgeting, a research review process, and
a systems (multidisciplinary) approach to research were established.
9.           Research-extension  linkages  were  strengthened  by  establishing
Technology Transfer Officer positions at the centers (this was not envisaged at
appraisal), but these staff have not yet had a significant impact. The existence
of strong linkages at some centers is due more to personal relations between
research and extension staff than to any formal mechanisms in place.
Sustainability
10.         The project's main achievement is that in addition to the development
of human and physical resources, it has established a process for integrated
planning, monitoring and evaluation of research implementation and performance
which will contribute to ensuring its sustainability. The project has
successfully established a decentralized and operational agricultural research
capability. The physical facilities are excellent and are supported by adequate
operating funds. A cadre of young and well-trained research scientists is now
in place at each center; it can work independently and is self-sufficient. With
mnore experience, its effectiveness will further increase. The research program
planning process has been improved and a systematic review system is now in
place. Research objectives and programs have been rationalized, and directed to
local needs. While it is too early to evaluate the impact of these measures on
the generation and transfer of improved technology, the process of constant
institutional review and improvement has been established. The system needs no
further external inputs and is sustainable.



-v-
Findings and Lessons Learned
11.         The following main lessons were learned:
(i)    The unconventionally long implementation period for this project was
appropriate and should be adopted for similar human resource
development and institution-building projects (PCR, para. 5.1);
(ii)    Where a project impacts fundamentally on the whole institutional
structure of an agency, it is necessary to address the problem in an
integrated manner: in the case of this project, the technical
divisions were left out and consequently did not benefit from
project interventions while the crop institutes experienced
substantial growth under the project (PCR, paras. 6.2, 6.7);
(iii)    Development  of  research  and  extension  in  Thailand  was  not
appropriately phased as technology generation should normally have
preceded, and not followed, technology transfer.   This research
project should have been implemented before, and not after, the
extension development projects (PCR, para. 8.3), but the impact of
the availability of improved technology on the effectiveness of the
two extension projects had not been evaluated;
(iv)    The relocation of senior researchers from Bangkok to the regional
centers could not be implemented for the technical divisions due to
the ownership of the centers by the crop institutes (PCR, para.
6.20);
(v)    The introduction of an incentive system, based on the establishment
of a separate career path for technical specialists and reward for
research performance, was successful in inducing center researchers
to remain at the centers (PCR, para 6.19);
(vi)    Research planning, monitoring, and evaluation cannot be a fully top-
down or fully bottom-up process. The need to reconcile national and
local objectives was very important (PCR, para 6.10); and
(vii)    Except for a few industrial agricultural commodities, a crop systems
approach is needed for agricultural research.   The average farm
represents a complex crop system and should be addressed in terms of
systems, starting from simple systems which get increasingly more
complex. There are thus important trade-offs between the different
crop activities. One of the main shortcomings of the Thai research
system is the absence of economists to assess the value of
technological packages and analyze trade-offs (PCR, para. 6.16).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(IBRD Loan 1922-TH/IFAD Loan 45-TH)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project Name             National Agricultural Research Project
Loan No.                 IBRD Loan 1922-TH/IFAD Loan 45-TH
RVP Unit                 East Asia and Pacific Region
Country        :         Thailand
Sector                   Agriculture
Subsectors               Research and Technology Transfer
2.    Background
2.1         At the time of project appraisal in 1979, over 80% of Thailand's
population lived in rural areas and earned their livelihood from agriculture.
After two decades of consistent growth arising mainly from area expansion,
agricultural production had begun to decline.   Rice production remained the
predominant agricultural activity but upland crops were gaining in importance.
While the overall sound performance of Thai agriculture was in part due to a
vigorous private sector and government investments in irrigation facilities and
roads, agricultural support services such as research, extension, credit and
input supply were given insufficient emphasis.   These services needed to be
improved and expanded to achieve higher crop yields in both irrigated and rainfed
areas and to develop off-farm employment. Rainfed farmers, who had to depend on
irregular rainfall and low productivity cropping systems, were particularly
affected and were the poorest of the rural population.
2.2         The Fourth National Economic and Social Development Plan (1977-81)
detailed agricultural sector strategies that aimed to expand the value added in
agriculture by 5Z p.a. These included:
(a)     intensifying production in presently cropped areas;
(b)     diversifying  production by  expanding  the  livestock,  fruit  and
vegetable subsectors;



- 2 -
(c)     limiting the rate of deforestation and expansion of the cultivated
area by 80,000 ha/year; and
(d)     emphasizing integrated agricultural development through programs to
improve on-farm irrigation, expand agricultural credit, improve
input delivery systems and strengthen agricultural extension.
2.3         One of the key actions to achieve crop intensification was the
strengthening of agricultural research for the development of improved
agricultural production techniques and the diversification of agriculture. The
Department of Agriculture (DOA) was the main agency of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Cooperatives (MOAC) responsible for agricultural research, but
other Departments  also  did  some  research.    In  some  areas,  however,  the
responsibility for research was unclear, resulting in fragmentation and
duplication of work. DOA's research activities were centered at the headquarters
in Bangkok, where most of the post-graduate staff were located. There were too
few university graduates to conduct the varied research responsibilities and the
field stations were involved mainly with routine demonstrations, testing and seed
production.   The impact of research at the national level was,  therefore,
limited.   Effective use of DOA scientific  resources was  hampered by the
compartmentalization of research reflected in the division of staff into separate
streams on the basis of the discipline of research or the commodity. Thus DOA
faced serious constraints in carrying out integrated research to deal with the
complex problems of agricultural intensification and diversification.   The
transfer of technology from DOA to the extension service was also hampered by the
lack of formal linkages between the two institutions.
2.4         The MOAC proposed the National Agricultural Research Project to
strengthen DOA research operations to improve crop yields and promote
diversification of agriculture and thereby increase net incomes of farmers
throughout Thailand. The project would achieve this by developing DOA's research
staff, decentralizing DOA's operations, upgrading its field stations,
rationalizing its programs, and strengthening linkages with extension.
2.5         The World Bank assisted MOAC in the preparation of the project after
a committee appointed by MOAC had carried out a study on DOA and its operations.
The Cabinet was initially reluctant to support such a large research project but
eventually agreed as the Bank was already supporting the second phase of the
National Agricultural Extension Project.   The factor that probably helped to
swing the Government to support the project was that unless there was technology
to extend to farmers, the extension projects would not have much impact.
2.6         By the time of negotiations for the project, no cofinancing agency
to support technical assistance and training had been identified although these
were  key project  activities.    It was  agreed  at negotiations  that  if no
cofinancing agency had been identified, an amount of US$2.0 million from loan
funds would be used for financing technical assistance and training. At a later
stage, the Cabinet laid down the policy that no loan funds should be used to
finance technical assistance. This issue was resolved with the participation of
the Australian International Development Assistance Bureau (AIDAB) in the project
under the Australian Cooperation with the National Agricultural Research Project
(ACNARP) one year after loan negotiations.



- 3-
3.    Proiect Obiectives and Description
3.1         The project aimed at assisting the Government in achieving one of its
major development objectives of improving the incomes of the poorest segments of
the population,  thereby reducing  income disparities  and  strengthening  the
economy, by the expansion and strengthening of national agricultural research.
The quality of research would be improved and made more relevant by the
development of research staff and physical facilities on 19 field stations
selected for upgrading to national research centers and by the decentralization
of research from Bangkok to the regions where increased emphasis was to be placed
on adaptive research for rainfed agriculture.   The full development of the
national agricultural research facilities and capability in the regions was
expected to take ten years or more.   Specifically, the project was to:  (i)
strengthen the capacity and capability of DOA to implement national agricultural
research programs; and (ii) provide relevant technology (by crop, farming system
and location) through the agricultural extension service for the farmers.
3.2         The project included:
(a)      the strengthening and reorganization of DOA;
(b)      staff development and technical assistance;
(c)      station development; and
(d)      the establishment of a research council and committees.
4.    Prolect Design and Organization
4.1         The project concept was clearly understood by all parties as it was
developed as a result of prior Government initiatives and efforts to address
agricultural growth issues. Growth based on area expansion had slowed down as
new areas for expansion had become scarce and the new Government strategy for
growth was to emphasize productivity increases and diversification.  An MOAC
committee developed the project concept and identified the project.   MOAC,
National Economic and Social Development Board (NESDB) and the Bank later worked
together to complete preparation of the project and obtain Cabinet approval for
it.
4.2         The project was designed to address the major weaknesses of DOA's
research operations. Its basic concept was to develop scientific human resources
within an improved research organization and management structure, and assist DOA
to use existing and new research resources more effectively and efficiently.
Staff development included the provision of fellowships for higher training up
to MS and PhD level, and technical assistance for both structured and on-the-job
training for local scientists. A network of 19 regional research centers was to
be created by upgrading selected field stations and staffed by relocating
scientists from headquarters. Multidisciplinary research was to be supported at
the regional centers by the establishment of multidisciplinary teams of
scientists. DOA was also to be restructured by creating six crop institutes to
manage the regional centers. Its administrative and technical services were to
provide support to the project.



- 4 -
4.3         The objectives of decentralization and strengthening of DOA have only
met with partial success, due to shortcomings in project design. The main design
weakness arose from the involvement of only a part of DOA organization under the
project, although it was stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) that
particular attention would be given to the support by the technical divisions
(and to a lesser extent, by the administrative services). The project aimed at
transforming the whole nature of DOA operations, and such fundamental
institutional changes could not be effected by leaving half of the DOA
organization outside the project. The end-result was that while half of the DOA
structure (the crop institutes) was considerably strengthened by the project, the
other half (the technical divisions) had very little access to the project's
resources. No role was provided for the technical divisions in the activities
of the regional centers and, until the completion of the project, these divisions
remained at headquarters and provided only limited assistance to the regional
centers.   These skilled scientific resources were inefficiently used as the
regional centers remained very short in such specialties as entomology and
pathology.   Thus the development of the decentralized and improved research
system covered only half of the DOA structure.
4.4         The organization of the regional center network along six commodity
groups (rice, field crops, horticultural crops, farming systems, sericulture, and
rubber) was mandated by the Fourth National Plan which used this classification
for the main economic crops. However, this system of grouping did not provide
enough flexibility to address the wide variations in agricultural situations in
the country. As DOA policy was to share the centers more or less equally among
three main commodity groups (rice, field crops, and horticultural crops), it
proved very difficult to match the type of center to the main agricultural
activities in any particular area. For this reason, no field crop center was
established for the south although field crops are grown in the region. Due to
civil service regulations on the transfer of positions, it was also not possible
to transfer trained scientific staff between centers belonging to different
institutes.  Thus providing the right mix of agricultural expertise for each
center was not easy. Quite early during project implementation, the Bank and DOA
raised this issue with the Civil Service Commission (CSC) and the Bureau of the
Budget (BOB) but it was not until 1991 that MOAC initiated a pilot research and
development (R&D) project at Ubon Ratchathani Field Crops Center to address these
compartmentalization issues.
4.5         Following the pilot R&D project, MOAC established in October 1992
regional R&D units (with the same status as Institutes and Divisions) at eight
main regional research centers, with responsibility for providing laboratory
analytical services, transfer of technology, farming system research and overall
research coordination between agencies. The 19 centers established under the
project will continue to be responsible for research.
4.6         Another shortcoming in project design related to the role of the
Farming Systems Research Institute (FSRI) which was created under the project.
Its relationship to the regional center system and other DOA units was not
clearly defined and little financial support was provided to it under the
project. As DOA policy for farming systems research was unclear, FSRI operated
mostly outside the project.



-5-
4.7         The need for the preparation of a physical masterplan for each center
to be developed was not underlined at appraisal. This was only recognized and
action was taken to prepare masterplans for each center during the design of the
second group of centers. This shortcoming seriously affected the construction
of civil works by forcing an ad hoc year-to-year approach which delayed the
completion of civil works.
4.8         The need to establish a strong project planning capability within DOA
was not sufficiently addressed in the SAR. It took the DOA at least a year to
identify and train the right staff for project planning.   The staff was
unfamiliar with the project and had not been introduced to World Bank procedures.
This retarded project implementation.
4.9         Finally, the SAR attempted to address the issue of inter-departmental
or inter-ministerial coordination for agricultural research by incorporating
covenanted mechanisms in the Loan Agreement. This proved to be infeasible during
project implementation as DOA did not have enough authority or leverage with
other departments of MOAC and other agencies to ensure compliance with covenants.
Discussion with these agencies should have been undertaken and agreement reached
with them on suitable mechanisms before project start-up. Due to MOAC's limited
involvement in the project, it was not the appropriate agency to enforce these
covenants.
5.    Project Implementation
5.1         The project had a long implementation period which was expected at
appraisal; full development of the project was to take at least ten years. This
was appropriate for an institution-building project where the main emphasis was
on developing human resources and on changing the way DOA had been conducting its
operations. However, the completion was delayed by three years due to several
factors discussed below.
5.2         Delays  in identifying cofinancing  for technical assistance and
training and the consequent late arrival of ACNARP advisers in mid 1982 (over a
year after Loan effectiveness) resulted in little progress in the first two years
of project implementation. The need to establish a project office with staff who
were unfamiliar with the project or with World Bank procedures and start project
planning from scratch was also a constraint.  Bank supervision of the project
from its Resident Mission in Bangkok helped to attenuate these problems;
otherwise, implementation delays would have been worse. No planning guidelines
were provided in the preparation report to assist project planning staff.
5.3         Subsequent project implementation was affected by other factors, such
as procurement problems. DOA had difficulty in acquiring suitable public and
private land to locate the centers. Public land offered by other agencies was
either not suitably located, or the soils were not representative of the region.
Suitable private land for sale was often too expensive.   In particular, the
acquisition of a suitable site for the Central Plains Horticulture Research
Center was delayed for several years, in spite of several attempts. Planning and
implementation of procurement of the remaining civil works and equipment for the
regional centers were difficult, due to the need to synchronize the fellowship
program (timing of the return of the fellowship holders) with the civil works and



- 6 -
equipment (the more specialized and sophisticated equipment) procurement program.
Thus, procurement was often carried out on an ad hoc annual basis. This resulted
in a number of centers being better equipped than others, regarding the more
sophisticated equipment.
5.4         Project completion was also delayed by the need for a Cabinet review
of the project in 1989-90. This was requested by the Ministry of Finance (MOF)
for approval of the remaining civil works program as this was slightly different
from the list in the Project File. MOF required DOA to adhere strictly to this
list due to the fact that the Project File was part of the project document
package approved by the Cabinet. Any changes to that list had to be re-approved
by the Cabinet. Budgetary funds were frozen and civil works suspended for nearly
two years while Cabinet approval was being sought and project implementation was
only resumed when this was obtained in 1990. In addition to its approval, the
Cabinet also instructed MOF to request the Bank and IFAD to extend the Loans'
Closing Dates  for an additional period  of two years.    Due  to different
disbursement ratios and sources of financing for the different components,
mistakes were often made in the preparation and processing of disbursement
applications, resulting in the need for frequent adjustments of disbursements of
the Bank and IFAD loans.
5.5         The technical assistance component funded by AIDAB was successfully
completed on June 30, 1990, and its fellowship program with the return of the
last scholarship holders at the end of 1992.
5.6         The scope of the project was expanded during negotiations between the
Government and the Bank on March 18, 1986 for the Third Tree Crops Project to
allow financial support under Loan 1922-TH for civil works and equipment for the
development of Chachoengsao, Surat Thani, and Songkla Rubber Research Centers.
5.7         Project risks were correctly identified and assessed at appraisal,
but the resistance to relocation of senior researchers to the provinces was
underestimated. Similarly, the authority of the Department of Agriculture to
make organizational changes was over-estimated. Project risks related mainly to
DOA's ability to develop an effective organization and management system, and to
the terms and conditions for employment and the availability of sufficient
qualified scientists.   Although the framework and the base for an effective
regional research organization and management system have been created under the
project, project risks would have been reduced with the integration of the
technical divisions and the Farming Systems Research Institute in the project.
The enormous difficulty in bringing about institutional changes, even within the
same Department, was not sufficiently recognized. These changes had to be agreed
before the start of the project.
6.    Prolect Results
6.1         The  project  has  satisfactorily  achieved  its  overall  original
objectives and had a substantial institutional impact. An operational regional
agricultural research center system is now in place, staffed with well-trained
and motivated young teams of researchers and provided with adequate physical
facilities  and  operating  budgets.    Research  program  planning  has  been
rationalized and research quality improved by setting up clearer objectives and



implementing effective planning and review of project proposals and results.
Research-extension linkages have been strengthened but results are variable. The
technical assistance and fellowship program supported by AIDAB under the project
have been successfully completed. While this report has focused on design and
implementation problems, these should not detract from the real achievements of
this project.   In fact, it should be underlined that the project has been
successful in spite of these problems.
6.2         Station  Development.    The  project  successfully  achieved  its
objectives of the establishment of 19 regional research centers by either
upgrading the facilities of an existing experiment station or by building
completely new facilities. In addition, the project also supported the further
development of three rubber research centers. These centers were fully equipped
with laboratory and field facilities (nurseries, irrigation, drying floors,
sheds, stores, irrigation ponds and irrigation system), training quarters and
staff housing. Each of these centers was supported by two or three satellite
experiment stations which report to the centers. The physical facilities of some
of the satellite stations were also improved under the project.
6.3         Mainly in response to resource limitations in trained staff and
funding, the development of the centers was phased. Two groups of centers were
established: a smaller group of about 7-8 larger centers to which more resources
and staff were allocated to form multi-disciplinary research teams, and a larger
group of the remaining smaller centers which just had about enough critical mass
to operate independently of DOA headquarters. The larger so-called "centers of
excellence", such as the Rangsit Rice Research Center which has several fold the
trained staff complement of Pattani Rice Research Center, were given the lead
responsibility for major research programs. They were also given the mandate for
providing regional services to the farming community for soil and fertilizer
analysis, and library and documentation facilities to both farmers and the other
centers.
6.4         The rationalization of MOAC's research facilities belonging to other
departments was not implemented. The appointment of a commission, to be assisted
by consultants, to conduct a review of MOAC's entire network of departmental
(five departments) research stations was considered by MOAC to be unnecessary,
as it considered that there was no overlap or duplication of research activities.
6.5         Strengthening and Reorganization of DOA.  The reorganization of DOA
has been fully achieved, including the appointment of three Deputy Director-
Generals and the creation of six commodity institutes and 19 regional research
centers.   At headquarters,  the central laboratories,  the main library and
communications system were expanded.
6.6         The main project beneficiary are the three main commodity institutes:
Rice, Field Crops and Horticulture Research Institutes, which became the owners
of 6, 7 and 6 regional research centers, respectively.   Although the Rice
Research Institute (RRI) has long been established, it was provided resources
under the project to the same extent as the other two institutes as rice is by
far the main economic crop of Thailand.   The Field Crops Research Institute
(FCRI) handles a large number of different crops, and it was difficult during
project implementation to avoid the diffusion of scarce resources over a large



number of crops and activities. The shortcoming of DOA's reorganization on a
crop basis thus became very apparent in the case of FCRI. The DOA policy under
the project was to build up the Horticulture Research Institute (HRI) as it was
the youngest of the three institutes and had fewer physical facilities and
trained researchers. The development of the horticulture regional centers was
achieved as planned, except for the Central Plains Horticulture Research Center
which was beset with land purchase problems. The construction of that center was
not completed until near the end of the project.
6.7         The technical divisions such as entomology, plant pathology, soil
science, etc., received little financial support under the project, except for
the supply of some field and laboratory equipment to one or two divisions. Thus,
these technical divisions stayed outside the project although it was envisaged
at appraisal that they were to receive particular attention under it. The main
issue related to the uncertain role and reluctant participation of these
divisions in the achievement of project objectives, more particularly resulting
from the unwillingness of the senior technical division staff to work at the
centers under the administrative authority of the commodity institutes and also
of more junior center directors.   The lack of support from the technical
divisions forced the commodity institutes to find their own technical
specialists, such as entomologists, for their centers. The work of some of these
centers, such as the pest control program of Chainat Field Crops Research Center
which had national responsibility for cotton research, was affected by this
constraint.
6.8         DOA policy for the Farming Systems Research Institute (FSRI) was not
very clear during project implementation. FSRI did not have its own experiment
stations and although most of the six FSRI units were stationed at the regional
centers, farming systems research tended to operate independently of the regional
center research system.   In order to build in the mechanism for research
coordination and integration, it was agreed during project implementation that
project resources would be provided to FSRI only if its research activities were
fully integrated with the operations of the regional centers.   This was not
clearly established and in October 1992, FSRI was dismantled and its staff
relocated to the newly established R&D units.
6.9         These organizational weaknesses of DOA were fully recognized by its
management quite early during project implementation.   DOA appointed several
internal task forces to study the problem and propose solutions.   It also
financed a study by the National Institute of Development Administration which
was, unfortunately, incomplete. Finally in 1992, MOAC initiated the pilot R&D
project at Ubon Ratchathani Field Crops Research Institute to address the
problems of research coordination, farming (cropping) systems research, and
technology transfer, which has now culminated in the Government plan to establish
8 such R&D units at the regional centers.
6.10        Rationalization of Research.  This objective was fully achieved.  It
aimed at focussing more clearly the research objectives (more relevant to farmer
needs), strengthening the planning process (more bottom up), setting up a review
system (quality control), and improving research quality. Training was provided
under the project on the statement of farmer problems and definition of research
priorities for each of the regional centers.   Research program planning was



changed from a fully top down to a bottom up process, initiated by regional
center staff in collaboration with their extension counterparts (depending on the
situation at each center) and taken up afterwards at institute and finally at
department level.  These plans were thus reconciled with DOA's corporate and
strategic plans prepared with the assistance of ACNARP advisers.   Research
objectives were clarified and reset, and clear nomenclatures for research
programs, sub-programs, projects, and experiments established and agreed upon.
The total number of research projects was reduced, by eliminating unclear and
unproductive ones. Statistical rigor was introduced in project design, making
it easier to draw conclusions more readily on the significance of treatments.
The greatest benefit was obtained for the horticulture research program, as the
trials take longer to yield results.
6.11        The establishment of a program budgeting system under the project
resulted in greater transparency of the funding of the different research
programs and activities.  It also helped DOA to realize the misallocation of
resources for some activities and the need for corrective action.   Two main
adjustments to the research program structures of each of the regional centers
were made during project implementation: (a) a better balance of spending between
the nationally mandated crop and the local crops; and (b) reduced funding for the
breeding program in favor of other activities. At the beginning of the project,
virtually all of a center's budget was earmarked for the crop for which the
center had been given the national mandate for research.  In many cases, the
mandated crop was of lesser economic importance than local crops, for which
research funds were,  therefore,  limited.   Breeding work also absorbed an
excessively high percentage of the total research budget at some centers, at the
expense of some other key research activities such as pest and disease control.
The proportion of the budget allocated for breeding was reduced during the
project to expand research work on solving local problems.
6.12        The  previously  inadequate  review  of  research  performance  was
addressed under the project by the establishment of a research review process as
part of planning. A tiered committee system of review of research proposals also
serves for the review of the previous year's results.  The initial review is
carried out at the centers, then by institute committees, and finally by
departmental committees.   This peer review process is an improvement on the
previous high level review system.
6.13        The incentive system for reward of performance was also changed
during the project in order to improve research quality. Whereas the researcher
was compensated previously on the volume (number of projects or experiments) of
research carried out, no matter what the quality, the Civil Service Commission
changed the system of evaluation to focus on research leadership and the degree
of complexity of the problem.   In the long run, this will have an impact on
improving the quality of research.
6.14        Research Council and Committees.   MOAC  did not establish  the
agricultural research review or Agricultural Research Council proposed under the
project, on the grounds that the authority and responsibility of the different
Government ministries for research were unclear. It also considered that it was
unnecessary to establish a National Agricultural Research Coordinating Committee



- 10 -
as Provincial Agricultural Committees already existed under the leadership of the
Department of Agricultural Extension.
6.15        Research-Extension Linkages.   The operation of formal  linkages
between research and extension through the Provincial Coordination Committee, as
proposed under the project, was unworkable as a regional center covered several
provinces and there was no regional framework for coordination. DOA also did not
have lead responsibility for this activity which was under DOAE's mandate. Any
coordination was organized by DOA and DOAE staff on an informal level, usually
in the province in which the center was located.   Strong informal relations
indeed occurred at a number of centers (Rayong Field Crops Research Center). Due
to the distances, which can be quite long, between each regional research center
and the provinces served by it, logistical problems were substantial.
6.16        DOA addressed the issue of technology transfer by appointing two
Technology Transfer Officers (TTOs) at each center. The task of these TTOs was
to work with DOAE to prepare technology packages for transfer to farmers. The
success of this activity is difficult to evaluate at this stage as the TTOs have
only recently been appointed and are not yet fully effective. The FSRI was also
expected to play a key role between research and extension, but this has not
occurred due to the unclear role it had during the whole project implementation
period. Technology transfer by DOA was also hampered by the lack of technology
application specialists and economists on its staff to evaluate the economic and
social benefits of new technology and farmer acceptance.  The appointment of
economists by DOA was not approved by the Civil Service Commission, this policy
has not yet changed. This severely limited DOA's capability to carry out the
economic evaluation of alternative technologies.
6.17        Staff Development.  In terms of total numbers of staff sent to the
centers, the project fully achieved its objectives. A total of 631 scientists
(412 BSs, 189 MSs, and 30 PhDs) were recruited for the centers under the project,
against 579 (283 BSs, 221 MSs, and 75 PhDs) envisaged at appraisal. To achieve
these numbers of well-trained researchers, who were not readily available
locally, ACNARP provided for local and overseas fellowships for 75 MSs, and 75
PhDs. These targets were revised by ACNARP during project implementation to 130
Diplomates, 56 BSs, 67 local MSs, 71 overseas MSs, and 31 PhDs. A total of 130
Diplomates, 55 BS, 37 local MS, 29 overseas MS, and 31 PhD fellowships were
actually taken up under the project. The lower number of PhD fellowships taken
up was due to the lack of eligible staff in DOA (eligibility was restricted to
DOA staff, and headquarters staff had to relocate to the regional centers after
their studies). Although lack of familiarity with the English language was a
constraint, candidates were selected on technical qualifications and ability.
A total of 355 long term fellowships was taken up, against 150 envisaged at
appraisal.
6.18        The quality of training (success rate of over 95%) provided in
Australia under the fellowship program has been excellent, as evidenced by the
steady increase in the quality of research undertaken in DOA and in the quality
of its research publications.   The MS program was tailor-made  to produce
independent research workers. This was particularly important for the project
when it was realized that it would not be possible to produce the targeted number
of PhDs under the fellowship program. The returned MS and PhD graduates have



- 11 -
stood out among the center staff, being more self-confident and clearer in their
research objectives and directions.
6.19        Conditions of employment of research staff were improved under the
project to allow for the creation of a separate career path for scientists based
on research performance alone, and not on management responsibilities. At the
start of project implementation, ISNAR assisted DOA and CSC to develop criteria
for evaluating research performance and for rewarding performance on the quality,
rather than the quantity, of research. Thus, the top grade for regional center
scientists was raised from civil service establishment level PC 7 to PC 8, and
many heads of regional centers were promoted to this grade. Proportionately more
annual promotions were given to center staff, as compared to headquarters staff,
as a further incentive to them.
6.20        The reduction of high-level positions at headquarters was implemented
for the crop institutes, with more than 90Z of their staff, the majority with
post-graduate qualifications, being relocated to the regional centers. However,
this did not occur for the technical divisions, due to the ownership of these
centers by the crop institutes.   DOA encouraged voluntary transfer, but was
unable to order relocation and eventually abandoned all relocation plans for
technical division staff. At the same time, the imposition of a 2% ceiling on
the creation of new positions throughout the civil service affected the
establishment of new positions at the centers. In 1991, the ceiling became a
total ban.  Thus, only 68 new positions were established under the project,
against a total of 579 proposed at appraisal. Part of the shortfall was made up
by transfer of headquarters crop institute staff. Bank supervision missions'
recommendations that headquarters senior scientists should be required to spend
time at the centers on a periodic basis were not enforced by DOA. Thus, the
smaller centers did not have a critical mass of trained staff in a number of
disciplines.   Some newly-returned fellowship holders also felt isolated from
headquarters.
6.21        DOA needs to undertake a serious human resource  study of its
department to review whether its staffing structure matches present farmer needs
and is responsive to current national agricultural priorities and needs.  It
would seem that as agriculture is becoming more complex and there is an
increasing need for agricultural technology of export-oriented, high-value crops,
some changes of the DOA organization are due.
6.22        Technical Assistance.  In addition to the fellowship program, ACNARP
support to the project for technical assistance was a key factor in the success
of the project. The ACNARP support took place in two phases: a first phase which
covered the period June 1982 to December 1985, and a second phase t,he period June
1986 to June 1990. The second phase basically consisted of the extension and
consolidation of the activities of the first phase which covered 6 main areas of
long term assistance: research station development, finance and administration,
staff development, research program planning, information systems development,
and the university grants component. Short term assistance covered statistics,
monitoring and evaluation, and technical matters.
6.23        ACNARP provided a total of 28.5 person years of long term and 62.3
person months of short term technical assistance were implemented under the



- 12 -
project, against 11.0 person years and 42.0 person months, respectively,
envisaged at appraisal. The overall performance of the technical assistance was
good and highly appreciated by DOA, as demonstrated by the adoption of virtually
all the activities initiated by the technical assistance.  Once ACNARP became
effective, the Western Australia Department of Agriculture, responsible for
providing the technical assistance, did an excellent job in responding in a
timely manner and being flexible to prevailing needs.
6.24        Bank and IFAD loan funds were used for the recruitment of technical
services through a local consulting firm of architects and engineers for the
preparation of the physical master plan, detailed engineering drawings and bid
documents,  and  construction  supervision  for  each  regional  center.    The
performance of the firm was entirely satisfactory.  Socio-economic research for
the evaluation of the benefits of new technology, for which two person years of
consultant technical assistance had been earmarked for DOA to work jointly with
the Office of Agricultural Economics, was not conducted under the project. The
use of loan funds for this activity was not approved by MOAC.
6.25        Project Impact.  It is too early yet to evaluate the impact of the
project on the farming community.   However, some results have already been
obtained.   New technology is already being generated.   Several improved new
varieties (Part III, pages 30-31) have already been released, and more effective
plant protection methods and cultural practices have been developed. The new
varieties have been bred for rainfed conditions and thus should particularly
benefit those farmers who are among the poorest in Thailand. However, the whole
farming community would also benefit.
6.26        The long term institution development impact of the project would be
very significant. A national network of well-equipped regional research centers
has been established, and a whole new generation of keen and motivated scientists
has been trained to operate these centers. Technical career paths have been
created for center scientists who can now aspire to further promotion in their
field of work. Research is also evaluated on the basis of quality, and no longer
on quantity. An effective process of research program planning and review has
been set up, while research programs are now more relevant to local needs. The
positive impact of this improved research system is already being observed.
6.27        An interesting impact of the project has been on women.  Although
fellowship awards to women were roughly in the same proportion as the
applications from women, relatively more women obtained (48Z of total, against
37Z who applied) the award for MS studies abroad.
6.28        Economic Analysis.  A conventional economic rate of return (ERR)
analysis was not carried out at appraisal.
7.          Prolect Sustainability
7.1         Project sustainability is likely.   The project has successfully
established a regional network of fully operational agricultural research
centers,  staffed with well-trained teams of young researchers.   Adequately
endowed with physical and financial resources, these centers are expected to



- 13 -
design and implement research programs more relevant to local and national needs.
The research system has been rationalized, and a review process set up to monitor
and evaluate research performance. Incentives for career development based on
technical  performance  have  been  provided.        In  this  environment,  the
sustainability of project investments is not at great risk. However, to ensure
greater sustainability, DOA's present efforts to further reduce the
compartmentalization of research within its different research institutes
(commodities) and technical divisions must be maintained.
8.   Bank and IFAD Performance
8.1         The Bank's significant input in project preparation and close support
to RTG in project processing enabled this project to be implemented. Although
AIDAB supported intensive technical assistance under the project, the Bank's
technical contribution continued during project implementation. The frequency
of Bank missions was adequate and the skills mix responsive to prevailing needs.
Bank supervision of the project was intensive at the start during the period of
1982-87 when the project was supervised by the Bank's Resident Mission in
Bangkok.  Such assistance to DOA was particularly timely and effective, enabling
such activities as procurement and disbursement to proceed without many problems.
8.2         Bank supervision missions recognized very early during project
implementation the institutional issues that arose from design shortcomings, such
as the roles of the technical divisions and FSRI, the transfer of headquarters
staff to the regional centers, and research-extension linkages. A consistent
thrust of these missions was to promote the dismantling of barriers between the
crop institutes, and between institutes and technical divisions, and to give each
a much broader mandate than was designed under the project.
8.3         An interesting issue concerns the timing of the two extension
projects  and this research project,  all supported by the Bank.   Ideally,
technology generation should have preceded technology transfer, particularly when
it was known that technology generation was of poor quality and significant lead
time was needed for results to be obtained. While the impact of the availability
of improved agricultural technology on the effectiveness of the two extension
projects had not been evaluated, the low technological base could have been a
constraint.
8.4         IFAD  played  a  very  strong  supportive  role  during  project
implementation and fully endorsed recommendations made by supervision missions.
It also was very receptive to Government requests for readjustment of project
investments and reallocation of its funds.
9.   Borrower Performance
9.1         Overall,  the  Borrower's  performance  has  been  mixed.    MOAC
participated very little in project implementation, supervision or monitoring.
DOA was unable to ensure compliance with loan covenants as it did not have the
authority to do so.  MOAC considered that there was no need to conduct the
research review, or establish an Agricultural Research Council or a National
Research Committee. MOAC handling of land acquisition for the regional centers
was not timely for a number of centers.  DOA satisfactorily implemented the



- 14 -
project, but its planning and monitoring capabilities could have been
strengthened further during project implementation.  It was less effective in
addressing institutional issues relating to decentralization of staffing and
expansion of the role of the regional centers.
9.2         Regional center organization was affected by the ceiling,  and
eventual ban, on the creation of new civil service positions.  Only a small
fraction of the new positions proposed under the project was created. Transfer
of senior staff positions to the centers was not implemented.
9.3         Too strict adherence to project documents, such as the SAR and the
Project File which are only planning documents, by core Government agencies
affected project implementation.   The rejection by the Committee for the
Recruitment of Consultants of the preparation of physical masterplans for the
first group of centers affected planning, budgeting and procurement of civil
works. These were carried out piecemeal. MOF requirement that Cabinet approval
should be sought in 1989-90 for the revised civil works and equipment procurement
lists delayed project implementation by about two years.
9.4         The contribution of CSC and BOB to improving the conditions of
employment of scientists by development of a separate career path for scientists,
rewarding research performance and promoting decentralization to the regional
centers was highly positive.
10.    Proiect Relationships
10.1        The excellent  relationships  between the Bank,  DOA,  other RTG
agencies, and ACNARP/AIDAB enabled the timely and smooth resolution of potential
problems during project preparation and implementation. One of the main factors
was the close consultation between DOA, the Bank and AIDAB throughout the
project. Joint Bank-AIDAB six-monthly supervision missions contributed strongly
to this.   AIDAB was also very responsive to specific technical assistance
requirements identified during those missions.
11.   Consulting Services
11.1        Contractors and suppliers performed satisfactorily.   The ACNARP
technical assistance had an excellent performance. They generally interacted
very well with their counterparts and other DOA staff, and provided timely and
effective assistance to DOA. Joint AIDAB/DOA consultation on staff selection was
a contributing factor to the success of the technical assistance.
12.   Proiect Documentation and Data
12.1        The  legal  agreements  did  not  cause  any  impediment  to  the
implementation of the project. There was, thus, no need to make any amendment
to the loan agreement during project implementation, except for a reallocation
of  loan  proceeds.    The  SAR  provided  a  useful  framework  for  project
implementation, but was deficient in providing planning guidelines for station
development.    It  also  did  not  sufficiently  address  the  mechanism  for
decentralization of staff to the regional centers.



- 15 -
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(Prepared by the Department of Agriculture)
1.        Comments on Part I and III
The Department of Agriculture (DOA) is generally in agreement with the
findings and conclusions presented by the Bank in Part I of this report. It also
confirms the accuracy of the data presented in the tables in Part III of the
report.
2.        Bank Performance
2.1       The Bank worked in close cooperation with DOA throughout the duration
of the project from the time it was planned and designed until the Project File
and the Staff Appraisal Report were completed.
2.2       Recommendations and suggestions by the Bank on institutional and
technical issues were beneficial to DOA.   In particular,  Bank supervision
missions recommended the reconsideration of the organization of the regional
research centers from the commodity to a more diversified cropping system basis.
It also emphasized the need to integrate the Technical Divisions in the operation
of the regional centers. The missions also provided technical advice on research
project design, program rationalization and evaluation. The Bank also provided
useful advice for the appointment of economists at the research centers and for
strengthening research extension linkages.   Reorganization of DOA improved
efficiency in technical,  administration and service works.   Creation of a
Monitoring and Evaluation department in DOA helped reduce duplication of research
projects as well as expenditures. Employment conditions for research staff were
improved (e.g., Director of Research Centers could be promoted to P.C. level 7-
8).
2.3       The Bank regularly dispatched twice-yearly supervisory missions to
DOA, a frequency which was deemed adequate. Since the project began, there have
been 17 missions. Each mission lasted approximately 2 weeks, allowing mission
leaders to meet with DOA officials to discuss the various aspects of the project
and visit 2-3 regional research centers. At the end of each visit, DOA received
an Aide-Memoire containing the mission's findings, comments and suggestions which
DOA found very useful. The Bank responded satisfactorily to DOA's requests for
specific skills (e.g., agricultural research, engineering, etc.) on their
supervisory missions.
2.4       The Bank allowed three one-year extensions of the project, which
enabled DOA to complete infrastructure development, mainly on civil works
construction.
2.5       The Bank regularly provided DOA with payment advices following each
withdrawal application. A detailed monthly statement was also provided showing
disbursements and current balances for each category. IFAD also provided DOA
with payment advices but unlike the Bank, no monthly statements were forthcoming.



- 16 -
2.6       Approval of procurement proposals was timely.   However, the direct
payment procedure took a long time requiring at least 45 days for the contractor
or suppliers to be paid. Contractors complained about this and requested that
the Bank allow payment through the imprest funds. As there was no constraint
regarding the imprest funds, the use of direct payment procedures should have
been discontinued.
2.7       The Bank agreed to and approved DOA's request to use funds under Loan
1922-TH to support the Third Tree Crops Project. There were some errors made in
disbursements because of improper requests and because IFAD Loan 45-TH had
already paid for the project. DOA has requested correction of this matter since
1990, but the Bank took a long time to take any action.
2.8       On disbursement accounting, the Bank was slow to accommodate changes
requested by DOA and the Auditor-General. This issue arose from disbursement for
rubber research centers.
2.9       The closing date of the loan was June 30, 1992.  A grace period (July-
October 1992) for withdrawal of undisbursed funds permitted DOA to finish civil
works construction projects already underway.
3.        Borrower Performance
3.1       The DOA has undergone a major reorganization along multidisciplinary
lines.   The new structure allows for 18 divisions/institutes, headed by one
Director General and three Deputy Director General's.
3.2       Sixteen existent experimental stations were upgraded to research
centers and three new research centers were constructed.   All were fully
furnished with the requisite buildings, housing, equipment, vehicles and
infrastructure necessary to carry out multidisciplinary research.
3.3       As stipulated in their contracts, the scholars have returned to work
at their contractual base (mostly in research centers) after finishing their
studies. Therefore, there has been no waste of highly trained scientists through
inappropriate deployment policies.
3.4       Computerized  financial  reports were  submitted  to the Bank every
quarter; progress reports were submitted every six months.
3.5       The Office of the Auditor General reviewed project expenditures and
audit reports were submitted to the Bank annually. It closely monitored project
implementation for adherence to the terms of the Staff Appraisal Report, project
file and the loan agreement. Some adjustments to withdrawal applications were
recommended (i.e., design faults in laboratory building at one of the research
centers).
3.6       Projected disbursements were planned at the beginning of the project.
The government was to have provided counterpart funding which was not received
in time. Therefore, there will be a loan balance to be returned to the Bank.
3.7       DOA sought approval from the Bureau of the Budget (BOB) to install air
conditioning in their faultily designed laboratory building. Even though 100%
of the cost of the units would be procured under the loan, BOB approval was
required in order to review the long-term costs of operation (i.e., electric



- 17 -
bill). Air conditioning was approved for a number of rooms containing sensitive
instruments only.
3.8       The Civil Service Commission (CSC) limited the establishment of new
employment positions under the project. Where DOA should have been allocated 579
slots, only 68 were received.
3.9       The Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (MOAC) identified and
initiated the project. A steering committee was set up to work closely with the
National Economic and Social Development Board (NESDB) and the Bank to finalize
project preparation. MOAC was responsible for project oversight. Annual work
plans, budgets, staffing, construction contracts and equipment purchases under
the project, project extensions and reallocation of funds were subject to MOAC
approval.
3.10      The Fiscal Policy Office, which falls within the Ministry of Finance
(MOF), became involved with the project following negotiations with the Bank.
They are responsible for advising MOF on financial management issues such as
budget reallocation, project extensions and approval of persons authorized to
make withdrawals under the project loan.
3.11      BOB  provided  counterpart  funds  for  the  project.    However,  the
allocated budget fell short because disbursement projections were based on
estimates identified during the previous year. Real costs, then, were found to
exceed the budget and some procurement items had to be dropped.
4.        Relationship Between the Bank and the Borrower
4.1       Relationship between Bank missions and the DOA staff were friendly and
informal.   The Bank mission was also very sensitive to the Thai culture and
system, and cooperated very closely with DOA staff and its Australian advisers.
Due to the close relationship, agreement on issues and decisions was reached very
quickly.   The Bank was able to meet with officials from a variety of other
government agencies including the Department of Agricultural Extension, the
Department of Technical and Economic Cooperation, the Fiscal Policy Office and
the Civil Service Commission. On occasion, officials from these other agencies
accompanied the mission on visits to regional research centers.
5.        Performance of Co-financiers
5.1       The Australian International Development Assistance Bureau's (AIDAB)
contribution in technical assistance and human resource development was
significant to the success of the project. The Australian Government, through
AIDAB, provided US$ 2 million for technical assistance and to finance both long-
and short-term training. Funding for technical assistance closed June 30, 1990;
long-term fellowships were expected to close in September 1992. The long-term
academic fellowship program was comprised of 31 doctoral, 138 masters, 46
bachelors and 130 diploma candidates. The short-term program provided training
both in Australia and Thailand in 97 different courses to 1,508 fellows.
5.2       The technical advisers provided valuable advice and guidance and
strong support to DOA staff in implementing the institutional changes and the
reform of agricultural research in the department. Both the long-term fellowship
program and the short-term courses were instrumental in establishing a well-
trained cadre of research scientists. The advisers communicated well with their



- 18 -
counterparts and the DOA staff.  AIDAB was quick to respond to DOA needs for
specific skills and advisers to train its staff.
5.3       The  International  Fund  for Agricultural  Development  (IFAD)  also
cooperated very effectively in the implementation of the project.   It was
responsive to DOA's requests for reallocation of loan funds and to other specific
project implementation issues.



PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Related Bank Loans
Loan/Credit
Title               Purpose           Year of      Status    Comments
._________________                          Approval
1. National        Phase I of national   March 1977   Closed    PAR 6263
Agricultural   program to provide                    July      dated June
Extension      an improved                           1984      18, 1986
Project        agricultural
(Loan 1393-    extension service
TH)            covering 33
province.
2. National        Phase II of national  August 1979  Closed    PAR 10101
Agricultural   program to provide                   May        dated Nov.
Extension II   an improved                           1988      15, 1991
Project        agricultural
(Loan 1752-    extension service
TH)            covering 39
provinces not
covered in Phase I.
3. Third Rubber   Rubber replanting,      June 1986    Closed    PCR 11097
Replanting     institutional                         Sept.     dated
Project        development,                          1991      Sept. 4,
(Loan 2691-    training.                                       1992
TH)



- 20 -
2.    Prolect Timetable
Item                   Date Planned               Date Actual
Identification                                        December 1975
Preparation I                                         May 1978
Preparation II                                        September 1978
Pre-Appraisal                                         April 1979
Appraisal                                             December 1979
Loan Negotiations          June 1980                  September 1980
Board Approval            August 15, 1980             November 25, 1980
Loan Signature             October 1980               December 19, 1980
Loan Effectiveness         November 1980              March 20, 1981
Project Completion         June 30, 1989              June 30, 1992
Loan Closing               June 30, 1989              June 30, 1992
Last Disbursement                                     December 9, 1992



- 21 -
3.    Loan Disbursements
A. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements of IBRD Loan 1922-TH
1982     1983      1984      1985      1986        1987      1988      1989       1990      1991      1992      1993
------------------------------------(USS miLlion)---------------------------------------------
Appraisal estimate            1.6       4.8      10.4       18.7      25.3      30.0       30.0      30.0       30.0      30.0       30.0      30.0
ActuaL                        0.1       0.3       0.9        3.9       8.7      13.4       17.1      20.5       24.0      26.7       28.3      29.7
Actual as X of                  6        6         9         21        34         45        57         68        80         89        94         99
estimate
Date of Final Disbursement: Deceffber 9, 1992
B. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements of IFAD Loan 45-TH
1982     1983      1984      1985      1986        1987      1988      1989       1990      1991      1992      1993
-----------------------------------(USS million)---------------------------------------------
AppraisaL estimate            0.1       1.5       3.7        7.2      11.0      14.0       15.0      15.0       15.0      15.0       15.0      15.0
Actual                        0.1       0.5       1.5        2.2       3.8        5.3       6.8       8.2        9.5      10.0       11.2      11.2
Actual as % of                100       33        41        31         35       38          45         55        63         67        75         75
estimate
Date of Final Disbursement:   December 9, 1992



- 22 -
4.    Project Implementation
A. Key Indicators
Unit    AppraiJeal    Achieved    Achieved
Indicators                           Estimate                     ps (Z of
Appraisal
Estimate)
Appointment of Deputy Director-             No.          3             3          100
Generals
Creation of Research Institutes             No.          6             6          100
Construction of Regional Centers            No.         19           2lb/         111       l
Incremental Scientists for Centers
Total                                       No.        579           631          109
including  PhD                              No.         75            30           40
MS                              No.        221           189           86
BS                             No.         283           412          146
Fellowship Awards (Total)                   No.        150           328          218
including  PhD                              No.         75            31           41
MS (overseas)                   No.         75            71           95
(local)                     No.          -            57            _
BS                             No.           _            45            _
Diploma                        No.           -           125            _
Technical Assistance:
Long term                                Year        11.0          28.5         259
Short term                              Month       42.0           62.3         148
a/    Incremental.  Pre-project staff, as indicated in the Staff Appraisal Report Annex
2, Table 1, were as follows:  PhD - 5, MS - 53, BS   183.
b/    Including Rubber Research Centers.



- 23 -
B. Planned and Actual Implementation Schedules
Extension
Activities                        1980    1981       1982      1983     1984      1985      1986   j1987       1988      1989     1990    1l991
1. Technical assistance
(a) Long Term Advisors
(j) Station Development
Planned
Actual
(ii) Research Program Ptanning
Ptanned
Actual- ---------------------------------------------June 30, 1989
(iii) Finance and Administration
Ptanned
Actual                                            -----------------------------------------------------------------------June 30, 1989
2. Reorganize structure of DOA
Planned
Actual
3. Staff development
Planned
Actual
4. Civil works (employ architect &
engineering consulting firm,
detailed design, supervision,
construction)
Planned
Actuat
5. Investments (offices, field
and laboratory furniture and
equipment)
P lanned
Actuat
6. Research & extension tinkages
Ptanned
Actual



- 24 -
C. ACNARP Training
(i)   Long  Term  FellowshipsW
_____________  Target                                            Actual
Research          Administration                   Research          Administration
Institutes        Divisions           Total       Institutes         Divisions           TotaL
PhD
Overseas           75                                    75           28                    1              29
Local               -                    -                             2                    -               2
TotaL              75          __75                                   30                    1              31
MS/MA
Overseas           75                    -               -            71                    -               71
Local              75                    -               -            57                   10               67
Total             150                    -              150          128                   10              138
BS
Local                                    -               -            45                   11               56
Total                                                                 45                   11               56
Diploma
Local                                                                125                    5              130
Total                                                    _           125                    5              130
a/        Basis  of  3 years  for  PhD  and  2 years  for  MS/MA.
(ii) Short Term Fellowships
Tarpet                                  600 (staff months)
Actual                         Courses a/  Participants
Work experience                      -                    9
Training courses                    10                  46
Special studies                      -                  27
In-service courses                 84               1,481
Total                              94               1.563
a/ Duration of the individual courses is not recorded.



- 25 -
(iii) Courses
Local                 Number of Courses   Participants
English Tuition                             23                 272
Computer Application                         1                   1
Librarianship                                7                 177
Microcomputer                                2                  54
Agricultural Information                     1                  47
Computer Data Base Access                    3                 110
Agricultural Index                           1                  35
Statistics Tree Crops                        3                  44
CD-ROM Usage                                 3                  75
Forming Systems Analysis                     1                   6
Advanced Cataloguing                         1                   2
Publishing and Editing                       1                   7
Micro-Isis Database                          1                  10
Information Center Management                1                   2
Computing Awareness                          6                 108
Agro-Climatology                             1                  12
Monitoring and Evaluation                    4                  61
Administration Management                    4                  40
Computer Programming                         1                   2
TOT Color Transparencies                     1                  18
Admin. Computer                              1                  38
G & E Analyses                               2                  32
Irrigation Technology                        2                  56
Introduction CDS/ISIS                        1                   5
Scientific English Writing                   2                  36
Plant Protection Statistics                  3                  66
Germplasm Database Management                1                  16
Computer Processing                          4                  40
Librarian Systems Planning                   1                   1
Information Systems Planning                 1                   1
Integrated Pest Management                   1                  44
Tree Crop Nutrition                          2                  44
Australia
Pesticide Technology                         1                   1
Agric. Research Management                   6                  37
Agriculture                                  1                   5
Statistics Interaction                       1                   2
Statistics Survey                            I                   1



- 26 -
(iv) Work Experience
Australia               Number of courses   Participants
Pesticide Analysis                           1                 l
Pesticide Control Management                 1                 1
Fertilizer Quality Control                   I                 I
Computer Management                          1                 1
Farming Systems Analysis                     1                 1
Statistics                                   1                 1
Publication                                  1                 1
Tobacco Research                             1                 1
Personnel Management
(v) Special Study Awards
Australia               Number of Courses   Participants
Management Meeting                          12                 15
Macadamia Nut Research                       1                  1
Cotton                                       1                  1
Horticulture                                 1                  1
Administration                               1                  7



- 27 -
D. ACNARP Technical Assistance
(i) Long Term (person years)
Planned             Actual
Program Planning/Project Management              2.0                  5.6
Finance and Administration                       2.0                  3.3
Station Development                               1.0                 2.7
Multidisc. and Farming Systems                    2.0                  _
Horticulture                                      2.0                 2.3
Socio & Agricultural Economist                   2.0                   _
Manpower Development/Proj.Management               _                  8.1
Research Programs                                                     3.0
Scientific Information Systems               .                        3.5
11.0                28.5
(ii) Short Term (person months)
Planned             Actual
Inputs                                            42.0                62.3



-  28  -
5.    Project Costs and Financing
A.  Proiect Costs (US$ million) a/
A:raiat Estima5te                 __    _ _          Actuat
Activity
|__________________________________________________________-____________         Local        Foreign          Total            Local          foreign         TotaL
A. Station Development
Civil Works                                                                8.9            6.0             14.9              1.0             5.7            6.7
Vehicles & Farm Equipment                                                  1.2             2.9             4.1              2.4            15.2           17.6
Office & Laboratory Furniture
Equipment and Supplies                                                    2.9            4.3              7.2             2.6             12.9           15.5
Land Purchase                                                              1.0              -              1.0             0.1                -            0.1
Subtotat                                                                14.0           13.2             27.2             6.1             33.8           39.9
B. Technicat Services b/
Fellowships c/                                                             1.4            3.3              4.7               -              9.4            9.4
Technical Assistance                                                       0.8             1.8             2.6                              7.8            7.8
Subtotat                                                                 2.2            5.1              7.3               -             17.2            17.2
C. Operations
Salaries, wages & benefits                                                11.3              -             11.3             0.7               -             0.7
Fertitizers, chemicals, etc.                                               0.3            2.0               2.3            0.6               3.4            4.0
Maintenance and repair                                                     2.5             0.8             3.3               -               -              -
Lab suppties, planting material and other
5.4             1.8             7.2               -               -              -
Subtotal
19.5            4.6             24.1             1.3             3.4            4.7
Totat Base Cost                                                         35.7            22.9             58.6             7.4              54.4           61.8
D. Contingencies                                                              22.8            10.1            32.9               -                .              -
Total Project Cost                                                       58.5           33.0             91.5             7.4              54.4           61.8
a/ Figures have been rounded.
b/  Funded under ACNARP (ACNARP Project Completion Report, November 1990); AUD converted to USS, using conversion rate of AUD= US$0.8.
c/  Includes grants to Thai Universities Program of ALM) 1,956,640.



- 29 -
B. Project Financing (US$ million)
A  raisal Estimate                                                     Actual
RTG        BANK         IFAD        AIDAS         TOTAL         RTG    | BANK             IFAD      AIDAB 8|   TOTAL
1.  Civil Works
(a) Housing                         0.7         4.3           -            -            5.0         0.98          5.72           -           -           6.70
(b) Laboratories, offices
and others                      3.0        11.0         6.0            -           20.0         2.41         9.88         5.29          -           17.58
2.  Land Purchase                         1.2          -                                     1.2          0.08           -            -           -           0.08
3.  Vehicles & equipment
(office, farm, lab., etc.)            2.5         8.0         4.5           -           15.0         2.60          8.73        4.15           -          15.48
4.  FertiLizer, chemicals,
spare parts, planting,
lab., and other materials            1.5         4.5          3.0           -           9.0          0.63          2.24        1.18           -           4.05
5.  Technical services                    5.9         1.3         0.7           2.0          9.9           -           1.91         0.89        14.40         17.20
6.  Operating costs (salaries,
wages, benefits,
maintenance, utilities,
other)                              29.7          -           -                        29.7         0.66                                                 0.66
7.  Unallocated                            -          0.9         0.8            -           1.7           -             -            -           -             -
_/
Total                           44.5        30.0         15.0          2.0          91.5         7.36         28.48        11.51       14.40        61.75
a/  Assuming an exchange rate of AUD1.00 = Baht 20.0 or US$0.80
b/  The discrepancy with the final disbursement of USS29.7 million (p. 21) reflects expenditures for civil works that were wrongly charged to IFAD.  The
appropriate adjustment was subsequently made.



- 30 -
6.   Proiect Results
A. Research Results Obtained
Rice
1.   Breeding of Rice (Varieties Released)
Upland rice   -  Drought-Tolerant Varieties IR 3794-2, KKW 80037-168-
2-2, C 732-14, and KKNUR 76036-98-1-2-1.
Lowland rice  -  Saline-Tolerant  Varieties  Khao  Sawat,  Ejia,  Hom
Raking, Lum Narai, Sanpatong, and KKNLR 7407-192-2-
1-1-1.
- Acid-Tolerant Varieties BKN 6003-243, Khao Tahaeng
17, and Lung Pratiew 123.
2.   Cultural practices
Furrow irrigation of wheat grown in paddy field.
Plant spacing and transplanting time for rice grown under
rainfed conditions.
Use of organic fertilizers and time of application.
Adoption of recommended rice seed.
Rice diseases in Thailand.
Field Crops
1.   Breedin, (Varieties Released)
High Yielding Varieties
Peanut: Khon Kaen 60, Khon Kaen 60-3,
Maize: Nakhonsawan 1
Cotton: Srisamrong 60
Cassava: Rayong 60
Sesame: Mahasarakham 60
Baby corn: Chiangmai 90, Rangsit I
Castor bean: Ubon 90
Sugar cane: U-thong 1, Chainat I
Disease Resistant Varieties
Sugar cane: Uthong 1
Drought-Tolerant Varieties
Sorghum: Uthong I



- 31 -
Horticulture
1.   Breeding (Varieties Released)
High Yielding Varieties
Cashew Nut: Srisaket 60-1, srisaket 60-2
2.   Recommended Technology
Application of virus NPV and insecticide for control of cotton pod borer
Development of ELISA KIT for detection of virus disease of orchid
Application of nematodes for control of insect pest of economic crops
Development of rice thresher at farm level
Development of solar dryer for rubber
Application of Azolla for nitrogen fixation in paddy
B. Economic Impact
No economic analysis was carried out, as at appraisal.



- 32 -
7.    Status of Covenants
DEADLINE
FOR
COVENANTS                SUBJECT             COMPLIAN              STATUS
CE
4.05          Government to acquire land         _       Completed
for project.
4.06          DOA to maintain qualified          _       Completed.
Deputy Director-General
for research and Project
Implementation
Coordinator.
4.07 (a)      Improve terms and                  _       Completed.
conditions of employment
of agricultural research
scientists.
4.07 (b)      Appoint commission and           1/1/82    Completed.
consultants to review and
recommend improvements in
terms and conditions of
employment of agricultural
research scientists.
4.07 (c)      Appoint commission and           1/1/82    Completed for DOA; MOAC
consultants for review and                has taken no action for
rationalization of all                    other departments.
departmental research
activities.
4.08          Appoint departmental               _       Completed for DOA; MOAC
councils, committees and                  has taken no action for
advisory panels at                        other departments.
national levels for review
and coordination of
agricultural research
activities.
4.09          Establish program planning                 Completed.
and budgeting systems for
DOA.
4.10          Formulate M & E and                _       Establishment of M&E
research program review                   capacity completed.
system; appoint reputable                 Research program review
national and international                by Australian scientists
researchers for periodic                  was carried out under
research program review.                  ACNARP, but was not
continued after ACNARP
was completed.



- 33 -
8.       Use  of Bank  Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Actual (Staff-weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle
Pre-Appraisal                                                                               107.3
Appraisal  through  Board  Approval                                                           33.7
Supervision                                                                                 123.3
PCR                                                                                             6.0
TOTAL                                                                            270.3
B. Missions
Performance
No. of     Days in      Specialization      Rating        Types of
State of Project           Month/Year      Persons       Field      Represented I      Status b/     Problems
Before Appraisal
Identification                         12/1975          4           21       3a, Id
Preparation I                          05/1978          3           6        3a
Preparation 11                         09/1978          6           30       4a, lf, lb
Pre-appraisal                          04/1979          6           27       4a, lf, lb
AppraisaL through Board                11/1979          5           21       3a, ld, If
Supervis ion
Supervision 1                          01/1981          1           5        la                      1         F
Supervision 2                          09/1981          2           12       ia, lc                  2         F, 0
Supervision 3                          04/1982          2           8        la, lb                  2         F, 0, M
Supervision 4                          12/1982          2           5        2a                      2         F, 0
Supervision 5                          07/1983          2           14       ia, lb                  2         F, 0
Supervision 6                          12/1983          3           10       la, lb, le              2         M
Supervision 7                          05/1984          3           8        la, lb, lg              2         M
Supervision 8                          01/1985          3           NA       la, lb, le              2         M, 0
Supervision 9                          08/1985          2           NA       la, lb                  2         0
Supervision 10                         06/1986          3           9        2a, lb                  2         0
Supervision 11                         09/1987          1           15       la                      2         0
Supervision 12                         04/1988          2           8        2a                      2         0
Supervision 13                         12/1988          2           7        2a                      2         0
Supervision 14                         06/1989          2           8        2a                      2         0
Supervision 15                         04/1990          1           9        ia                      2         0
Supervision 16                         12/1990          1           8        ia                      2
Supervision 17                         05/1991          1           8        ia                      2
Supervision 18                         03/1992          1           12       ia                      2
a/  Key to specialization: e=agriculturalist; b=economist; c=extension specialist; d=financial analyst; e=procurement
b    specialist; f=organization and management; g=engineer.
-    Performance Rating Status: l=Improving; 2=Stationary.
Types of Problems: F=Funding; O=Organizational; M=Project Management.






NAT I UN AL  AUki(- UL  Uk ALkL)EAk CH  i kUJL(- I
MYANMAR
20-
0
A
0
WIG11.1 -1
o
I Illu I, I L I
AX
o
00
o
0
AOAO
r                                   o                         1A
11-1.1 Io                                                                    00,A
-16-
. ...........                                                        oA o
A OA
A                                                                         MA
o     8,   I I...                         ....... .. ip o
.........  ....               A A
A A
. .........
CAMBODIA
12-
0                          ......
IL 4- tj
C H I N A
III-  T. L.                                                                   NDIA  I
Ij
z        MYANMAR
A
\'YIEI NAPA
"JD                                                                                                   AND
j
CAMBOLIIA
''Pt-.9
so.
w
tta
o
8o
0               ?o             2?o              300
L
PA A  L A y 5  I A
ID
too                      2 00
L                                                                                                                                                 T,SINGAPORE
too,                Pvl AL A          A                                          Y   ri    P  N  E



