Document of                               Copy
The World Bank                     FILE
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2737-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR A
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
November 6, 1980
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =   Baht (B)
$1               =   B 20
B 1              =   $0.05
B 1 million      =   $50,000
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DOA    -   Department of Agriculture
MOAC   -  Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
DDG    -   Deputy Director General
IFAD   -   International Fund for Agricultural Development
THAI FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Kingdom of Thailand
Loan Amount:        $30 million equivalent
Terms:              20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest
at 9.25% p.a.
ProJect
Description:      The project is designed to strengthen the TOA's capacity
to implement national agricultural research programs and
provide new and improved technology, particularly for
farmers in rainfed areas. This would be accomplished by:
(a) a training program for an additional 580 scientific
staff, as well as for upgrading existing staff;
(b) the physical development of 19 selected research
centers in the regions, through the provision of
additional scientific staff, research facilities,
equipment, and housing;
(c) reorganization and strengthening of the DOA and
decentralization of research management and
operations from Bangkhen (Bangkok) to the regions;
and
(d) strengthening the linkage between research and
extension, so that research findings are more sharply
focused on the practical problems that farmers face.
Most of the approximately 5 million farm families would
ultimately benefit from this project; however, major
emphasis would be on upland crops and farming systems for
rainfed agriculture, thus focusing on the poorest farmers
in Thailand. The main risk would be that the DOA may fail
to develop an effective organization and management system
for conducting research on a decentralized, multi-
disciplinary basis. Nuimerous measures have been introduced
under the project to minimize this risk.
This document has a rstriced distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:
Local      Foreign      Total
…($ million) - …
Civil works                                9.9        6.0         15.9
Vehicles and farm equipment                1.2        2.9          4.1
Office and scientific equipment            2.9        4.3          7.2
Technical services                         2.2        5.1           7.3
Subtotal                             16.2       18.3         34.5
Salaries, wages and benefits              11.3        0.0         11.3
Fertilizers and chemicals                  0.3        2.0          2.3
Maintenance and repairs                     2.5       0.8           3.3
Other incremental operating costs          5.4        1.8          7.2
Subtotal                             19.5        4.6         24.1
Total Base Cost                      35.7       22.9         58.6
Physical contingencies                     1.8        1.6          3.4
Price contingencies                       21.0        8.5         29.5
Total Project Cost                   58.5       33.0         91.5
Financing Plan:
Government                    41.2          3.3        44.5
Bank                          11.2         18.8        30.0
IFAD                           5.6          9.4        15.0
Australian Gov't.              0.5           1.5        2.0
58.5         33.0        91.5
Estimated Disbursements:
($ million)
Bank FY       1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987
Annual         0.0   1.6   3.2   5.6   8.3   6.6   4.7
Cumulative    0.0   1.6   4.8  10.4  18.7  25.3  30.0
Rate of Return:  Due to the nature of the project, rate of return calcula-
tions have not been attempted.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 2891-TH, dated September 22, 1980.



REPORT ATD RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR A NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Kingdom of Thailand for the equivalent of $30 million to help finance
a National Agricultural Research Project. The loan would have a term of
20 years, including five years of grace, with interest at 9.25% per annum.
The International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) has recently
approved a loan of $15 million to help finance the project on a Joint basis.
The IFAD loan will be for 20 years, including 5 years grace, with interest
at 4% per annum. The Australian Government would provide about $2 million
towards the costs of technical services.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Thailand - Toward a Strategy of
Full Participation" (2059-TH) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
September 18, 1978. The Report concludes that Thailand's rapid economic
growth over the past 15 years has led to a significant reduction in absolute
poverty, but that the poorest have lagged behind this progress. It identi-
fies the essential characteristics of these groups and points to the need
for continued overall development as well as the initiation of specific
measures to deal with the poverty problem, particularly in rural areas. It
further discusses the constraints on the successful implementation of these
policies. A Country Economic Memorandum which provides an updating of macro-
economic developments is currently under preparation. Country data are
given in Annex I.
Recent Political Developments
3.        The frequent changes at the top levels of government, which have
characterized recent political developments in Thailand, have mainly reflected
differing views on Thailand's external relations and on the political
decision-making process within the country. The Government under the prime
ministership of General Kriangsak Chomanan, formed in November 1977,
resigned on February 29, 1980, following increasing public and parliamentary
criticism of its economic policies. General Prem Tinsulanonda was elected
by the National Assembly to succeed Kriangsak as Prime Minister after
receiving the support of nearly all major political parties. General Prem's
new government, formed on March 14, 1980, includes leaders from the political
parties which supported him. On March 28, 1980, General Prem announced his
government's policies on a number of issues including economic and social
development. These policies place high and immediate priority on accelera-
ting rural development, raising rural incomes and on measures to improve
health and education. Partictl-ar emphasis is given to generating more jobs
and it is expected that a rural public works program similar to the 1975/76
Tambon Program will be a major element in this strategy. The Government
also intends to exert efforts to contain inflation and a more gradual



-2-
adjustment of energy prices is foreseen at the same time that domestic
energy resources are being developed. Reforms in monetary and fiscal policy
and efforts to improve the trade balance through improved export performance
are also called for. As discussed below, these reforms are critical to
increasing resource mobilization (especially in the public sector) and
reducing the current account deficit.
{
Past Trends and Recent Changes
4.        Thailand's economic performance since 1960 has been good.  The
average annual growth of real GDP from 1960 to 1979 was 7.9%, or about 4.8%
per capita. Real agricultural growth of nearly 5% was a leading factor
sustaining this expansion. The cultivated area increased by about 4% a year,
water control was improved, irrigation was expanded and the cultivation of
relatively new crops, including maize, cassava, kenaf, sugar and rubber, grew
rapidly. Agriculture has also been a major contributor to export growth. As
a share of GDP, domestic savings fluctuated between 19% and 24%, and total.
investment between 20% and 27%. The high level of private investment
contributed to a real industrial growth of 10% per year since 1970. All this
was achieved with a limited inflow of external resources and, until recently,
the debt service gap remained quite low.
5.        The large growth in incomes over the last two decadas has not, how-
ever been equitably distributed throughout the country, and at present there
are very significant regional differentials in incomes and access to
economic and social infrastructure. The regions are very different in terms
of topography, climate, soils, urbanization, etc., and present quite
distinct problems for future development. The Central Region, including
Bangkok, has the highest per capita income and is better served by roads,
telecommunications, schools, public health and other services than the other
three regions, the North, Northeast and South. Within the regions also
there is considerable variation: farmers who have diversified into cash
crops have generally enjoyed substantial growth in real incomes while the
incomes of those who have been unable or unwilling to sAift out of
subsistence rice culture have stagnated. Recent researich has shown that
inappropriate cropping patterns and agricultural techniques are major
factors in much of the rural poverty. This is most conspicuously the case
of the rainfed rice farmers in the Northeast and North. Since Lhere is a
well-functioning labor market, the low incomes of this large group have
tended to depress unskilled wages throughout the economy.
6.        Real concern over the plight of the poor is growing, and observable
improvements in rural living standards are being seen as a major factor in
promoting political stability. In the past several years the Government has
initiated efforts to increase the flow of public resources to the poor rural
areas, including the Tambon Program of direct transfers to villages in 1976,
the drought relief program in 1977, the flood relief program in 1978, the
new village development program in 1979 and the rural employment program in



1980. These programs have been designed to produce quick and tangible
political as well as economic results, but considerably more attention and
resources need to be devoted to rural development if these programs are to
have lasting impact. While the absorptive capacity in rural areas has
increased since the Tambon Program of 1975-76, there is some concern about
the efficacy of crash programs in view of the resource constraints facing
the budget and the limitations of implementation capacity at various levels
of government.
7.        Thailand's balance of payments position and its trade prospects
are now less favorable than in the early 1970s. The overall balance of,
payments, which recorded surpluses in 1973 and 1974, has since been running
deficits, averaging almost $500 million annually since 1977. In 1978, the
current account deficit reached $1.1 billion, or 5% of GDP, and increased in
1979 to $2.1 billion, or about 8% of GDP. The most significant changes in
the external environment have been the rapid increase in the price of
imported energy, the decline in net transfer and service payments to
Thailand and the conjunction of inflation and recession throughout the
world.
8.        To contain and finance the balance of payments deficit, the Govern-
ment has taken a number of measures to date. It has increased significantly
its borrowing from traditional sources and the Eurodollar market, and at the
beginning of 1980 raised interest rate ceilings by 3 percentage points in
order to encourage domestic savings and to curtail the flight of capital
abroad.
9.        The Government has also adjusted domestic prices to slow the
growth of imports. In March 1978, tariffs on non-essential imports were
raised, along with excise taxes on a number of items, notably gasoline.
Petroleum product prices were raised in January 1979, July 1979 and February
1980, for a cumulative increase of about 100% for gasoline. Currently, the
latter's price is the equivalent of $1.80 per gallon. After a proposed
power tariff increase of about 55% was rejected in November 1979, a lesser
tariff increase of about 38% was finally implemented in February 1980 and
another increase of 26% was implemented on October 1. A further increase is
expected to be implemented on January 1, 1981.
Development Prospects and Constraints
10.       In the coming decade, many of the positive features which helped
sustain rapid economic growth over the past two decades will continue to
contribute to future growth. These factors include a relatively equitable
distribution of rural land; responsiveness of Thai farmers to improved
technology; provision of infrastructure by the Government; and the dynamism of
the private sector in both industry and agriculture. Also, major gains have



been made in family planning in recent years, slowing the annual rate of
population growth from about 3% during the 1960s to an estimated 2.2% in 1979.
The target for 1981 is 2.1%.
11.       Some less favorable domestic factors are emerging, however.  As a
result of very rapid population growth in the 1960s, projected labor force
growth of 3% p.a. necessitates a high rate of job creation.  Past growth has
benefited households unevenly and created further income disparities that
could threaten the social cohesion of the country. At the same time,
additional fertile land, which has supported the growth of agricultural
production and exports in the past, is becoming increasingly scarce. In view
of these factors, continued reliance on the past pattern of development may
lead to a deceleration of agricultural and overall growth in the next
decade; persistently large balance-of-payments deficits; higher rates of
unemployment or underemployment; and stagnating or declining real incomes of
the poorer segments of the population, especially in rural areas and among
unskilled workers. These internal factors are complicated by the external
factors of rapid oil price increases and recession in developed countries.
The oil price increase alone will add about $1.0 billion to the 1980 import
bill, even with no increase in import volume, and the current account
deficit is estimated to be at least 9% of GDP. The unfavorable external
situation will require major domestic adjustments and it is unlikely that
the overall growth rate will exceed about 6% in the coming years.
12.       Thailand must shift its economy from a pattern of growth based on
the extension of land under cultivation and on import-substituting industries
to one based on increasingly intensive use of land and on industries producing
for domestic and export markets under competitive conditions. At the same
time it must reduce its current account deficit and increase public savings.
Effective policies and programs will be necessary to ensure that economic
growth is maintained and income disparities reduced, or at least not widened,
during this period of transition. In the past, the Government's role has
focused primarily on short-term economic management and the provision of basic
economic and social services. In order to achieve a relatively smooth
transition, the Government will now have to undertake more coordinated
long-term policies and play a more active role in development management.
13.       Agriculture will continue to be the dominant sector since it
directly generates 30% of GDP, provides about 60% of total exports, and
employs 75% of the labor force. However, future growth of the sector will
require more intensive utilization of cultivated areas, continued diversifica-
tion of crops, improved cropping patterns and farming practices, and easier
access to agricultural inputs including credit. All of these imply an
increased government role in rural development. But while growth in the
agricultural sector may be expected to remain fairly rapid for some time to
come, the burden of sustaining future growth will have to shift progressively
to the industrial sector. Industry, construction and services will have to
provide an increasing share of employment for the growing labor force. In
1979, industrial production accounted for about one-fourth of GDP and about



one-third of total exports. Manufactured output, which accounted for 90% of
industrial production, achieved an export growth of 24% in 1979, almost
double the growth rate of total exports. While continued growth of
manufactured exports is essential, the large domestic market also offers
opportunities for a balanced industrial growth based on production of
consumer goods, agricultural inputs and processing of agricultural outputs
for urban consumption. Our policy dialogue will concentrate on efforts to
reduce price distortions, increase availability of credit, and eliminate
impediments to efficient production for domestic and foreign markets so that
the dynamic private sector can realize its potential for spurring growth and
creating jobs.
14.       The principal objectives of the Government's Fourth Plan (1977-81)
are to achieve 7% real growth, equitable distribution of income, reduction in
the rate of population growth, faster generation of employment opportunities
and balanced regional development. Public sector development expenditures
were to double in real terms in relation to the Third Plan. However, the
Plan addresses sectoral issues and strategies only in broad terms, and con-
crete policies and programs to meet the Plan's economic and social objectives
are not spelled out in any detail. The Government has now embarked on the
preparation of the Fifth Plan (1982-86) and the agencies of the Government
are undertaking a number of studies to help ensure that the Fifth Plan
provides an unambiguous basis for the allocation of resources and the
formulation of development policies and programs. These studies may help
identify possible areas of Bank lending for structural adjustment.
Financing Requirements
15.       The implementation of policies needed for a satisfactory rate of
economic and social progress will necessitate a steady increase in public
expenditures over the next few years. This will require much greater efforts
to mobilize both domestic and external resources than in the past. Government
domestic revenue as a percentage of GDP (13.5% for 1975-79) is low compared to
other developing countries at similar levels of development due to low tax
rates, high exemptions and a somewhat below-average rate of compliance. With
expenditures rising, the overall budgetary deficit in fiscal year 1979/80 is
estimated at above $1.0 billion, or over 4% of GDP. The Government has
achieved a modest improvement in resource mobilization through revision of the
tax structure and improved collections. Much greater efforts will be needed
in the future if the reliance on foreign financing - and thereby the deficit
on the current account of the balance of payments - is to be reduced in
relation to the size of the economy.
16.       During the coming years, the demand for external resources will
increase. Despite an average real growth of exports of over 10% and increased
domestic production of primary energy, the projected rise in the price of
imports - led by the price of petroleum - implies that large trade and
current account deficits are expected to persist through the mid-1980s. It
is estimated that a 6% overall growth rate can be maintained and the current
account deficit reduced to 4-5% of GDP by 1985 if appropriate policies are



followed, including greater efforts in implementating energy saving measures,
promoting agricultural growth and exports, reducing distortions and excessive
protection in industry, promoting more labor-intensive exporrs  and post-
poning major capital-intensive investments until the economy can afford them.
This implies an average current deficit of $3 billion per year in 1980-85,
which will require very large amounts of external borrowings totalling about
$18 billion net over the period.
17.       Official donors, particularly Japan and the development banks, have
been expanding their programs to meet a part of Thailand's growing resource
requirements. The rest has been financed in the Eurodollar market and bond
markets. The Government has established a Foreign Loan Policy Committee to
coordinate and approve all foreign borrowing by the public sector. The Bank
of Thailand is establishing procedures for recording private borrowing
abroad in order to keep track of total foreign debt. Current estimates of
Thailand's external borrowing requirements exceed those discussed at the
last Consultative Group meeting, and the need for continued concessional a'id
is perhaps now more acute.  In addition, external agencies  i-ncluding the
Bank Group, have in recent years increasingly concentrated oDroject lending
to Thailand in some sectors that have high social benefits' lD:ut low foreign
exchange savings or earnings. To achieve the level of external resource
transfer that is now required, it is necessary, in selected projects where
the foreign exchange component is low, to finance some local currency
expenditures. Program and structural adjustment lending should also be
considered.
18.       By 1985, net disbursements will more than double in current terms
for both public and publicly guaranteed borrowing and private borrowing. The
debt service ratio on public debt (4.6% in 1979) will exceed 10% by 1985, but
should decline thereafter. Assuming a significant level of concessional
assistance, the debt service ratio on total public and private civilian
borrowing (currently about 15%) will rise to over 20% before declining.
Given the diversification of Thai commodity exports and the rapid expansion of
manufactured exports, these debt service requirements should be sustainable if
rapid export growth continues, more domestic resources are mobilized, and
economic stability is maintained.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAIND
19.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank Group in 19f0 for a railway
project and, as of August 31, 1980, had received 57 IBRD loans amounting to
about $1,850 million, net of cancellations. The sectoral distribution of
these loans has been as follows: $364 million for transportation; $316 mil-
lion for irrigation; $650 million for power/energy and rural electrification
(including $66 million for a dual purpose power and irrigation project);
$153 million for telecommunications; $163 million for agricultural and rural
development; $109 million for urban development; $52 million for education;
and $42 million for industry. Thailand has also received six IDA credits:
two credits totalling $54.5 million for education; one credit of $25.0 million
for rural development; two credits totalling $12.5 million for irrigation



- 7 -
improvement; and one credit of $33.1 million for a population project. In
general, Bank Group-financed projects have been carried out satisfactorily
and in accordance with expectations. Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as well as brief notes on the
execution of ongoing projects as of August 31, 1980.
20.       Over the past five years, the Bank has shifted its lending in
Thailand from a program dominated by investments in traditional infrastruc-
ture projects (accounting for over 80% of the lending through FY74) to a
program which places increasing emphasis on assisting the Government s efforts
to reach the poorer segments of its population more directly. Since FY75,
investments in transportation, power, water supply, telecommunications and
industry have accounted for only about 50% of Bank Group lending and more
than half of these, in dollar terms, were for projects specifically
designed to benefit the rural population. The proportion of Bank lending
to the agricultural/rural development sector has trebled, accounting for
about 35% of lending operations since FY75. The design of projects in
this sector has also changed, from exclusively large irrigation projects to
a more balanced program covering irrigation (including land development and
support services to the farmer) and a variety of innovative projects to
assist farmers outside the central flood plain (rubber replanting, live-
stock, agricultural extension, and rural development). Projects in the
social sectors which prior to FY75 were limited to three in education account-
ing for 6% of the program, have both diversified and grown. In recent years
education, population and low-income housing projects have accounted for
about 15% of the program.
21.       The findings of the 1978 Basic Economic Report and a more recent
economic mission verify the appropriateness of the shift mentioned above,
and underscore the need to move even further in designing programs which
help the rural population, particularly those farmers in rainfed areas who
have been largely bypassed by recent economic growth. In the agricultural
sector, therefore, the Bank is redoubling its efforts to develop an approach
which will help to lift the rainfed farmers out of a subsistence existence.
A combination of education, agricultural research and extension, credit and
improved infrastructure is foreseen. However, the major problem is the
absence so far of a viable package for the poorest and most remote farmers.
Expansion and improvement of irrigation systems will continue, with increased
emphasis on reaching those farmers with irrigation potential in the northern,
northeastern and southern regions. The program of transportation, electrifi-
cation, water supply and telecommunications projects will also continue to
have a rural focus. A key element of the strategy outlined in the Basic
Economic Report is the creation of jobs and stimulation of increased
economic activity outside of Bangkok. The bulk of the Bank Group's urban
and industrial lending will, therefore, be directed to projects which
enhance the attractiveness of regional cities as service centers for the
agricultural economy of those regions. Selected projects in Bangkok will be



- 8 -
aimed at strengthening agencies providing essential services to the urban
population and the development of low cost, replicable programs to meet
the demands of the urban sector, particularly the urban poor, without divert-
ing scarce resources from other high-priority development needs.
22.       The Bank's strategy of placing an increasing share of its program
into projects alleviating poverty and promoting rural development will be
difficult to execute without considerable technical assistance toward
institutional development and project preparation. The Bank's regional
mission in Bangkok will continue to play a vital role in helping to identify
and prepare such projects. Promoting overall growth also has a high
priority in Thailand and is a necessary element in the poverty alleviation
strategy. The resource requirements for infrastructure development and for
developing energy and its domestic primary sources are large, and the Bank
is concentrating its remaining funds in projects where it can have a
catalytic role in effecting policy changes and mobilizing other resources.
The Bank is also expanding its support of the industrial sector through its
economic and sector work as well as selected projects in order to help
promote industrial policies which favor more labor-intensive and dispersed
activities to complement Thailand's efforts in poverty alleviation.
23.       Bank loans and IDA credits, disbursed and outstanding, amounted
to $584.3 million, as of December 31, 1979, representing about 22% of public
external debt (disbursed and outstanding). The Bank Group's share of
public debt service payments in 1979 was 23.1%, or 7.2% of total debt
service including private debt. This is not excessive in view of
Thailand's modest overall public external debt (9.7% of GDP in 1979). In
addition, although the level of Bank commitments is expected to increase
over the next five years, the Bank Group's share is belov 30% of total
public external debt as Thailand has diversified its borrowing program.
The Bank Group's share in total debt outstanding is expected to fall below
20%, and its share of total debt service would not exceed 10%.
24.       As of August 31, 1980, IFC had made commitments totalling about
$84 million in nine projects in Thailand. IFC's investments have been
primarily in industry and in the development of financial institutions aimed
at mobilizing domestic resources and providing financing to smaller
enterprises. Prospects for increased IFC operations in Thailand have been
enhanced by expanding private sector investment activity; consultations with
the Government have identified several areas where IFC's assistance may be
needed. These areas include very large and complex projects such as a
proposed sponge iron project and a soda ash project to serve the ASEAN
community; projects in the petroleum and downstream petrochemical sector;
and projects in the agricultural sector. In addition, IFC expects to
continue to help traditional manufacturing projects and to assist in
financial institutions and money market developments.



PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
25.       Despite rapid structural changes in the Thai economy, about
35 million people (or 80% of Thailand's population of 44 million) reside in
rural areas and depend primarily on agriculture for their livelihood. The
average annual income of a farm household nearly doubled between 1970 and
1976 to $950 p.a. due to the increased cropping area and the relatively high
prices for farm products. Despite this progress, about one third of the
rural population remains in absolute poverty, defined as a per capita income
of less than $90 p.a. The recent increase in agricultural employment (1.4%
p.a.) was, however, less than the increase in the rural labor force (3%
p.a.), resulting in substantial rural-urban migration. The national average
farm size may already be declining as rural population pressures grow.
26.       The recent growth in agriculture (5.7% p.a. in the 1960s and 4.6%
in the 1970s) is mainly attributable to the expansion of the area under culti-
vation. This overall sound performance has been due, in part, to vigorous
private sector and government investments in irrigation and roads. In 1979,
bowever, agricultural production declined by about 2% after achieving a 9%
growth rate in 1978. This decline and the general slowing of the growth rate
in agriculture reflect the fact that cropping intensity and crop yields have
changed little on a national basis in recent years: they are now signifi-
cantly lower than those achieved in other countries in the region. Rice has
become relatively less predominant in agricultural value added, but some
upland crops, particularly maize and cassava, have grown in importance.
These changes point to the need to improve and expand agricultural support
services, such as research, extension, credit and the supply of other inputs,
to achieve higher crop yields in irrigated and rainfed areas and to expand
rural nonfarm employment. Increasing land constraints and the importance of
maintaining high rates of agricultural growth make it essential to develop
appropriate sector policies and programs, and to improve development manage-
ment.
Government Policy and Development Strategy
27.       The Government is committed to developing programs that transfer
resources necessary to improve the incomes of the rural poor, and recognizes
that future agricultural growth must come from intensification rather than
opening up new lands. The Government is stressing the need for more equitable
income distribution between regions and socioeconomic groups, and improved
management of basic resources. Development strategy in the agriculture sector
is aimed at increasing the value added in agriculture by 5% p.a. through
intensification and diversification of production; limiting the rate of
deforestation; and integrating agricultural development through programs which
will facilitate improved irrigation, and the provision of credit, inputs and
extension services. Particular emphasis is being given to the establishment



- 10 -
of planning at the provincial level and expanding public services. Further
growth of the agriculture and rural sector will depend on progress made in
the areas described below.
28.        Constraints on Increased Land Productivity.  The lack of new land
suitable for cultivation means that increased agricultural production and
incomes must come from higher cropping intensities and crop yields from land
already under cultivation. If farmers are to adopt more intensive cultivation
practices, inputs such as fertilizers and improved seeds as well as support
services such as credit, extension and research, must be made more readily
available. In recent years, fertilizer has been in short supply in Thailand
and its price has been among the highest in Asia in relation to the value of
farm produce. Despite a rapid expansion in the aggregate amount of institu-
tional credit available to agriculture, small farmers continue to experience
difficulty in meeting their credit needs.  National extension services are
still in the process of being developed. Although new and improved technology
from research will contribute to intensification of agriculture and increased
production, it is essential that other agricultural inputs and advice are
available to the farmer and that the relationship between production costs
and market prices for farm products provides the necessary incentives to
maximize production.
29.       Government Institutions.  Thailand's ability to promote future
agricultural development is presently constrained by inadequate planning,
implementation and monitoring capacity, as well as by inefficient delivery of
supporting services. These constraints are partly due to the highly central-
ized nature of government administration, as well as functional duplication
and inadequate coordination among government agencies. The roles of various
agencies involved in development of the rural sector, including provincial
and district offices, need to be clearly defined.
30.       Rainfed Agriculture.  Rainfed agriculture, which predominates in
the North and Northeast, presents the most acute problems of poverty, low
yields, and natural resource degradation. Development of this subsector
will require substantial investments by the Government in: (a) road construc-
tion; (b) soil and water conservation works; (c) programs of applied research
and extension; and (d) land reform measures including the issuance of land
titles, which would provide farmers with security of tenure, collateral for
institutional credit, and the motivation to improve their farming practices.
Agricultural Research
31.       Agricultural research is carried out by several government agencies,
the main one being the Department of Agriculture (DOA) under the Ministry of
Agriculture and Cooperatives (MOAC).  The DOA's budget accoluts for 90% of
the expenditure for crop production research, but the department is also
involved in a broad range of basic and technical service research and regula-
tory functions. Its other research activities include investigations into



- 11 -
plant breeding, agricultural chemistry, soils, plant nutrition, plant protec-
tion, plant pathology and entomology. Responsibility for some commodity-
specific research (on tobacco, sugarcane and some spices) has been delegated
to other agencies. The only other agencies doing significant general crop
production research are the agricultural universities. Crop production
research conducted by the private sector is insignificant.
32.       The limited availability of new land suitable for agriculture, and
the need to shift to more intensive and diversified rainfed agriculture, has
made the Government aware of the need to expand and strengthen its agricul-
tural research programs. The proposed loan is a first step in this direction.
Bank Group Lending
33.       A primary aim of many recent Bank-assisted projects in Thailand,
e.g., for agricultural extension (Loan 1752-TH), agricultural credit (Loan
1816-TH), livestock development (Loan 1199-T-TH), rubber replanting (Loan
1243-TH), rural development (Cr. 929-TH and Loan 1198-T-TH), and irrigation
(Loan 1787-TH),has been to improve rural incomes by increasing agricultural
productivity and promoting the continued diversification of the agricultural
production base. Measures to strengthen the institutions and to expand the
infrastructure associated with agricultural and rural development have
featured prominently in this program. These projects, which are generally
progressing satisfactorily, have already had some impact on the improvement
of production techniques, the diversification of crops, the availability of
credit, and the development of rural infrastructure facilities. The
proposed loan would enhance and complement these efforts by supporting DOA's
research activities and helping to develop new and improved technology to
facilitate the intensification and diversification of agriculture
(particularly in rainfed areas). This would be the first agricultural
research project in Thailand supported by the Bank.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       The project was identified and prepared by the Government, the MOAC,
and the DOA, with assistance from the Bank; the report that served as the
basis for appraisal was completed in June 1979. The project was appraised
in November/December 1979. Negotiations were held in Washington from
September 8, 1980 to September 12, 1980, with the Thai delegation led by HE
Prok Amaranand, Thailand's Ambassador to the United States with Mr. Paderm
Titatarn, Director General of the Department of Agriculture, as the Deputy
Head. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2891-THL, dated September 22, 1980) is
being distributed separately. Supplementary project data are provided in
Annex III.



- 12 -
Project Objectives
35.       The overall objectives for the agricultural sector are to increase
crop production and yields, as well as the income of Thailand's rural popula-
tion. Because of the near exhaustion of new land suitable for cultivation,
other means of raising production, in particular intensification of
agriculture, are now being pursued. The strengthening of DOA-s crop
production research (for rice, rubber, horticulture crops, field crops,
sericulture and farming systems) and research support services would
facilitate this process. The project has thus been formulated with the
primary objectives of:
(a)  improving the DOA-s capacity and capability to implement
national agricultural research programs; and
(b)  devising and promoting relevant technology - by crop, farming
system and location - for dissemination to farmers through
the agricultural extension service.
36.       The project-s objectives would be achieved by:
(a)  strengthening the DOA, through an improved organization structure
that allows research along multi-disciplinary lines; decentralizing
research activities (from Bangkok to the regions) and instituting
a regular review mechanism, to ensure the relevance of research
to Thailand-s agricultural production and poverty reduction goals;
and rationalizing the entire research system for the purpose of
economy and efficiency;
(b)  manpower development, through staff training and the provision of
consultant services, to assure that the DOA has sufficient quali-
fied staff, especially at its field stations, to carry out
expanded research programs;
(c)  station development, to provide physical facilities and equipment,
so that several research stations, selected to form an appropriately
sized first phase development project, can function effectively; and
(d)  coordination, through the establishment of a national agricultural
research committee and coordinative and planning bodies at the
provincial level to improve linkages between research, extension,
provincial administrations and farmers.
Project Summary
37.       The project would provide for training of scientific manpower,
technical assistance, and upgrading of physical facilities, and would
include:



- 13 -
(a)  fellowships for 75 PhDs and 150 MScs, and training for
supporting staff;
(b)  14.5 man-years of consultants to assist with project
implementation and research programs;
(c)  civil works, equipment, vehicles and supplies for the
development and operation of 19 Research Centers, comprising:
(i)  site development and construction of laboratories,
offices, stores and housing;
(ii)  scientific equipment, vehicles, farm equipment,
and office and laboratory equipment;
(iii)  fertilizers, chemicals, laboratory and office
supplies, library supplies, seeds and planting
materials;
(d) operation of the 19 Research Centers; and
(e) supporting technical and administrative services at DOA's head-
quarters in Bangkhen (a suburb of Bangkok).
Strengthening and Reorganization of the DOA
38.       Crop production research has been the principal function of the DOA
since 1972 when it was merged with the Rice Department and responsibility for
extension activities was assigned to a separate Department of Agricultural
Extension (DAE). The DOA has 16 divisions and offices, currently organized
into five specialist commodity divisions (i.e., rice, rubber, field crops,
horticulture and sericulture) and 11 single discipline divisions (i.e., plant
pathology, entomology, chemistry, etc.). All DOA divisions and offices come
under the Director General and two Deputy Directors General (DDG), but the
latter have no clear delineation of responsibility at present. The
reorganization proposed under the project would strengthen DOA's management
by consolidating related activities under three DDGs with direct line
responsibility for research, administrative services and technical services,
respectively.
39.       Research Institutes.  Six research institutes would be established,
each with a Director. At present the only multi-disciplinary research
facility is the Rubber Research Center, which is widely recognized as the most
effective regional facility for crop production research in Thailand. It is
proposed to organize each research institute along similar lines as a multi-
disciplinary research management system to direct and coordinate research
activities of a number of centers and substations dealing with a particular



- 14 -
set of production problems. The six institutes will be: Rice; Rubber;
Horticulture; Field Crops (other than rice); Sericulture; and Farming
Systems. The focus of research operations would be moved from Bangkok and
concentrated at 19 research centers selected from the existing DOA network
of 85 stations on the basis of regional needs and coverage, as well as the
availability of land, amenities and other resources. These centers under
the institutes would be staffed with sufficient qualified scientists and
provided with adequate land, buildings and equipment to facilitate a
multidisciplinary task force approach to solving agricultural problems.
This would place scientists in closer and regular contact with extension
workers and farmers, making research more practical and responsive to their
needs. Regular training, demonstrations and field verification trials would
also be jointly conducted by research scientists and extension workers thus
promoting coordination between research and extension. The institute concept
would also provide the framework for future consolidation and improvement of
the agricultural research system and could, for example, permit the future
addition of a livestock institute or a soil and water institute, etc.
40.       The revised DOA organization plan, proposed in the appraisal report,
would be implemented within 12 months of the date of the Loan Agreement
(Section 4.11 of the draft Loan Agreement). The DDG Research and the
Project Implementation Coordinator have already been designated (and
attended negotiations). The Government would maintain qualified persons in
the positions of DDG Research and Project Implementation Coordinator
together with adequate supporting staff (Section 4.06 of the draft Loan
Agreement). The Bank would be advised of any changes in the appointment of
the DDG Research and Project Implementation Coordinator of the DOA.
41.       The project components for manpower and station development
(described in paras. 43 to 48 below) would concentrate staff, equipment and
facilities at selected Research Centers and substations; they would also
contribute to the strengthening of DOA's operations by decentralizing and
rationalizing the research system. It is envisaged that, over the longer
term, the pattern of Research Centers and substations established under the
project would become the model for the further improvement of the agricul-
tural research system. Decisions to strengthen other stations, some of which
are essentially seed multiplication and demonstration farms at present, would
be made in the context of rationalizing the entire agricultural research
system. A commission and consultants would be appointed by January 1, 1982,
to conduct a comprehensive review of all research activities undertaken in
the MOAC and make recommendations for the rationalization and further
improvement of the research system (Section 4.07(c) of the draft Loan
Agreement). These changes would help to assure the relevance of research
programs, as would DOA's regular evaluation and review procedures, and would
prepare the way for a second phase of research development at a later date.



- 15 -
Manpower Development
42.       Training.  The project would provide training programs and fellow-
ships for some of the additional 580 scientists needed to create multidiscip-
linary teams at the 19 Research Centers, as well as for other technical staff
at the Centers and DOA's headquarters. Annual training programs would be
submitted to the Bank for review by June 30 each year, commencing in 1981.
The project is designed as the first phase of developing a critical mass of
manpower and physical resources at each of the Centers, so that they can
effectively serve the substations in their respective regions and make
agricultural research more responsive to farmers needs. An eight-year
project implementation period is necessary to provide continuous funding, and
to permit realistic phasing, of training activities.
43.       Fellowships would be granted on the understanding that, upon
completion, the recipient would accept a long-term regular assignment at one
of the Centers or an appropriate substation. A program planning and budgeting
system would be established to enable DOA to manage and control its research
operations and staff by program and by location, thus reversing the present
concentration of scientific staff at DOA's Bangkhen headquarters (Section 4.09
of the draft Loan Agreement). The Government is already committed to
introducing improvements in the terms and conditions of employment of research
scientists on a continuing basis to provide the necessary incentive for
scientific staff to accept and carry out field assignments (Section 4.07(a) of
the draft Loan Agreement). The Government will appoint a commission and
consultants by January 1, 1982 to review and recommend further improvements
in the working terms and conditions of employment for agricultural research
scientists (Section 4.07(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
44.       Staff Expansion and Reassignment.  Currently about two-thirds of
DOA's 848 scientific staff are stationed at headquarters and 110 (37%) of the
remaining 297 scientists are assigned to the stations that would be developed
as Research Centers under the project. The number of research scientists at
the Centers with post-graduate qualifications would rise from 35 to 320
during the life of the project. Scientific staff (graduate level) at the 19
Centers would increase sevenfold to about 740 at full development. Some
15-20% of these posts would be filled by transferring existing staff from
headquarters.
Station Development
45.       Civil Works.  In addition to land already owned by the Government
at Phuket and Kanthuli required for coconut research, the Government will
acquire and make available such additional land as may be needed for the
purposes of the project (Section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). At the 19
Centers, sites would be developed and research laboratories, offices, housing,
special research buildings and utility buildings constructed. Local
consultants, assisted by the Station Development Adviser, would prepare site
development plans, schematic designs and detailed drawings.



- 16 -
46.       Vehicles and Farm Equipment.  The project would provide one
passenger vehicle for each 8.5 scientific staff at the 19 Centers; utility
vehicles would also be provided at each Center. An average of two tractors
and associated equipment would be purchased for each Center during the project
period.
47.       Scientific Equipment.  The project would provide scientific equip-
ment for the 19 Centers and for some supporting activities at headquarters.
The investment in-laboratory and office equipment would average about $8,500
per scientist. Physical implementation would be largely completed in year 5
of the project; however, provision has been made for about 15% of equipment to
be purchased in the sixth year, so that the scientists returning from the
fellowship program can have some input in the selection of equipment.
Coordination
48.       An Agricultural Research Committee (chaired by the IJnder Secretary
of State, MOAC) would be established to guide research policy and review
research programs and projects, which would ensure their conformity with
national policies and priorities. It is envisaged that a more broadly based
permanent Agricultural Research Council would be created to replace the
National Agricultural Research Committee after the research rationalization
review has been completed (Section 4.07(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). The
Agricultural Research Council, which might include private sector
representatives, would be responsible for national agricultural research
policy and the coordination of agricultural research. It would be established
under the MOAC, but would supplement the National Research Council, which is
the national science policy and advisory body for the Prime Minister's Office
and is now under the new Ministry of Science, Technology and Energy. To
strengthen linkages at the provincial level between research and extension,
local administrators and farmers, responsibility for the coordination of
research would be assumed by existing Provincial Agricultural Extension
Coordinating Committees and Technical Advisory Panels (Section 4.08 of the
draft Loan Agreement). The staff of these bodies would expand and intensify
their efforts to disseminate research findings, provide technical advice, and
keep research scientists informed about farmers' problems and reactions to
new and improved technology.
Consultants
49.       The project would provide about 14.5 man-years of consultant ser-
vices (including short-term consultants) to assist with the implementation of
research programs and the project, and train local scientists. These services
would include long-term advisers (i.e., a Research Program Planning Adviser,
a Finance and Administration Adviser and a Station Development Adviser)
and short-term specialists for research program planning, monitoring and
evaluation, periodic research program reviews, research rationalization and



- 17 -
career development studies, joint university research, and architectural and
engineering services. Consultancies provided under the project would
complement other bilateral and multilateral assistance programs.
Project Implementation
50.       The DOA would be the implementing agency for all project activities.
The project would be managed by the DDG for Research, with the assistance of
the Project Implementation Coordinator and the DDGs for technical and
administrative services. The Project Implementation Coordinator, assisted by
supporting staff assigned to the relevant administrative divisions and
units, would prepare and maintain project implementation plans, periodic
reports, project accounts and financial statements, and procurement
documentation. During the first years of the project, the DOA would engage
consultants to assist with research program planning, station development,
and administration and finance. Monitoring and evaluation of agricultural
research, as well as the adaptation of appropriate technology, would become
a regular activity of the DOA. This system for monitoring and evaluation
would be supported by periodic internal and external (assisted by renowned
international scientists) research program reviews under the project
(Section 4.10 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
51.       The total project cost is estimated at about $91.5 million, of
which about 36% would be in foreign exchange. This cost includes physical
contingencies of 15% for civil works and 10% for equipment and supplies, and
price contingencies of about 50% of base costs. Capital costs are estimated
to be about 47% of the total base cost, technical assistance and fellowships
12%, and incremental operating costs 41% (based on October 1980 prices).
The average direct cost for internationally recruited consultants is
estimated to be $6,750 per man-month, and a total cost (including local
allowances) of about $8,000 per man-month; the cost of local consultants is
estimated to be $3,500 per man-month. The maximum cost of long-term
consultants is not expected to exceed $10,000 per man-month and short-term
consultants would not exceed $12,000 per man-month. Taxes represent about
$6.8 million or about 8.0% of the project cost, although some categories of
expenditure would be tax exempt. The proposed Bank loan of $30 million
would finance about 33% of project costs, exclusive of taxes, of which $19
million would be foreign exchange and $11 million would be used for local
costs. A loan of $15 million from the International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD) would finance about 16% of the project cost and the
Australian Government would provide about $2.0 million for technical
services; the Thai Government would provide the remaining $44.5 million, of
which about 67% would be used to meet operating costs.



- 18 -
Procurement
52.       Contracts for civil works (estimated to cost $25.0 million) would
generally be small and scattered in time and place and are not likely to be
of interest to international contractors. Contracts estimated to exceed
$500,000 (essentially facilities at two centers: for horticulture, $2.25
million, and for rice, $1.5 million) would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines.
All other civil works contracts would be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding in accordance with government procedures satisfactory
to the Bank.
53.       Contracts for equipment (other than scientific equipment), goods and
supplies (costing about $23.0 million) estimated to exceed $150,000 would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank Group Guidelines. A preference margin of 15% of the c.i.f. price of
imported goods or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower, would be
allowed to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids (Schedule 4 of the
draft Loan Agreement). All other contracts for equipment, goods and supplies
would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with
government procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Materials such as fertilizers
and chemicals (estimated to cost $3.0 million) would be purchased in small
quantities and numerous mixes and would not be of interest to international
suppliers; thus fertilizers and chemicals would be purchased on the basis of
local competitive bidding in accordance with government procedures satisfac-
tory to the Bank. Specialized scientific equipment would not be appropriate
for international competitive bidding and would be procured by local and
international prudent shopping (to a total value not exceeding $2.0 million).
In order to provide flexibility for the purchase of small items (urgent
requirements and miscellaneous consumable supplies) prudent shopping, with a
minimum of three quotations (if possible), would be applied for items costing
$15,000 or less, but not exceeding $1.5 million in aggregate.
Disbursements
54.       The Bank loan of $30 million and the IFAD loan of $15 million would
be apportioned two-thirds and one-third against withdrawal applications and
would be made at the rate of 100% of the cost of technical services; 85% of
the cost of civil works; and 100% of the foreign exchange costs, 100% of the
local ex-factory costs, or 65% of the total cost of vehicles, farm equipment,
scientific equipment, and research and office supplies. Since it is expected
that there will be numerous small expenditures in local currency for
laboratory equipment, materials, vehicles, and possibly civil works contracts,
the statement of expenditures procedure will be used for disbursements against
purchase of individual items and contracts valued at less than $25,000.
Retroactive financing of about $0.50 million is recommended to cover eligible
expenditures incurred on engineering, architectural or other consultant
services since June 1980. Disbursements are expected to be completed by
June 30, 1987.



- 19 -
Accounts and Audits
55.       DOA will establish separate project accounts which would be audited
by auditors satisfactory to the Bank. These audited accounts, and related
financial statements, would be submitted to the Bank within nine months of
the end of the Thai fiscal year.
Benefits and Justification
56.       Thailand has considerable potential for increasing yields, cropping
intensity and net farm incomes in the agricultural sector. Since 1960, the
major source of economic growth in agriculture has been through expansion of
the cultivated area, while in rainfed agriculture yields have stagnated or
even declined. Agricultural research will directly contribute to future
improvements in crop diversification and intensity by promoting the
development and adaptation of appropriate technology. This would contribute
to higher yields and incomes in the agricultural sector.
57.       As in other Bank-assisted agricultural research projects, no
attempt has been made to determine the economic rate of return, due to:
(a) inherent uncertainties regarding the timing and value of
research findings, and of their adoption by farmers;
(b) difficulty in ascribing potential benefits to research vis-a-vis
complementary investments in agricultural infrastructure and
support services (e.g., irrigation, extension, credit);
(c) the problem of assessing the value of ongoing research vis-a-vis
individual research programs, such as those assisted by project
consultants and scientists, which add to the pool of knowledge and
frequently benefit subsequent research efforts; and
(d) the fact that the proposed project, which emphasizes manpower
development and improved organization of agricultural research,
would only be part of a larger research effort producing long-
term, but analytically inseparable, benefits.
58.       A hypothetical rate of return calculation would depend largely on
improvements in the organization and management of research activities; on the
development of highly trained and experienced scientific manpower; and on the
time that elapses before expenditure of resources produces tangible results.
Also, to ensure that new technology is adopted by farmers, appropriate
government pricing and credit policies would have to be implemented. Research
cannot be considered as a fixed term or short-term enterprise: it is, rather,
a continuously evolving activity. However, an ex post analysis of research



- 20 -
programs in both developed and developing countries has shown that economic
rates of return on investments in research are frequently in excess of 40% and
seldom fall below 20%./l
Environmental Effects
59.       DOA-s research programs and other services would help to preserve
the environment. Research initiated during the project period would
emphasize soil and moisture conservation, biological control of pests and
diseases, and regulation and control of the use of fertilizers and chemicals.
Risks
60.       Risks under the project are that:  (a) research programs and DOA's
new organization might not be responsive to farmers needs; (b) farmers might
be reluctant to accept research findings, and adoption of new and improved
technology might be slow; and (c) the agricultural pricing policy and the
availability of inputs might be inappropriate for the adoption of this new
technology.
62.       The proposed reorganization of research activities, as well as the
attention given to complementary services, would minimize these risks under
the proposed project. The project provides for the decentralization of
research from Bangkok and the development of research capacity and
capability (manpower and facilities) at regional centers, so that research
is carried out close to farmers and their land. Research programs and
projects would be strengthened and expanded as manpower and facilities are
upgraded; emphasis would be placed on applied research and on-farm
demonstrations. Agricultural extension has already been intensified under
the two Bank-assisted National Agricultural Extension Projects, and the
proposed project would now strengthen linkages and coordination with
agricultural extension agencies and provide improved technology for
extension. The Government has taken measures to assure the supply, and
encourage the application, of improved seeds and fertilizers through the
extension service and the provision of credit. The Bank, as part of its
agricultural sector work, will continue to assist the Government in the
formation of pricing policies that provide adequate incentive for farmers
to adopt improved technology and farming practices.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed separately.
/1 The World Bank and Agricultural Research Systems in Developing Countries
(Bank policy paper), January 10, 1980.



- 21 -
63.       In addition to the features of the draft Loan Agreement which are
referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III, the
following features are of particular interest:
(a) Additional events of suspension include (Section 6.01(a)
of the draft Loan Agreement):
(i)  the suspension, cancellation or termination of
the Borrower-s right to withdraw funds provided
under the IFAD loan;
(ii)  the acceleration of the IFAD loan; and
(iii)  the failure of the Borrower to have made satisfactory
arrangements by December 31, 1981, to secure at least
$2 million from the Australian Government or else-
where to finance essential technical service components.
(b) An additional condition of effectiveness is the effectiveness of
of the IFAD loan agreement (Section 7.01 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
November 6, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 22 -                                                        ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TEAILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TRAILAND                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED A VAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                            -  MOST RECENT  STINATE  a
TOTAL             514.0
AGRICULTURAL      179.6                                 MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 LB ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  100.0        210.0     490.0                 894.8                   1384.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       64.0       247.0      327.0                842.4                   1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      26.4         35.7      44.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 12.5          13.2      14.1                  39.1                     63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        68.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         103.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2095
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        51.0        69.0       88.0                376.1                     28.1
PER Sq. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    204.0        251.0      251.0               2350.4                     81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.7        46.2       43.4                 40.4                     41.4
15-64 YRS.                          52.6        50.8       53.6                 56.2                     54.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.7         3.0        3.0                  3.4                      3.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.8          3.0       2.7                   2.4                      2.7
URBAN                               4.6         3.7        3.6                  4.1                      4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      46.0         44.0      32.0                  28.7                     34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      17.0         12.0       8.0                   7.9                      8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION EATE                ..          3.2       2.2                   1.9                      2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..       203.O0   644.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          27.4       40.0                 39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           92.0       100.0      134.0                116.9                    106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQLuIREMENTS)                   96.0       103.0      105.OLd              108.9                    107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           43.0        50.0       49.0/d               60.3                     65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        10.0        15.0       14.0/d               18.8                     33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      15.0          9.0       6.0                   5.3                      8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    51.0         57.0       61.0                  63.0                    63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              *-        86.0/e    68.0                   52.8                    66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POFULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         17.0      22.0                 42.4                     65.9
URBAN                                ..           ..      49.0                 62.1                     80.4
RURAL                                ..           ..      12.0                  29.7                    44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         17.0      40.0                 52.8                     62.3
URBAN                                ..        65.0       58.0                  71.1                    79.4
RURAL                                ..         8.0       36.0                 42.4                     29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           7800.0      8420.0    8169.0                4120.1                   1849.2
POFULATION PER NURSING PERSON      4900.0      3340.0    3542.0                2213.6                   1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1351.0/f     880.0      816.0                819.4                    480.3
URBAN                                ..       350.0
RURAL                                ..      1136.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        31.0       33.0                 28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF SOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.5/f       5.8        5.5
URBAN                               5.3/f       5.9        5.5
RURAL                               5.6/f       5.8        5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..       2.4
URBAN                                ..           ..       2.2
RURAL                                ..           ..       2.4
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN               -                ..        63(.0         ..
RURAL                                ..        13.0



- 23 -                                                       ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
THAILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
THAILAND                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MPST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  83.0        81.0       83.0                   98.6                     99.7
MALE                  88.0         85.0      86.0                   99.2                     101.0
FEMALE                79.0         77.0      79.0                   97.7                     99.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  13.0        17.0       27.0                   55.5                     34.4
MALE                  16.0         20.0      28.0                   60.7                      33.5
FEMALE                10.0         14.0      20.0                   49.9                     34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)    19.0           24.0      13.0                   13.7                      38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             36.0        35.0       30.0                   34.6                     30.5
SECONDARY                           20.0        16.0       21.0                   28.5                     14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         68.0         79.0      84.0                   85.8                      76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.0         5.0        6.4                    9.0                     43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           6.0        78.0      131.0                  118.9                    245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.3         7.0       18.0                   39.4                     84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   11.0        24.0         ..                     ..                     63.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..       1.7                    4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    13529.2       16658.8   20985.6
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   48.3         47.3       47.0                   36.8                     22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               83.7        79.9       77.0                   51.9                     37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  4.4          6.0        8.0                   21.9                     23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 51.3        46.6       45.6                   39.1                     31.5
MALE                                  52.7         49.3      48.6                   48.5                     48.9
FEMALE                                49.8        43.9       42.6                   29.6                     14.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.9          1.1       1.0                    1.1                       1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
NIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   21.8/h        23.8/i    14.O0.
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  50.9/h        49.7/i    42.2/.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.2/h         6.1/i      7. 6..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.9/h        15.9/i    19.1l1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      159.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      106.0                  192.1                    190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      115.0                     ..                    474.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      110.0                  182.5                    332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..       15.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..       34.0                   33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Government program only; /d 1976; /e 1964-65; /f 1962; I& Percent of population in Bangkok metropolitan
area; /h 1962-63; /i 1968; /i Preliminary data for 1975-76; due to lack of data on national basis, the
methodology for aggregating the available regional data overstates incomes of low income groups and under-
states incomes of higher income groups. Thus, this data is not suitable for any analytical comparisons.
April, 1980



-..d.~~~~~~~~~ -TlT  P- 'T.xj~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~00097000 011T- 90 00-3 0-6
6667 '76109                   '            000010'00030  0    -:07700 070901-00000.d-
00  940  9u0700 '022P1~ 077099   020076                      00000 -000700          qAoo '.  Ouldooo;o7o~o010    o   o
00701000  000 79311  009 1700:0                  -0) 7oo'ooo7oo 0  u0.7000100 u006030 ool:oool    70001
p T. T...01000109000   72T-                      0   00711 7T 00- o'o-        ::AT   2 0. : ?-P
90197   -0)00000000                7101000u   0000
II;4- .d Is-...  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TT0   070770d0
*,,:009017099  909007790200900  0)070970  10000002-00)09           901A0;          10 -00ou      -Oo    -ouPOoopOo:
099000- 7009000)  000'7  10010   ..2900   I700019   01100 1001                  7090  9179 30 0       ...... 00 o;Ioo91-. p     -76.-  71_0  000
ooquo 01- T0:1300:6>723 900p00109                                      90   91  01   9000o  09-7 1090090001177    0690                           P0
1010 99109  900990100070917'0   ou, 90O30000011700901      0902.004000    Y.00    00-          :  00001 -19 10,0
00100 06 900909 0  9110-00 9  '7007  0001 O0ouo  000919  0000  0100  too. oqoo090   'oo~or0o0oo 6:do    070  :0   ulopo,
-  02000 900 99.90-d 69909  n0 T. 00   000000201071  P09903                                (70
q.T. 49 v..T ... g - ( _P-TA0:909910  '90;090099                                                          :o:ouoA00370:_000
390001W  9900  079079:9  900010J.090700.10000        2P:uo   0000-70,                       0    00    ~o        70070d70P0 *0000 7 00                  -
- 70002 99 00000    7907010*1 0077 1097 9010j Oo ....  ..104  *096 20      P                                               7004 0077 9-11109041  060- I70* -~
-TI.. v, F-    -T, A               .       9000  011000400            00  00  opo  ou;o  3  9004  790i07 -a-1009-0' 007'7 13717)"I
T;                                   SLST P       6t~~~'9070030      *;7o   4    0094p   990                    00  66   0  06   7071190
-j-dpil-I                                     PTu -~~~~~~~~l -, "g Aq  ~~~~~~ ... d-4 'pT-00 0000000...'
ooos  07ubd plo    ntsO0   9:000000  7094:'0o020__
0906012 09 6001900  - (polo 909 ~99007 9009) 9P--7 9-0700 p- 209109000
6o0::o01~6r7 0140761         '0:99  0:67.A  j*0 07*  '0079099  -3         - 01 P- 0   0091010
'"-p sLil PA- OL61 '094   .-A.;     1- 2-14-33            ~            ~             '9~0067909 6      1  0-T907  Oouoo  u0-      700
'90*9 9161 900 0661  opoopoit 'up o;)oood 006.7 Og 101600719099 001:001-0: 1-140; u07900:P.
'0720000901  9900 3.19909296 969100p00091    13  - 0090090  99969    99. .p9lo.  Opog 9uoo9;o Fo 0ooP..opouo  o::opooTo  o-oo: 9- OApR
'99   01,13   900   0  99610600.0 I00 9'T*u-   091d-                     003df 9909049  000  0000_
999 606  '19611979906040 10 909 9961000  990179001 909111930     -9240900  'u1001001919 0  90990  900 'ppp990022 900  00 900 000300011.
'090  90099009 'S010~90O09 100*01069 07'S 99607dm"-*-999000   P--0    ipt . 3 St90709 9*1096 99770   90   701099090  0   9000
902  091290  -  909o_0o0  09009901  001000200
-q-~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~900*p  00                                               '0)96 0 06 6-916o699 02 000090917079
190900 919:60  00 90999999  0099J01 0993  00 loOop  00990001              00999 "0420010 'A'          .",  000000000079          *00,700 --90'
30009091000909  -090  9  9997  9  9990*09  90099903        00  0100'9.  9102:01109  99970300   :70  090-0  9010
_-0766-p~. I090069  p91*909 A',.do.o   09011          I999  0119P. 40 -107            7919 904149  od p0 19901 - 70671-76-631   007:0070;     01  3000010-               :
107100  9990909101    7019109  90901  9)9101029 _991607107   07'04
>00909  090909   01 jO 000000W19   090            ..90'                                                                                                      awl9190000
01910019900109901lOp994 p09000  29  0991790.                                                                                      doo   l 99   1000   9000 d
0719900090099   0-791901   9999   0)99900                                       9900)  010-99   9000709   -7   *   00099107   00
.1    'v.  A.   VI-           '1M9900  9990009910000                         090900019900000  -  919   90093   9096997-09193110
09900099490690   9  19  09  9996109920909)  oo3;901  ~  s.ooudlossl   6'o.   19.1-9 30j T91990909109   000-:7 'I0
90  099  00002999-0T.99   69999200   1  0009  90909                                    .ood.oo 1p  949_l90009 - _90-P02  7910  '91066001   -  0017  009
-970990100  00999009  3099*0099  96  1796  .0992  99990900          '1   99  '007'96  9   91T99900 II )991 ldI-9113 0-7-09  799090 207110
9900003909199090 3   994007'     .067409909009990)0)6                                 -093 07)70909_-  I--09   092  9,0199    0 p--    911090 9009)09  790010
00701090 60901799   01 0969 71~~~~'041  '09000 - 999919   90099092A0-      90  090900p  90
901609970907                                             '909* 971 P-- 'D670  '1961  01900
'97069  29R049000                                           00061 90- '0040961 '*606 09Z         900 119710:0
IRA3 010009    0  0990   o9999  099  021)900-W-99902P9704                           -9IT  990.  99 9969  gOuo  T.,"0  -   70    il-71900I)  90900000713
07 997006  900909919001- 0499039... '00900-009   9090709P99   666  909'067 '0761 1007007
90100990  1001901-700909 JM           699)   m706    190190                                                                                             '050o
'997099991900019  23909  1   90607-997:0100009*99
0190091909  96 99009490  - 00n4 P.. 91-  '7900  - 700909 049990099                                                                       '99099   9999007
90909  90979  '79900-, 00..0  - 979   )69 970  '7t          - 706090990               019in   9909. '9_ 009090900700  30 70097 0f_71-   9
009099 09097*9201 990~'6W  09 .~t'.9  99990  107101  1919   41'. 9910110  97  *-v 900900  9019
906~76~  "1 0000699*9w991997  999 '9191 9999  9_7  00 090  9999   11   9
.2."TW   T.-   PRI99999001  0  990900907994400700900)-  00 -110000P700
.9.1 d    -qA-S'07.ooo96flO  .0001.9 690090  '99919  1009                                                        9*00907002   0   poo   0709   0
-00199099 - 790090   09*0'R 00  - 90004'090   O  990  99001                     -199  9199 x     99203  992-0  99192 099700.9  lOp90R            -J 010000
'9no196190090979  00  70..  60  990-.         '9999  6o991- Ir79o    I0 60779009099  p090 91  99_       q 0010701:00
V100A9'091'90  -71999  09  01990 -909900  30.,P9990                                                               99  977 9.- '0007t '7967 79910000...       0
'909300-.0 990 Oq 90*19 979070009 0003                                                                                           9099p
9 990~0  9090099909000  06909 -07  990  00990 ('09  93 P9 '900                  961 909 'C691 '0967 799109   9  09970970  30  99*0 73  17:0
-90                                                                                                                                           '9999qI-:A. Adv -   -A%jT.4..  607  00 067
999 111690  909991094   )1919 9999..9946 P-9 09790  0*  76919               '99T 6(91999 27-97617 99971090A 91000 99 P000  09900 49   9*99
'19900  001910400 -090     ("9000  700  -q P90 j 19110  00  09990
'9909  00999  99  9600  90002   '11.99000092   9,09  929 p0                     '909  -0167 10079  A911  00199)9   69001 990900-                   o 9  '9000  00&
0009196  0  900  6  9919  00_10900           P,099  09-190, 900990                 7099o02   72039   99  99700609I~00000-12719
'717  09000  0   000   9070     0   91:700971-'009.997199  99  07109000   909930-907-T90
-4o  90000,d  0  0090  0  00609  ooOloOo    09090000007970920 9919  0911007976  7*9
90790 0771 *7290000 20  00090 100009 99*929039097  ':94900   00009..990 .00009  1. 170999909.    900  00)9090' -20-1  000 9709-09
I  X~~~~~~~~~~~~~RNVAI                                                                                        .lI-- 



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Paee 4 of 5
CCOlT0 C  MSVflfIflT f A M     St!T
Actool                                                "2otacoe                             Growh oto-s  121                  193she
1965       1970         16        1977        1978 jj      1979        1980        1985      1965-77      1977-79    1979-85    1985-90      of GOP (03
A. Nttonal Accorrs
(eLIll.o  2S$ - 1975 prIest)
L.  Gross dlosa     poodoot          6,043.8   10,323.0   15,712.6   16,685.5    10,038.9    19,395.2   20,892.9   29,256.7             7.7          7.8        7.1          7.0       109.8
2.  GoOns fro. ter-s of trod.          -4.3         42.8     -507.7      -978.1      1,108.9     1,238.4   -1,473.0  -1,962.8                                                            -3.2
3.  Gro.o do-cot  b.oo-              6,799.5   10,365.8   13,204.9   15,707.4    17,030.0    18,156.8   19,219.9   27,293.9             7.2          7.5        7.0          7.0        96.8
4.  i.port                            1,659.9    2.99.8    3,699.1    4,460.8       4.89.8     5,082.6    5,440.4    7,507.8          8.6          6.7        6.7          6.0         23.5
5. fmports  -volue                  -1,593.2   -2,274.8   -3,008.4   -4,506.9    -5 157.9   -5.077.4    5,512.1  4,4D4.3               9.1          6.1        0.0          8.7        24.2
6.  Fiports   sdjeotsd for TOT      -1,548.9   -2,317.5   -3,300.7   -3,528.8   -4,048.9   -3,839.0   .,039.1   -6.081.5                7.1          4.3        8.0          0.0         21.0
7.  tosoorro S-P - odFO5Ood
for TOT                          110.0       671.9      398.4       932.1       047.9    -1,243o0   -1.401.3   -1.489.3                                                            2.5
8.  Tor.l oo-uoeptboo                5,302.3    8,007.2   11,709.3   12,373.3    13,062.6    14,213.4   15,090.4   20,721.2             7.3          7.2        6.5          6.1        74.5
9.  Ioesotwest                       1,608.2    3,030.6    3,893.8    4,269.2       4,815.3      5,107.2    5,330.8    8,062.0          8.5         10.2        7.6          7.5        24.0
IS.  Oottoo-l  -o1v6l                 1,576.4    2,500.0    3,477.7    3,312.5       3,908.1      3,901.5    4,011.1    6,125.8          6.4          8.5        7.8          9.6        22.1
11.  Doesol oelbogs  djstod
a  for TGT                     1,497.2    2,358.7    3.495.5    3,337.1       3,967.4      3.943 4    4,129.5    6,572.7         6.9          8.7         9.9         9.3         22.2
12. CDP ot correot 053                4,052.9    6,543.3   16,284.3   18,156.9    21,88l.0    25214.1   29,590.9   59,776.6             13.3        17.0        15.5         13.8
b. Se-tor Oottot
(Sh-re of GCP)
1.  AgLeo-lt-rs                        0.391       0.386      0.301       0.281        0.271       0.264       0.258      0.229
2   lodoorry                           0.208       0.227      0.269       0.288       0.299        0.304       0.309      0.335
5.  SFrvlos                            0.401       0.427      0.430       0.431       0.430        0.432      0.432       0.437
C. Prtcs. (1975 - 100)
1.  ifport pri.r  id.,                 4  6.43    48.04       91.65      89.35        96.55       111.65     125.04      171.40         5.6        12.7         7.2         5.1
2.  7mport prit  lodsx                 427.76      47.15     103.75      114.12      123.05       147.66      169.01     226.7Z         7.5         6.7         6.1          5.0
3. Torn of trod. iSda                  97.22      101.86      86.67       58.30       76.50        75.61       75.64      75.60        -1.1         5.5         1.1         0.1
4.  GSP dsflotor 1053S                 59.22       63.39     103.64      108.82      114.07       130.00     143.00      204.32         5.2         6.0         7.1          6.0
5. A-oul ov-ra-g   ohooSge rot.       20.80       20.80      20.40       20.40       20.39
0. So1-trd odloros                                   1965-77    1977-79    197945        1985-90
1.  ICIL                                           3.56       3.32        3.80        3.97
2.  Import sIostlelty                               1.99       0.87        0.95        0.92
3.  Overoge rotbool aL vylor  rats                  0.34       0.21        0.21        0.24
4.  Mtrglool ot o.o.l f-s,n  rat.                   0.18       0.12        0.23        0.28
5.  Imports/SOP                                     0.27       0.26        0.26        0.26
6.  btvestmmtr/GDP                                  0.27       0.26        0.27        0.28
7.  Ossoor.s S-P/GDP                                0.04       0.06        0.05        0.03
V 2.w  dded /b                        Lb-or forts I                         V.A. e -er or-- /b /-
0. imoro.t  Lb-or Fort.  nd P-od-ttvory 1s 1975                 S$ MOilli..                 I           KillIon       X                                 X of o-eres
1.  Aerttoltor-                                               4.559       31.3                     13.4       75.7                           340       41.5
2.  Irdot"ry                                                  4,462        30.4                     1.4         7.9                        3,170      336.7
3.  Servloto35,588                                                         30.3                     2.9       16.4                         1,950      235.4
T-1lo-ro                                             14.389      100.0                     17.7      100.0                          020       100.0
F. Public Ftooe It of GOP) (Cetr-ol Gor-ro--t)          1963       1970        1974         1975       1976        1977 /e    1979
1.  Carnt reosnot                                   13.5       13.8        14.5        13.6        13.4       14.0        11.6
2.  Too r voe                                       12.3       12.5        13.5        12.0        12.1       12.9        13.6
3.  Currt nop-odi.tess                              10.5       12.6        10.7        12.1        13.0       12.8        13.2
4.  Sdgst-ry e-voogs                                 2.9        1.2         3.7         1.5         3.4        1.2         1.4
5. Total p.bll. iovtst-,                             6.5        7.7         3.0         6.9         5.3        5.4         5.3
C. Pool leports ICorreot  I03 t     ..ll.ota            65.0      112.0       629.6        711.7      033.7       923.0    1.114.0
It of total lororts Iool. bPS1                        6.3        8.0        18.4        20.0       21.1        19.7        19.1
/'  Prsl kelsory.
/1L At outrpot earket prloes.
fl fotleoto.



ANNEX I
- 26 -                                                                     Page 5 of 5
BALANCE (F PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE. DEBT AND CREDlTCRTHENESS
(Current USE milions)
1973      1974      1975      1976      1977       197SL/    1979         1980       1985       1990
loenuary of Saloon. of Payt ents
Eatporrn (including BFS)                                 2,084.7  3,025.4  2,796.5  1,490.6  4,029.3   4,930.7   6,300.0    7,660.0  12,835.0  24,967.7
Imports (including NFS)                                  2,258.3  3,333.2  3,487.3  3,911.9  5,093.8   5,919.2   8,140.0   9,460.0  13,904.5  24,650.4
Resource blance                                          -173.6   -327.8   -609.8   -421.3 -1 064.4    -989.2  -1,840.0    1,800.0  -1,069.5               317.3
Not factor  -croI.e Inco.e                                 -20.8      -0.7        5.4    -41.6    -72.5    -154.5    -210.0    -300.0    -925.0  -1,412.5
Net interet psyents                                        7.0      36.0      69.0      26.1      -4.0      -69.4    -100.0    -210.0    -766.9  -1,170.7
iCf tclh on pbblic 214 LT  oon-                       -25.1    -28.1    -34.5    -44.3    -64.5    -101.8    -133.1    -174.5    -487.1    -882.0
Direct inve -troct Income                                -28.0    -37.0    -64.0    -66.1    -68.5          -72.8       -75.5      -80.0    -192.5    -290.0
Workers renit tanner (nei                                  0.2       0.0  0.0            0 .0      0.0         0 0       22.9       24.5       34.4       48.2
Current transfern  (net)                                   145.5         241.0   80.1      22.8      39.3       40.4       60.0        80.0      1ff-I      110.0
Oslonor on currnth 0cc oont                                -48.9    -87.5   -605.3   -440.0 -1,097.6  -1,103.4  -1,990.0  -2,020.0  -1,894.5    -985.1
Pniv-tr direct ircest-ert                                   67.0    135.6       85.5      79.1    106.1         50.0       60.0       75.0      276.3       487.0
Gr-ctn 4 grant-lIle flcta                                    0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0 0°0                0.0        .0°
Ouhl.ic 57 & LT7 lroan
Sisbur.e.en.s                                             69.0      95.9    149.2    241.7    362.6         739.5       900.0    1,010.8    1,960.4   2,697.6
Arnartisstlu                                             -28.8    -32.3    -38.7    -43.4    -87.8          -90.7    -164.1    -222.1        -620.1  -1,092.7
Sot dis-ursemenis                                         39.2      63.5     110.5    198.3    274.8        648.8       735.9      788.7   1,340.3   1,604.9
Other i 6& LT lon.
Disbur-nnenno                                            170.9    326.2    299.6    279.7    311.8          501.3      900.0   1,150.0   1,393.f         462.2
A-orti.ti.on                                            -223.1   -197.2   -235.1   -245.9   -264.2    -467.2           -520.0    -600.0    -850.6  -1.167.8
Net disa urseoeo                                         -44.2    129.3       64.5      33.8      47.6        34.1      380.0      550.0      542.4    -705.6
Use co IHP resources                                          0.0       0.0       0.0      77.1       1.8      181.4      200.0      2a0.0      -30.0         0.0
Shari-tern capitol trans.c-ios                             42.0      55.5    127.5      136.2    256.2         84.0      120.0      230.0      100.1      252.6
Capitas  tr-no-ctio-s MEI                                   57.9      96.3      77.2    -11.4       136.2    -371.9         0.0        00.0         .0        0.0
Change in reserves (- - iccrcasr(                         -113.2   -392.7      140.1     -730    275.0        476.9       494.1      176.3    _414.8    -654.5
Net foreign e-cha-ge --esever /b
(end of prliod)                                       1,306.0  1,599.0  1,406.0  1,444.0  1,135.8           659.9      166.0        10.0   2,634.5   5,320.9
Grant sod I.o. Corciteents
Official greats                                              0.3       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total public 51 & LT lcaun                                  87.1    436.5    223.4       372.3    633.0   1,220.0
IBR0D                                                     15.      142.0      95.0     158.0    137.8       256.0
ID                                                       25.3       7.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       33.1
Othcr roltilant-nl                                         6.4      77.2      62.7      92.1      47.0      194.7
Goveraneoto                                               24.0    200.5       47.7      22.2    106.4       312.0
Of thich ctn-rully planned e-cocl-es L'                  0.2       0.0       0. a      0.0        .0        0 .0
Suppli-e                                                   0.2       00        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
fina-cial ia-titutions                                    16.7       9.7      18.0    100.0    341.9        423.7
Other d 4 LT lana  n-here avollble)                       178.9    415.9    392.5    360.2    348.9           531.8
Memorenduo  Item
Granct  len1nt of total c- enitn  It)                     44.600   31.400   16.700   11.500   10.200         14.869
Average interest 1%)                                       0.044     0.057    0.076      0.081     0.080      0.072
Avnrgr caturilty (years)                                  29.103   23.800   23.500    18.500   14.000    12.832
Medianr-  nd Lona-Tern Bebt (Disbursed  lnyn)
Tatol debt outstandi-dg  100 end of period)                903.2  1,160.7  1,345.6  1,606.8  1,931.9   2,691.0
Including undinb-r-ed                                    1,182.4  1,770.0  2,009.5  2,404.0  3,145.9   4,594.3
PublIc debt service                                        -54.9    -60.4    -73.2    -S7.7   -152.3    -202.9
Intereat                                                   -25.1     -28.1    -34.5    -44.3    -64.5    -100.7
Other M  iLT debt ervice                                  -255.8   -266.8   -314.5   -245.9   -338.3    -590.8
Total debt aervic-                                        -310.7   -327.2   -387.7   -333.6   -490.6    -796.7
Debt Burden (S)
Debt service ratio                                          14.9      10.8      13.9       9.6    12.2          16.1
Deb  service rotio /d                                       16.2      12.0      16.2      11.5    13.9          17.6
Debt service/OSP                                             2.0       2.5       2.7       2.0      2.7          3.6
Public debt. arvice/Gov-r-nntu  c       .ev .u               4.3       2.5       3.5       3.7      4.4          6.3
Tern (S)
Inteenst on tutol DOD/total disbursements                    5.7       5.5       5.6       5.4       5.7        5.6
Total debt serve-/Govers-enn navenue                        12.4      11.8      11.9      10.7      12.0       19.6
Derendency Batlas for li 4 IT LeebIt()
Gruen dlab-rnesents/iep-rts  (isnluding NFS)                11.0      12.6      12.9      13.3      10.9        21.0
Net tcunsfer/iaparts (ia-luding NFS)                        -2.8       2.2       1.8        4.8      2.0        10.2
Net trsanfar/gross diskureestn                             -25.3      22.5      13.6      36.0       18.4       48.7
E.p..-  (Z)
IBRD disbursescnt/gruos  tctal disbur-ee-ts                 14.8       8.0       9.1       8.3      12.0         9.3
Book Gcoup dlshucaeocts/gnoss tots 1 disboceneots    14.1              8.3       0.7       9.5      13.6         9.9
D88  DOD/toctl DOD                                          24.2      20.2      20.0      10.6      17.9       20.2
book  roup DOD/total WDO                                    24.2      20.9      20.4      19.2      10.9       21.3
IBRD debt serYice/rtotl debt service                         8.0       8.5       8.3      10.9       9.8        7.0
Bank Group debt eervice/tctal  tervice                       8.0       8.5       8.3      10.9        9.8        7.8
Externa  Debt (lburse    y                                Ostot.ndipr  12/31/78
(C-rrent 08S0 mllians)                                   Aoont          S
Ib0D                                                       434.8      24.5
Book Group                                                 459.3      25.8
Other saltiletersl                                         257.5      14.5
Governcenta                                                549.2      30.9
Of nhich c--nclly plan . d  onoc                          0.2       0.0
S.ppliec_                                                    9.0       0.5
Pinannisl jistitoti..n                                     502.1      28.2
Bond-                                                        0.0       0.0
Tonal public M & LT debt                                 1,777.1       100.0
Other tl & LT dst                                          913.9      51.4
Toeal public debe (including ,odisburoed)                3,680.4     207.1
Total N & LT debt (including gadisbor ed)                4,594.3    258.5
/a Presiminory.
/b  Net fOreigass-ts: US0 equivalent of Line 31.                                         Nan.
October, 1970
Ž   Includes 45EA co-otrirn, Peoplen Republic of ChiSc, Noth KI-eu, North ViOt
/d  Including aet direct f-veotment inco-e.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND /a
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of August 31, 1980)
Loan or                                                                  Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                   Less Cancellations
Number Year         Borrower                          Purpose      Bank       IDA  Undisbursed
Twenty-six loans and one credit fully disbursed                    471.67    5.49         -
822   1972   Kingdom of Thailand                     Education      15.40        -    1.66
864   1972   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom           37.00        -    0.41
369   1973   Kingdom of Thailand                     Education          -   19.50    1.35
461   1974   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation         -    7.00    0.34
977   1974   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power          75.00        -    2.77
992   1974   Industrial Finance Corporation
Thailand                             Industry       11.70        -    0.20
1149  1975   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    95.00         -   61.53
1198  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Rural Dev.    21.00(TW)   -    8.10
1199  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Livestock       5.00(TW)   -    2.49
1243  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Rubber         50.00        -   23.55
1253  1976   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom           26.00        -    3.90
1271  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Education      31.00        -   17.67
1327  1976   Industrial Finance Corporation of
Thailand                             Industry       25.00        -    4.41
1393  1977   Kingdom of Thailand                     Agriculture   28.00         -   17.13
1468  1977   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    55.00         -   32.01
1485  1977   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power          50.00        -   17.66
1492  1977   Industrial Estates Authority of
Thailand                             Industry        4.80        -    2.04
767   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Population         -   33.10/b 32.74
1519  1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Transport.   110.00         -   50.38
1527  1978   Provincial Electricity Authority        Rural Elect.  25.00         -   19.23
1556  1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Housing         8.60        -    7.19
S-10  1978   Natural Gas Organization of
Thailand                             Natural Gas    4.90         -    0.09
1620  1978   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom           90.00        -   90.00
1630  1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    17.50         -   17.02
1638  1979   Kingdom of Thailand                     Urban          16.00        -   13.61
1662  1979   State Railway of Thailand               Railways       16.70        -   16.13
1690  1979   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power          80.00        -   78.38



- 28 -
ANNEX 1I
Page 2 of 12
Loan or                                                                 Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                  Less Cancellations
Number   Year         Borrower                    Purpose            Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
913      1979   Kingdom of Thailand             Education               -    35.00   34.92
929      1979   Kingdom of Thailand             Agriculture             -    25.00   24.74
1752     1979   Kingdom of Thailand             Ag. Extension       40.00    -       39.79
1770     1979   Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand          Power               80.00            80.00
1773     1980   Petroleum Authority of          Natural Gas
Thailand                       Pipeline         107.00/d         107.00
1787     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Irrigation          80.00            80.00
1816     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Ag. Credit          19.00    -        19.00
1852     1980   Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand        Power               72.00    -       72.00
1870     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Housing             29.00    -       29.00
1889     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Inland Waterways   53.00             53.00
Total                                                        1,850.22           125.09
of which has been repaid                                     229.25    0.36
Total now outstanding                                        1,620.97  124.73
Amount sold /c                       68.63
of which has been repaid           46.61                      22.02
Total now held by Bank and IDA                               1,598.95  124.73
Total undisbursed                                              967.35   94.09
/a  This summary includes Bank Group loans/credits signed as of August 31, 1980.
/b  Of which $3.1 million is Norway grant participation.
/c  Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.
/d  Includes refinancing of Loan S-10-TH ($4.9 million).



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of August 31, 1980
Amounts ($ million)
Year        Company                Type of Business           Loan    Equity    Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Cement and Construction
Aggregate Co., Ltd.       Materials                 0.30        -       0.30
1964/  Industrial                Development                     -    0.39        0.39
1970     Finance Corporation        Finance Company
of Thailand (IFCT)
1969/  Siam Cement Group         Cement and
1975/                               Construction
1978/1979                           Materials                28.33    4.24      32.57
1977   Mutual Fund Company       Money and Capital
Limited                   Market                       -    0.29        0.29
1977   United Sugar Terminal   Food and Food
Limited                   Processing                2.50    0.20        2.70
1978   Siam Commercial Bank    Small and Medium
Scale Industries          2.00        -      2.00
1979/  Bangkok Glass Industry
1980     Company, Limited        Glass Containers             4.85    0.34        5.19
1979   Siam City Cement          Cement and Construc-
Company, Limited          tion Materials           36.00    4.00       40.00
1979   Thai Orient Leasing
Co. Ltd.                Capital Market                 -    0.15        0.15
Total gross commitments                              73.98    9.61       83.59
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                            49.04    2.56      51.60
Net held by the Corporation                          24.94    7.05       31.99
Total undisbursed                                     6.00        -       6.00



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
(As of August 31, 1980)
Loan No. 822 Second Education Project (Kasetsart University); $15.4
Million Loan of May 24, 1972; Effective Date: August 22,
1972; Original Closing Date: June 30, 1978; Current
Closing Date: July 31, 1980
Although the technical assistance and educational aspects of the
project are largely on schedule, civil works are about three years behind
schedule with consequent delays in furniture and equipment procurement. The
delays in civil works result from delays in contracting architectural consul-
tants, completing tender documents, and awarding contracts.  These delays also
reflected ineffective management which improved after the formation of a
commission of senior officials to coordinate project implementation. The
specialist services program under the project is nearly completed. Recommen-
dations of experts for improvement of teaching, research and extension
activities are considered worthwhile and have been implemented by the
university staff. All the fellowships have been awarded and training mostly
completed. Total project cost has exceeded appraisal estimates by about 36%.
Credit No. 369 Third Education Project; $19.5 Million Credit of April 11,
1973; Effective Date: August 8, 1973; Original Closing
Date: June 30, 1978; Current Closing Date: September 30,
1980
All project components are virtually completed except the Teacher
Training Colleges (TTC) component which is about three years behind schedule.
Good progress is generally being made in the pedagogical development of
project components except at Songkla University where the attraction of
teaching at Bangkok universities is resulting in high staff turnover.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project implementation.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
Loan No. 1271 Fourth Education Project: $31 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: February 9, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Progress in project implementation is satisfactory and is expected
to be completed ahead of schedule. All civil works have been tendered and
most contracts awarded. More than half of equipment and furniture has been
procured. Nearly all fellowships have been awarded. Staff training programs
are on schedule but need to be improved, as does supervision by the Ministry
of Education of its nonformal education programs.
Credit No. 913 Fifth Education Project; $35 Million Credit of June 28, 1979;
Effective Date: October 12, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1985
Good progress is being made in project implementation: (i) the
Central Procurement Unit has been established; (ii) sites for all first phase
institutions have also been acquired, and construction of this phase is
expected to be completed by mid-1981; (iii) Phase I sketch plans and lists for
most furniture and equipment have also been prepared; and (iv) technical
assistance consultants have been identified and partly contracted.
Loan No. 864 First Telecommunications Project; $37 Million Loan of December
5. 1972; Effective Date: March 1, 1973: Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1977; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is lagging a few months behind the revised time schedule
established in 1975 due to delays in procurement. The Bank loan is fully
committed and as of August 31, 1980, $0.4 million remains to be disbursed.
Nearly all of the local telephone network expansion has been completed.
Loan No. 1253 Second Telecommunications Project; $26 Million Loan of June 11,
1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Procurement action on
all Bank-financed items is complete. The Bank loan is fully committed and
$22.1 (96%) had been disbursed as of August 1, 1980. Local telephone network
expansion is a few months behind schedule. The project is now expected to be
completed by the end of December 1980, 11 months behind schedule, and to be
fully disbursed by September 1981.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Loan No. 1620 Third Telecommunications Project; $90 Million Loan of
October 4, 1978; Effective Date: January 3, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Due to a delay in the borrower's decision on standardization of
switching equipment and cables, action on procurement is a year behind
schedule. Waiting lists have been introduced in all telephone areas and
procedures for giving new connections revised. Progress on implementation of
other project components is satisfactory. The TOT's financial condition
remains good.
Loan No. 1519 Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project: $110 Million
Loan of March 23, 1978; Effective Date: June 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Progress is generally satisfactory. Procurement of maintenance
equipment is under way, and all contracts have been awarded. Construction
on over 5% of project roads is well under way, with most contracts on
schedule.
Loan No. 1662 Fifth Railway Project; $16.7 Million Loan of April 23, 1979;
Effective Date: August 22, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Progress on project implementation is satisfactory. The financial con-
dition of the State Railway of Thailand remains weak, and the Bank has urged
the Government to fulfil its obligations by implementing the necessary tariff
revisions.
Loan No. 1889 Inland Waterways and Coastal Ports Project; $53 million loan
of August 27, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This loan is not yet effective.
Credit No. 461 Northeast Irrigation Improvement Project: $7 Million Credit
of February 19, 1974; Effective Date: October 7, 1974;
Original Closing Date: June 30, 1979; Current Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project will be completed three years behind schedule as a
result of initial delays in appointing consultants and in procuring
earthmoving equipment. Work on rehabilitation of main canal systems has been
completed and the pace of construction of tertiary canals has improved
considerably. The current estimate of project cost is $30.3 million, compared
with $12.5 million at appraisal.  This increase is due to inflation being
higher than foreseen at appraisal, the decision to provide new tertiary canals
over an area of 34,700 ha rather than the 21,500 ha assumed at appraisal, and
the adoption of higher standards for tertiary development than envisioned at
appraisal. The higher costs are compensated by increases in projected
commodity prices and the economic rate of return is now estimated at 24%
compared to 22% at appraisal. Progress on the rainfed rice component, earlier
affected by management difficulty in integrating the work of several different
disciplinary groups, is now satisfactory.



- 33 -                    ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
Loan No. 1630 Second Northeast Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project:
$17.5 Million of December 4, 1978; Effective Date: May 9,
1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
The consultant's contract was signed in March 1979. Work by
contract is delayed but "force account" work began in early 1980. However,
progress has been slow due to delay in equipment procurement and recent
shortages of cement and fuel.
Loan No. 1149 Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of July 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Major civil works are about one year behind schedule, but project
completion is still expected by mid-1984. Construction work on the diversion
dam is progressing well and works are expected to be completed by end-1980.
About 4,500 ha of on-farm development was completed in 1979 and about 5,000 ha
will be completed this year. All studies financed under the project are
proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1468 Second Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project; $55 Million
Loan of September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 23, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Equipment procurement is progressing satisfactorily. Rehabilitation
and on-farm development works on about 13,000 ha are expected to be completed
in 1980, bringing the total area developed to 35,000 ha, which is in
accordance with the appraisal estimate. A monitoring system is being set up
and the project is now served by the National Agricultural Extension Project.
Loan No. 1787 Eleventh Irrigation Project; $80 Million Loan of
January 17, 1980; Effective Date:  April 2, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
This loan became effective on April 2, 1980. Progress on implement-
ation is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1198T Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project; $21 Million
Loan of February 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 28, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
After a delay of one year in appointing consultants, satisfactory
progress is being made on the engineering of village roads. The first con-
tract for construction of 114 km has been completed and work is more than 50%
complete on two contracts for a total of some 300 km for village access roads.
Works on other contracts are expected to begin soon. The road maintenance
program under the project is doing well. Procurement problems have delayed
the water supply components, but most of the drilling equipment has now been
delivered, drilling crews have been recruited and are being trained. The
rural electrification component has been completed, and progress on agri-



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
cultural extension and land settlements is satisfactory. After a slow
start-up, the Upland Crop Improvement Component is progressing satisfactorily.
The program management, with the assistance of a recently appointed program
advisor, has undertaken a critical review of past work and is gradually intro-
ducing an innovative program of research to help solve the problems of upland-
crop farmers in the Northeast.
Credit No. 929 Northern Agricultural Development Project; $25 Million
Credit of June 28, 1979: Effective Date: October 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Reasonable progress has been achieved during the first year of
project implementation, given the difficulties which have been encountered
in regard to budgeting, contracting and staffing. IDA staff are giving close
attention to these problems in an effort to help resolve them. In cases
where works have been delayed, no serious consequences will result.
Loan No. 1199T Livestock Development Project: $5.0 Million Loan of February
27. 1976: Effective Date: May 25, 1976: Closing Date: June
30. 1981
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily but disburse-
ments remain about eighteen months behind appraisal estimates. The seed
production and pasture development programs are progressing well and the
loaned-bull and artificial insemination program, hitherto hindered by the
delay in importation of cattle, are improving.
Loan No. 1243 Rubber Replanting Project; $50 Million Loan of September 13.
1976; Effective Date: January 14. 1977; Closing date: June
30, 1981
The project is one year behind schedule due to procurement diffi-
culties and initial delay in loan signing as well as in agreeing on the
formula of fertilizers to be procured through ICB. Implementation is
improving, however. Staff constraints have delayed completion of the
socio-economic survey of rubber smallholders.
Loan No. 1393 National Agricultural Extension Project; $28 Million Loan
of May 17, 1977; Effective Date: September 1, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Supervisory staff have been appointed in all 33 project provinces,
and remaining vacancies are expected to be filled by end-1980. The quality of
training, particularly that for subject matter specialists, can be further
improved. Efforts to rectify shortcomings in the quality of leadership and
technical support are being made in the weaker provinces. Excellent extension
results have already been achieved, in particular through the extensive use of
small pumps for dry-season cropping by small farmer groups, and in improve-
ments in home gardens. The civil works program is about two years behind



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
schedule because of high inflation and, until recently, the low unit cost
ceilings for civil works set by the Budget Bureau. It is expected that
contracts for all remaining civil works will be awarded before October 1980.
Procurement of vehicles, equipment and materials is on schedule.
Disbursements are lagging through the delays in the civil works program.
Consultants continue to provide excellent assistance.
Loan No. 1752 Second National Agricultural Extension Project; $40 Million
Loan of September 18, 1979; Effective Date: December 18, 1979
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This loan became effective on December 18, 1979, and implementation
progress to date is satisfactory. Supervisory staff have received training
but there is a shortage of qualified candidates for Extension Agent posts.
Loan No. 1816 Agricultural Credit Project; $19 Million Loan of
April 30, 1980; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Preparation for project implementation has been somewhat slow, but
responsible agencies expect to expedite implementation by October when the
Thai fiscal year begins. The EEC has agreed to provide a grant of $3.5
million to finance the cooperative training program; this decision was made
after the Bank loan was signed.
Loan No. 977 Srinagarind (Ban Chao Nen) Hydroelectric Project; $75 Million
Loan of April 15, 1974; Effective Date: June 14, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Civil works under the project are nearly completed. The
installation of the turbine generating units is expected to be completed on
schedule. Project costs are likely to be about 30% higher than appraisal
estimates, due mainly to additional grouting work required beneath the main
embankment. The progress on resettlement has been satisfactory, and all of
the families affected have now been resettled.
Loan No. 1485 Pattani Hydroelectric Project; $50 Million Loan of
*                            September 23, 1977; Effective Date:  December 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The construction of the main civil works is proceeding satis-
factorily. The initial delay was caused by slow mobilization of the
contractor and poorer than expected rock conditions at the downstream ends of
the diversion tunnels. Orders for all major equipment (financed by the Kuwait
Fund) have been placed. Construction for the resettlement component is
progressing according to schedule. Disbursements are generally in line with
appraisal estimates.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Loan No. 1527 The Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $25 Million
Loan of March 9, 1978; Effective Date: June 7, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
After an initial delay in procurement, progress on project
implementation is satisfactory.
Loan No. S-10 Natural Gas Development Engineering Project, $4.9 Million Loan
of July 28, 1978; Effective Date: September 25, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980.
The project is close to completion. In July 1979, the Borrower, the
National Gas Organization of Thailand, was taken over by the Petroleum
Authority of Thailand who is the Borrower for a loan of $107 million for the
Second Gas Pipeline project (Loan No. 1773-TH). Loan No. S-10-Th will be
refinanced under Loan No. 1773-TH.
Loan No. 1690 Bang Pakong Thermal Power Project; $80 Million Loan of
August 9, 1979; Effective Date: May 23, 1980.
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This loan became effective on May,23, 1980.
Loan No. 1773  Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; $107 Million Loan of
February 15, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
This loan is not yet effective.
Loan No. 1770  Khao Laem Hydroelectric Project; $80 Million Loan of
June 17, 1980; Effective Date: September 17, 1980;
Closing Date: February 28, 1985
This loan became effective on September 17, 1980.
Loan No. 1852  Mae Moh Lignite Project; $72 Million Loan of
June 17, 1980; Effective Date: September 17, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This loan became effective on September 17, 1980.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Loan No. 1556 Rangkok Sites and Services Project; $8.6 Million Loan of
June 15, 1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Progress is generally good with only minor delays in implement-
ation. Current cost estimates for civil works are below appraisal esti-
mates.
Loan No. 1870 National Sites and Services Project; $29 Million Loan of
August 8, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This loan is not yet effective.
Loan No. 1638 Bangkok Traffic Management Project; $16 Million Loan of
January 25, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
After an encouraging start, the projects overall progress has
slackened. The most pressing concern is to strengthen the role of OCMRT in
guiding project implementation. The policy package featuring area road
pricing has made little progress in gaining acceptance. Recently, a healthy
dialogue on the role of various agencies took place that may help to push
the implementation of the project. Tangible progress to date has been the
completion of bus lanes and the technical success in the installation of a
computer-controlled traffic signal scheme.
Loan No. 1492 The Minburi (Lat Krabang) Industrial Estate Project; $4.75
Million Loan of December 5, 1977; Effective Date: March 24,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
On-site infrastructure has been progressing. The unsatisfactory
condition of an access road has been brought to the Government s attention
for necessary action. Bunding, drainage, and three of the four deep wells
have been completed. Substantial progress is being achieved in road
construction, sewerage, and water distribution. Land sales have been very
encouraging with nearly all of available plots either firmly committed or
being negotiated, and are well ahead of appraisal estimates. These sales have
been achieved at an average sales price of B 300,000 per rai, as compared to
projected sales price of B 250,000 per rai in the appraisal.  In order to
accommodate substantial demand for the Export Processing Zone, IEAT has
enlarged this area to 30 ha. The estate's full development has nearly
been achieved.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Loan No. 992 Second Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT)
Project; $12.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1974; Effective
Date: September 4, 1974: Original Closing Date: September 3
1978; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Since June 1974 when the loan was made, IFCT's financial condition
continued to be good. The loan is fully committed and nearly disbursed.
Loan No. 1327 Third IFCT Project; $25 Million Loan of December 8, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1980; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The loan commitment rate was initially slower than expected
Credit No. 767 Population Project; $33.1 Million Credit of February 27, 197
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
Due to initial staffing problems, key project activities were held
up initially and major elements of the project are about six months behind
schedule. The Ministry of Public Health is, however, taking appropriate
action to strengthen project management, improve coordination and remove
impediments to implementation.



- 39 -
AYNNEX III
Page 1 of 2
THAILAND
NATTCNAL. AGRICITLTURAL P.SEARCH PROJECT
Supplementary Prolect Data Sheet
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a)  T±me r          to prepare tre project-           14 months
(b)  The agency that prepared the project:             MOAC and the Depart-
ment of Agriculture,
assisted by the Bank
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank:           May 1978
Date of first Bank mission to consider the    Identification/
project:                                          Preparation
September 1978
(d)  Date of departure of the appraisal mission:   November 15, 1979
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:               September 12, 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                    March 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
A preproject planning and preparation schedule has been sent to
the Department of Agriculture, and the Bank has advised the Government that
retroactive financing would be made available to engage architects and
engineers (to prepare civil works design), a Finance and Administration
Adviser and a Station Development Adviser. The Bank would plan to send a
supervision mission shortly after Board approval.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Borrower has agreed to the following:
(i) implementation of a plan for the reorganization of the
Department of Agriculture within 12 months of the date of
the Loan Agreement (para. 40);
(ii) establishment of an appropriate program planning and
budgeting system (para. 43);



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(iii) measures to improve the terms and conditions of employment
for scientists by December 31, 1980 (para. 44); and
(iv) implementation of an appropriate research program review
system (para.. 50).
(b)  An additional condition for effectiveness is the effectiveness of
the IFAD loan agreement (para. 63).
(c) Additional events of suspension (para. 63) include:
(i) the suspension, cancellation or termination of the
Borrower's right to withdraw funds provided under the IFAD
loan;
(ii) the acceleration of the IFAD loan;
(iii)  the failure of the Borrower to have made satisfactory
arrangements by December 31, 1981 to secure at least $2
million from the Australian Government or elsewhere to
finance essential technical service components.



