Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY    '
Report No. 2891-TH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
November 6, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Baht (B)
B I            -  US$ 0.05
US$1           -  B 20.00
MEASUREMENTS
Area
Rai 1            -  0.16 hectares (Ha)
Ha. 1            -  6.25 rai
Rai 1            -  0.4 Acres
Acre 1           -  2.5 rai
Weight and Volume  -  Metric
ABBREVIATIONS
ARC    -  Agriculture Research Council
BOB    -  Bureau of Budget
CSC    -  Civil Service Commission
DAE    -  Department of Agriculture Extension
DOA    -  Department of Agriculture
IFAD   -  International Fund for Agricultural Development
LCB    -  Local Competitive Bidding
MOAC   - Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
NESDB  -  National Economic and Social Development Board
NIDA   -  National Institute for Development Administration
NRC    -  National Research Council
PPB    -  Program Planning and Budgeting
UNDP   -  United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR. .. .... .... ...                                1
Background .................                                          1
Sector Policy and Programs ....... .....                              3
2.   THE AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SUBSECTOR. . . . . . . . . . . .               6
Status    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  6
The Department of Agriculture. . . . . . . . . . . . . .              7
DOA½s Principal Research Programs  . . . . . . . . . . .              9
Supporting Institutions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    12
Research Policy and Programs . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
3.   THE PROJECT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
Project Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
(a)  Strengthening and Reorganization of the DOA . . . .    15
(b)  Staff Development and Technical Assistance  . . . .    18
(c)  Station Developnent ...  .         .  .  .  .    .....  .  .    .    20
(d)  Research Council and Committees .    .    . . . . . . . .    21
4.   PROJECT COST AND FINANCING ...  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    22
Cost Estimates ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    22
Consultants, Architect and Engineering Costs    . . . . .    24
Financing  ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    25
5.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    26
Organization and Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    26
Procedures ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    27
Program Planning and Budgeting .  . . . . . . . . . . .    27
Monitoring and Evaluation .  . . . . . . . .   . . . .    27
Procurement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    28
Disbursements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
Reporting .29
Accounts and Audits .29
Phasing.      .    .    .   .    .   .   .  .    .  .    .   .    .   .   .   .   .    .   .    .   .   .    .    .  29
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission that visited Thailand
in November/December 1979, ccnprising Messrs. C. Downing and D. Kumar (Bank),
and Messrs. A.  Moseman, R_ Ezheredge and L. Falvey (consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
6.   BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION, AND RISKS .  . . . . . . . . . . .    30
Benefits and Justification . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    30
Risks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  33
Environmental Effects  ...  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    33
7.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . . .    34
ANNEXES
1.  Reference Tables  ...  .      .  .  .    . .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    36
2.  Project Physical Implementation, Costing and Disbursements         46
3.  DOA's Organization and Management of Research . . . . . . .    58
The Institute Management Concept  . . . . . . . . . . . .    58
Administrative Support Services . . . . . . . . . . . . .    59
Research Stations    ..61
Agricultural Committees and Research Council  . . . . . .    62
Role of the Universities   ..63
Monitoring and Evaluation    ..64
4. DOA Research   ..65
Some Guidelines for Research under the Project .       .65
Rice .. .65
Horticulture Crops  ......   . ........ .                      65
Field Crops .. .66
Farming Systems .. .66
Pre- and Post-harvest Technology  . . . . . . . . . . .    66
Technology Application  ...  .      .    . .... .  .  .  .  .   .    67
Coconut Research, Seed Garden and Nursery Component    .         69
Introduction  ...  .  .  .   .    . .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    69
Research  ...  .  .  .   .  .   . .....  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    69
Seed Gardens and Nurseries .          . . . . . . . . . . . . .   70
Staff Development and Technical Assistance .    . . . . .   70
Oil Palm Research Component .          . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   72
Research Program  ... .       .  .  .    .....  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    72
5.  Technical Assistance and Fellowships .          . . . . . . . . . .   73
6.  Project File Table of Contents .           . . . . . . . . . . . . .   76
CHARTS
Existing Department of Agriculture Organization Chart WB20471          77
Reorganization of the Department as Proposed by the Special
Committee WB 20472  ...  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    78
Organization Proposed under the Project WB 22064  . . . . . . .    79
Linkages Between Research and Extension WB 21730  . . . . . . .    80
Farm Based Research Flow Chart WB 21731 . . . . . . . . . . . .    81
MAP - IBRD 14832R Location of all DOA Research Centers and Sub-
stations under the project



THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
1. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
1.01      Out of Thailand's population of 44 million, about 35 million (or
80%) reside in rural areas and depend primarily on agriculture for their
livelihood. Despite rapid structural changes in the Thai economy, the
agricultural sector continues to be dominant, employing about 75% of the labor
force and producing about 30% of gross domestic product and about 60% of total
exports. The recent increase in agricultural employment (1.4% p.a.) was less
than the increase in the rural labor force (3% p.a.), which resulted in
substantial rural-urban migration.
1.02      Much of the recent growth in agriculture (5.7% p.a. in the 1960s and
4.6% p.a. in the 1970s) has come from expanding the area of land under culti-
vation. In 1979, however, agricultural production declined by about 2% after
achieving a 9% growth in 1978. Major crop yields and cropping intensity have
changed little on a national basis in recent years. While rice has become
relatively less predominant in agricultural value added, some upland crops,
particularly maize and cassava, have grown in importance. The overall sound
performance of Thai agriculture is in part due to a vigorous private sector
and government investments in irrigation facilities and roads. Until
recently, agricultural support services such as research, extension, credit,
and input supply were given insufficient emphasis. These services need to be
improved and expanded to achieve higher crop yields in irrigated and rainfed
areas and to develop rural nonfarm employment.
1.03      The average annual income of a farm household nearly doubled between
1970 and 1976 to $950 p.a. due to the increased cropping area and the
relatively high prices for farm products. Despite this progress, about one
third of the rural population remains in absolute poverty, defined as a per
capita income of less than $90 p.a. Furthermore, continued growth of the
agricultural sector will become more difficult as the supply of new land
available for cultivation diminishes; in fact, the national average farm size
may already be declining because of pressures of the growing rural population.
1.04      Farm Size and Land Tenure.  The total cultivated area in Thailand is
about 14.6 million ha, or about 29% of the country's land area. The farm size
distribution in 1974 has been estimated by the Office of Agricultural
Economics, Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (MOAC) as follows:



- 2 -
Size of farm         Percentage of farms           Percentage of area
(ha)
Less than 1.0                   8                            1
1.0-2.4                     22                           7
2.5-4.9                     30                          21
5.0-7.1                     18                          21
7.2-9.6                     10                          16
More than 9.6                  12                           34
100                         100
Thailand's 5 million farm families occupy about 18 million ha. throughout
the 4 regions and 72 provinces. The average farm size is about 4.5 ha, but
this varies from 1.5 ha in the fertile valleys of the North to more than
6 ha on the Central Plain. Although land distribution and utilization in
Thailand are comparatively good, they are worsening due to increasing
population pressure, the exhaustion of land suitable for cultivation, and
the encroachment on forest reserves and lands unsuitable for general
agriculture.
1.05      Nearly 90% of the 5 million farm families /1 are self-employed and
73% of the holdings are farmed by owner-occupiers rather than tenants. Only
in parts of the Central Plain does the proportion of tenant farmers exceed
50%. In the Northeast, where more than 40% of Thailand's farm families are
located, the highest recorded rate of tenancy is below 20%.
1.06      Climate.  Thailand's climate is tropical and monsoonal.  Tempera-
tures are high and relatively uniform throughout the year in all regions,
with peak temperatures usually occurring in March and April and lows from
November through January. Temperatures are generally favorable for
year-round crop production where adequate water is available. In the
Central, Northern and Northeastern Regions, altitude modifies temperature
considerably; in the northern highlands it is cool enough to produce
temperate fruits and vegetables, including vegetable seed. There is little
variation in day length; solar radiation is generally satisfactory for
maximizing yields, except during the wet season in the Southern Region.
1.07      The Importance of Rainfed Agriculture.  Ninety percent of the
14.6 million ha cultivated in Thailand are rainfed. Soils generally have
LJ More than one family may farm a holding. The average is about 1.25 farm
families per holding.



- 3 -
low fertility and water-holding capacity and have considerable micro-
variability. Annual rainfall is erratic (most areas average around 1,100 to
1,500 mm per year) and falls mainly between mid-April and mid-October.
During the rainy season there is a high probability of very intensive
rainfall and, in some areas, flooding. The dry season (November through
mid-April) is distinct and accompanied by high rates of evapotranspiration.
About 8.5 million hectares are planted to rice, of which 2.0 million ha are
irrigated and account for more than 1/3 of total rice production. Virtually
all other crops and areas under production are rainfed.
1.08      Crop Production.  Of the total harvested area, rice accounts for
more than 50%, maize and rubber for about 15% each, and cassava for about
5%.  Rice yields in Thailand average about 2.0 ton/ha harvested and 1.8
ton/ha planted. Without irrigation, rice yields average about 1.4 ton/ha in
the Northeast, where rainfall is least reliable; 1.8 ton/ha in the Central
and Southern Regions; and 2.2 ton/ha in the North. With irrigation, yields
of 2.8 ton/ha are obtained in the wet season and more than 4.0 ton/ha in the
dry season. Corn yields average slightly over 2.0 ton/ha, groundnuts
slightly over 1.0 ton/ha, and soybeans around 1.0 ton/ha. The industrial
crops, cotton and kenaf, average around 1.0 ton/ha, cassava 13-18 ton/ha,
sugarcane around 50 ton/ha and rubber about 600 kg/ha. Average provincial
crop yields may differ from the regional average by 30% or more, and, since
climatic variations within each region are not a major factor in productivity,
there is ample scope for increasing yields (Annex 1, Table 1). Long-term
(1959-60 to 1973-75) growth rates for crop area, yields and production are
summarized in Annex 1, Table 2. These data indicate a significant increase in
crop area, with almost constant or even declining yields for several crops.
For instance, the major crop, paddy, had a long-term yield increase of only
0.6% p.a., while maize, cassava, kenaf, mungbean and soybean yields declined,
presumably as marginal lands were brought into production. While yields of
most crops have tended to stabilize or even decline in Thailand, average
yields have been increasing at an annual rate of 2 to 3% and more in other
countries in the region.
Sector Policy and Programs
1.09      Government Strategy.  The Government is committed to developing
programs that transfer resources necessary to improve the incomes of the
rural poor. Programs are thus under way or being planned to extend
infrastructure and services and to assist production directly. The
Government is also increasingly concerned about the destruction of forests
(particularly in watershed areas), the absence of soil conservation
practices in some newly opened areas and the low incomes of many squatters
farming these areas. The Government recognizes that future agricultural
growth must come from intensification rather than from opening up new lands.
1.10      The latest Plan (the Fourth National Economic and Social
Development Plan, 1977-81) states that "several basic policy reforms are
considered necessary for promoting greater economic security for the nation



- 4 -
and creating a more equitable economic and social order which would mean an
eventual eradication of poverty among large segments of the population."
National development objectives in the Plan include accelerating economic
growth, lessening income disparities, reducing population growth, expanding
employment and improving management of basic resources.
1.11      The Plan details agricultural sector strategJes that aim to expand
the value added in agriculture by 5% p.a. These are:
(a)  intenifying production in presently cropped areas;
(b) diversifying production by expanding the livestock, fruit and
vegetable subsectors;
(c) limiting the rate of deforestation and expansion of the cultivated
area to 80,000 ha/year; and
(d) emphasizing integrated agricultural development through programs
that improve on-farm irrigation, expand agricultur-: credit,
improve input delivery systems and strengthen agricultural
extension.
Particular emphasis is being given to the establishment of planning at the
Provincial level as well as to expanding and decentralizing public
utilities, transportation and communication services. The Plan also calls
for pricing policies to be revised for these services (which would promote
more equitable income distribution between regions and socioeconomic groups)
and proposes to expand social services among lower income groups.
1.12      As the land constraint becomes increasingly severe, further growth
of agriculture and the rural sector generally will depend on progress in the
following areas:
(a) Land Productivity. Since new land brought under cultivation
generally has a lower yield potential, increased production and
income must come from higher yields and cropping intensity and
diversification of crops. If traditional farmers are to adopt
more productive cultivation practices, effective agricultural
support services, such as research, extension and credit, must be
readily available, as well as physical inputs such as fertilizers
and improved seeds.
(b) Rainfed Agriculture. The Government needs to expand its effort to
develop rainfed agriculture, which predominates in the North and
Northeast and presents the most acute problems of poverty, low
yields, and natural resource degradation. Development of this
subsector will require substantial investments in a number of areas,
including: (i) road construction to improve the accessibility of
isolated areas, (ii) soil and water conservation works, (iii)



- 5 -
programs of applied research and extension to meet the needs of
small farmers in different ecological conditions, and (iv) issuance
of land titles, which would provide farmers with security of tenure,
collateral for institutional credit, and the motivation to improve
their farming practices.
(c) Government Institutions. Thailand's ability to promote future
agricultural development is presently constrained by inadequate
planning, implementation and monitoring capacity, as well as by
inefficient delivery of supporting services. These constraints
reflect, in part, the highly centralized nature of government
administration, as well as functional duplication and inadequate
coordination among government agencies. There is a critical need to
define clearly the roles of various agencies involved in development
of the rural sector, including provincial and district offices.
(d) Availability of Inputs and Credit. In recent years there have
been shortages of fertilizers. In the past, fertilizer prices
have been among the highest in Asia relative to prices
received for produce, so farmers use less than the recommended
quantities and thus resulting yields are low. Despite the rapid
expansion in the amount of institutional credit available to
agriculture, the small farmer generally has difficulty in obtaining
adequate crop production credit on reasonable terms.
(e) Agricultural Research. Agricultural research is carried out by
several government agencies, the main one being the MOAC's
Department of Agriculture (DOA) which is responsible for 90% of
Thailand's crop production research expenditure. The DOA is also
involved in a broad range of basic and technical service research,
including investigations on plant breeding, agricultural chemistry,
soils, plant nutrition, plant protection, plant pathology and
entomology. Responsibility for some commodity-specific and
supporting services research has been delegated to or assumed by
other ministries, departments and agencies. The shift from
expansion of the cultivated area to more intensive and diversified
rainfed agriculture has made the Government aware of the need to
expand and strengthen its agricultural research programs. As a
first step, the Government will reorganize and decentralize its crop
production research under the DOA.
(f)  Pricing Policy.  Farm-gate prices in Thailand have been high
for inputs (particularly fertilizer) and low for farm produce
relative to other countries in the region.   Thus, the Government
needs to make a greater effort to ensure that inputs are available
at a reasonable market price and that the farmer receives an
economic price for his produce. A stable and adequate pricing
policy would encourage farmers to adopt new and improved tech-
nology and intensify agricultural production.



- 6 -
1.13      Bank Involvement.  The Bank shares the Government's view of the
problems and prospects of the rural sector, and in the past Bank lending has
responded to the sector's changing development needs. Until the early 1970s,
Bank lending concentrated on transportation infrastructure and irrigation,
with these two sectors accounting for about 60% of total Bank lending to
Thailand in 1.973.  Lendinfg for irrigation was the Bank's onily participation in
the agricultural sector until  Y75~ The initial emphasis was on improving
water control through low--o-t deveopwent in the country's major irrigated
areas, but subscqueat lending provw ded better supporting services, roads and
on-farm development.
1.14      A primary aim of recent Bank-assisted projects in Thailand (i.e.
for agricultural extension services, livestock development, rubber replanting,
rural development, credit and irrigation) has been to strengthen the
institutions involved in agricultural and rural developmant and to assist the
continued diversification of the agricultural production base. These projects
have already had some impact on devlopment of improved production techniques
for rainfed areas, diversification of crops, rural electrification,
agricultural extension, rural roads and rural water sul,ply.
1.15      The proposed research project would further strengthen DOA
research operations, and facilitate an increa7e inl crop yields and net
incomes of farmers throughout Thailand. It is therefore fully in line with
government and Bank objectives for agricultural development in Thailand.
2.  THE AGRICULTUFAL RESEARCH SUBSECTOR
Status
2.01      Agricultural research is carried out by several government agencies,
but the DOA conducts the majority of crop production research (Annex 1,
Table 3 and para. 1.12 (e).  In some areas, the responsibility for research is
unclear resulting in excessive fragmentation and duplication of research
activities. The DOA has traditionally had inadequate resources to conduct
research for all agricultural production requirements on a national basis.
Therefore, other departments, agencies and institutes have made budget
requests and received allocations to carry out research of immediate interest
to them. These agencies, particularly the universities, have also received
financial assistance from bilateral, multilateral and private organizations to
carry out selected (fixed duration) agricultural research. Although these
efforts have helped to develop new and improved technology, they have also
contributed to the fragmentation of agricultural research and to the
inevitable duplication and lack of coordination. There is, for example,
inadequate coordination of research and exchange of scientific information
between the DOA and the agricultural universities of Kasetsart, Chiang Mai,
and Khon Kaen. On the other hand, the DOA Rubber Research Center at Hatt Yai
and the Prince of Songkhla University have developed an effective working



relationship that includes undertaking joint research projects financed by the
DOA.
The Department of Agriculture
2.02       Although the DOA is the main MOAC department responsible for agrL-
cultural research, this department has a wide range of additional luties. It
is responsible for several agricultural production and regulatory services,
including seed (breeder, foundation) multiplication, crop quality standards,
and the control of imports and exports of agricultural products and chemicals.
DOA's activities presently center on the headquarters in Bangkhen (a suburb of
Bangkok) where most of DOA-s postgraduate scientific staff are located;
however, the employment of staff in research activities is limited by their
other administrative, service and regulatory functions. The DOA also has a
network of 85 research stations (Annex 1, Table 4). These form part of the
Government's total agricultural research network of more than 145 stations
(Annex 1, Table 3), which carry out agricultural research and other service
functions; much of the DOA station-s work comprises routine demonstrations,
testing and seed production. The Bangkhen headquarters provides
administrative and agricultural support service for programs covering the five
main commodity groups (rice, rubber, field crops, sericulture and horticulture
crops) and other DOA research, as well as general agriculture service
functions. Research programs are identified and planned centrally.
2.03       Organization.  While the DOATs organization is consistent with the
pattern established for other government departments, effective management is
hampered by the division of staff and activities into separate (e.g., discip-
line and commodity) streams. The Department is headed hy a Director General
and two Deputy Directors General; the latter have no designated responsibil-
ities. The DOA operates through 16 divisions, i.e., 10 technical divisions
for research and other service functions, 1 regulatory division, and 5 admin-
istrative divisions (Chart WB 20471). The DOA comprises a total of 77 divi-
sions, branches and sections.  At each level of management, staFTF and programs
follow commodity (rice, field crops, horticulture crops, rubber and sericul-
ture) or discipline (e.g., plant pathology, agricultural chemistry) lines.
The field research stations are also assigned on a commodity basis (Annex 1,
Table 4). Ar' Latradepartmental reorganization committee established in 1978
(prior to project preparation) proposed a reorganization (Chart WIB 20472) and
would have created 3 DDGs posts and additional divisions; this proposal was
dropped in favor of the organization structure proposed under the project
(Chart WB 22064).
2.04       Staffing.  The DOA has too few university graduates to staff its
varied agricultural service activities (regulatory functions, seed multiplica-
tion, agriculture production service, and research), manage and operate its
administrative headquarters at Bangkhen and conduct research at its network of
85 research stations. Its total graduate staff of 1,162 (848 classified as
scientists) comprises 61 PhDs, 280 MScs and 821 BScs; about 50% of these are
assigned to headquarters (Bangkhen) research and related regulatory functions,



- 8 -
25% are assigned to headquarters administrative and technical support
services, ard 25% are assigned to the 85 DOA field stations (Annex 1,
Table 5). There are 296 graduate staff assigned to the 85 commodity stations,
of which only 35 are postgraduates (with specialized training in research
methodology and techniques) working full-time in the regions. Scientific
staffing constraints (by discipline and levels of training and experience) are
apparent in commodity units (predominantly plant breeders, agronomists and
soils specilists) at both the headquarters and in the field./l
2.05       Research Stations.  With the many service functions, research opera-
tions and research stations (Annex 1, Table 4), as well as its limited staff
and physical resources available, the DOA has serious constraints carrying out
adequate research and dealing with the complex practical problems of agricul-
tural production. Since they have limited manpower and cover only one or two
disciplines, most of the DOA's 85 stations can be categorized as second line
stations (i.e., those that carry out limited commodity research specific to
the region and that serve as demonstration centers) and third line stations
(i.e., those that deal with seed multiplication, and conduct production trials
under different soil, water and climatic conditions).  The DOA has only one
first line station, the Rubber Research Center at Hatt Yai, where a large
number of qualified research scientists are organized into multidisciplinary
research teams and conduct research on a broad range of production problems
(para. 3.06). First line stations also act as national research centers for a
commodity or type of agricultural research and offer technical support and
expertise (including laboratory and library facilities) to less developed
stations (the center at Hatt Yai serves 17 rubber research and development
field stations).  Although DOA's 85 stations may be desirable to cover all the
agro-ecological zones of the country, resources (particularly qualified staff)
need to be concentrated at selected stations to deal with priority production
needs and problems for all commodities in the regions. Using this approach,
research programs would be based on commodities and farming systems
appropriate to the local area.
2.06       Financing.  In 1978, the MOAC research budget was about $30.0 mil-
lion, of which $20.0 million was allocated for crop production research. The
DOA received almost 90% of the crop production research budget, and 60% of the
total MOAC research budget. However, DOA's budget (Annex 1, Table 6) also
covers expenditure on many agricultural services, including regulatory and
seed production functions.  It has been estimated that only about half of the
DOA budget is actually spent on research. The research budget for the Rice
Division in 1978 was about $2.5 million for all activities, including seed
production, or a gross amount of only 0.06% of the value of rice production.
/1 For example, the Corn and Sorghum Branch has 2 PhDs, 5 MScs and 9 BScs;
the Fiber Crop Branch (covering kenaf, jute, etc.) has an MSc and a BSc;
the Vegetable Crop Branch has 1 PhD, 3 MScs and 10 BScs; and the Other
Horticulture Branch (covering oil palm, coffee, tea, cocoa, spices,
cashew) has 2 MScs and 4 BScs.



- 9 -
Likewise at the station level, for example, the 1980 Hueypong cassava research
station (the principal cassava station) budget was $240,000 or less than 0.04%
of the 1978 value of cassava production; cassava exports alone were about
$685.0 million in 1978.
DOA's Principal Research Programs
2.07      Rice Research.  Rice remains Thailand's principal crop, grown on
about 9.0 million hectares, with annual production of more than 15 million
tons. Rice improvement was initiated in 1906 by selecting the best varieties
grown in Thailand. This work was strengthened in the early 1950s, and a Rice
Department was set up in 1952. Later, research was expanded using a multi-
disciplinary team approach to give greater attention to disease and insect
control as well as production practices. The Rice Department was merged with
the DOA in 1972 and has since operated as one of DOA's 16 divisions. In view
of the continuing importance of rice as the country's major food crop as well
as for export, rice research (particularly for rainfed conditions) should be
further strengthened to increase yields by using improved technology.
2.08      Field Crops Research.  Over the past two decades, the Government has
emphasized the diversification of agricultural production and the area planted
to field crops other than rice has expanded substantially. Crops that have
become increasingly important are corn, sorghum, soybean, groundnuts,
mungbeans, cassava, kenaf and, with some production and marketing constraints,
sugarcane and cotton. There is also some production of castor bean, and
sesame; new crops under trial include safflower, sunflower and linseed.
However, yields remain low for field crops and more research is needed to
breed higher yielding varieties, improve soil and water management, and
develop cultural practices for different farming areas (particularly those
with low rainfall), and for more effective disease and pest control. This
research is best conducted through multidisciplinary research teams, but the
limited number of well-trained research workers in the DOA has precluded the
setting up of adequate integrated teams for each important field crop.
2.09      Horticulture Crops Research.  Thailand produces a wide range of
fruits, vegetables, and ornamental crops for both domestic and international
markets, but, as in many countries, horticultural research (particularly for
fruits) has been given little or no priority. Research to improve production,
quality, postharvest handling, and marketing has been inadequate for most
species. The trained staff now available need to be integrated into a
cohesive research unit that can concentrate on priority problems of the most
important crops in the principal producing areas. The expansion of research
to improve coconut production and develop oil palm production is urgently
required.
2.10      Crop Protection Research.  Over the past two decades, Thailand's
research and related control programs for crop pests and diseases have
received support from external agencies, including the UNDP/FAO. However,
diseases and insects remain major limiting factors in the production of most



- 10 -
important crops. Rice yields are reduced by the gall midge, blast disease,
and the new "ragged stunt disease" caused by a virus transmitted by the brown
planthopper. Ragged stunt virus can be controlled by resistent varieties but
this requires a continuing intensive plant breeding program. Progress has
been made in reducing corn losses from the downy mildew disease, but numerous
diseases and insects still cause heavy damage to field and horticultural
crops. The consolidation of research in entomology, plant pathology and
toxicology into teams of well-trained scientists working full-time in the
field, would improve the effectiveness of DOA's crop protection research and
control activities.
2.11      Rubber Research.  Rubber, as Thailand's second most important export
crop, accounts for about 10% of total exports, making Thailand the third
largest producer and exporter of natural rubber in the world (after Malaysia
and Indonesia). Rubber was introduced to Southern Thailand from Malaysia at
the turn of the century and substantial plantings were made in the 1930s. The
total area planted to rubber is about 1.7 million ha., of which 95% is located
in the southwest peninsular region. Over 430,000 ha of this rubber was
planted more than 30 years ago with low-yielding trees, and a further
700, 000 ha of similar stocks were planted 13-30 years ago. Throughout the
major rubber growing areas, the Rubber Research Center, and its 17 field
stations, have been the main source (since its establishment in 1965) for
rubber production technology and dissemination of information among producers
and processors. As the area of old, low-yielding rubber is replanted,
research must be strengthened to identify varieties and production practices
best suited to each rubber growing area; to control new diseases, which tend
to increase as new planting stocks are introduced; and to further integrate
research in agronomy, soil science, pathology, processing technology and
economics. The growing importance of rubber in Thailand, particularly as a
crop suited to smallholders in the South and through the possibilities it
offers for crop diversification in other regions (particularly the Northeast)
has justified the concentration of research resources to improve production,
processing technology and advisory services for replanting at one center (Hatt
Yai) and 17 substations in the South.
2.12      Farming Systems Research.  The expansion of cropping into new and
often unreliable rainfall areas has caused adjusitments in farming systems,
with rotations changing as production of certain crops is increased. Most
farmers in the Northeast Region grow only one crop a year (rice, jute, kenaf
or cassava), but more farmers are now growing mungbean, groundnut or water-
melon as a second crop. Inadequate technology and information is available to
support this trend to crop diversification and multiple cropping. In the
lowland central area, with the major paddy lands, rice is usually followed by
legumes, sorghum, or cotton. In the lowland irrigated areas, triple cropping
of rice is possible. Improved technology is urgently needed not only to
ensure sustained and increased productivity of each commodity, but also the
kinds of farm management and farming systems thalt provide optimum returns on
farmers' investments. Furthermore, as crop diversification is intensified,
farmers need better guidance in soil and water management, cultural practices



- 11 -
(including seedbed preparation, time and rate of planting, and rotation
sequenices) and intercropping. Research on crop production practices for the
different farming systems in Thailand requires intensive studies to devise
crop combinations best suited to local soil, water and agro-climatic
conditions.
2.13      The DOA's first concerted farming systems research effort was begun
in October 1976 under the upland crop improvement component of the Northeast
Rural Development Project (Credit 1198). Field experiments were initiated in
1977/78 at six DOA field stations in the Northeast (Loei, Khon Kaen, Kalasin,
Mehaserakham, Ubon and Non Soong). The initial effort has: (a) identified
the priorities and the nature of future research; (b) proven the production
potential of cropping systems; (c) developed a multidisciplinary approach to
solving farm production problems; and (d) established farming systems as a
regular research program of the DOA. Farming systems research needs to be
substantially strengthened and expanded.
2.14      Pre- and Post-harvest Technology is an important aspect of agricul-
tural production in Thailand. Postharvest losses have been estimated to be
in the order of 15% and are caused by improper handling, processing, and
pests and diseases. In addition, without adequate storage, farmers are
unable to take advantage of market conditions to obtain the most favorable
price for their products. The DOA has established an Agricultural
Engineering Division, which carries out a limited pre- and post-harvest
technology research program primarily dealing with irrigated and lowland
rice production.
2.15      Technology Application Research.  In all developing countries, it
is difficult to transfer new technology from research stations to productive
use in farmers' fields. Agricultural development is often regarded as two
separate functions, research and extension and the two are considered as
competitors rather than complementary; thus, separation of the DOE and
the DOA in 1972 has accentuated the problem of evaluating and transferring
improved technology to farmers. Technology application research includes:
(a) the continuous review, assembly and packaging of research results in a
form suitable for application by the extension service and farmers; (b) test-
ing and verification at the research stations and on the farm; and assessing
the economic suitability and farmer response to new technology. This research
activity is often misunderstood by extension workers and others. More collab-
oration is required in the on-farm aspect of technology application research
and training of farmers and extension workers. Some DOA research stations do
have training facilities and housing, and, for instance, at Ubon, Mae Jo,
Chainat, and Tak Fah, special training programs are conducted several times a
year for extension personnel and farmers. This procedure has been very
effective and needs to be strengthened and expanded in cooperation with DAE.



- 12 -
Supporting Institutions
2.16      Universities.  Universities in Thailand come under the Bureau of
University Affairs. There are 13 state universities and 10 private univer-
sities offering a bachelor's degree; 9 of the state universities offer
master's degrees and 4 offer doctoral degrees. It was estimated that about
200 MSc degrees and 5 PhD degrees would be awarded by local agricultural
universities in 1979. While the supply of MSc level graduates in some agri-
cultural science disciplines is adequate, that for PhD level agricultural
science disciplines is insufficient to meet general research requirements;
also, training in research methodology and techniques is weak and limited.
Many agricultural research scientists will therefore continue to be trained
overseas during the next decade.
2.17      The agricultural universities (Kasetsart, Chiang Mai, Khon Kaen and
Songkhla) undertake many short-term research projects that benefit farmers and
the country generally. However, due to legislative constraints, university
research cannot be financed from the usual development and operational
budgets; thus they depend largely on grants and aid from internal government
organizations (the National Research Council, NRC, gives many small grants to
university staff and graduate students), and external bilateral and
multilateral agencies. Generally, university agricultural research does not
fit into the country's overall research policies and programs; however, this
research does meet a specific need of providing training and experience for
staff and graduate students (particularly those who desire a career in
agricultural research). The Prince of Songkhla University has a good working
relationship with the DOA Rubber Research Division whereby university staff
work on DOA research projects and the DOA provides grants to university staff
and graduate students; thus coordination and continuity of research is
assured. Similar working relationships need to be strengthened between the
DOA and the other agricultural universities (para. 3.15).
2.18      Agricultural Extension Services.  The Department of Agriculture
Extension (DAE) in the MOAC provides extension services for most agricultural
crops to the 5 million Thai farm families. Within MOAC, the Departments of
Livestock Development, Fisheries, Land Development and Cooperative Promotion
provide demonstration, research and extension services for animal husbandry,
and pasture and forage production; aquaculture; land development; and
agricultural cooperatives, respectively. Specialized agencies are also
involved in extension activities: the Tobacco Monopoly operates an efficient
extension service for tobacco growers; the Rubber Replanting Aid Fund provides
extension services through the second year of tapping to smallholders in
rubber replanting schemes; and some sugar factories provide a minimal
extension service to farmers growing cane on contract.
2.19      Until recently the extension service has not been very effective,
but most of its deficiencies are being addressed under Bank-assisted exten-
sion projects. Services provided by different organizations still overlap
in some districts, but steps are being taken to eliminate duplication. By
the end of 1980, the extension service in 25 provinces will be fully staffed



- 13 -
and in 10 more it will have begun reorganizing and functioning according to
the training and visit system of extension.
2.20      Under Thailand's traditional departmental organization, there is
inadequate coordination and cooperation (para. 2.15) between the DOA and DAE,
though close linkages would be of mutual benefit in providing adequate
services to farmers. Limited attempts to promote coordination have been quite
successful at the local level on a personal basis. The Government's policy is
now to develop a close working relationship between research and extension on
a national basis.
Research Policy and Programs
2.21      Research policy in the past has not been oriented in support of
Thailand's overall development policy, which attaches high priority to impro-
ving the income of the country's poor and thereby reducing income disparities.
It recognizes the limited land resources and the urgent need to increase
production and income from existing cultivated lands. Research components in
a number of in Bank-financed projects, such as the upland crop improvement
component of Credit 1198, the Rainfed Rice Improvement Project (Credit 461),
and the rice research component of the Northeast Irrigation Improvement
Project (Credit 379) also support this approach. Most recent Bank supported
projects have focussed on crops and cropping problems of rainfed agriculture
and of the poorer farming areas of the North and Northeast; this focus would
be strengthened and expanded in the future. In addition, some university
research projects support the Government's overall policy of aiding the
poorest farmers. These include the Semi-Arid Crops Project at Khon Kaen
University (supported by the International Development Research Center), Khon
Kaen University's Cropping System Project (supported by the Ford Foundation),
the Thai-Australian Highland Agricultural Project carried out in collaboration
with Chiang Mai University, and Kasetsart University's Corn and Soybean
Program (supported by the Rockefeller Foundation). However, most of these
individual projects are not part of a regular, long-term research program;
thus they can only continue at a meaningful level while they receive external
financial support. It has been recognized that there is a need to establish a
focal point for applied research, based on farming systems, within the DOA so
that farming systems research would be coordinated and controlled.
2.22      The Government is now aware of the need to establish and coordinate
comprehensive national research programs for agriculture, with a commitment to
long-term continuity. Recognizing that the DOA's research capability was
inadequate, the Government has in the past, mobilized all available resources,
using isolated project research to solve urgent practical problems in
agricultural development. Now, the time has come to develop a national
strategy for agricultural research (para. 3.20).  The immediate objectives of
research are to establish and define priorities, and to provide sufficient
scientists and physical equipment to fully address practical agricultural
development and production problems in the regions.
2.23      The National Economic and Social Development Board (NESDB) is
responsible for advising the Prime Minister's Office on national science
policy, including agricultural research. This advisory function has been



- 14 -
carried out by the National Research Council (NRC) that is now an agency of
the new Ministry of Science, Technology and Energy. The NRC has both advisory
and executive responsibility specifically for certain industrial crops but
does not generally play a significant or effective part in agricultural
production research. The MOAC has established three Regional Agricultural
Development Centers (Khon Kaen, Chainat, and Chiang Mai); a fourth has been
proposed at Songkhla. These regional facilities were originally designed to
coordinate and conduct research, but have evolved into coordinating centers
for agricultural services (including research); however, they are unable to
carry out these functions effectively.
3. THE PROJECT
Objectives
3.01      The Government of Thailand has asked the Bank for financial assis-
tance to support its program to expand and strengthen national agricultural
research programs, projects and facilities. This project would also provide
the necessary technology focus for the two ongoing extension projects. By
supporting this program, Bank-financing would assist the Government in
achieving one of its major development objectives of improving the incomes of
the poorest segments of the population, thereby reducing income disparities
and strengthening the economy. However, because few qualified scientific
staff are presently assigned to field stations, the increase in research
activities and development of new technology has been slow. The project would
represent only the first phase of manpower and station development by
concentrating assistance on 19 selected National Research Centers (field
stations) and decentralization of research from Bangkok to the regions where
increased emphasis would be placed on adaptive research for rainfed agricul-
ture. The future development of additional centers and substations would
extend the ecological and regional coverage of research on a national basis,
but full development of national agricultural research facilities and
capability in the regions will take ten years or more.
3.02      The objectives of the project are:
(a)  Strengthen the capacity and capability of the DOA to implement
national agricultural research programs.
(b)  Provide relevant technology (by crop, farming system and location)
through the agriculture extension service for the farmers;
The project would seek to achieve these objectives by providing staff, fellow-
ships, consultants, facilities, equipment, materials and supplies in support
of the DOA research operations.
Project Summary
3.03      The project has been formulated to address the major weaknesses
of DOA's research operations. Its basic concept would be to develop local



- 15 -
scientific manpower in an improved research system (organization and manage-
ment structure), and assist the DOA to use present and new research
resources more effectively and efficiently.  The project would improve staff
(capacity and capability) at field stations (para. 2.16) by providing
fellowships for upgrading existing staff and training addirional scientists;
and also providing technical assistance to work with and train local
scientists and provide for joint research with the DOA and universities
(para. 3.15). Project assistance would also include provision of additional
physical facilities and equipment at selected locations (in the regions),
adequate budgetary provision for additional staff, and technical assistance
for improving research programs. To maximize efficient use of resources,
the project would aim to decentralize research, thereby correcting the
present concentration of qualified, postgraduate scientists at the Bangkhen
headquarters. It would further support the reorientation of research
programs along multidisciplinary lines (para. 2.05) by concentrating
multidisciplinary teams of scientists at selected research centers.
3.04      Project research activities would be complemented by overall
institution building objectives for DOA's agricultural research system, which
would involve some changes in the DOA's organizational structure (para.
3.05).  A new, multidisciplinary research institute (para. 3.06) structure
(6 Institutes and 19 National Research Centers) would be created under the
DDG for research and more responsibility for decision making would devolve
from headquarters' staff. These changes, together with the expansion of
research activities during project implementation, would require improved
central support from the DOA, particularly the provision of technical and
administrative services. The effectiveness of research and extension would
be enhanced by the provision of technical assistance and the creation of
national and provincial committees consisting of research policy makers,
planners, scientists, extension workers, local administrators and farmers;
bringing them together to facilitate coordination and a two way flow of
information.
Project Description
(a) Strengthening and Reorganization of the DOA
3.05      The reorganization of the DOA proposed under the project xwould
improve operating and management procedures for the planned expansion and
strengthening of the national research capability (Charts WB 20471 and WB
22064). The DOA would consolidate related activities under three Deputy
Directors General with direct line responsibility for research, administrative
services and technical services, respectively. The DDG (I) Research (to be
appointed under the project) would be a senior scientist with proven experi-
ence in research, and research management; the existing two DDGs would assume
the duties for (II) Administration and (III) Technical Services. Six research
institutes would be created (rice, field crops, horticulture crops, rubber,
sericulture and farming systems) each headed by a Director under the DDG for
research. The 19 research centers under the project would be assigned to
appropriate institutes for administrative purposes (para. 3.19). The DDG



- 16 -
for Administrative Services would manage and control the Finance, Program
Planning, Personnel, Library and Documentation, and Agricultural Regulatory
Divisions, and the Office of the Secretary. The DDG for Technical Services
would manage and control the seven discipline oriented Divisions: Botany and
Weed Science, Agricultural Chemistry, Agricultural Engineering, Agricultural
Toxicology, Plant Pathology and Microbiology, Entomology and Zoology, and Soil
Science. Staff from disciplinary units assigned to the institutes and
research centers would be responsible to and controlled by the DDG Research0
DOA's research operations, and its organization and management (existing and
under the project) are elaborated upon in Annex 3 and the project file.
During negotiations assurances were provided that the organization plan pro-
posed under the project (Chart WB22064) would be implemented within 12 months.
3.06      Research Institutes.  The "institute" is an integrated multi-
disciplinary research management concept (patterned after the existing rubber
research program of the DOA) that would replace some of the traditional
discipline and commodity units and bring all crop production and factors of
production research and scientists of various disciplines together under one
DDG for Research. The institutes would also have subordinate commodity and
discipline units. Furthermore, the institute concept would provide the
framework for future consolidation and improvement of the agricultural
research system and could, for example, include the addition of a livestock
institute, soil and water institute, etc.
3.07      Central Services.  In order to carry out these changes effectively
and assure efficiency in project implementation, the DOA would need to
strengthen the support given by its central services. This would be necessary
because of the delegation of initiatives to lower management levels (e.g., the
Institutes, National Research Centers and sub-stations), and the expansion
of DOA's agricultural research capabilities and programs under the project.
The DOA would need to increase its headquarters' core staff - both technical
and administrative personnel (Annex 2, Tables 3 and 4). It would also need to
improve central laboratories, develop a scientific library and communications
system to serve the network of field stations, provide training facilities and
equipment, upgrade the computer facility's capacity, and upgrade several of
the basic science units such as plant pathology, agricultural chemistry,et.al.
3.08      Administration, finance and the research planning capacity would
all be strengthened to assist with the extra work load of the project, but
would ultimately provide the additional capacity needed to handle
expanded research activities at full development (para. 3.01).  The project
would therefore provide for a core of support staff to deal exclusively with
project implementation (Annex 2, Table 4), but this staff would function as
part of the regular administrative, finance and planning establishment.
Staff would be selected on the basis of sound administrative, finance and
planning experience, including experience in dealing with Bank-assisted
projects. They would receive special project implementation training covering
Bank and government procedures.
3.09      Technical Support.  Technical divisions and services within the DOA
would receive particular attention under the project. Technical support (in-
cluding basic research) would be generally strengthened through the separate



- 1 7 -
discipline and service oriented divisions for specific activities, which
would be grouped under a DDC for Technical Services (Chart TIB 22064).  This
concentration of technical services would facilitate and expedite research
under the project. Staff assigned to the Technical Support Services divisions
(Annex 2, Table 3) would have a background and training in disciplines related
to agricultural sciences, rather thnan being administrative/clerical personnel.
One of the most important technical services would be provided by the
Technology Evaluation and Application Unit of each institute, which would
contribute to and utilize the capability in sampling techniques and research
data analysis of the Statistical Section (Planning Division). This would be
necessary because of expanded research under the project, the decentralization
of research, and the evaluation of more complex multifactoral experiments.
Project assistance would comprise training that would enable staff to assist
more effectively in the design of experiments, and improvements in the
computer system for more efficient processing of data. Finally, the project
would strengthen station management and development; this function would
assure the administrative and technical support services vital to the
successful implementation of research programs, which would be planned and
executed by the field stations (para. 3.18). During the project consideratior
would be given to establishing and upgrading the station development and
management branch to divisional status.
3.10     MIanagement Changes.  The DOA would need to change some management
procedures, or introduce new policies, in order to carry out these measures
effectively.  Tle project would provide for the development of an organization
and management system that allows the nature and scope of all research
activities to be clearly identified. A suitable program planning and budget-
ing system (para. 5.02) would therefore define funding requirements by
research program, project and station operations, and provide for regular
reporting and evaluation. During negotiations assurances were provided that
the borrower would establish an appropriate program planning and budgeting
system to enable the DOA to control its research operations and staff by pro-
gram and location. This system would allow the relevant agencies - DOA, MOAC,
National Economic and Social Development Board (NESDB), Budget Bureau and the
Civil Service Commission (CSC) - to devise the most effective and efficient
research programs with the limited resources available.
3.11      The DOA, assisted by other government agencies, would change some
personnel development policies in order to ensure adeauate staffing of field
stations (para. 2.05). Tle project would provide for the appointment of a
Scientific Staff Career Development Comm-ission and consultants to study and
evaluate the problems of staff assigned to the field stations (paras. 3.12-
3.13). The commission would then design a suitable career development svstem
that promotes the Scientists' welfare and also would encourage them to live
and work at the field stations on a regular basis. The DOA will adopt the
"dual ladder" system /1 for evaluation and promotion of scientists (para.3.13)
/1 Administrators and scientists would be evaluated, rated and promoted on
the basis of separate criteria enabling scientists to be promoted and
receive merit salary increases without accepting administrative
assignments.



- 18 -
and nonscientists already devised by the Civil Service Commission
(C SC) .
(b) Staff Development and Technical Assistance
3.12      Staff Development.  The project would seek to assure that DOA's
research stations are adequately and appropriately staffed. This would
involve the hiring, training and assignment of about 580 additional scientists
to the project and centers under the project (Annex 2, Tables 1 and 2) and
supporting staff (Annex 2, Tables 3 and 4). These scientific staff would
comprise about 75 PhDs, 221 MScs, and 283 BScs and technicians, of which more
than 90% would be located at the field stations (Annex 2, Table 1). The DOA
would develop and implement an appropriate management and budgetary system to
control the locations of established posts and the assignment of staff (para.
3.10). These staffing needs could be partly met by recruitment from the
output of local universities (perhaps for two thirds of MSc scientists and 10%
of PhD scientists); however, overseas training would provide scientists in
some disciplines not taught locally and also assure that graduates have
adequate experience in research techniques and methodology. To improve the
overall educational profile of scientists at the field stations, the project
would provide about 580 man-years (150 local) of fellowships (Annex 2, Table
6), primarily for postgraduate studies. Fellowship candidates would be
selected from existing BSc and MSc staff and from newly recruited staff at
these levels, who are willing to accept postings to field stations.
Nongraduate supporting staff would also have to be increased (Annex 2, Table
5) but not in direct proportion to the scientific staff because most stations
already are essentially manned by nongraduates.
3.13      Conditions for Employment of Scientists.  The development and
effectiveness of agricultural research in Thailand depends upon the ability to
decentralize operations. The Government recognizes that the existing terms and
conditions for employment are inadequate to attract and retain qualified
scientists (para. 3.11) at the field stations. Measures have already been
proposed to improve the terms of employment and career development oppor-
tunities for scientists at the field stations (also the 19 National Research
Centers have been selected on the basis of availability of suitable
amenities). Personnel management would be strengthened and opportunities for
training would be provided. This would include: (a) making provisions to
permit working scientists to be promoted to higher grade levels without
accepting administrative posts; (b) substantially increasing the number of
high level posts in the field while simultaneously reducing the high level
posts at Bangkhen; (c) establishing a budgetary system that will provide the
means of controlling the support and assignment of staff, et al (para. 5.02).
Assurances were provided during negotiations that a commission and consultants
would be appointed (not later than January 1, 1982) to study the terms and
conditions for employment of scientists and recommend improvements; and that
the borrower would, on a continuing basis, make improvements in the terms and
conditions for employment of agricultural research scientists.



- 19 -
3.14      Extension Linkage and Technology Evaluation.  The type of technical
staff provided would also be important for improving linkages with extension
and evaluation of technology. The project would provide training officers and
subject matter specialists (SMS) to work regularly and closely with farmers
and extension workers. Research SMS's would be familiar with Lesearch method-
ology and work closely and regularly with research scientists so that they can
effectively translate research results into practical information to be used
by extension workers and farmers. The general linkages for research and
extension are indicated in Chart WB 21730. In addition, it would provide for
a small group of socioeconomists and technology application specialists to be
located at the Bangken headquarters and at each of the 19 project research
centers to determine the benefits of new and improved technology and the
reasons why farmers reject or accept elements of technology.
3.15      Technical Assistance.  The project would provide 14.5 man-years of
consultant (Annex 2, Table 7) services to assist with project implementation
activities, research program operations, and training of local scientists (for
terms of reference, see Annex 5). A Research Program Planning Adviser would
be appointed (2 man-years) to assist the DOA in assuring that research poli-
cies and programs are consistent with the needs of the farming community; he
would also help to oversee the implementation of staff training and the provi-
sion of expert services under the project. Project implementation and admin-
istrative changes within the DOA would be guided by a Financial and Adminis-
trative Adviser (2 man-years), a Station Development Adviser would assist with
the preparation of site development plans and design of research facilities (1
man-year); about 6 man-years of technical specialists would also be provided
to assist in the conduct of research and training of local scientists.
Provision has also been made for (3.5 man-years) of short-term specialists to
assist in solving problems that arise during implementation, and in designing
and conducting periodic program reviews and regular monitoring and evaluations
of research programs and projects. Consultants provided under the project
would complement additional scientists that would be provided by other
national and international agencies. The project would also provide finance
for joint research (DOA/ University) thus promoting coordination of research
and facilitating the use of university manpower (para. 4.03). Assurances were
provided at negotiations that consultants would be engaged under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank.
3.16      The main lines of crop production research that would be assisted by
technical specialists would cover:
(a)  plant breeding work variety trials for high yield, pest and
disease resistance, and quality;
(b) cultural practices, including multiple cropping, plant
spacing, tillage for soil and moisture conservation, and weed
control;
(c) chemical and biological methods of insect, pest, and disease
control;
(d) fertilizer requirements, methods and times of application;



- 20 -
(e) farming systems, including intercropping; and
(f) pre- and post-harvest technology.
3.17      Socio-Economic Research.  Evaluation of the benefits of technology
would be an integral component of commodity and farming systems research.
Consultants services for agricultural economists and socioeconomists would
therefore be provided for two man-years under the project. A socioeconomic
research capability would be developed within the DOA in cooperation with the
MOAC Office of Agricultural Economics (OAE) to work closely with technical
scientists in determining the adaptability, acceptability and benefits to
farmers of new and improved technology. Some of these specialists would be
centrally located, but most would be assigned to the 19 research centers
(para. 3.12), the same as the stations' technical scientists.
(c) Station Development
3.18      National Research Centers.  The project would support the develop-
ment of 19 selected field stations (Research Centers) by providing the criti-
cal mass of resources to carry out efficient and effective multidisciplinary
research. The centers would be assigned to the commodity research institutes
for administrative control (para. 3.05). The management of each Research
Center would be strengthened by creating positions for a Chief of Station and
a Station Manager who would also have responsibility for the outreach projects
at substations and on-the-farm research. The Chief of Station would have at
least a BSc degree in agriculture, and field research experience that will
enable him to devise and apply research methodology that can produce
convincing results. The Station Manager would be responsible for the
day-to-day operations of the center. Project activities would include land
development, and the provision of housing, offices, laboratories, field and
scientific equipment, materials and supplies. The provision of staff housing,
as well as the selection of the centers near cities (Annex 1, Table 4 and IBRD
Map 14832) that offer reasonable educational and medical facilities, should
help to assure that the field stations are adequately staffed. Stations were
also selected by region to achieve national coverage and to provide research
centers and/or substations in the main growing areas (Map IBRD 14832). The
location of well-trained, comprehensive research teams in the field (Annex 2,
Table 1) would allow scientists to identify practical problems facing local
farmers; design and carry out research projects to provide new and improved
technology to support extension to farmers that would increase their
productivity and income.
3.19      The commodity institutes would have administrative control of the 19
National Research Centers (para. 3.05) and appropriate substations; whereas
the Farming Systems Institute work would cut across commodity lines thus it
would not have or need administrative control (per se) of research stations,
but would work closely with the commodity centers and would have staff
assigned to those centers. The 19 centers would be developed as multi-
disciplinary National Research Centers; and would become the focal points
for commodity research. The proposed Rubber Institute (para. 2.05) would
continue to use the research center at Hattyai for this purpose; limited funds
are also included in the project to further develop rubber research. Crop
protection research involves mainly laboratory work and is more appropriately



- 21 -
centrally located; crop protection research would thus continue to use
existing facilities at the Bangkhen headquarters, but would also work at
appropriate centers and stations. Farming systems and pre and post harvest
technology research would cut across all commodity groups (and include
livestock) and thus would be undertaken at several of the National Centers and
substations; however, farming systems research would be concentrated at the
National Centers at Ubon and Khon Kaen and the substations in the Northeast
(Loei, Sakon Nakom, Kalasin, Mahasarakam and M4ukdaham) that were supported
under the Upland Crops Improvement Project Loan 1198-TH (Annex 1, Table 4 and
IBRD Map 14832R).
3.20      Rationalization of the Research System.  The project would also pro-
vide for the rationalization of MOAC's research facilities (5 Departments and
145 stations, Annex 1, Table 3). While project activities (the first phase of
research development) would focus on 19 DOA centers (stations), a commission
would be appointed, and assisted by consultants, to conduct a review of MOAC's
entire network of departmental research stations. The objectives of this
rationalization review would be to improve the coordination, economy and effi-
ciency of agriculture research systems, possibly leading to the integration
of all agriculture research under one unified organization and management
system (para. 2.01). The commission would be expected to make recommendations
regarding (a) the possible need for an Agricultural Research Council; (b) the
number of research facilities required and their locations; (c) disposition of
those facilities that may no longer be required for research; (d) further
changes in the organization and management structure, (e) the status of Tech-
nology Application and Evaluation (now an activity of each institute) and eco-
nomist and sociologists in the DOA research system, etc. During negotiations
assurances were provided that the MOAC would appoint (by January 1, 1982) a
commission and engage consultants, under terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank, to conduct the research rationalization review of the MOAC
Departmental research activities. Over the short-term, the organization and
rationalization proposed under the project would provide a framework for
future additional integration and coordination of all agricultural research.
Ultimately this would facilitate integrated crop production and livestock
production research.
(d) Research Council and Committees
3.21      Agricultural Research Council.  The establishment of an agricultural
research council (ARC) would be given consideration in the early stages of
project implementation (after the agricultural research system review (para.
3.20) has been completed). The ARC would become the agriculture sector
research policy and coordinating agency and would be complementary to the
existing NRC (para. 2.23), which has overall advisory and executive responsi-
bility for national science to the Prime Minister's office (this function is
now part of the Ministry of Science, Technology and Energy). It would com-
prise members of relevant government departments, scientists, and representa-
tives from the agriculture and agro-industry related private sectors. The
Council's activities would cover agricultural research and development in its



- 22 -
broadest sense, i.e., including crop production, livestock, forestry,
fisheries, and soil and water management. The functions of the ARC would be
similar to those already established and operational in India and the
Philippines.
3.22      National Agricultural Research Coordinating Committee.  This
committee would be established under the Chairmanship of the Under Secretary
of State, MOAC. The membership and functions would be essentially the same
as those indicated above for the ARC and would include appropriate represen-
tation from both the public and private sectors. It is anticipated that this
committee would be established as an interim measure and subject to the recom-
mendations of the research rationalization review commission (para. 3.20-21);
this committee would be phased out after the proposed ARC is created and
becomes operational.
3.23      Provincial Agricultural Committees.  Under the project, more atten-
tion would be given to the coordination and planning of research and extension
(para 2.15) at the local level and to promote a two-way flow of technology,
problems and information. This would be achieved by expanding the responsi-
bilities of the existing Provincial Agricultural Extension Coordinating
Committees and Technical Advisory Panels to include research. These commit-
tees would provide a point of contact for scientists from the field research
stations, extension workers and farmers, thus ensuring the responsiveness of
research programs to regional needs. During negotiations, assurances were
provided that a national research committee would be established by January 1,
1982; and that the terms of reference of the existing Provincial Extension
Committees would be broadened to adequately cover agriculture research.
4. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
Cost Estimates
4.01      Total project costs, including contingencies, are estimated at
B 1,830.0 million ($91.5 million). The foreign exchange component of B 660.0
million equivalent (about $33.0 million) represents 36% of the total project
cost. Project cost estimates are summarized in Table 4.1:



- 23 
Table 4.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
% of
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total   F.E. base
---(Baht x million)---  --(US$ x million)--    (%)  cost
I. Station Development
Civil works                      178    120       298       8.9    6.0   14.9    40       -
Vehicles & farm equipment         24     58        82       1.2    2.9    4.1    70       -
Office & laboratory furni-
ture equipment & supplies       58      86       149      2.9    4.3    7.2    60        -
Purchase of land                  20      -        20       1.0       -    1.0      -     -
Subtotal I                   280    264        544     14.0   13.2   27.2    49    47
II. Technical Services
Fellowships                       28     66        94       1.4    3.3    4.7    70       -
Technical assistance              16     36        52       0.8    1.8    2.6    70       -
Subtotal II                   44    102        146      2.2    5.1    7.3             12
III. Operations
Salaries, wages & benefits    226         -       226      11.3      -   11.3       -     -
Fertilizers, chemicals, etc.    6        40        46       0.3    2.0    2.3    85       -
Maintenance & repair              50     16        66       2.5    0.8    3.3    25       -
Lab supplies, planting                                                             25     -
materials & other             108      36       144       5.4    1.8    7.2
Subtotal III                 390      92       482     19.5    4.6   24.1             41
IV. Project Base Cost                 714    458    1,172       35.7   22.9   58.6    39   100
V. Contingencies
Physical contingencies /a         36     32        68       1.8    1.6    3.4
Price contingencies             420    170        590      21.0    8.5   29.5
Subtotal V                   456    202        658     22.8   10.1   32.9
Total Project Cost         1,170    660    1,830       58.5   33.0   91.5    36
/a 15% for civil works + 10% for equipment and supplies.



- 24 -
4.02      Costs were estimated using prices expected to prevail commencing
with the RTG 1981 fiscal year (October 1980). Physical contingencies were
calculated at the rate of 15% for civil works and 10% for vehicles, equipment
and furniture. Price contingencies were calculated at the following rates:
Type of                      Annual Inflation Rate (%)
expenditure         1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986/88
Local /a               14    13    12    12       10     9     8
Foreign /b          10.5   9.0   8.0   8.0        7      7     6
/a Local revised 1/22/80.
/b Foreign revised 12/16/79.
Cost of civil works and equipment were based on recent experience of the DOA
and the National Extension Project. The estimated total operating costs for
the 19 Centers under the project is about B 750 million ($37.5 million);
salaries and wages make up about 45% of the operating cost.  Taxes /1 are
included and are estimated to be about 8.0% of the project cost. Project cost
details are presented in Annex 2, Tables 8, 9, and 10, and are summarized in
Table 4.1.
Consultants, Architect and Engineering Costs
4.03      The project would provide for 174 man-months of consultants and
other technical services (foreign and local) at an estimated cost (including
contingencies) of $3.5 million (Annex 2, Table 7), of which the equivalent of
about $1.5 million would be provided by the Government of Australia (para.
4.05). The average direct man-month cost, including salaries, fees and
international travel is expected to be about $6,750 (total cost about $8,000);
the cost of some local travel is included as part of the cost of vehicles and
other operating costs. Consultants would be hired under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. The MOAC Departmental Research Rationalizaton Review
and Evaluation, and Career Development for Scientists Studies are estimated to
cost $200,000.  These costs are based on the assumption that RTG would appoint
a commission to conduct the studies and that local specialists assisted by
consultants would undertake the work. The project also provides $500,000 to
finance research projects to be undertaken in cooperation with the
agricultural universities and would provide grants for specific research
projects; provide for hiring of university manpower (university staff and
graduate students); and joint research (DOA/ University).
/1 Some categories of research equipment, goods and supplies are either tax
exempt or taxes are insignificant.



- 25 -
The estimated architect and engineering cost is $1.0 million based on about
4.5% of the estimated construction costs and would include site development
planning, detailed designs and construction supervision.
Financing
4.04      The proposed project cost would be financed as follows:
Table 4.2: PROJECT FINANCING
Amount            % of total
$ million   B million   project cost
Government              44.5         890.0        49.0
IBRD                    30.0         600.0        33.0
IFAD                     15.0        300.0        16.0
Australia                 2.0          40.0        2.0
Total Costs            91.5       1,830.0       100.0
4.05      The Bank loan of $30 m (equivalent to 33% of the project cost
excluding taxes) would be to the Government of Thailand on standard Bank
terms and would cover $19 million of the foreign exchange requirement and $11
million or 19% of the local cost. Bank financing by category of expenditure
is detailed in Table 4.3. Co-financing by IFAD would be provided for 16% of
the project cost ($15 m) and the Australian Government would provide $2.0
million for technical services (about $1.5 m for consultants and $0.5 m for
fellowships). The Government would be responsible for providing the remain-
ing $44.5 m (49%) of the total project cost but will seek to obtain bilateral
or multilateral technical assistance on concessional terms to meet part of
these costs (e.g. fellowships, consultancies). The foreign exchange compon-
ent cost would be $33.0 million and local currency financing is justified
because of the need to reorient the lending program towards projects that
would reduce income differentials and improve productivity of the poorest
farmers. Retroactive financing (for expenditures incurred after June 30,
1980) in the amount of $500,000 would be provided for pre project implemen-
tation works; advance contracting would also be acceptable to the Bank in
accordance with procedures in paras. 5.03, 5.04 and 5.05.



- 26 -
Table 4.3: PROJECT FINANCING BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
RTG   IBRD   IFAD  Austra-    Total          %
lia    $ million  Reimb./a
1.  Civil works                                                                85
(a)  Housing                0.7    4.3    -         -          5.0
(b)  Laboratories,           3.0   11.0    6.0      -         20.0
offices & others
2.  Land purchase                  1.2    -       -        -          1.2
3.  Vehicles & equipment           2.5    8.0    4.5       -         15.0       85
(office, farm, lab.,
etc.)
4.  Fertilizer, chemicals,         1.5    4.5    3.0       -          9.0      85
spare parts, planting,
lab., and other materials
5.  Technical services             5.9    1.3    0.7       2.0        9.9     100
6.  Operating costs               29.7    -       -        -         29.7        -
(Salaries, wages,
benefits, maintenance,
utilities, other)
7.  Unallocated                    -       0.9    0.8      -          1.7     100
Total                   44.5   30.0   15.0      2.0       91.5       52
/a  The Bank loan of $30 million and the IFAD loan of $15 million would be
apportioned approximately 2/3 and 1/3 against withdrawal applications
(para. 5.06) with the exception of housing.
5. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Organization and Management
5.01      The Director General of the DOA would continue to be responsible for
crop production research, including the research programs and projects of the
six institutes and supporting divisions; he would be assisted and supported by
three Deputy Directors General (para. 3.05). The main responsibility for
project implementation and coordination would rest with the Deputy Director
General for Research, who would answer directly to the DOA's Director General.
The DDG Research would be assisted in project implementation by a Project Imple-
mentation Coordinator and additional administrative and support staff (para.
3.07-08), as well as by a Financial and Administrative Adviser and a Station
Development Adviser (para. 3.15), who would be directly responsible to



- 27 -
him. The research program planning adviser would be responsible to the
Director General but may also assist the DDG Research. All other consultants
would normally be responsible to the appropriate research institute or divi-
sion (Annex 5). DOA's research operations, and its organization and manage-
ment (existing and under the project) are elaborated upon in Annex 3 and the
project file. During negotiations assurances were provided that the borrower
would maintain qualified and competent persons in the positions of Deputy
Director General Research, Project Implementation Coordinator, and supporting
staff of the DOA; and that the Bank would be advised of any changes in the
appointment of the DOA's DDG Research and Project Implementation
Coordinator./l
Procedures
5.02      Program Planning and Budgeting.  Tinder the project, the DOA would
institutionalize complex and comprehensive research programs by organizing
the worlc according to a program planning and budgeting system (PPB). The
project system would provide for the clear definition of research within units
so that:
(a) program priorities may be readily assessed by the DOA, MOAC, NESDB,
BOB, and other relevant agencies;
(b) fund requirements for current operations and for capital expendi-
tures can be readily determined, by research activity and by
location;
(c) funds can be allocated, with delegated responsibility for manage-
ment and accounting, to the institutes, divisions and research
centers and substations; and
(d) research expenditures for programs, commodities and projects can be
evaluated in terms of expected and actual benefits.
In order to do this effectively, research programs would be broken down into
three levels, which would be vertically integrated: (a) institute projects,
which would define the broad activities of an institute; (b) division/branch
projects, which would detail the specific functions of a division; and (c)
line projects, which would describe the main experiments or lines of work.
During negotiations assurances were provided that an appropriate PPB system
would be developed and implemented (para. 3.10).
5.03      Mfonitoring and Evaluation.  Mfonitoring and evaluation (M&E) would be
important in project implementation as a routine supervisory function; also,
procedures would need to be designed and developed during implementation to
handle more complex research operations. The project provides for a consul-
tant in research review, monitoring and evaluation to advise and assist the
DOA to design an effective system (para. 3.15) to help identify and measure
progress, benefits and results of research. Regular reporting by research
workers would become the basis for annual division and program reports; they
would also serve as the basis for evaluating staff performance. The annual
/1 The DDG Research and Project Implementation Coordinators have been desig-
nated and were members of the negotiating team; they will be appointed to
these posts when the organization plan is approved and the posts are offi-
cially established (not later than October 1, 1981).



- 28 -
reports and research projects would be reviewed by internal panels, assisted
by qualified and interested persons from other institutes, departments and
agencies in Thailand (internal review). The DOA would also invite renowned
scientists from international institutes and overseas national institutes to
assist with the periodic review and evaluation of research projects and
programs (external review). Assurances were provided during negotiations that
the DOA would engage renowned national and international scientists to assist
in the formulation and implementation of appropriate monitoring and evaluation
and research program review systems; and that an M&E unit would be established
in the Program Planning Division.
5.04      Procurement.  Contracts for civil works (estimated to cost about
$25.0 million would generally be small and scattered in time and place and
would not be of interest to international contractors. Contracts estimated to
exceed $500,000 (essentially facilities at 2 National Research Centers, Horti-
culture, $2.25 million; and Rice, $1.5 million) would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines. All other civil works contracts would be awarded on the basis of
local competitive bidding (LCB) in accordance with government procedures
acceptable to the Bank. Contracts for equipment (except specialized research
equipment), goods and supplies (costing about $23 million) estimated to exceed
$150,000 would be awarded on the basis of ICB in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines. Specialized research equipment shall be procured by local and
international prudent shopping in accordance with government procedures
acceptable to the Bank. Except as shall be otherwise agreed, such procurement
shall not exceed in aggregate $2.0 million. All other contracts for
equipment, goods and supplies would be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding in accordance with government procedures satisfactory to
the Bank. Fertilizers and chemicals (estimated to cost $3.0 million) would be
purchased in small quantities and varying mixes and would not be of interest
to international suppliers; thus fertilizers and chemicals contracts would be
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with
government procedures satisfactory to the Bank. For all contracts estimated
to exceed $250,000, the Bank's prior approval would be required before
invitations to bid are issued and contracts are awarded. To the extent
practicable, similar equipment, civil works, goods and materials would be
grouped together in the same tender for economy and efficiency.
5.05      To provide flexibility for the purchase of small items, (urgent
requirements and miscellaneous consumable supplies) prudent shopping, with a
minimum of 3 quotations (if possible), would be applied for items each costing
$15,000 or less, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $1.5 m. A preference
margin limited to 15% of the c.i.f. price of imported goods or the prevailing
customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in
the evaluation of bids.
5.06      Disbursements.  The Bank loan of $30 million and the IFAD loan of
$15 million would be apportioned at 2/3 and 1/3 against withdrawal applica-
tions and would be made at the following rates:
(a) civil works, including site development - 85%;
(b) technical services including architectural and engineering
services and fellowships - 100%;



- 29 -
(c) vehicles, field and laboratory equipment, materials, spare
parts and furniture - 100% of foreign exchange, 100% of local
expenditure (ex-factory) or 65%; and
(d) feztilizers, chemicals and planting materials 85%.
The project would have an 8-year staff development (fellowship) period finan-
ced by RTG and the Government of Australia; the 6-year physical development
phase would be financed by RTG, IFAD and the Bank and disbursements would be
completed June 30, 1987. The estimated schedule of disbursements and
expenditures is given in Annex 2, Table 11.
5.07      Purchase of individual items and contracts valued at less than
$25,000 would be grouped together and reimbursement made against a certified
statement (list) of expenditure in aggregate amounts of not less than $25,000.
All contracts and related supporting documents for expenditures of less than
$25,000 would be retained by the implementing agency for review by the Bank as
and when required. Statements of expenditure would be audited.
5.08     Reporting.  Project reporting would be on a semi-annual basis with a
mid-term project review. An annual report would also be prepared as an
addition to the six-month report. A suitable format and timing for reports
would be agreed upon during the first supervision mission.
5.09      Accounts and Audits.  Assurances were provided during negotiations
that the DOA would maintain project accounts and financial statements,
acceptable to the Bank, covering all proposed project expenditures at the
Bangkok headquarters and each of the 19 National Research Centers. Auditors
satisfactory to the Bank would be employed to audit these accounts annually,
and certified copies of the audited financial statement and the auditor's
report would be submitted to the Bank within 9 months of the end of the
Government's fiscal year. A suitable financial statement format would be
agreed upon during the first Bank supervision review.
Phasing
5.10      Past experience with similar research projects suggests that the
project would have a slow start-up period due to the emphasis on local man-
power development and the time required to establish posts, and hire and train
staff. Major emphasis in years 1 and 2 would be on the acquisition of
suitable sites, where necessary, and on the preparation of site development
plans. A, site acceptable to the Bank would be acquired for the National
Research Center for Horticulture (Salaya has been proposed). Additional
Government land would also be made available at Kanthuli and Phuket for
coconut research, seed gardens and nurseries. Assurances were provided during
negotiations that suitable land would be acquired, including the National
Research Center for Horticulture and land would be made available at Kanthuli
and Phuket for coconut research, seed gardens and nurseries. Arrangements
acceptable to the DOA, MOAC and the Bank would be made for the DOA to use
some of the land and facilities of the MOAC's regional centers at Chainat



- 30 -
and Tha Phra as research substations. Provision has been made under the
project for architectural and engineering assistance for the preparation of
site development plans and architectural and engineering designs. Site
development plans and a major part of the architectural and engineering
designs would be completed in year I of the project. The schedule of
physical implementation and costs is detailed in Annex 2, Tables 9 and 12,
and the Project File.
5.11      Implementation of the fellowship program and the provision of con-
sultants would also be phased under the project (Annex 2, Tables 6 and 7
respectively). The fellowship program would provide 75 PhD and 150 MSc
scientists over the eight-year project period, with the first graduates taking
up field postings in project year 3. The DOA would submit annual lists of
fellowship programs to the Bank, for review, by June 30 each year commencing
in 1981; assurances to this effect were provided at negotiations. Some
consultants, primarily those concerned with research organization, program
planning and project implementation, would be required early in the project
start-up period. Technical specialists would be provided later, when
counterpart staff are available and physical facilities have been improved.
The Financial and Administrative Adviser, Station Development Advisor,
architect and engineering services, and some other short-term specialists
would be eligible for finance under the Bank and IFAD loan (para. 3.15 and
Table 7); other technical specialists would be financed under bilateral
assistance (para. 4.03). Implementation cost phasing is detailed in Annex 2,
Table 10.
6. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Benefits and Justification
6.01      The potential for increasing yields and cropping intensities, and
hence farm family income, is relatively high in Thailand. Since 1960, the
major source of economic growth in agriculture has been expansion of the
cultivated area (Table 1.1); within agriculture, the most significant
development has been the decline in the importance of rice relative to field
crops. Although real value added in rice has continued to increase, its share
in total value added declined from 51% in 1960 to 39% in 1975, while the share
of value added from field crops (especially corn and cassava) has steadily
increased, since these crops often yield a higher value than rice. Crop
diversification, however, has been additional to rather than at the expense of
rice, as the area planted to paddy has continued to increase by 2% per year.
While opportunities for further expansion of the cultivated area are limited,
an alternative means of raising production lies in the potential for
increasing yields and cropping intensity on the present cultivated area. The
resultant increases in production would raise net farm family incomes, which
are presently B 10,800 for a family of six, or about equal to the estimated
poverty income level for Thailand of $90.0 per capita p.a. A proportion of
the expected increase in yields/production would be attributable to improved
agricultural technology, additional inputs and improved infrastructure
systems. Research services, and the development of new and improved tech-
nology, would play an important indirect role, as investments in agricultural



- 31 -
research generally have high rates of return (para. 6.02) and are especially
important in transferring new agricultural technology from other nations.
Table 6.1: GROWTH RATE OF MAJOR CROPS, 1959-75
Production (%)             Area (%)               Yield (%)
1959-70   1970-75      1959-70   1970-75       1959-70   1970-75
Paddy            2.9      0.2            2.1       2.3          0.7       -2.1
Maize           12.9      13.4          13.3      13.3         -0.4        0.1
Cassava          6.4     37.9           8.1       38.6         -1.6       -0.5
Kenaf           16.8     -1.4           16.0       0.8          0.6       -2.0
Sugarcane        1.5     34.3           0.1       27.0          0.5        5.7
Rubber           5.0       4.8           4.4       3.7          0.6        1.1
Source: Basic Economic Report, 1976.
6.02      No attempt has been made to calculate a rate of return for the
proposed project for several reasons. It is difficult to quantify precisely
the resources required to achieve research results or the benefits of
research. A hypothetical rate of return calculation depends largely on
improvements in the research service's organization and quality of management;
on the development of highly trained and experienced scientific manpower; and
on the time that elapses before expenditure of resources produces useful
results and these results are applied by farmers. Also, research cannot be
considered as a fixed-term or short-term enterprise but is, rather, a
continuously evolving activity. However, experience with research programs in
both developed and developing countries has shown that economic rates of
return to research are frequently in excess of 40% p.a. and seldom fall below
20%./1
6.03      Agricultural research budgets are presently inadequate, with the
result that research programs have been ineffective in developing technology
that would enable farmers to realize these potential increases. Investment in
agricultural research in Thailand, in relation to the present and potential
value of production, is unrealistically low compared to levels elsewhere (the
generally accepted allocation for research is 1% of the value of production
and the average for developing countries is 0.25% /2). In Thailand, the total
value of major crop production in 1977 amounted to roughly $6.5 billion, while
DOA's total expenditures were about $16.0 million, or about 0.25% of the total
/1 The World Bank and Agricultural Research Systems in Developing Countries
(draft Bank policy paper), January 10, 1980.
/2 Investment in Agricultural Research, R.E. Evenson, 1973.



- 32 -
value of crop production. Deducting the proportion spent onl seed multiplica-
tion, regulatory and service functions, the actual crop prodction research
budget was estimated at less than $10.0 million, or about 0 i5% of the total
value of crop production.  For the major crop, rice, the total budget allo-
cated to DOA's Rice Division was $2.5 million, while the value of production
was estimated at about $4.0 billion; thus the budget of the Rice Division was
only about 0.06% of the value of rice production. The pro4ecc would represent
a substantial increase in research spending, with total costs estimated at
around B 1,830 million or about $91.5 million over a six-yea-- physical
development and eight-year manpower development period.
6.04      Increased expenditure under the project would strengthen research
operations and so benefit most farmers, either directly or indirectlyv
Project activities would achieve national coverage, by decentralizing research
programs initially to 19 National Research Centers throughout the country, and
would concentrate on a wide range of crops (rice, field crops and horticulture
crops) and farming systems. Implementation of the project would promote
institution building objectives of the DOA; the department's revised
organizational and management structure would provide the leadership and
direction required for the expanded and decentralized national research
system. Finally, the project would provide the basis for rationalizing the
entire research station network, which, together with the reorientation of
research programs along multidisciplinary lines, would use research resources
more effectively.
6.05      The project would improve the relevance of research findings by
orienting experiments and trials to actual farming conditions in the area and
by concentrating on the solution of problems encountered by farmers. Research
projects would cover all aspects of production, crop protection9 processing,
utilization, product development, storage and marketing. The DOA would also
establish a unit that can evaluate and apply multidisciplinary research
results and test them at the farm level; this unit would work closely with the
team of pure research scientists and agriculture extension staffs Testing
would cover selected village farm conditions, i.e., with varying physical
environments, as well as social, cultural and economic circumstances, since
these also influence the pattern of work and decision making at the household
level. Continuous communications and coordination with the DAE would facili-
tate the flow of information from the research centers to farmers. Feedback
from farmers and other users of research information and technology would also
enable researchers to work on pressing problems for farmers in the area.
6.06      The expansion of research operations proposed under the project
would have two additional benefits. First, research findings would make a
major contribution to the control and reduction of environmental degradation.
The project would develop new technology for land use and soil conservation,
continue research on the use and control of agricultural chemicals, and
promote the rehabilitation of steep land and forest reserves. Second,
research would indirectly improve farm families' level of nutrition by faci-
litating crop diversification and increases in production and a farm house-
hold's net income. The promotion of crop diversification would make fruits



- 33 -
and vegetables available to most rural families; consumption of this produce
would be encouraged by extension personnel, thus raising the level of
nutrition.
Risks
6.07      The most significant risks to the overall success of the project
center on the DOA's ability to develop an effective organization and
management system, and on the terms and conditions for employment and the
availability of sufficient qualified scientists. Implementation of the
project would therefore be dependent on strengthening DOA's management, which
would be achieved by delegating specific responsibilities to three Deputy
Directors General and six directors of the research institutes; overall
responsibility for project implementation would, however, rest with the Deputy
Director General for Research. New organizational procedures would foster
effective research by decentralizing planning decisions and promoting a
multidisciplinary approach to research on a nationwide basis. Technical
assistance (14.5 man-years) would provide the DOA with guidance on research
organization, planning and project implementation. To assure adequate
staffing complements, the project would provide for the formulation of
incentives and a career development system to attract and retain postgraduate
level scientists at the field stations. The project would provide an
additional 580 scientists (of which about 350 would be postgraduate degree
holders), most of whom would be assigned to the field stations, and about 580
manyears of mainly postgraduate fellowship training for staff upgrading.
6.08      Other important risks to the success of the project center on the
farmers' acceptance and adoption of new technology. However, the project has
been designed to focus research programs and projects on practical problems
and so to make research responsive to farmers' needs. In particular, atten-
tion would be given to farming systems and production under rainfed condi-
tions. A new unit would also be created within the DOA to evaluate the social
as well as the economic considerations affecting farmers' acceptance of
proposed technology packages. Links with the DAE would be improved to promote
the extension of technology to farmers. Acceleration of research is essential
to provide the technology for the already expanded extension services.
6.09      The design of the proposed project has thus attempted to minimize
the risks foreseen for successful completion of the project. Despite these
risks, Bank financing of research programs under the proposed project is well
justified by the benefits that would accrue to Thai farmers in the form of
increased production and incomes.
Environmental Effects
6.10      Research programs and other DOA service activities would be designed
to develop farming systems to protect the environment. Research would
emphasize soil and moisture conservation, biological control of pests and
diseases, and regulation and control of the use of fertilizers and chemicals.



- 34 -
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations agreements were reached on the following:
(a) During negotiations assurances were provided that the organization
plan proposed under the project (Chart WB22064) would be imple-
mented within 12 months (para. 3.05);
(b) The borrower would estabish an appropriate program planning and
budgeting system to enable the DOA to control its research
operations and staff by program and location (para. 3.10);
(c) Improvements would be made in the terms and conditions for
employment of scientists on a regular and continuous basis; and
the borrower would appoint a commission and engage consultants
(not later than January 1, 1982) to review and recommend further
improvements in the terms and conditions for employment of its
agricultural research scientists (para. 3.13);
(d) Consultants under the project would be hired under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.15);
(e) A commission and consultants would be appointed by January 1, 1982
to conduct a review of the MOAC departmental research system
with a view to its rationalization (para. 3.20);
(f) National and Provincial Research Committees would be established
by January 1, 1982 to formulate national agricultural research
policy and improve coordinations and planning of research on a
regional or provincial basis (para. 3.23);
(g) The borrower would maintain qualified and competent persons in the
positions of Deputy Director General Research, Project Implemen-
tation Coordinator, and supporting staff of the DOA and the Bank
would be kept advised of any changes in the appointments (para.
5.01);
(h) An appropriate monitoring and evaluation system would be designed
and implemented and the DOA would engage renowned national and
international scientists in the conduct of periodic research
program reviews (para. 5.03);
(i) The DOA would maintain project accounts and financial statements
acceptable to the Bank covering all expenditures under the
project (para. 5.09);
(j) Suitable land would be acquired, including that for a National
Horticulture Center; also land would be made available at Phuket
and Kanthuli for coconut research, seed gardens and nurseries
(para. 5.10); and



- 35 -
(k) The DOA would submit annual lists of fellowship programs to the
Bank by June 30 each year commencing in 1981 (para. 5.11).
7.02      The proposed project would be suitable for a Bank loan of $30.0
million, with a 20 year maturity and a grace period of five years. The
Borrower would be the Kingdom of Thailand.



- 36 -                                 ANNEX I
Table 1
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Field Crop Production
Planted area            Production          Average yield
('000 rai)             ('000 tons)          (kg per rai)
1962/63  1976/77       1962/63  1976/77    1962/63  1976/77
Corn                 2,050    8,029           665    2,675           325      333
Soybean                174       635           30       113          172      179
Groundnut              544       761          112       151          207      199
Mungbean               310    1,392            53       124          173       90
Cassava                761    4,359         2,077   10,138         2,729   2,326
Kenaf                  712    1,009           134       183          188      181
Sugarcane              345    2,804         1,695   22,564             4        8/a
Cotton                 371       154           41        26          111      174
/a  Production and average yield in tons per rai.
Source:  Agricultural Statistics of Thailand Crop Year 1976/77.



- 37 -                               ANNEX I
Table 2
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Area and Annual Growth Rates of Major Crops
1959-60 to 1973-75
Total area
in 1973-75      Area planted    Yield        Production
Crop                   ('000 ha)       ------(%)-----------------
Paddy                   8,069               2.1          0.6           2.7
Corn                    1,367              12.5        -0.5           12.0
Rubber                    989               5.3          0.2           5.5
Cassava                   629              16.1        -0.9           15.1
Kenaf                     478               8.5        -0.5            7.9
Coconut                   369               8.6        -5.1           -2.3
Sugarcane                 315               n.a.        n.a.           n.a.
Mungbeans                 279              13.9         -1.8           11.9
Soybeans                  192              16.4        -0.6           15.6
Sorghum                   173                 -            -             -
Groundnuts                166               3.6          0.3           4.0
Cotton                     42              -1.8          1.4          -0.4
Source:  Thailand - Selected Issues in Rural Development, Background
Working Paper, numbers 4 and 8 prepared for the Thailand Basic
Economic Report, No. 2059-TH, November 1978.



- 38 -                             ANNEX I
Table 3
Page 1
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Ministries, Departments and Agencies:
Agricultural Research Stations and Activities
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND COOPERATIVES (4 stations)
- Northeast Regional Center, Tha Phra
- Central Regional Center, Chainat
- Experimental and demonstration center farm for irrigated agriculture,
Kalasin
- Research in agricultural economics
- Northern Regional Center, Chiang Mai
Department of Livestock (35 stations)
- No distinction between research and development stations
- No basic research stations, pasture research also limited
Department of Agriculture (85 stations)
- Rice (22 stations)
- Field crops (19)
- Horticulture (11)
- Sericulture (14)
- Rubber (19)
- Agricultural engineering
- Plant pathology and microbiology
- Entomology and zoology
- Agricultural chemistry
- Technical services
- Pre- and post-harvest technology
- Regulatory agricultural functions (quarantine, environmental control,
imports, etc.)
Department of Land Development (7 stations)
- Soil and water conservation station at Hang Chat Lampang
- Pasture and range development etc., at Borabn in Northeast
Royal Irrigation Department (5 stations)
Water requirement and management (single crops)
- Mai Tang (Chiang Mai)
- Hyeu Ban Yang (Nakorn Rajasima)
- Samtooh (Supunburi)
- Petchburi
- Kampaeng Saen (Nakorn Pathom)
Department of Fisheries
Fisheries research



- 39 -                          ANNEX I
Table 3
Page 2
BUREAU OF UNIVERSITIES (Prime Minister's Office) ja
Kasetsart: Maize, sorghum, and soybeans (supported by Rockefeller Foundation)
and oil crops, vegetables, grapes
Chieng Mai: Multiple cropping (supported by Ford Foundation), livestock and
pasture support
Khon Kaen: Livestock forage crops and cropping systems
Songkhla:   Crop and livestock research; rubber research in cooperation
with the DOA
APPLIED SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH CORPORATION OF THAILAND (Prime Minister's Office)
Research in processing and product utilization (mushroom culture, grain
storage, processing of industrial and food products)
MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY
-Sugar Institute
-Sugarcane Station, Kanchanaburi
MINISTRY OF INTERIOR
Tribal Welfare Research Center
MINISTRY OF FINANCE (TOBACCO MONOPOLY) (8 stations)
-Tobacco Research Station, Chieng Mai
-8 plantation stations (seed production and extension)
/a Special, short-term projects.
Note: Stations indicate locations where land and facilities are available
for agricultural service activities (research, experiments, demon-
strations, etc.); in some cases the number of stations and nature of
activities have not been verified.



40 -                           ANNEX I
Table 4
Page 1 of 4
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Department of Agriculture Experiment Stations
NORTHERN REGION
Rice Experiment Station:
1. Phan Rice Experiment Station - Chiang Rai
2. Sam Pah Tong Rice Experiment Station - Chiang Mai
* 3. Phrae Rice Experiment Station - Phrae
* 4. Phitsanulok Rice Experiment Station - Phitsanulok
/a 5.  Samerang Station (Highland Research) - Samerang District Chiang Mai
Field Crop Experiment Station:
* 1. Chiang Rai Field Crop Experiment Station - Chiang Rai
* 2. Maejo Field Crop Experiment Station - Chiang Mai
3.  Srisomrong Field Crop Experiment Station - Sukhothai
Horticulture Experiment Station:
* 1.  Doi Muser Horticulture Experiment Station - Tak
2.  Fang Horticulture Experiment Station - Chiang Mai
3.  Nan Horticulture Experiment Station - Nan
4. Tha Chai Horticulture Experiment Station - Sukhothai
5. Hangchat Horticulture Experiment Station - Lampang
Sericulture Experiment Station:
1. Maejo Sericulture Experiment Station - Chiang Mai
NORTHEASTERN REGION
Rice Experiment Station:
1. Sakon Nakhon Rice Experiment Station - Sakon Nakhon
2. Khon Kaen Rice Experiment Station - Khon Kaen
3. Chum Phae Rice Experiment Station - Khon Kaen
4. Surin Rice Experiment Station - Surin
5. Pimai Rice Experiment Station - Nakorn Rajasima
* 6. Ubolrajthani Rice Experiment Station - Ubolrajthani
/a Substation specifically identified to conduct research under the project.
* Research Centers.



- 41 -                               ANNEX I
Table 4
Page 2 of 4
Field Crop Experiment Station:
/a 1.  Kalasin Field Crop Experiment Station - Kalasin
* 2.  Khon Kaen Field Crop Experiment Station - Khon Kaen
Ia 3.  Mahasarakam Field Crop Experiment Station - Mahasarakam
/a 4.  Sakonnakom Field Crop Experiment Station - Mahasarakam
Ia 5.  Nonsoong Field Crop Experiment Station - Nakorn Rajasima
6.  Banmai - Samrong Field Crop Experiment Station - Nakornrajsima
/a 7.  Mukdaham Field Crop Experiment Station - Nakorn Panom
8.  Roi-ed Field Crop Experiment Station - Roi-ed
/a 9.  Loei Field Crop Experiment Station - Loei
*10.  Ubolrajthani Field Crop Experiment Station - Ubolrajthani
Horticulture Experiment Station:
1. Nakorn Panom Horticulture Experiment Station - Nakorn Panom
* 2. Srisaket Horticulture Experiment Station - Srisaket
Sericulture Experiment Station:
1.  Udornthani Sericulture Experiment Station - Udornthani
2.  Khon Kaen Sericulture Experiment Station - Khon Kaen
3.  Muk Dahan Sericulture Experiment Station - Nakorn Panom
4.  Ubolrajthani Sericulture Experiment Station - Ubolrajthani
5.  Phut Thai Song Sericulture Experiment Station - Burirum
6.  Nongkai Sericulture Experiment Station - Nongkai
7.  Roi-ed Sericulture Experiment Station - Roi-ed
8.  Burirum Sericulture Experiment Station - Burirum
9.  Chaiyaphoom Sericulture Experiment Station - Chaiyaphoom
10.  Surin Sericulture Experiment Station - Surin
11.  Sakolnakorn Sericulture Experiment Station - Sakolnakorn
12.  Srisaket Sericulture Experiment Station - Srisaket
13.  Loey Sericulture Experiment Station - Loey
CENTRAL PLAIN REGION
Rice Experiment Station:
1.  Khok Samrong Rice Experiment Station - Lopburi
2.  Hontra Rice Experiment Station - Ayuthya
3.  Khlong Luang Rice Experiment Station - Pathumthani
* 4. Rangsit Rice Experiment Station - Pathumthani
5.  Bangkhen Rice Experiment Station - Bangkok
* 6. Rajburi Rice Experiment Station - Rajburi
7.  Suphanburi Rice Experiment Station - Suphanburi
8.  Chainat Rice Experiment Station - Chainat
9.  Prachinburi Rice Experiment Station - Prachinburi
/a Substation specifically identified under the project.
* Research Centers.



- 42 -                        ANNEX 1
Table 4
Page 3 of 4
Field Crop Experiment Station:
* 1. Chainat Field Crop Experiment Station - Chainat
* 2. Takhli (Tak Fah) Field Crop Experiment Station - Nakorn Sawan
3. Bangkhen Field Crop Experiment Station - Bangkok
4. Prabuddhabat Field Crop Experiment Station - Lopburi
* 5. Hueypong Field Crop Experiment Station - Rayong
* 6. Uthong Field Crop Experiment Station - Suphanburi
Rubber Experiment Station:
1. Pong Rat Rubber Experiment Station - Chantaburi
Horticulture Experiment Station:
lb 1. Bangkok-Noi Horticulture Experiment Station - Bangkok
2. Prew Horticulture Experiment Station - Chantaburi
Lb 3. Salaya Horticulture Station - Bangkok
SOUTHERN REGION
Rice Experiment Station:
1. Nakorn Sri Thamrat Rice Experiment Station - Nakorn Sri Thamrat
i 2. Khuan Gut Rice Experiment Station - Pattalung
3. Pattani Rice Experiment Station - Pattani
Field Crop Experiment Station:
1. Pattalung Field Crop Experiment Station - Pattalung
Horticulture Experiment Station:
* 1. Sawii Horticulture Experiment Station - Chumporn
la 2. Phuket Horticulture Experiment Station - Chumporn
Rubber Experiment Station:
1. Kohong Rubber Experiment Station - Songkhla
* 2. Kanthuli Rubber Experiment Station - Surathani
3.  Kraburi Rubber Experiment Station - Ranong
4. Khaochong Rubber Experiment Station - Trang
5. Khun Ta Lay Rubber Experiment Station - Surathani
6. Khlong Thom Rubber Experiment Station - Krabi
/a Substation specifically identified under the project.
/b To be replaced by a site to be selected at Salaya.
* Research Centers.



- 43 -                             ANNEX 1
Table 4
Page 4 of 4
7. Koke Primeng Rubber Experiment Station - Narathiwat
8. Chandee Rubber Experiment Station - Nakorn Sri Thamrat
9. Thalang Rubber Experiment Station - Phuket
10. Tamtok Rubber Experiment Station - Yala
11. Nai Chong Rubber Experiment Station - Krabi
12.  Bang Pon Rubber Experiment Station - Phang-nga
13. Yala Rubber Experiment Station - Yala
14.  Wang Tang Rubber Experiment Station - Phang-nga
15. Koke Pho Rubber Experiment Station - Pattani
16. Bachoe Rubber Experiment Station - Narathiwat
17. Rusoe Rubber Experiment Station - Narathiwat
18. Sai Buri Rubber Experiment Station - Pattani



- 44 -
ANNEX I
Table 5
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Staffing Summary - 1979
Graduate Staff
PhD       MSc        BSc        Total
Preproject
Department of Agriculture                61         280       821       1,162
Commodity Research (Total)
Rice                                 12         39        161         212
Field crops                           9         38        144         191
Horticulture                          2         17         67          86
Rubber                                3          8         66          77
Sericulture                          -           2         30          32
26        104        468         598
Commodity Research (Field Stations)
Rice                                  1         15        101         117
Field crops                           1          9         55          65
Horticulture                         -            1        33          34
Rubber                                2          6         58          66
Sericulture                          -           -         14          14
4         31        161         296
19 Research Centers and Core Group Under the Project /a
Project Total (Full development)         80         274       471         825
Core Group (Full development)             4          30        47          81
Research Centers (Full dev.)/b           76         244       424         744
Research Centers (Preproject)/c           1          16        93         110
/a  Includes the three Commodity Divisions (Rice, Field Crops and Horticulture
Crops) and supporting services.
/b  Includes existing staff reassigned from DOA headquarters, Bangkhen.
/c  Includes only those presently assigned and working at the 19 stations to
be developed under the project



- 45 -                           ANNEX I
Table 6
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
DOA:/a Financial Statement for FY79 (Oct. 78-Sept. 79)
(Billion)
Amount      Amount
Categories of expenses                    allocated   expended
Salaries                                    80.0          92.4
Permanent wages                             66.1          70.9
Temporary wages                              61.6         71.2
Remuneration                                  3.9           3.4
Ordinary expenses                            46.9         46.4
Public utilities /b                             -             -
Supplies                                    55.6          51.5
Equipment                                    19.5         20.0
Construction                                40.6          47.9
Subsidies                                    0.9           0.9
Other                                         3.1          2.7
Total                         378.2        407.3
/a   Includes general agricultural services, quarantine (import/
export), environmental control, agricultural chemical control,
seed multiplication, research, and overall administrative
functions.
/b   Public utility expenses were included in ordinary expenses
in FY79.



- 46-                                               ANNEX 2
Table I
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Staff Summary - DOA Stations and Core Staff
Preprolect            Incremental            Full Prolect
Category                                    PhD  MSc  BSc Total  PhD  MSc BSc Total  PhD  MSc  BSc Total
I. Administrative & Technical Staff
Chief of station                     -    4   12   16        -   15  (12)   3    -   19    -   19
Farm manager                         -    -    2    2        -    -   16   16    -    -   18   18
Subject matter specialist            -    -    1    1        -    4   18   22    -    4   19   23
Socioeconomist                       -    -    -    -        -    3    2    5    -    3    2    5
Training officer                     -    -    -    -        -    -   18   18    -    -   18   18
Subtotal administrative
& technical staff              -    4   15   19        -   22   42   64    -   26   57   83
II. Research Staff
Agronomists/horticulturists          1   13   60   74    18   26   22   66   19   39   82  140
Breeding                             1   10   29   40    14   10    9   33   15   20   38   73
Genetics                             -    1    3    4        1    9   10   20    1   10   13   24
Entomology                           1    -    3    4    10   21   27   58   11   21   30   62
Pathology                            -    1    9   10        7   20   21   48    7   21   30   58
Weed science                         -    -    3    3        -   15   27   42    -   15   30   45
Soil science                         1    3   25   29    11   20   11   42   12   23   36   71
Soil microbiology                    -    1    2    3        2   11   11   24    2   12   13   27
Soil water management                -    1    3    4        3   16   23   42    3   17   26   46
Seed technology & production         -    1    4    5        -   12   12   24    -   13   16   29
Physiology                           1    2    2    5        4   16   20   40    5   18   22   45
Agricultural economics               -    -    1    1        -    -   17   17    -    -   18   18
Agricultural engineering and
Pre/post-harvest technology         -    3    3    6        1    6   10   17    1    9   13   23
Subtotal research                5   36  147  188    71  182  220  473   76  218  367  661
Total Station Staff in            5   40  162  207    71  204  262  537   76  244  424  744
Field L
III. Technical Support Core Staff /b    -   13   26   39             4   17   21   42    4   30   47   81
Total Project Staff               5   53  188  246    75  221  283  579   80  274  471  825
/L  Includes 97 staff presently working at Bangkhen who would be assigned to Rangsit and Salaya.
/b Includes agricultural engineering, pre/postharvest technology and processing at Bangkhen and
Khlong Luang.



- 47 -                        AN;NEX 2
Table 2
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Scientific Staffing for the 19 Research Centers
Commodity group                              Staffing levels
& center                  Region      Preproject   Incremental /a    Total
Rice                                      82             157             239
Khuan Gut                South          5               30              35
Phitsanulok              Contral        8               26              34
Phrae                    North          8               26              34
Prachin Buri             Central        4               29              33
Rangsit                  Central       48               15              63
Ubon Ratchathani         Northeast      9               31              40
Field Crops                              56              220             276
Chainat /b               Center         7               29              36
Hueypong                 Central        6               36              42
Maejoe                   North         13               32              45
Tak Fah                  Center        10               42              52
Khon Kaen/Tha
Phra /b                Northeast      7               36              43
Uthong                   Central       10               31              41
Ubon Ratchathani         Northeast       3              14               17
Horticulture Crops                        69             160              229
Chiang Rai               North          5               29              34
Doi Muser                North          4               13               17
Kanthuli/Phuket          South          -               32              32
Salaya /c                Central       53               36              89
Sawii                    South          6               27              33
Srisaket                 Northeast      1               23              24
Total /c                           207             537              744
/a Includes staff upgrading.
lb Field station for crop production research.
/c The station at Bangkok Noi would be replaced under the project by a new
station, probably in the Salaya area, which would be partly staffed by
the present horticulture research staff at Bangkhen.
/d Includes the transfer of a substantial number of Bangkhen staff to the
regions.
Source: Project File, Annex 1.



-48-                                            ANNEX 2
Table 3
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Summary of Technical Support Core Staff, Bangkhen
Preprolect           Incremental /b        Full project
Category                                 PhD  MSc  BSc Total  PhD  MSc BSc Total  PhD  MSc BSc Total
Technology Application
Subject matter specialists              -    -    -    -       -   2   2      4     -   2   2       4
Seed production specialists             -    -    -    -       -   1   2      3     -   1   2       3
Socioeconomists                         -    -    -    -       1   1   -      2      1   1   -      2
Sociologists                            -    -    -    -       -   1   -      1          1   -      1
Library & Documentation
Library - reports                        -    -    -    -      -   -   2      2      -   -   2      2
Information & Training
Training officers                       -    -    -    -       -   1   1      2     -   1   1       2
Experimental Design & Analysis
Research program planners               -    -    -    -       -   2   -      2      -   2   -      2
Statistics /a                           -    6   12   18       2   4   8    14      2  10  20    32
Agricultural Engineering
Preharvest technology - Bangkhen        -    4    8   12       -   2   3      5      -   6   11   17
Post-harvest technology - Klong Luan  -    3    6    9         1   3   3      7      1   6   9    16
Total Core Staff               -   13   26   39      4  17  21    42       4  30  47    81
/a  Incremental to the project but not necessarily to the DOA.
/b Core staff in Bangkhen to assist in statistical planning and data analysis for all
experimental stations.



- 49 -                           ANNEX 2
Table 4
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Project Implementation and Beyond)
Additional Administrative Staff
Number
required /a
Local Staff
Project coordinator /b                                                  1
Senior administrative officer                                          1
Finance officer                                                        1.
Procurement officer                                                     1
Administrative clerks                                                   4
Accounting clerks                                                       2
Bilingual secretaries/typists (Thai-English)                           4
Drivers                                                                 2
Consultant (for 2 years)
Finance & administrative officer                                       1
la Numbers, titles and grades of supporting staff may vary according to
work load during implementation.
/b The coordinator would be an experienced senior scientist. Although
supporting staff would be assigned to their respective administrative
units they would be functionally responsible to the project
coordinator.



-50-                       ANIIEX 2
Table 5
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Estimate of Incremental Nonprofessional Staff /a
Locations                                   No. required
Core Group, Bangkhen                              -
Rangsit                                          20
Phrae                                            15
Phitsanulok                                      15
Ubon Ratchathani (2)                             25
Kuan Gut                                         15
Prachin Buri                                     15
Chainat                                          15
Hueypong                                         15
Maejoe                                           15
Tak Fah                                          20
Tha Phra                                         20
Uthong                                           15
Salaya /b                                        25
Chiang Rai                                       15
Doi Muser                                        10
Srisaket                                         15
Sawii                                            15
Kanthuli                                         15
Total                300
/a Includes secretaries, typists, 3-year vocational
vehicle drivers, maintenance & equipment operators.
/b New station to be developed and staff to transfer
from Bangkok Noi.



- 51 -                                ANNEX 2
Table 6
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Phased Fellowship Schedule
(Man-years)
PY-1  PY-2  PY-3  PY-4  PY-5   PY-6  PY-7  PY-8  Total
Long-Term                    11    73   117   135   112       58    23      4    533
PhD (75 scientists)           1    23    37    55    52       38    23      4    233
MS (75 scientists
foreign trained)         5    25    40    40    30        10     -      -    150
MS (75 scientists
locally trained)         5    25    40    40    30        10     -      -    150
Short-term                    4    10    10    10    10        6     -      -     50
Total Man-Years of
Fellowships             15    83   127   145   122        64    23      4    583
Phased Fellowship Cost
Equivalent baht
($'000 /a)                       (millions)
Project year 1                          112.50                            2.25
Project year 2                          642.50                           12.85
Project year 3                          970.00                           19.40
Project year 4                       1,150.00                            23.00
Project year 5                          995.00                           19.90
Project year 6                         565.00                            11.30
Project year 7                          230.00                            4.60
Project year 8                           40.00                            0.80
Total                             4,705.00                            94.10
/a Annual fellowship cost: Foreign trained $10,000/yr.
Locally trained $ 2,500/yr.
/b Man-years calculated on the basis of two years for MSc and 3 years for PhD.



- 52 -                                   ANPEX 2
Tahle 7
TRAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PPOJECT
Phased Technical Assistance
(Ilan-years)
PY-1    PY-2    PY-3    PY-4    PY-5   PY-6    Total
1.  Research program planning
advisor                         0.25    1.00    0.75    -         -       -           2.0
2.  Financial & administrative
advisor                         0.25    1.00    0.75    -         -       -           2.0
3.  Station development advisor       0.50    0.50    -         -        -      -            1.0
4.  Multidisciplinary team &
farming systems specialist       -        1.00    1.00    -         -      -           2.0
5.  Ilorticulturist                   -        0.50    1.00    0.50    -        -           2.n
6.  Socioeconom'ist/Agricultural
economist                        -        0.75    1.00    0.25    -        -           2.0
Total Long-Term Technical
Assistance                      1.00    4.75    4.50    0.75    -         -          11.0
7. Short-term specialists (incl.
periodic reviews)                -        0.50    0.50    0.50    0.50   0.50          2.5
8. Short-term: oil palm, coconut
and monitoring & evaluation   -          0.25    0.25    0.25    0.25   -             1.0
Total Man-Years of Techni-
cal Assistance                  1.00    5.50    5.25    1.50    0.75   0.50          14.5
Phased cost at $6,750/
man-month ($'000)               81.0   445.5   425.2   121.5    60.8   40.5   1,174.5
9. Other Assistance Cost
(a) lMOAC departmental
research rationaliza-
tion review               150.0     -        -       -        -       -       150.0
(b) Study of career devel-
opment for research
scientists & techni-
cians in DOA               50.0     -        -       _        -       _        50.0
(c) Architects' & engineers'
fees /a for planning
& supervising physi-
cal facilities           279.0   104.5   184.7   193.5    24.2    -           786.n
(d) Local contract research
and research grants /b   50.0   150.0   150.0   150.0         -       -       500.0
Total Technical Services
Cost ($'000)                   610.0   700.0   760.0   465.0    85.0   40.5  2.660.5
Equivalent baht
(millions rounded)              12.0    14.0    15.2       9.3     1.7    0.8      53.0
/a 4.5% of civil works estimate, including physical contingencies.
/b University cooperative research.
Note: This technical assistance would be complemented by aeditional expertise proviled
from other sources.



53                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~ANYPY 2
- 53 -                                                      Table
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESFARCY4 PPROJECT
Summary of Phased Total Project Cost
(B million)
PY-1    PY-2    PY-3    PY-4    PY-5    py-6    PY-7   PY-8           To tal
I. Capital Cost
Civil works                                   13.2    43.1    85.9   112.5    44.6          -       -       -       299.3
Vehicles & farm equipment                      2.4    14.9    20.3    33.0    11.1           -      -       -         81.7
Office & laboratory furniture,
equipment & supplies                        5.9    12.5    14.2    36.8    50.8    23.3           -      -        143.5
Purchase of land                              15.0     5.0        -        -        -       -       -       -         20.0
Subtotal I                              36.5    75.5   120.4   182.3   106.5    23.3          -       -        544.5
II. Technical Services Cost
Fellowships                                    2.2    12.9    19.4    23.0    19.9    11.3    4.6    0.9              94.1
Technical assistance                          12.2    14.0    15.2       9.3      1.7     0.6       -       -         53.0
Subtotal II                             14.4    26.9    34.6    32.3    21.6    11.9    4.6    0.8             147.1
III. Operational Cost
Salaries, wages & benefits                     6.0    15.5    36.0    48.0    58.0    63.0          -       -       226.5
Fertilizers, chemicals, etc. /a                5.0     5.Q      7.2      8.0      9.0    10.0       -       -        45.1
Maintenance & repair of
vehicles & capital investments /a           4.7      7.6      9.5    11.4    14.2    17.6         -      -         65.0
Other operational costs /a                    20.4    21.3    22.9    24.6    26.2    28.6          -       -        144.0
Subtotal III                            36.1    50.3    75.6    92.0   107.4   119.2          -       -        4°0.6
Project Base Cost                       87.0   152.7   230.6   306.6   23R.5   154.4    4.6    0.8           1,172.2
IV. Contingencies
Physical contingencies lb                      2.8     9.2    16.3    23.9    12.9        2.3       -       -        67.4
Price contingencies                           10.9    38.6    90.9   163.7   157.2   124.6    3.6    0.7             590.2
Subtotal IV                             13.7    47.8   107.2   187.6   170.1   126.9    3.6    0.7             657.6
Total Project Cost                     100.7   200.5   337.8   494.2   405.6   281.3    8.2    1.5           1,829.8
/a  Includes off-station demonstrations and sub-station operations in support of the project.
/b 15% of civil works; 10% of all other capital costs.



_ 54 -                                  ANNEX 2
Table 9
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Summary of Phased Project Capital Cost /a
(B Million)
Project Development Costs    PYl    PY2    PY3    PY4    PY5   PY6   Total
I.  Civil Works
1. Main laboratory &
office building            -       -   12.8   69.8   26.9        -   109.5
2.  Shops, storage &
drying yards               -       -   23.9    4.4        -     -    28.3
3.  Glasshouses, green-
houses                     -       -   12.7    2.3        -      -    15.0
4.  Housing, dormitory
facilities                 -       -   16.5   33.0   16.5        -    66.0
5.  Rehabilitation of
existing facilities    2.5    2.4          -      -       -      -     4.9
6.  Station development        10.7   40.7   20.0    3.0    1.2        -    75.6
& improvement
Subtotal civil works    13.2   43.1   85.9  112.5   44.6           -   299.3
II.  Vehicles & Farm Equipment
1.  Utility vehicles            1.2    1.2    3.3    6.3    6.3        -    18.3
2.  Passenger vehicles          1.2    1.4    1.4    4.2    3.5        -    11.7
3.  Tractors                      -    3.7    3.7    8.0    1.3        -    16.7
4.  Implements                    -    4.7    4.2    9.4         -     -    18.3
5.  Other equipment               -    3.9    7.7    5.1         -     -    16.7
Subtotal vehicles &
farm equipment           2.4   14.9   20.3   33.0   11.1         -    81.7
III. Materials & Supplies
1.  Office furniture              -      -       -    4.5    5.5       -    10.0
2.  Office equipment              -    1.0    2.1    8.2    6.2        -    17.5
3.  Laboratory & scientific  5.9   11.5   12.1   24.1   39.1  23.3   116.0
equipment
Subtotal materials &
supplies                 5.9   12.5   14.2   36.8   50.8  23.3   143.5
IV.  Land Purchase                  15.0    5.0        -      -       -      -    20.0
Total Capital Cost        36.5   75.5  120.4  182.3  106.5  23.3   544.5
/a Base cost estimates. Excludes contingencies.



T8ACILAND
NATIONAL AGRICOLTLOUAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Rahtintlltos)
P7-1              ~~~~~~~~P2-2              PTIP-4                                             pY-5                      P-6                      PY-7                      PT-8                  rio   oo
To    Loca    For.  Tota1   Loca       FTo.  Total    Loca      Pa.-  Total    Loca       Fo.-   Total    Looal   For    Total   Local   Toe    Total    Looa          For   Total    Looal    Fo.-  Tota        Local      Pot      Total
CPivil works                          40    1.9      5.0   10.2      25.9   17.2    43.1       51.5   34.4   85.9    67.5   45.0  112.5    26.8    11.8   44.6                                                                              .       196  119.7    299.3
VehLice   &fRar  aqoipawot           70     0.7     1.7    2.4       4.0   10.4   14.9        6.1   14.2   20.3         9.9   23.1   33.0         3.3    7.8    11.1                     -                                          -       .        24.0    57.2       81.2
Offioc, lab. Porotta- &
eqatpaeot                         60    2.4      3.5      5.9      0.0    7.5   12.0        0.7    8.5    14.2       14.7   02.1   36.8    20.3   30.5   00.0           9.3    14.0   23.3         -       -       -         -       -        -57.4   86.1               143.0
Lasd p-h...a                          -  15.0    -  10.0  0.0    -  5.0--    -                                   -    -           -    -           -    -           -           -       --                       --    -    -                            20.0    -   20.0
Subtotal                        -   26.0    10.5   36.5    40.4   32.1    75.5    63.3    57.1  120.4    93.1   90.2  182.3                00.4   06.1  106.5        9.3    14.0   23.3         -       -        .        -       -       -       181.0  263.0       544.5
Physical coatlogeacy /                -     1.      1.      2.8     14.8     4.4   29.2       89       7.4   16.3    12 .6   11.3   23.9          6.4     6.5   12 .9      0.9     1.4    2.23                                                            35.1     2.       671.4
P01cc cottageacy                      -     3.73    ' 1.2   4.9     12.5    7.5   20.0    381.1    18.1   69.2         61.5   37.5   99.0    41.9   29.1    71.0           9.0     8.6   17.6         -       -       -        -        -       -       159.   10'2'.0    261. 7
Subtotal costa.goa..tee         -     5.      2.15    7.7     17.2   01.9   2 9.2       48. 0 1L5.5   65.5       74.1    48.8  122.9       48.3    35.6   82.9       9.9    10.0  1L9.9         -       -       -         -       -       -        194.8  134.3      329.1
Total Capital Coat              -   31.0    130    44.2       60.7    47.   1084.7   103.3   82.6  185.9   166.2  139.0  300.2             98.7    91.7  190.4      19.2   24.0    63.2         -       -       -         -       -       -        476.3  397.3    873.6
TochalalScoie  Cost
F,oIl..ahlpa                         70    0.7      1.5    2.2       3.9    9.0   12.9         0.8    13.6   19.4       6.9    16.1   23.0       6.0   13.9    19.9        3.4    7.9   11.3        1.4     3.2     4.6      0.2      0.6     0.8        283   65.8         94.1
Teobhulcal. isst_caa                 70    3.6      8.6   12.2       4.2     9.8    14.0       4.6    10.6   15.2       2.8     6.5    9.2        0.5     1.2     1.7      0.2     0.4     0.6        -       -       -         -       -       -         15.9   37.1       03.0
Subtotal                        -     4.3   tO.1    14.4       8.1    18.8   26.9    IR.4   242.2   34.6          97   02.6   32.3          6.5    15.1   21.6       36      83    11.9       14      3.2     6.       02       0.0     0.8         44.2  102.-9    142.1
Price cotiosesy                       -    0.6      1.0     1.6      2.2     3.6     5.8       4.0     6.8    11.3      1.7     8.4   14.1        4.8     7.0   11.8       3.2     4.7      7.9     1.0     2.1     3.6      0.2      0.5     0.7         22.7   34.1       06.8
Total Teobolca
OcocsCost                -      .9    11.0    16.0      10.3   22.4   32.7       14.9    21.0    40.9      15.4   31.0   46.4       11.3   22.1    33.4        6.8    13.0    19.8    1.9       5.3    82         .4      1.1     1. 5       66.9  137.0    203.9
6 beoettto                ~~~~~~          ~~~- 6.0  -    6.0  15.5  -   15.5    36.0          -   36.0    08.0         -   40.0    58.0          -   08.0    63.0         -   63.0         -       -       -        -        -       -       226.5        -    226.1
aagco 4 be...fit. Lb                   (15.6)       -  115.61   (15.6)       - I (5.6)   (15.60        -  (10.6)  (10.6)        -  (10.6)  (15.6)         -  (10.6)  (10.6)        -  (10.6)        -       -       -        -        -       -       (93.6)       -     (93.6)
Subtotalslres1          ac
6, bhooitt-    6.0                             -    6.0      10.5        - 15.0    36.0           -   36.0      48.0        -   48.0    58.0         -   58.0    63.0          -   63.0        -       -                 .       -       -       226.05              2.
etc                              83     0.7    4.3       0.0      0.9     0.0     5.9      1.1l    6.1      7.2      1.2     6.8     8.0       1.5    7.7      4.0      1.1    8.5    100          -                              -                     6.7   38.4       40.1
Noiotooauoe & rapoft of
bolldlogo, cqulpect               25    3.0      1.2      4.7      5.1     1.9     7.6      7.1     2.4     9.0       8.5    2.9   11.4    10.6        3.6   12.2       13 .2    4.4   17.6        -        -       -        -       -        -40.6   16.4.               65.0
Ucher opct-lio.al cota              20    15.3      0.1   20.4      16.0     5.3   11.3      17.2      5.7   12.9      18.4     6.2   24.6    18.6        6.0   26.2      21.0     7.2   28.6         -       -       -        -        -       -       107.9   36.1       144.0
Subtotal-P.. tpaiu...l
cotta                -   ~~~~~~~~~~25.0   10.6   36.1    38.1   12.2   50.3  61.4   14.2   70.6       76.)   10.9   912.0    89.5   17.9  107.4    99.1   20.1  118.2                -               -                         -        391.7   90.9      400.6
Prlo-  -oolog-oy                      -    3.4      1.0    4.4      10.5    2 .3   12.8    26.4        4.0   30.4    44.7       5.9   10.6    66.1       0.3   74.4       87.0    11.3   99.1         -                        -        -       -       238.9   32.0       2 7 1.7
Total. Opocattocel. Coot  -   28.9    11. 6    40.5   48.6    14.5   63.1      87.8    18.2  106.0   12 0.8   21.8  142.    156 -         26.2   181.0   186.9   31.4  218. 3           -       -       -         -       -68.                      2.        5.
To al eo  -Cost             -    00.a   51.2    07.0      86.6    66.1  1 52.7    13.    90.   23.           177.9  128.7  31.    14.    09.   23.    112.0   42.3  154.4                 1.4     3.2      46       02      76      208        715 4  456 1  1 172.2
To-al  Cootiogc-i-s             -    9.2      4.5   13.7      30.0   17.0   47.0        70.9   36.3  107.2    124.5   631  187.6    119.2   50.9  170.1    107.9   26.0  126.9                1.5    2.1      3.6      4.2      7.1     0.7        456.4  2 01.2     6 57 .6
Total Poojout Coat  35   65.0   35.7   100.7    126.6   83.9  200.5   206.2  432.0  337.0   302.4   191.8  404.2   265.6  140.0  400.6   212.)   60.35 6   2 1 2201.33    2.)    5.3 2.2  2.48 2.0.4  15    1,171.88  657.9 118829.0
75  Proccoject utaH  out  hoebooldicated  (-d oat lo-loded to p,oJot out) asaouoo   hat ches  atff  -ot he locluded io the 2D10 badgt-  of tho 19 oceotoh  d-oloped  m,dc- che  -rj-or



-56-                                      ANNEX 9
Table 11
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTUPAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursements
($ MIillion)
Cumulative disbursement
Bank        IFAD      Total
PY-1
First Semester             0.0         0.0       0.0
Second Semester            0.2        0.1        0.3
PY-2
First Semester             1.6         0.8       2.4
Second Semester            3.0         1.5       4.5
PY-3
First Semester             4.8         2.4       6.2
Second Semester            7.5         3.7      11.2
PY-4
First Semester            10.4         5.2      15.6
Second Semester           14.5        7.2       21.7
PY-5
First Semester            18.7         9.3      28.0
Second Semester           22.0       11.0       33.0
PY-6
First Semester            25.3        12.6      37.9
Second Semester           28.0        14.0      42.0
PY-7
First Semester            30.0        15.0      45.0
Assumes Calendar 81 would be PY-1 and implementation would
begin January 1981.



- 57 -                                                 ANNEX 2
Table 12
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Development Implementation Schedule
IPre-                                       II                     II
IprojectII                                              III
I(1980)  I pY-1           PY-2  j PY-3  I PY-4  I py-5  I py-6
Quarter:          12 3 4   1 2 3 4I1 2 3 4I1 2 3 4 I1    3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4 
1.  Select& appoint projeCt implementationi                                                                 
staff coordinator 4 assistants                          IIIIII
2.  Finalize. IPAD 4 other project financingi   _           IIIII
3.  Approve, in principle, and advise Bank                  IIIIII
of DOA reorganization as recommended           __       IIIIII
4.  Designate DOG for ResearchI   _                         IIIIIII
5.  Select site for national research cen-I                 I                       IIIII
ter for horticulture near Salaya                         __                                                       
6.  Select architect/engineer firms              IIIII                                                                           F
7.  Investigate availability of existing         FI                                 IIIF
plans & specs. for ancillary buildingsFI                           FII                                                       F
8.  Secure copies of (7) above & submit toFI                                       IIIFI
Bank fortreviewF                                                   IIIII
9.  Take action to approve career develop-F                 IIIII                                                                I
ment recommendationsF                                              III                                            FI
10.  Prepare descriptive work plan & cost FFIII                                                            III
estimate for rehabilitationI                                       FIIIII
11.  Submit sample procurement contract                       FIIIII
forms tofBank for reviewI                               FII                                           III
12.  Sign contracts with architect/engineer                  IIIIIII
& begin schematic planning & civil           F          III                                           III
works designF                                           FFI                                           IFI
13.  Identify consultants for:I                              IFI                                           iII
(a)  Station development advisor            F           FFII                                                     II
(b)  Research program planning edvisorF                 FFI                                                      II
(c)  Financial & administrative advisoril                                                                         
14.  Outline scope & plan for implementationl                                                                           
of university cooperative research forFF                           IIIIII
15.  Establish fellowship program implemenr,IFI                                                                         
tation scheduleF                                        I_         FIII                                                      I
16.  Prepare TOR for departmental researchFF                             FIFIII
rationalization study                       IF__                                                                  
17.  Develop master plans for each research                   IIIFIIF
center                                      II_____                                                               
18.  Preparation of schematic plans and           FFFIIFIF
cost estimates                              FF_____                                                               
19.  Preparation of detailed design drawingsF                                                                           
& cost estimatesI                                       FFIFIIF
20.  Preparation of tender documents for          FFIIIFIF
research centersF                                       FFIFFIF
21.  Bidding period for research centers                                 FII                                            
developmentI                                            FF__                   IFFIF
22.  Construction periodI                                     FF ___  I____IFIF
23.  Rehabilitation of existing facilitiesFI                             FIIFFI
24.  Preparation of investment plan & subse- F                           IIFFF
quent contracting of:F                                  I_____FFIIFF
(a)  Vehicles                               FI                     F_ _        _ _I_ _        _                   
(b)  Farm equipment                         FF                     F___1___1___1__                                
(c)  Office furniture & equipment           I           FF111FI
(d)  Scientific   equipment                 FFI   ____        ____                           ____        ____ 



- 58 -                               ANNEX 3
Page 1
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
DOA's Organization and Management of Research Under the Project
A. Organization of DOA
1.        The DOA was last reorganized in 1972 when it was merged with the
Rice Department and extension activities were separated into a Department of
Extension (DAE). The DOA has 16 divisions and offices, 10 concerned with
research, 1 with regulatory activities, and 5 with administrative functions
(see Chart WB 20471).  All DOA divisions and offices come under the Director
General and two Deputy Directors General, but the latter officials do not have
designated responsibilities.
2.        The reorganization proposed under the project (see Chart WB 22046)
would strengthen DOA's management by delegating responsibility for research,
technical support services, and administrative support services to three
Deputy Directors General.  Research would be consolidated into six major
units designated as institutes.  The recommended organization plan has the
support of the Director General of the DOA and other project authorities.
3.        The revised DOA organization would improve the planning and
direction of research. At present, the large number of autonomous divisions
and branches precludes collaboration between scientists in multidisciplinary
research programs that can solve complex production problems. The proposed
organization would place DOA's research under a Deputy Director General who is
qualified and experienced in research. The six institutes would handle the
research for five major agricultural commodities and one major factor of
production (farming systems). The direction and management of research
programs would be delegated, with substantial initiatives at the institute,
division or branch, and research center levels. This organization would
promote multidisciplinary team research on a national basis and more efficient
use of trained manpower resources. It would also facilitate liaison with
other research organizations and the DAE.
The Institute Management Concept
4.        The traditional research organization has consisted of three levels
of discipline and commodity oriented units: (a) division, (b) branch, and
(c) section in that order. These units have been pretty much self contained
and have served well for basic and specialized crop production problems;
however the system does not readily facilitate the multidisciplinary approach
required for the complex crop production research problems. The Rubber



- 59 -                              ANNEX 3
Page 2
Research Division with its Center at Hatt Yai in the South has already
evolved into a multidisciplinary system with discipline and commodity
specialist pretty much divorced from their parent units at the 2ankghen
headquarters. The DOA has recognized that rubber research is now one of its
strongest and most productive research programs.
5.        Thus it has been proposed that all commodity related research should
be organized along the lines of the Rubber Division; however, to distinguish
from the existing system and establish a new management concept to facilitate
multidisciplinary research, six institutes would be established under the DDG
for Research. Institutes would be established for (a) Rice, (b) Field Crops,
(c) Horticulture, (d) Rubber, (e) Farming Systems, and (f) Sericulture.
Appropriate branches and sections would be established within each institute.
It is expected that the Institute would ultimately be accepted as a level
above the present divisions and would eventually provide the framework for
further integration of agricultural production research; and would also
include institutes for livestock production, fisheries, soil and water
management, etc. More specific recommendations regarding the future
organization and development of a national agricultural research system would
be determined by the Commission for the Rationalization and Review of the MOAC
departmental research system, to be implemented under the project.
Administrative Support Services
6.        The recommended organizational structure (Chart WB22046)
provides for the regular administrative functions to be carried out by
divisions under a Deputy Director General for Administrative Support
Services. These divisions would require strengthening as the research staff
is increased and the recommended organization implemented, to allow greater
delegation of responsibilities to the research institutes and the 19 National
Research Centers.
7.        Planning Division.  Research program planning has traditionally
been handled almost exclusively by scientists at the DOA headquarters at
Bangkhen. This reflects the lack of sufficient qualified scientists at the
field stations who could assess problems and conceptualize and plan research.
The provision of well-trained multidisciplinary research teams at the Centers
would allow critical problems to be identified and research planned to meet
the needs of farmers in the region.
8.        DOA's research generally supports national development goals by
concentrating on commodities such as corn, cassava, soybeans, etc., for
expanding international markets. However, there should be a more continuous
interaction and dialogue between the DOA and the NESDB to ensure mutual
understanding of the economic importance - and of the technical feasibility
or limitations - of development goals. Initiatives by both the DOA and the
NESDB would achieve a closer working relationship.



- 60 -                                ANNEX 3
Page 3
9.        Several government officials have expressed concern about the large
investments and uncertain returns from agricultural research. At present,
DOA's numerous projects are essentially a collection of experiments that do
not furnish a good base for either effective program planning and budgeting,
or program implementation, monitoring and reporting. It would therefore be in
the mutual interest of the DOA, NESDB and the Budget Bureau to establish a
research project structure.and a program planning and budgeting system. This
would facilitate program planning, establishing research priorities, budgeting
and accounting, direction and management of research, reporting, and monitor-
ing and evaluation of research and research workers. The planning process
should take into account (a) national development goals in agriculture,
(b) the responsibilities cf the six research institutes, (c) the work of the
multidisciplinary research teams concerned with the various commodity or pro-
blem areas, and (d) the needs of the farming areas served by the 19 research
centers and their principal satellite stations.
10.       Finance Division.  The division's usual functions for financial
management and accounting would be expanded as the responsibilities for
planning and implementing research are delegated, to the extent feasible, to
the research institutes and to the 19 Research Centers. This would require
regular, systematic allocation of funds, from external as well as national
sources, and suitable accounts.
11.       Procurement.  Responsibility for procurement is assigned to the
Finance Division. However, the project would involve substantial procurement
of materials and equipment for station development, which would be handled by
a unit of the Finance Division adequately staffed for project implementation.
12.       Personnel Division.  Under the project, major emphasis would be
given to manpower development and the retention of scientists at the field
stations. Project training for BSc, MSc and PhD scientists in agricultural
fields and disciplines would provide a critical mass of research workers, who
would be assigned to the 19 Research Centers (rather than being concentrated
at the Bangkhen headquarters as at present), so that they would be more
responsive to farmers' needs. Training priorities would thus be determined by
discipline, commodity or problem area, and by center. Candidates for advanced
training would have to be carefully selected, not only on the basis of their
academic record, but also in terms of their aptitude for research, their
commitment to research careers, their adaptability to multidisciplinary team
efforts, and their willingness to work on a full time basis at the regional
research centers.
13.       Some changes in management practices (e.g., the program planning
and budgeting system, and Ithe classification and designation of positions for
the field stations) would encourage staff to work at the field stations. The
most important of these changes would be the implementation of the promotion
system for scientists. In some government departments and organizations other
than the DOA, substantial progress has been made in setting up a dual career



- 61 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4
ladder system that separates promotion of scientists or professional personnel
from that of administrative personnel. The implementation of this system
within the DOA will require evaluation criteria and procedures that must be
worked out on the initiative of the DOA, but in collaboration with the Civil
Service Commission. The Personnel Division should be strengthened and should
perhaps obtain some special consultant services to improve its management of
scientific and technical personnel.
B. Management of Research
14.       To further develop DOA's research capability, the project would
strengthen 19 out of 85 stations to establish them as Research Centers. Other
departments, institutions and agencies (mainly under the MOAC) also conduct
research in soil management and conservation, land development, irrigation and
water management, and livestock production, and this tends to duplicate or be
closely related to DOA's research. All MOAC research would be reviewed to
ensure closer integration of complementary activities and to provide a more
effective and efficient national agricultural research system.
15.       One of the most important project objectives would be to strengthen
communications between researclh, extension and the farmer. Extension is
already being strengthened at the farm level, but agricultural research is
still highly centralized and is directed from Bangkok (para. 7). The project
would promote regional and local (area-based) research, as recommended in a
recent workshop,/l by supporting regional agricultural research and production
planning. A training officer would be posted at each station to work directly
with extension officers and farmers. Subject matter specialists would convert
proven research findings into packages of technology that can be extended to
farmers and applied by them; they would also advise extension subject matter
specialists, who would in turn advise researchers on farmers problems and
acceptance of new technology. Socioeconomists would also be posted at the
's-iltions to assist in determining how and why various technologies are
accepted or rejected. The agricultural economist would determine the cost and
benefit (to the farmer) of various packages of technology.
Research Stations
16.       Special consideration should be given to the utilization or disposi-
tion of MOAC's approximately 145 departmental field stations (including DOA-s
85 stations). This number could probably be substantially reduced, with staff
and other resources consolidated to improve efficiency as well as output from
/1 National Workshop on Problem Identification in Research and Development of
Rainfed Crop Production (January 1979).



- 62 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5
the station network. A review of the stations would be conducted early in
project implementation by a local commission, assisted by external consul-
tants. The project would focus on 19 Research Centers in major farming areas
and thus create a framework for giving greater attention to planning and
implementation of research to solve critical problems of each region. Each
center would develop a critical mass of well-trained scientists as a
multidisciplinary research capability and supporting staff for technology
evaluation and application.
Agricultural Committees and Research Council
17.       Provincial Agricultural Committees.  The DAE has set up provincial
or Changwat committees, under the chairmanship of the Governor of the Chang-
wat, to give attention to agricultural extension and development activities.
The development of 19 Research Centers would furnish professional staff
familiar with regional problems (the Chief of Station, the subject matter
specialists and the research scientists) that can participate in the pro-
vincial committees. A staff member of each major regional center would be
designated a member of the committee, with participation by other research
staff, extension staff and farmers, as required, to address specific problems
or issues. These committees should consider a larger role for research and
possible broadening of the scope of the provincial committees to cover crop
production and all related agricultural services.
18.       National Agricultural Research Committees.  DOA research serves
not only the farmers or producers but also processors, marketing organiza-
tions, and consumers. Research should thus be responsive to needs and
problems from production to the purchase by the ultimate consumer. The
planning and direction of research to priority problems can be enhanced by
setting up Research Advisory Committees on major commodities or on selected
programs (such as area development). These committees should comprise 10 to
12 persons representing the various segments of production, processing and
other agrobusiness, as well as government, and would not only help to
sharpen the focus of research, but also assist in providing mutual under-
standing of the importance of technology in agricultural development. The
"Committee for Cassava Research," for example, would help to identify the
major factors in production (soil fertility and management), improved
harvesting, processing, handling and marketing, and consumer acceptance.
19.       Agricultural Research Council.  National research systems have
been strengthened in India, the Philippines, Pakistan and Bangladesh by
establishing councils for agricultural research. The Malaysia Agricultural
Research and Development Institute also has a scientific council and governing
board to facilitate technical and administrative management. These research
councils include high level officials of the national planning agency, the
ministry of finance, representatives of commerce, industry, and the private



- 63 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6
sector, as well as distinguished scientists. The councils guide research
planning, review budget requirements, and provide for regular (at least
annual) reviews and monitoring of research.
20.       National agricultural research councils are usually set up to
address agricultural research and development in its broadest sense, including
crops, livestock, soil and water management, mechanization, forestry,
fisheries and socioeconomics. A Thailand Council for Agricultural Research
should preferably be set up under the MOAC, rather than under the National
Research Council, to ensure that the composition of the council fits its
objectives and that research planning is relevant to critical, practical
problems of agricultural development. The council should include
representation from the NESDB, Budget Bureau, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of
Science, Technology, and Energy, DAE, scientists, and selected leaders of the
agrobusiness community. The Research Rationalization review conducted under
the project would determine whether an ARC would be required and its relation-
ship to the national and provincial committees.
21.       Relations with Assistance/Research Agencies.  The project would help
to strengthen the core structure of DOATs national research system. The
recommended organization would furnish a framework to accommodate projects
supported with funds and/or technical assistance from other multilateral or
bilateral agencies. This support, including training awards and fellowships,
should be encouraged in order to accelerate the buildup of DOA research
capabilities and to broaden the base of external assistance for DOA research.
22.       Thailand has well-established and longstanding cooperation with
outside research agencies, both international (International Rice Research
Institute, and the International Corn and Wheat Improvement Center) and
regional (Asian Vegetable Research and Development Center and South East Asia
Center for Agricultural Research and Development). Contacts with these
agencies are expected to continue under the project.
Role of the Universities
23.       Four of the major universities in Thailand (Kasetsart, Songkhla,
Chiang Mai and Khon Kaen) are concerned with teaching and researcb in agricul-
ture. Experimental fields and laboratories are available at each university
and some agricultural research is under way. The project would provide for
substantial manpower development for DOA research, and it is expected that all
of the BSc and most of the MSc level training could be provided by Thai
universities. Special courses, in research methodology, field research
practices, etc., should be strengthened in these universities.
24.       The universities have increased their PhD and MSc level staff
capabilities in recent years and this resource would be utilized in national
agricultural research programs. Participation of university staff in coor-
dinated multidisciplinary research programs would be encouraged. Production
constraints would be identified for MSc thesis research (at the university
or at a DOA research station) and would involve students in, and allow them



- 64 -                                   ANNEX 3
Page 7
to make a practical contribution to, national development. Selected projects
would be undertaken with university staff, supported by DOA grants and joint
research projects, to provide basic and backstopping research on specific
problems. This cooperative research would be carefully planned and managed
by the DOA so that it is coordinated effectively with national research
priorities.
25.       Closer collaboration between the DOA and the universities would
ensure mutual understanding of manpower needs and training priorities. The
DOA would inform the universities of special requirements or of deficiencies
in their training programs. The sense of competition between DOA and
university personnel could be minimized by joint discussions and research
cooperation to determine research that could best be conducted by the two
types of institutions.
Monitoring and Evaluation
26.       Projects to strengthen national research capabilities have proved
difficult to implement, so close monitoring and continuous assessment are
needed for projects such as this one, which calls for significant changes in
research organization and management, as well as rapid development of research
facilities and manpower. External consultants would assist not only in the
major development areas of the project, but also in short-term assignments to
deal with selected programs or problems during implementation. In addition to
the continuing internal review and monitoring of the project, there would be
an annual assessment of project performance, together with periodic in-depth
review involving external consultants. An M&E unit would be established under
the Program Planning Division; a consultant would be engaged to assist in the
design and implementation of a suitable M&E system.



- 65 -                                ANNEX 4
Page 1
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
DOA Research
Some Guidelines for Research under the Project
1.        Rice.  A great deal of work has been done, and needs to continue, on
breeding improved rice varieties, particularly to breed strains resistant to
diseases and pests.  Disease resistance is not a permanent attribute of any
variety, however, and growing one variety over large areas and in double
cropping systems may well increase the rate of selection and evolution within
pathogenic organisms and pests. Research therefore also needs to devise
chemical control measures.
2.        There is a need to expand the work on rice-based cropping systems,
both for rainfed and irrigated conditions. This would include the investi-
gation of cultural practices and fertilizer applications appropriate for the
systems as a whole, rather than just for individual crops. Work on cultural
practices, including weed control and seedbed preparation, would be accele-
rated, with emphasis on direct seeded rice under rainfed conditions in the
Northeast. Increased attention should also be given to economic use and
proper management of water on irrigated rice land, since potentially
irrigable land far exceeds the area that can be irrigated using existing
facilities.
3.        Horticulture Crops.  The horticultural research program would
include fruit crops, coconut, oil palm, vegetables, and flowers and other
ornamentals. Considerable research has already been done on coconut, and
the ongoing program would continue the long-term experiments and trials, as
well as developing seed gardens and nurseries (Annex 4, Appendix 1). Little
research has been done with oil palm, but the Government intends to promote
the expansion of this crop in Southern Thailand, where the environment is
believed to be suitable for its production. The oil palm research program
therefore needs to be quickly expanded to determine appropriate cultural
practices, fertilizer response, pest and disease control, and high-yielding
planting material, and to evaluate yields on a commercial smallholder scale.
(Annex 4, Appendix 2).
4.        There has generally been only limited research on fruit tree crops,
and as a result, modern orchard practices are little used by farmers. Much of
the present fruit production is on land formerly used for rice, i.e. lowland
areas with clay soils and seasonal waterlogging which leads to low vigor,
short life and low productivity. Research is needed to determine optimal
development practices in these areas, as well as to exploit the potential
using well-drained upland soils.  Seasonal drought restricts the growth of
most fruit crops and commercial production generally requires supplementary
dry-season irrigation. Intensified research is needed on irrigation and



ANNEX 4
66 -                                 Page 2
soil/water management. Research is also needed on varietal improvement, since
farmers can presently only select the most productive material available
locally. Finally, cultural practices, fertilizer application, pest and
disease control, postharvest practices and processing technology all need an
expanded research effort.
5.        The Division of Horticulture has also done some research into the
production technology for vegetables and flowers. Vegetables are produced
largely for domestic consumption and are important for raising nutrition
levels. As per capita income rises, the demand for vegetables will increase,
and an accelerated research program is therefore urgently needed to provide
technical support for increased production.
6.        Field Crops.  Satisfactory planting material is available for some
field crops (corn, soybean, mungbean and peanut), but intensified breeding
work is needed for sorghum, kenaf, cassava, cotton and sugarcane.   Field
crops' response to chemical fertilizers has generally been less positive
than expected from the known chemical nutrient status of the soils. However,
many of the trials were unsatisfactory due to experimental errors or
inadequate control of insect pests and diseases. As a result, fertilizer
requirements for field crops are generally less well defined than they are
for rice. Cultural practices have received much less emphasis than work
with breeding and chemical fertilizers, but appropriate cultural practices
would enable farmers to increase yields with little or no increase in
production costs.
7.        Farming Systems.  Until recently, most research on field crops
aimed to develop production technology appropriate for individual crops;
however, work has now started, and needs to be expanded under the project, to
maximize utilization of soil and climatic resources. This would be achieved
by devising cropping systems or rotations and finding the best soil manage-
ment, cultural and fertilizer practices for these cropping patterns. The
work on cropping systems should consider aspects of "mixed" farming, for
example, the integration of livestock into the farming system, since most
livestock in Thailand is kept by small farmers and fed with crop residues.
The work initiated under the upland crop improvement component of Credit 1198
would be continued and expanded.
8.        Yields of some field crops on rainfed uplands have been declining
This has generally been attributed to depletion of nutrients, but soil erosion
is often serious because fertile topsoil is lost. Research is therefore
needed on soil erosion and soil conservation practices, which have been
neglected in past research programs.
9.        Pre- and Postharvest Technology.  The tools of production need to
be improved to increase productivity and income, and reduce the drudgery of
agricultural task for the poorest smaller farmers in Thailand. The use of
HYVs, fertilizer and multiple cropping creates problems in land preparation,



- 6~7 -                             ANNEX 4
Page 3
planting and harvesting by requiring appropriate mechanization technology as
a part of the farming systems package. Areas that need attention are
economic and efficient means of seedbed preparation for all crops,
development of equipment and techniques for soil and moisture conservation,
manual and motorized rice transplanters, improved rice harvesting machines
and systems, energy efficient (simple) water lifting devices, and crop
protection equipment.
10.       Postharvest technology offers considerable major potential for
increasing farm income by (a) reducing on-farm losses, (b) processing products
to improve quality and generally add value, (c) storing of products, so that
farmers can take advantage of the market system, and (d) developing systems to
produce energy from farm waste and farm products. Development and application
of technology to reduce on-farm losses in the field and in storage would have
a high priority and would be particularly beneficial to the small and poor
farmers who need this technology to respond to varying factors such as the
weather and market conditions. Cassava and kenaf are important crops for the
smallholder farmer in Thailand, yet very little has been done to improve the
on-farm processing technology, which would lead to a better quality product
and maximize the farmers' return. Farming systems research is being promoted
in the Northeast, and new techniques being developed and promoted will require
new and improved farm implements. New high-yielding and short-term varieties
have multiplied problems by increasing yields and requiring harvesting during
inclement weather. The farmer must harvest the crop before losses occur due
to weather, insects and pests; he must clean and dry the crop so that it is
safe for storage; and he must protect the crop in storage. New methods of
handling the crop must thus be developed and introduced.
11.       Technology Application.   The research project is designed to
further develop and facilitate a closer working relationship with the DAE.
The Technology Application Units under each Institute would have a small staff
of well-trained agronomists and other subject matter specialists who can plan
and supervise the assembling of research results into packages of improved
technology; these would then be tested for their suitability for various
farming conditions. The project would also provide for similar subject matter
specialists to be located at the Research Centers, to work closely with the
multidisciplinary research teams and to be aware of promising new technology.
They would assemble and arrange field testing of new materials and practices
to (a) evaluate new technologies at the Research Center, (b) test them at
selected substations and seed farms in the region to verify suitability for
different soil and climatic variables, and (c) set up on-farm trials (often in
cooperation with extension workers) with selected farmers who would use the
new technology with good farming practices. The subject matter specialists at
the Research Centers would furnish the primary linkage with their counterpart
specialists in the DOE. They should be able to lay out field verification and
demonstration plots of interacting new technologies to produce convincing
results. They must also be able to identify the specific nature of a
production constraint (a physiological or nutritional disorder, a particular



- 68 -                              ANNEX 4
Page 4
disease, a certain insect, etc.) to provide effective feedback to the
Research Centers.
12.       Socioeconomic evaluation must be an integral part of research plan-
ning and programming, as well as the verification and application of
improved technology. Thai agriculture is mainly a means of providing a
household with its essential requirements of food, shelter, clothing,
entertainment, and security without going through the market. Decision
making for most Thai farmers is predominantly in the context of simple
farming of a semisubsistence and semicommercial nature, since it is strongly
influenced by social and religious factors. There are seasons when labor
for farm operations is reduced by religious festivals, marriages or other
special occasions, or when off-farm work is more readily available. The
application of research results by a farm family is determined as much by
these nontechnical factors as by the technical advantages of the research
package. Thus, acceptance of a technology package will depend on how well
it fits into the whole physical, economic, and social context in which the
farm family operates.
13.       Bridging the gap between scientists at their research statiorn and
the farm household requires training and special skills that span several
disciplines. Basic training in agricultural science is essential for staff
to understand research procedures and be able to discuss the potential and
limitations of technology with scientists. Competence in economic analyses
of farm management problems is required, together with a capability in field
research, including data collection (social as well as household economic
factors). Training provided by the Faculty of Agricultural Economics at
Kasetsart University is particularly suitable for this type of work; some
overseas universities also provide relevant training, especially at the
postgraduate level.



- 69 -                             ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 1
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Coconut Research, Seed Garden and Nursery Component
Introduction
1.        Thailand has about 275,000 ha planted to coconuts, of which 80% is
in the Central and Southern regions. Most holdings are less than 10 ha and
support some of the poorest smallholders in Thailand. Given the present
technology and generally low level of management, there is a significant
potential for increasing yields; however, very little is known about nutrient
requirements for coconut production under widely varying soil conditions.
While experience has shown that yield increases of 100% can be obtained with
rehabilitation of talls, and 300% to 400% can be achieved with hybrid coco-
nuts, there has been only limited research and development of hybrid varieties
in Thailand.
Research
2.        Coconut research is the responsibility of the Coconut Branch of the
Horticulture Division of the DOA (other branches are for oil palm, cocoa,
pepper and coffee; vegetables; and soils and fertilizer). The Coconut Branch
operates from the 250 ha Research Center at Sawii in Chumphon Province. Seed
gardens and nurseries are located at Kanthuli, Yala, and Hatt Yai. The Sawii
station is well served with buildings and transport, but soil conditions are
atypical of those in the main coconut growing areas and are not well suited to
agronomic work. The growth of palms is affected by the site's high water
table and its susceptibility to flooding; provision has therefore been made
under the project for a site development plan and drainage. Laboratories,
equipment, training facilities and a library would also be established at
Sawii.
3.        The HIead of the Coconut Branch is assisted by five graduates and an
FAO associate expert responsible for the fertilizer promotion program. The
breeder, agronomist and intercrop specialist work from Sawii; entomology and
pathology are covered by infrequent visits of technicians from the DOA in
Bangkok. Possible technical assistance from UNDP and bilateral agencies, for
an agronomist, breeder and chemist, is under consideration.
4.        The research program consists of three approaches:  the production
of local hybrids and the exploitation of introduced hybrids; fertilizing
existing palms; and developing suitable intercrops. The breeding program is
based on the phenotypic selection of highly heritable characteristics and
on the study of combining ability. A breeder's collection has been estab-
lished at Sawii; it consists of local and improved varieties and forms a
good base for a local breeding program. Testing of hybrids commenced in



- 70-                                ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 2
June 1975, but future work is limited by restrictions on coconut material
exchanges and by the lack of qualified staff and equipment to carry out hand
pollination. Five field tests were set up in 1977 to test the performance
of Port Bouet hybrid 121 under different ecological conditions.
Seed Gardens and Nurseries
5.        Two supporting field stations would be developed that have typical
soil conditions and can support agronomic research and seed gardens.
Kanthuli would be expanded to increase seed production and agronomic work,
and a new station would be developed at Phuket for agronomic work on coastal
alluviums.
6.        A seed garden was established at Kanthuli in July 1976 to produce
dwarf and Tall hybrids. About 4,600 yellow Malayan dwarfs have been planted
and a further 2,500 Malayan dwarfs, 600 Thai green dwarfs and 1,200 yellow
Malayan dwarfs are ready fSor planting. At Sawii, 527 West African Talls are
growing and 200 Rennel TaLls are due for planting. Tahiti Tall nuts have only
recently been imported. Pollen will need to be imported to pollinate dwarfs
already planted until local pollen becomes available and self-sufficiency is
achieved in 1983 or 1984. The existing Kanthuli seed garden would be expanded
from 42 ha (now under rubber) to 77 ha, which at full development would
provide enough seedlings :o replant 5,000 ha/year. The proposed research
program would require the acquisition of a further 145 ha (available and
presently under rubber) for fertilizer trials (30 ha), cultivation trials (42
ha), hybrid testing (32 ha) and progeny testing (41 ha). The project would
provide for extension of the seed garden and its exploitation, farm
development, machinery, vehicles, housing, a laboratory and water supply.
7.        The station at Phuket would concentrate on fertility and hybrid
comparison work, for which a total of 30 ha would be required. The project
would finance the procurement and development of the 30 ha, together with
housing, a laboratory, farm equipment and vehicles.
Staff Development and Technical Assistance
8.        The project would support overseas training of staff for varying
periods at recognized research institutes. These staff would be trained in
specific aspects of breeding, genetics, agronomy, etc., related to coconut
production. A total of 50 man-months of fellowships has been allocated to
the 6 senior scientists who would lead the main technical units under the
program. As part of the overall project fellowship program, provision is
also made for short training courses for junior and field staff. Foliar
analysis would be carried out by the Rubber Research Center at Hatt Yai.
Sufficient equipment and facilities are available for the coconut program,
and provision would be made for staff training in the techniques involved.



- 71-                                    ANNEX 4
Appendix I
Page 3
9.        The UNDP would provide technical assistance for coconut research
separate from this project; however, short-term consultancies could be used
to assist the Director General of Research to formulate and implement the
research program. Recognized foreign experts in the fields of genetics,
breeding and agronomy would visit the research center as required by the
Director. UNDP is expected to provide consultants for developing nurseries,
seed gardens and liaison with coconut development programs.



- 72 -                                 ANNEX 4
Appendix 2
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Oil Palm Research Component
1.        The project would provide assistance for research for the develop-
ment of the oil palm industry in Southern Thailand. A recent consultant's
report (South Thailand Regional Planning Study, Huntings Technical Services,
1975) indicated that the area of existing and planned oil palm plantings is
climatologically marginal for oil palm cultivation.
2.        The cost of establishing oil palm, from plantings to production,
is estimated at about $1,500/ha. Maximum yields are estimated at about 20
ton FFB/ha, with a monthly peak yield of about 18% of annual production.
Estimates for the construction of a palm oil mill with a capacity of 30 ton
FFB/hour are in the magnitude of $10.5 million. A mill could process fruit
produced on about 3,500 ha.
3.        As oil palm is not expected to become a major commodity in Thailand,
research would initially focus on the agronomy and husbandry of the crop. An
oil palm breeding program would be a low priority in Thailand's development
program, since high-yielding planting material would be readily available from
Malaysia and Indonesia. The Government should, however, import seed of the
most promising progenies and establish seed gardens to supply future planting
materials.
Research Program
4.        Research should evaluate and monitor palm growth and FFB yields of
imported progenies from Malaysia and/or Indonesia and of existing oil palm
stands in South Thailand. Apart from recording the routine parameters such
as growth increment, leaf production, and female and male inflorescence forma-
tion (sex ratio), special attention would be given to tolerance to drought and
response to water stress.
5.        Fertilizers represent a substantial cost item in oil palm cultiva-
tion. The research program would therefore focus on establishing optimal
and economically justifiable nutrient levels in the fronds, so that firm
recommendations can be made on fertilizer applications. Other experiments
should focus on the timing of castration and use of assisted pollination;
intercropping versus the establishment of a leguminous cover crop; spacing
and density of plantings; and maintenance using chemicals rather than manual
weeding.
6.        Short-term consultants would be used to advise and assist the
Director General Research to develop and strengthen the oil palm research
program.



- 73 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Fellowships
Technical Assistance
1.        The project would provide 14.5 man-years of technical assistance,
with major emphasis on research program planning and project implementation
expertise. The remaining technical assistance would comprise experienced
research scientists who can provide leadership and advice on research project
design, methodology and evaluation. Brief terms of reference (TOR) for
project specialists are provided below; however, more detailed TORs would be
prepared under the project in consultation with the Bank.
2.        Research Program Planning Adviser:  2 man-years.  An internationally
experienced agricultural research scientist would assist the DOA in research
program planning, project design, and implementation. He would advise and
assist the DOA in formulating policies and programs consistent with the
resources of each research division and branch, and the needs of the country
and the farming community. He would advise and assist with coordination of
research projects and programs of MOAC departments and the universities. He
would pay particular attention to special projects financed from bilateral and
multilateral sources. He would assist the DOA in preparing fellowship
programs and selecting candidates. In addition, he would assist the Director
General and Deputy Director General of Research in servicing and managing the
consultants hired under the project.
3.        Financial and Administrative Adviser:  2 man-years.  An experienced
research financing and administrative officer would advise and assist the DOA
in establishing and implementing an appropriate research program budgeting
system that would clearly identify the allocation of research funds and
facilitate the monitoring and evaluation of research spending. He would
assist in the design and implementation of a suitable procurement, stock
control and maintenance system. He would also set up a financial statement
and accounting system acceptable to the Bank. This consultancy could be split
into short-term assignments.
4.        Station Development Adviser:  1 man-year.  An experienced station
development specialist would be needed in the early stages of implementation.
He would be familiar with preparation of station site plans and design of
research offices, laboratories, workshops, stores and training facilities. He
would assist the DOA in formulating and implementing a station development,
operation and maintenance system, as well as advising and assisting architects
and engineers in the design of functional, efficient and durable research
facilities. This consultancy could be split into short-term assignments.



74 -                               ANNEX 5
Page 2
5.        Multidisciplinary Team Research Specialist:  6 man-months.  This
specialist would need to have many years' experience working with and managing
multidisciplinary research programs and projects. He would assist the DOA in
selecting and organizing scientists of various disciplines to carry out
specific research programs and projects so as to maximize coordination and
operation of comprehensive crop production research. This 6-month assignment
would perhaps be split into two 3-month assignments.
6.        Farming Systems Specialist:  6 man-months.  Starting in the second
year, a research agronomist experienced in rainfed crop production and
cropping systems research and would assist with the design and implementation
of research trials and experiments on cropping systems. Cropping systems
would cover rainfed and irrigated agriculture and would include rice. The
specialist would be assigned to the Farming Systems Institute and be
responsible to the Director of the Field Crops Institute.
7.        Horticulturalist:  2 man-years.  A specialist would be assigned to
the National Horticulture Research Center to assist with research planning,
and the design and implementation of trials and experiments with vegetables,
fruits and flowers. He would be responsible to the Director of the Horti-
culture Institute.
8.        Agricultural Economist:  1 man-year.  This specialist would need
broad international experience and exposure to economic analyses of farm
management problems (preferably with several years' experience with
small-scale agriculture under tropical conditions). He would have proven
experience in field research, including data collection covering social as
well as household economic factors. He would be responsible to the Chief of
the Technology Application and Evaluation Unit at Bangkok. Based on an
understanding of crop research and the farming system, the agricultural
economist would assist this unit in preparing the design and methodology for
collecting and releasing data. He would develop a system that can measure the
benefit to the farmer of packages of technology designed by the unit and that
can determine why farmers accept some technologies and reject others. He
would also advise the commodity research specialist about which crops and what
aspects require specific attention to gain acceptance by farmers.
9.        Socioeconomist:  1 man-year.  An experienced socioeconomist,
preferably with some experience of Thailand, would be assigned to the
Technology Application and Evaluation Unit. He would devote particular
attention to the factors that influence farmers in accepting new technology or
resisting change, with particular attention to the new economic factors. He
would study technological innovations under actual farm conditions, i.e. in
the physical environment of the village farming system and also in the social,
cultural and economic circumstances that influence the farmers' work pattern
and decisions. He would work closely with the technical personnel at the 19
Centers.



75 -                                 N. . 5
Page 3
10.       Short-term Specialists:  3.5 man-years.  During project implementa-
tion, short-term consultants would be recruited for specific problem-solving
assignments, to advise on techniques and procedures, and in particular
(renowned scientists from international and national institutes) to assist in
the periodic review and evaluation of research programs and proiects. It
would also include 6 man-months for an oil palm research agronomist and 2
man-months for a research monitoring and evaluation specialist.
Fellowships
11.       The training and development of a local scientific manpower capabil-
ity would be the key concept of the project. Adequate numbers of vocational
and BSc graduates would be available from national institutes. An estimated
90% of the PhD scientists would be trained at overseas universities, while
about two-thirds of needed MSc graduates can be trained at or hired from local
universities. Students in some disciplines would receive all their training
at overseas universities, whereas others would be encouraged to pursue
postgraduate degrees under cooperative arrangements with overseas universities
(much of the course work and actual research would be undertaken at a local
university, with training in research project desigr. and methodology obtained
at the overseas institute). This system would reduce costs but assure that
research is appropriate to Thailand's agricultural needs.
12.       The project would provide 530 man-years of fellowships for post-
graduate training and 50 man-years for short-term training. Candidates for
postgraduate fellowships would be selected from existing staff who agree to
accept assignments at field stations. New employees would serve about one
year at a field station before being eligible for a postgraduate fellowship.
These candidates would need a BSc to qualify for an MSc fellowship and an
MSc to quality for a PhD fellowship. All posts would be assigned and budgeted
to staff the 19 research centers. Short-term fellowships for study tours,
specialized practical courses (such as those offered by IRRI), attendance at
technical seminars, etc., would be available for scientists, technicians and
supporting staff.



- 76 -                              ANNEX 6
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
APPRAISAL PROJECT FILE
MARCH 1980
Table of Contents
ANNEX 1 - Department of Agriculture
(a) Organization
(b) Divisions and Branches
Table I
(c) DOA (1978) Budget
Table 2
(d) Network of Stations
Table 3
(e) Existing Staff
Tables 4-22 Preproject, Incremental and Full Development
Station Staffing
ANNEX 2 - Organization and Management
ANNEX 3 - Research Program for Rice
ANNEX 4 - Research Program for Field Crops
ANNEX 5 - Research Program for Horticulture Crops
ANNEX 6 - Physical Implementation and Costing Tables
ANNEX 7 - DOA FY79 Department and Station (under the Project) Budgets
ANNEX 8 - Outline of Adaptive Research



- 77 -
THAI LAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Existing Department of Agriculture Organization Chart
Director General
D. D.G.             ..D.D.G
r  Office of th                       |      Agcutr
|  Secretary                           =
Personnel Division                         Fnance Division
Rice
Experiment                          Rice Dision                            Planning Division  ]
Stations                                                                   _.I
Horticulture                                                                                                       Field Crops
Exper iement                    Horticuiture Division                     Field Crops Division                 Experiment Statons
Stat ions
Rubber                                                                                                           Sericulture
Experiment                        Rubber Division                              Division                        Experiment Stations
Stations
Rubber                          Plant Pathology                                             1                   Research and
Research                        adMicrobiology                          Agric. Engr. Division                     I     Center
Center                     L _ a   M     i___C
AG. Chemistry
Division                              olog   ivso
Technical Division 
Regulatory Division
Plant Quarantine
VVorld Bank - 20471



- 78
THAI LAND
NATIONAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Reorganization of the Department as Proposed by the
Special Committee in October 1978
Directot General
of
Department of Agriculture
Deputy Director.General             Deputy Director General              Deputy Director General
for                                 for                                  for
Administrative Service               Production Research                  Protection Research
.. Office of the Secretary.
*Regional Coordinating                   Rice Division                     Entomolgy Division
i        ~~~Services
Financial Division                 Field Crops Division               Plant Pathology Division
Personnel Division                   Rubber Division                    Botanical and Weed
Science Division       l
=   Planning Division           Z _  l Horticulture Division_    Agricultural Toxicologic
3     : I                                .                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Division
Agricultural Regulatory   |           Sericlture Division    J          Agricultural Engineering
I    Division        SIiute Divisio                                           Divisionl
_   Information and Training   _      Soils and Fertilizers               Agricultural Chemistry
_   Division    -      _            Division                             Division
Applicability Research   ]
..  ..           7          ~~~~~~~~~Division  
*Experiment station management for the 18 stations to be developed.
World Bank - 20472



- 79 -
THAI LAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURE RESEARCH PROJECT
ORGANIZATION PROPOSED UNDER THE PROJECT
Dire c to r-Gene ra I
Office of the                            Office of the Internal
Spcialists                                   Auditing
Policy and                              Office of Agricultural
I nternational                                Inspectors
Relations Crppeerh.s
Iestiurter                     (Administrntion and Finance)                 (Technical Servicesion
Rice Research Institute        _        Office of the Secretary                    Science aDivisio
Field ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                               ~cec CropvReearhon
FIenCostitueserc                       Finance Division                 Agricultural ChemistrY Division
Horticulture Research                Program Planning Division            Agricultural Engineering Division
I nstitute
Rubber Research Institute                  Personnel Division               Agricultural Toxicology Division
Sericulture Research                       Library and                         Plant Pathology and
Institute                       Documentation Division                   Microbiology Division
Farming Systems Research                 Agricultural Regulatory                Entomology and Zoology
Institute                               Division                               Division
Soil Science Division
J Includes a Procurement Unit
2 I ncludes Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
Note:
a. Organizaton Structure agreed upon in principle during negotiations
b. Subject to RTG approval
World Bank - 22064



~~~Q   %           --  -  --  -
.1 -    I ~ ~ ~   ~          ~         ~          ~          ~         ~         ~         ~        ~         I            
<  w~F 
0 (D~~~~~~~~ 



- 81 -
THAI LAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
FARM BASED RESEARCH
FLOW CHART
METHOD                                        MECHANISM                                        PURPOSE
National                                                  National
Coordinating                                              Agricultural                  T  Determine
Advice           r-    Committee for                    Central                      Research                      T te
from                    Agricultural         _      Government                    Coordinating                    Strategy
Below     _              Extension                             !mt
Policy
Provincial                   
Agricultural
I      Committees                                                                             Multidisciplinary
Representation                                                                                                         Applied
from Research                                                                                                          Research
and Extension
I       TechncIaR
Tech nical                 Adviar
Evaluation                  Advisory
and Planning                  Pnl
Needs             To Establish
Needs                                                                j     Technology
l                    _     ~~~~~~~~Preliminary |.
_  g                            ~~~~~~~~~Research
Awareness                            Aware-
Contacts at                                                                              ness
Meetings,
Training,                                       A
Open Days,                                        Comments                 Comments
Visits and
Trials
Adaptive Research
L       Extension                       Field                                                  - Participation
Agents                        Trials                      Farmers                    -Validation
_   |   5  F                     1 \    r i                   |        j   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Extension
Advice                 Well Established                Needs
Contacts             \
Participation    Results    Participation      Results                        World Bank-21731



I



f                                     ~~~~~~THAILAND
B U B M A                                             ~~~~NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
)                 005~~~~DO  NETWORK OF EXPERIMENT STATIONS   PROJECT NETWORK OF RESEARCH CENTERS
- O20AuS6                                                                                      A,  RICE                              NATIONAL RCSEARCH CENTERS
r-~~~~                    tollS~0 h-  Rt,                    *    IELD CROPS                        A, CRG
-'             I      ~~          ~     ~~~A  ~                    ORTICULTLRE CROPS                 S PIL-C.ROPS
r        Om all                                                3   RUBSERS                           U  ORT CRLTURE CROPS
54  EN   ORIjOO ~~~~~~  f              A ~SERICULTURE                       PRINCIPAL SOS-STATIONS
5M     lOEt0                                                                                                  * COCONUT
1                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 F ELD CROPSIFORMISOG 3ySTEMS)
{  ff~~~~e  ~ ~   V    <N>    NrO      /                   EI~~~~~~~OAC PEGWONAL CENTERTAIS    RUBBER
A  ~      ~    .             p<>                                                                     INTERNATIONA. BOUNDARIES
I/TttSAttSQ 0 SuRtaX 1    -     ';~~~~~~Ud  T,-j- 
0                                                    S~~~~~Lo'    N     \h...
N                  5           -N Ta-O\  T   0PXESatI~~~~~~~~~"-.OOj      A  7I"A     N
EU   J  o    5T~~~~/                                   Eopn0 ~~-T~k5                         I 
5'  > o~~~                                                     / 5~~K,,5 oKh.                    OAREf,,>-k
N.                                  oirN.-
A    A~~~~~A SOSNtOESE<
K-h-noanbC IUROXVj                    K     "~
0                                      B(tO<-maEo 
$    __ jPOorn      i~-' OAtE    C
ko   t.3AOEtu~            '5S-h- RSRS
1>        1  ~~~Ral                      )OEoOo
t-<SS5/5CEraW ~ ~    ~         ~ ~ D  M0C  AT  
Es      VE~~~~~~~~~~                                                               KMUCE
FtotRttTO  OR' 4:RXEFSoS  s~                                 EMCCRAT.
15                L                                                 <o.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
f2  1                            A               ,oiaa C-EoKh  ENh-                           CA5<\2
Lq  45 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
to-;                             N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f                            d  
}r'                                           p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--   d-
C            A              Jr~~~~~~~~hA-1d-  1
8I                                                                                                           C HloooooRo IS N A RS
5)  f                                                         ttTt                         Toe 000010 at toooadeoddINDI
Kh.C            - oT  Ctt-ESt                                                                    -'0dooaoololtO
Ret,0/                                                5/                          oooStltRIt ottSopo,ottE
N                                                                           CSOtWSatoEeoOttSaREEotoa.~~B UR M 
0   iwr"~~"                                                                       7BRSTTHAI
CSaRoSSt~S<  Sat TON S0                                                                     £7S
Kd- 0...oatta,t                                           (D- BU MA                                                 OoL  AO YSk
I                                                                                                                                          3
10go                       MAAStAN     ¼                                                                        



