7*          I =?,'lAiT
tL1MEjj LOAN NUMBER 1922 TH
Loan Agreement
(National Agricultural Research Project)
between
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated        4-d*A            /?     , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1922 TH
LOAN AGREEMENT
'GREEMENT, dated   5b ut                     , 1980, between
the KINGDOM OF THAILAND (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to arrange technical assistance
from the Government of Australia (hereinafter called Australian
Government Technical Assistance) in an amount equivalent to about
$2,000,000 for purposes of the Project;
(C) the Borrower has applied to the International Fund
for Agricultural Development (hereinafter called the Fund) for a
loan (hereinafter called the Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent to
eleven million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
11,400,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the Fund
Loan Agreement) between the Borrower and the Fund; and
(D) the Fund has appointed the Bank as Cooperating Insti-
tution to administer the Fund Loan and the Bank has accepted
such appointment; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
t U-o ns)


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Fund Loan Account" means the loan account established
under the Fund Loan Agreement;
(b) "Special Drawing Right" and "SDR" mean a special drawing
right as valued from time to time by the International Monetary
Fund;
(c) "Baht" means the currency unit of the Borrower;
(d) "D0A" means the Department of Agriculture of the
Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty million dollars ($30,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
III of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1989
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of nine and one-fourths per cent (9-1/4%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.


﻿-3-
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Allocation and Withdrawal of Proceeds
of Loan and Fund Loan
Section 3.01. Subject to the rights of suspension and can-
cellation set forth in the Loan Agreement and the Fund Loan
Agreement, the amount of the Loan and the amount of the Fund Loan
may be withdrawn from the Loan Account and the Fund Loan Account,
respectively, in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement
and with the allocation of the proceeds of the Loan and the Fund
Loan set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such allocation
may be modified from time to time pursuant to the provisions of
such Schedule or by further agreement between the Borrower, the
Bank and the Fund.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall be entitled to make with-
drawals from the Loan Account and from the Fund Loan Account for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank and the Fund shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Fund Loan.
Section 3.03. (a) When the Borrower shall desire to withdraw
any amount of the Loan or the Fund Loan, the Borrower shall
deliver to the Bank a written application in such form and
containing such statements and agreements as the Bank or the Fund
shall reasonably request. Applications for withdrawal, with the
necessary documentation as hereinafter provided shall, except as
the Borrower, the Bank and the Fund shall otherwise agree, be made
promptly in relation to expenditures for the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank such documents
and other evidence in support of the application as the Bank or
the Fund shall reasonably request, whether before or after the
Bank shall have approved any withdrawal requested in the applica-
tion.


﻿-4-
(c) Each application and the accompanying documents and
other evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to
satisfy the Bank or the Fund that the Borrower is entitled
to withdraw from the Loan Account or the Fund Loan Account the
amount applied for and that such amount is to be used only for
the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. Each such application by the Borrower for
withdrawal shall be deemed to be a request to withdraw funds
from the Loan Account and from the Fund Loan Account and the funds
to be withdrawn pursuant to such application shall be apportioned
by the Bank, as nearly as practicable in the circumstances,
between the Loan and the Fund Loan in the ratio of 2:1, or
such other ratio as shall be agreed between the Bank and the
Fund; provided, however, that, if such application shall be made
in respect of expenditures that shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan or the Fund Loan only, such application shall
be deemed to be a request to withdraw funds from the Loan Account
or the Fund Account only.
Section 3.05. When the Bank shall have approved an applica-
tion by the Borrower for withdrawal, the Bank shall: (i) pay the
amount, if any, which the Borrower is entitled to withdraw from
the Loan Accouat to or on the order of the Borrower in accordance
with the provisions of the Loan Agreement; and (ii) promptly
notify the Fund that it has received an application for withdrawal
from the Fund Loan Account in the aggregate amount specified in
such notice, that it has approved payment of the portion, if any,
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account in the amount set forth in
such notice, and that the portion to be withdrawn from the Fund
Loan Account in the amount set forth in such notice is eligible
for payment by the Fund.
Section 3.06. If at any time the amount of the Loan or
the Fund Loan shall have been fully withdrawn or cancelled,
applications by the Borrower for further withdrawals shall be
deemed to be requests for withdrawal of the full amount applied
for from the Loan Account or the Fund Loan Account only, and the
provisions of this Article III except for Section 3.04 hereof
shall continue to apply mutatis mutandis until the full amount
credited or to be credited to such Account shall have been with-
drawn or cancelled.
Section 3.07. Upon the Borrower's request and upon such
terms as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank,


﻿-5-
the Bank may, on behalf and for the account of the Fund, enter
into special commitments to pay amounts, out of the proceeds
of t1'h Fund Loan, to the Borrower or others in respect of the cost
of goods required by the Project, subject to the provisions of
this Agreement concerning the allocation and apportionment of the
proceeds of the Fund Loan. The Fund has advised the Bank that any
such special commitment shall, once it has been notified to the
Fund, constitute an obligation on the part of the Fund to pay,
notwithstanding any subsequent suspension or cancellation of
the Fund Loan, the amount to be disbursed out of the proceeds of
the Fund Loan in fulfillment of such special commitment.
Section 3.08. Except as the Bank and the Fund shall otherwise
agree, procuiement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or the
Fund Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Execution of the Project
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through its DOA with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with appropriate administrative, financial and agricultu-
ral research practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 4.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying
out of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants and
experts whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or the Fund Loan
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be Tayable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank and the Fund shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan or the Fund Loan to be used exclusively
for the Project.


﻿-6-
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Fund Loan, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan or the Fund Loan and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
the Fund Loan and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
and the Fund a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank
of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the
Fund Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan and the Fund Loan.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying
out the Project including the site for the National Horticulture
Research Center and land in Kanthuli and Phuket for coconut
research and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
the Project.


﻿-7-
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall, until the completion of
the Project, maintain duly qualified and competent persons in the
positions of Deputy Director General responsible for research and
the Project Implementation Coordinator of DOA together with
adequate supporting administrative staff and shall advise the Bank
of any change in appointment to such positions.
Section 4.07. (a) Until the implementation of the recommenda-
tions made by the Commission referred to in Section 4.07 (b), the
Borrower shall, on a continuing basis, carry out improvements in
the terms and conditions of employment of agricultural research
scientists consistent with the recommendations of the Interdepart-
mental Committee for the Improvement of the Research System.
(b) The Borrower shall, not later than January 1, 1982,
establish a commission, and appoint consultants to assist such
commission to review and recommend further improvements in the
terms and conditions of employment of agricultural research
scientists by the Borrower.
(c) The Borrower shall, not later than January 1, 1982,
or such other date as may be agreed to between the Borrower and
the Bank, appoint or causc to be appointed a commission and
appoint consultants to assist such commission to conduct a review
of all departmental research activities of the Ministry of Agri-
culture and Cooperatives with a view to its rationalization.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall, not later than January 1,
1982, establish, and thereafter, maintain such departmental
councils, committees and advisory panels at the national and
provincial levels as may be necessary to formulate and review
national agricultural research policies and programs and to
improve the coordination and planning of agricultural research on
a regional or provincial basis.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall establish a program planning
and budgeting system, satisfactory to the Bank and the Fund, to
enable DOA to manage and control its research operations and staff
by program and location.
Section 4.10. The Borrower shall, through consultants
employed by the Borrower for the purpose, formulate appropriate
monitoring, evaluation and research program review systems, and
shall appoint agricultural research specialists of national and
international repute to assist in the conduct of periodic research
program reviews.


﻿-8-
Section 4.11. The Borrower shall, not later than twelve
months from the date of this Agreement, implement the reorgan-
ization plan of DOA.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit
of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on
any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the alloca-
tion, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or


﻿-9-
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof, including, without limitation
to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting all expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account
and the Fund Loan Account on the basis of certificates of expendi-
ture.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, or cause to be retained,
until one year after the Closing Date, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
the expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested
from the Loan Account and the Fund Loan Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditure and shall enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to examine such records.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall: (i) cause such separate
accounts referred to in Section 5.02 (a) of this Agreement for
each fiscal year to be audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank, as soon as
available, but in any case not later than nine months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested, including, without limita-
tion to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in
respect o.f the expenditures and records referred to in Section
5.02 (b) of this Agreement as to whether the proceeds of the Loan
and the Fund Loan withdrawn on the basis of certificates of
expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; and ((ii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said separate account, records and expenditures and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. (a) For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that subject to para-
graph (b) of this Section:
(i) The right of the Borrower Lo withdraw the proceeds
of any loan including the Fund Loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor,
(ii) any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof, or
(iii) the agreement for the Australian Government
Technical Assistance shall not have become effec-
tive by December 31, 1981, and no other arrange-
ment, satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been
made by the Borrower to finance the services
covered by such agreement.
(b) Paragraphs (a) (i) and (ii) of this Section shall not
apply if: (i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to
perform any of its obligations under such agreement, and (ii)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obliga-
tions of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (a) (i) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
the execution and delivery on behalf of the Borrower of the Fund
Loan Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary governmental action and all other conditions precedent
to the effectiveness of the Fund Loan pursuant to the Fund Loan
Agreement have been duly fulfilled.
Section 7.02. The date    /4AAA1aJ    JH,      , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 7.03. If (i) the Fund Loan Agreement shall have
come into force and effect and the Loan Agreement shall have
failed to come into force and effect by the date specified in
Section 7.02 of this Agreement or a later date established by the
Bank for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions,
or (ii) the entire principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from
the Loan Account and all charges which shall have accrued on the
Loan shall have been paid before the Fund Loan Agreement shall
have terminated, then, notwithstanding the provisions of Sections
12.04 and 12.05 of the General Conditions, the Loan Agreement
shall be deemed to be, or to remain, in force and effect but only
to the extent required for the purpose of implementing the Fund
Loan Agreement and of orderly settlement of matters of mutual
interest to the parties thereunder, subject to such modifications
of the Loan Agreement as shall be agreed between the Borrower, the
Bank and the Fund for such purposes.
Section 7.04. If (i) the Fund Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms before the Loan Agreement shall have
terminated, or (ii) the Bank shall notify the Borrower that its
appointment as Cooperating Institution under the Fund Loan Agree-
ment has terminated, the provisions of this Agreement shall, to
the extent that they relate to the responsibilities of the Bank as
the Cooperating Institution, forthwith terminate.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Bangkok
Thailand
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINANCE                            TH 2823
Bangkok
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the


﻿- 13 -
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Loan and the Fund Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Fund Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan and the Fund Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of the Amount of the
Loan Allocated   Fund Loan        % of
(Expressed      Allocated   Expenditures
in Dollar    (Expressed in     to be
Category            Equivalent) SDR Equivalent)   Financed
(1) Civil works                                      85%
(a) Housing          4,300,000
(b) Other civil     11,000,000   4,600,000
works
(2) Vehicles, farm,       8,000,000   3,400,000      100% of for-
office and lab-                                 eign expendi-
oratory equipment                                tures, 100%
of local ex-
penditures
(ex-factory)
or 65%
(3) Technical services   1,300,000      500,000      100%
(4) Fertilizers,          4,500,000   2,300,000      85%
agri-chemicals,
spare parts,
planting and other
materials
(5) Unallocated             900,000     600,000
TOTAL     30,000,000   11,400,000


﻿- 15 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank and the Fund that no proceeds of
the Loan or the Fund Loan shall be disbursed on account of pay-
ments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement
or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan or the Fund Loan decreases or increases, the
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policies of the Bank and
the Fund.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, or the date of the Fund
Loan Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $500,000 may be made on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
October 1, 1980.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the Fund Loan or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Loan or the Fund Loan then allocated to any
Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of
all expenditures in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required
to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan or the Fund
Loan which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures,
provided, however, that no such reallocation of proceeds of the
Fund Loan shall be made to Category (1) (a); and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the


﻿- 16 -
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Fund Loan and the Bank may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Bank under the Loan Agreement or of the Fund under the Fund.Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan and/or the Fund Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opin-
ion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Loan and/or the Fund Loan.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the first phase of a long-term program to
improve the management and quality of national agricultural
research activities and to enhance their relevance to the needs of
farmers, particularly those in rainfed areas in the Northeast and
North. The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Organization and Management
1.   Implementation of measures to strengthen the capacity of the
DOA to plan and manage national agricultural research programs,
including
(i) the restructuring of the DOA and its reorganization
along multi-disciplinary lines;
(ii) the decentralization of its research activities
and program management.
2.   The rationalization of all agricultural research programs and
facilities conducted or maintained by the Ministry of Agriculture
and Cooperatives of the Borrower and/or the agencies under the
jurisdiction of said Ministry with a view to improving the effi-
ciency of national agricultural research systems and their respon-
siveness to farmers' needs.
Part B:   Manpower Development
1.   Implementation of a manpower development program including:-
(i) the creation of approximately 580 additional
agricultural research posts;
(ii) an increase in DOA's administrative and support
capabilities both at headquarters and at research
centers;
(iii) upgrading the qualifications of DOA staff through
departmental training programs and fellowships.
2.   Improvement of the terms and conditions of service applicable
to agricultural research scientists.


﻿- 18 -
Part C:   Station Development
The construction, equipping, furnishing and operation of
about 19 national research centers in all regions of the Bor-
rower's territories, including the provision of supporting ser-
vices, research facilities and staff housing.
Part D:   Program Coordination and Review
The introduction of appropriate arrangements to
(i) coordinate agriculture research and extension;
(ii) strengthen linkages between agricultural research
workers, local administrators and farmers at the
provincial level;
(iii) guide and review research policy, programs and
projects.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1989.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 1 and July 1
beginning July 1, 1986                       1,000,000
through   January 1, 2001
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 20 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                   1.40%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                          2.75%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                   5.00%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                                   7.40%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                                   8.30%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                   9.25%


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods or works
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   To the extent practicable, similar items of equipment,
civil works, goods and materials shall be grouped together to
facilitate competitive bidding.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.


﻿- 22 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Thailand pay be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Thailand if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Thailand equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such


﻿- 23 -
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works contracts estimated to cost less than
$500,000 equivalent and contracts for equipment, goods and sup-
plies estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent each shall
be procured on the basis of competitive bidding procedures,
satisfactory to the Bank, advertised locally.
2.   Contracts for items estimated to cost less than $15,000
equivalent each may be procured after inviting three quotations
from manufacturers or suppliers. Except as the Bank shall other-
wise agree, such procurement shall not in the aggregate exceed
$1,500,000 equivalent.
3.   Specialized scientific equipment may be procured after
inviting quotations of which, whenever practicable, three will be
from suppliers or manufacturers abroad. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, such procurement shall not in the aggregate
exceed $2,000,000 equivalent.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works, equipment,
goods and materials estimate- to cost the equivalent of $250,000
or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.


﻿- 24 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-,
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it in-ends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations and award
and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account or the Fund Loan Account in respect of
such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by sub-paragraphs
1 and 3 of paragraph D of this Schedule, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account or the Fund Loan Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
3.   All contracts valued at less than $25,000 equivalent to-
gether with the analysis of bids and recommendations for the award
shall be retained by the Borrower and made available, upon
request, to the Bank or its representatives. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the said Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of the
terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension of
the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issuing
any change order under such contract (except in cases of extreme


﻿- 25 -
urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by more
than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform the Bank
of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change order
and rhe reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines that the
proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agree-
ment, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  /2      day of   M., 198 -..
FOR SECRETARY


