Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13140
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
(NCDC) III PROJECT
(CREDIT 1502-IN)
JUNE 13, 1994
Agriculture Operations Division
India Department
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)                       =          Indian Rupee (Re/Rs)
Appraisal Report                           US$1       =          Rs 10.80
Appraisal Report                           SDR1       =          Rs 11.30
Average Completion Year (1991/92)          US$1       =          Rs 27.96
Completion Date (end June 1992)            US$1       =          Rs 25.89
PCR Date (March 1993)                      US$1       =          Rs 31.50
ABBREVIATIONS
ACSTI             Agricultural Cooperative Staff Training Institute
CDS               Cooperative Development Services
FRR               Financial Rate of Return
GOI               Government of India
IFFCO             Indian Farmers Fertilizer Cooperative Ltd.
NABARD            National Bank for Agricultural and Rural Development
NCDC              National Cooperative Development Corporation
OGCS              Oilseed Growers' Cooperative Society
PACS              Primary Agricultural Credit Society
PCS               Primary Cooperative Society
PMS               Primary Marketing Society
SAR               Staff Appraisal Report
SCB               State Cooperative Bank
SLDB              State Land Development Bank



FOR OFFICALL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-G*n.rai
Opefatona Evaluation
June 13, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on India
National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) III Project
(Cr. 1502-IN)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on India--National Cooperative Development
Corporation (NCDC) m Project (Credit 1502-IN). Parts I and III were prepared by the FAO/World
Bank Cooperative Program. The NCDC prepared Part II.
The project was the third in a series of IDA projects supporting the cooperative movement
in India. The project developed storage infrastructure, improved agro-processing facilities, and
included major institutional development objectives.
While the project exceeded its physical targets for rural storage and cotton spinning, and
provided training to twenty percent more staff than was planned, it fell short of its seed oil extraction
targets and did not achieve its primary institutional development objectives. It failed to develop the
state banks' ability to identify and appraise sub-projects, or to develop cooperatives' ability to plan,
execute, and manage profitable investments. Thus institutional development is rated as modest.
The major weaknesses contributing to the unsatisfactory outcome and unlikely sustainability
of this project include: i) the NCDC's failure to determine beneficiaries' interest in being involved
with the agro-businesses, ii) the Bank's inadequate appraisal of the rural farm cooperatives' ability
to manage and operate large agro-businesses, and iii) the large equity stake held by state governments
(up to 95%), which tuned the agro-businesses into parastatals rather than cooperatives. NCDC
disagrees with findings i and iii above.
The PCR satisfactorily discusses the implementation and outcome of the project. No audit
is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distrIbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of thelr
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (NCDC)
III PROJECT
(Credit 1502-IN)
CONTENTS
PREFACE ......................................................... i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY    .......................................... iii
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                             ..........  1
1. Project Identity  .           .................................................    1
2.  Background  ....................................................    1
3. Project Objectives and Description   ....................................    2
4. Project Design and Organisation  ......................................    4
5. Project Implementation   ............................................    6
6. Project Results .            .................................................  10
7.  Project Sustainability  ..............................................   12
8. Bank Performance ...............................................                                               12
9. Borrower Performance .............................................   13
10. Project Relationship                ..............................................    15
11. Consulting Services                 ..............................................    15
12. Project Documentation Data                 ..................              ......................   15
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .... ..... 17
PART  III. STATISTICAL  INFORMATION   ...............................    29
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits  ....................................  29
2. Project Timetable  .               ...............................................   29
3. Credit Disbursement  ..............................................   30
4. Project Implementation   ............................................   31
5. Project Costs and Financing  .........................................   32
A. Project Costs  .           .............................................   32
B. Project Financing .             ........................................... 33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not oth.erwise be disclosed wit'nout World Bank authorization.



6. Project Results.. ....................  34
A. Direct Benefits ............. . .............................  34
B. Economic Analysis ................  35
C. Financial Impact ................  35
D. Studies ................ 36
7. Status of Covenants ......................  37
8. Use of Bank Resources ......................  40
A. Staff Inputs ................  40
B. Missions ................ 41
ANNEXES:
1.   Performance Indicators ...................... 42
2.   Financial and Economic Analysis .48



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (NCDC)
III PROJECT
(Credit 15024N)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the National Cooperative
Development Corporation (NCDC) III Project for which Cr. 1502-IN in the amount of
SDR210.2 million was approved on June 19, 1984. The Credit account was closed on
June 30, 1992, three years behind schedule. SDR30 million was cancelled effective
December 5, 1991, but the rest of the Credit was fully disbursed, with the last disbursement
being made on September 17, 1992.
Parts I and III of this PCR were prepared by a mission from the FAO/World
Bank Cooperative Programme" which visited India in February/March 1992. The PCR is
based on a review of the Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5035-IN) dated May 30, 1984; IDA's
supervision reports and project files; field visits to various facilities financed under the
project; and discussions with relevant Government officials, project beneficiaries and with
staff of NCDC. Part II was prepared by NCDC.
Consisting of Messrs. Daud Khan (Economist, Mission Leader); T.F. McCarthy (Institutions Expert, Consultant) and
S.P. Agarwal (Financial Analyst, World Bank, New Delhi Office).



I



iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (NCDC)
III PROJECT
(Credit 1502-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.        Objectives: The project (NCDC III) had two complementary objectives: (a) to
support the development of farmer cooperatives, and (b) to promote growth and increase
farmer incomes by financing village-level cooperative storage and marketing godowns as well
as larger federation-owned agroprocessing enterprises. These objectives were to be inter-
related and mutually reinforcing, with farmer cooperatives organizing themselves to take
advantage of new earning possibilities. Village-level storage would increase availability and
reduce the cost of production inputs and facilitiate cooperative marketing ventures. Larger
agroindustrial investments would create new markets and support better prices for producers,
while also reducing national shortages and imports. Cooperative development was to be
assisted directly with training and technical assistance provided by strengthened state-level
agencies. The project had no explicit poverty alleviation or gender components. Under the
project, cooperatives setting up storage or agro-processing facilities were to get term loans
from State Cooperative Banks (SCBs) or State Land Development Banks (SLDBs) to cover
50-60% of sub-project costs and an equity investment from state governments to cover
another 35-45% of costs. The remaining 5% was to come from their own funds. The
National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) was to refinance all of the term
loans of the banks and most of the equity investment by the state governments. All NCDC
financing was on a loan basis and was guaranteed by the state governments. Total project
costs were estimated at Rs 5,054 million (US$468 million).
2.        Implementation Experience: The project faced problems in its initial years but
by the time of project closure, three years behind schedule, most of the physical targets had
been met (para 5.2). Total project costs, including some residual amounts still to be spent,
would exceed the SAR target by about 70% in local currency terms but would fall slightly
short of the SAR estimate in US Dollar terms. Of the original credit amount of
SDR210.2 million (US$220 million), SDR180.2 million was disbursed and the remaining
SDR30 million was cancelled effective December 5, 1991. The slow implementation in the
initial years reflected the rigid, top-down manner in which the sub-projects had been defined,
as well as problems associated with sub-project appraisal, procurement, land acquisition and
counterpart financing (para 5.4). Implementation and disbursements improved after 1987
when the project was modified to make it more flexible and cover new activities and states.
The project as implemented had a number of weaknesses: many of the agroprocessing sub-
projects were large and well beyond the management capacity of grassroot-level cooperatives;
many units suffered from interference by state governments who provided (or guaranteed)
95% of sub-project costs and in many cases provided managerial input; many benefiting
cooperatives are essentially parastatals as state governments are principal share holders and



iv
government civil servants/local appointees hold decision-making posts; cooperative~ do not
feel a sense of ownership towards project facilities; and there has been a failure to build-up a
strong appraisal and financial monitoring capability in the state-level cooperative banking
system (para 5.5). A major innovation made under the project was the introduction of a
cooperative "extension" service to motivate cooperative organisation and assist them in
administrative and financial matters (para 4.3).
3.         Results: Rural stores are being used as distribution points for fertilizers produced
by the cooperative sector and sold to farmers for cash or on credit provided by the Primary
Agricultural Credit Societies (PACS). The local distribution of fertilizers by the PACS has
fostered healthy competition with the private sector and also increased fertilizer use,
especially in remote areas. However, margins to PACS from these activities are too small to
make investments in storage facilities financially attractive. The establishment of
agroprocessing units in the rural areas has provided employment, local markets and increased
prices for some farmers. Provided that financial and marketing management is improved,
most of the agroprocessing units could be financially viable, but only marginally so. Most of
the agro-processing units are also likely to be economically viable, except for the soybean oil
extraction plant which is inefficient by international standards. Rural stores are economically
attractive in remote areas where they can raise fertilizer use and agricultural production, but
not in areas where the private marketing system is operating efficiently (para 6.6). The
training provided by the project has helped upgrade the administrative and financial know-
how of the cooperatives and also the technical expertise of the cooperative banks and of
NCDC. Employment creation for women appears to have been limited (few women, if any,
hold technical or managerial positions).
4.         Sustainability: The continuation of project activities is at risk due to a number of
factors: Investment financing was made available to cooperatives that frequently failed to
demonstrate the basic institutional requirements for success; the project design was premised
on a belief that institutional development would flow from completion of attractive
investments. The Government cannot continue to provide scarce management skills to run
cooperatives. NCDC is not in a position to raise sufficient funds to continue its credit
operations at the present level, and is heavily dependent on funds from Government and
external donors. Cooperative promotional activities are required in the short term, but SCBs
are not prepared to continue the successful mobile guide programme (para 7.1). NCDC and
state cooperative agencies gained valuable experience in planning and supporting cooperative
development. The project failed however to demonstrate credible, sustainable models for
promoting cooperative development or entrepreneurial initiative in the future. New training
facilities are in place, but it is unclear if state cooperative banks will finance operating costs
from their own resources.
5.         Lessons Learnt: Major lessons relevant for the design of future credit and
cooperative development projects are summarised below:
(a)    Strong cooperative institutions should be prerequisites for, instead of
expected outcomes of, successful credit or investment projects. NCDC



v
and the Bank proceeded too often on the contrary assumption--that
assistance in the implementation of attractive investments would provide
the spark needed to transform cooperatives into dynamic entities.
(b)    Cooperative members need to develop a sense of ownership about the
activities undertaken and expect their management boards to exercise
appropriate financial discipline. Top quality professional management
should be recruited and given clear targets.
(c)    Financing large, discrete, capital-intensive agroprocessing units may not
be the most cost-effective way to promote cooperative development. It
may be better to focus more on activities within the financial and
managerial capabilities of local cooperatives such as marketing of output
and inputs, and on processing units which are small, labour-intensive and
can be gradually expanded.
(d)    Directed credit provided in a top-down manner with rigidly defined uses
is difficult to implement and may not yield optimal results. Project
design should be flexible and allow beneficiaries a major say in deciding
what their needs and priorities are. A cooperative development project
also should preferably use simple, tried and tested technologies.
(e)    It is essential that local-level bodies be drawn into supporting cooperative
development, and this should include NGOs and state-level institutions.
Consideration has to be given to rehabilitating, or even disbanding,
cooperatives which are non-operational.
(f)    The credit needs of the cooperatives as well as the institutional
mechanisms for credit delivery need to be reviewed within the context of
overall reforms in the financial sector.
(g)    Administrative procedures for approval of contracts by NCDC and the
state governments, and for the release of foreign exhange by the Reserve
Bank of India need to be streamlined to ensure that delays do not affect
the financial viability of sub-projects.
(h)    NCDC and state agencies need to strengthen managerial and social
science research skills if they are to better understand rural cooperative
development problems and needs.






1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (NCDC)
III PROJECT
(Cr.1 502-IN)
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name:        National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) III Project
Credit No.:          1502-IN
RVP Unit:            South Asia Region
Country:             India
Sector:              Agriculture
Sub-sectors:         Cooperative Development (through credit for rural storage and
agroprocessing)
2. Background
2.1       Agriculture plays a critical role in the Indian economy. The GOI's agricultural
policies, as expressed in various Five-Year Plans, have been to increase agricultural output
and incomes, reduce poverty and strengthen the balance of payments situation. Raising
foodgrain production has been a high priority and increasing attention has been paid to
improving marketing, storage and input supply. Efforts have also been made to develop
efficient rural-based agroprocessing and diversify agricultural production into higher value
cash crops. Cotton is a traditional cash crop in India, mostly grown in rainfed areas.
Production not only meets domestic needs for textiles but is also an important foreign
exchange earner, the bulk of exports being in processed form. Edible vegetable oils are an
essential element of Indian diets and consumption has been growing rapidly with an
increasing proportion being consumed in hydrogenated form (vanaspati). Domestic
production of oilseeds has failed to keep up with demand and edible oil has been one of the
largest imported food items. Traditionally, the most important oilseed was groundnut but
mustard, cotton seed, soybean and sunflower have been growing in importance.
2.2       At the time of appraisal, there were 300,000 cooperatives of all types in India,
with an estimated membership of over 90 million. Primary Agricultural Credit Societies
(PACS) deal with credit, input supplies and consumer goods as well as marketing of
agricultural produce. Primary Cooperative Societies (PCS) promote crop production and also
operate cotton spinning and ginning mills, and Primary Marketing Societies (PMS) provide



2
assistance in marketing and input supplies to PACS. There are also a number of cooperative
federations at district, state and all-India levels. These bodies undertake marketing and
agroprocessing activities which include sugar production and oilseed extraction. State
Cooperative Banks (SCBs) and State Land Development Banks (SLDBs) along with District
Cooperative Central Banks provide banking services to the PACS. Cooperative development
has been a state subject and the Registrar of Cooperative Societies, who comes under the
state-level Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperation, has been the main focal point for
regulatory and administrative activities. The National Cooperative Development Corporation
(NCDC) was set up in 1962 to promote and finance projects and programmes carried out by
agricultural and agro-industrial cooperative societies. Its funding, which is often accompanied
by technical and managerial support, is provided as loans through SCBs and SLDBs, or as
equity investment either directly, or through state governments. GOI has been strongly
committed to the development and improvement of the cooperative system, particularly in the
agricultural and agroindustrial sectors. IDA has supported NCDC's programme and had
financed two previous projects (Cr.87 1-IN and Cr.1 146-IN) largely dealing with construction
of rural godowns and cold stores.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1        Project Objectives: The project (NCDC III) had two complementary objectives:
(a) to support the development of farmer cooperatives, and (b) to promote growth and
increase farmer incomes by financing village-level cooperative storage and marketing
godowns as well as larger federation-owned agroprocessing enterprises. These objectives
were to be inter-related and mutually reinforcing, with farmer cooperatives organizing
themselves to take advantage of new earning possibilities. Village-level storage would
increase availability and reduce the cost of production inputs and facilitiate cooperative
marketing ventures. Larger agroindustrial investments would create new markets and support
better prices for producers, while also reducing national shortages and imports. Cooperative
development was to be assisted directly with training and technical assistance provided by
strengthened state-level agencies.
3.2        Project Description: The project was to provide credit for godowns and
agroprocessing units in nine states" along with a major institution-building/training
programme. The main project activities were to be:
(a)    Construction of 1.37 million tons of storage capacity composed of 7,800
rural godowns of sizes varying from 50 tons to 10,000 tons. These
godowns were for storage of consumer goods and agricultural inputs and
produce.
(b)    Development of soybean production and processing by construction of
four soybean solvent oil extraction plants, each with an annual capacity
Original states were Andhra Pradesh, Haryana. Kamataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Orissa, Rajasthan, Uttar
Pradesh and West Bengal.



3
of 60,000 tons of soybean, and of three seed processing plants.
Establishment of Cooperative Development Services (CDS) to provide
farmers with improved input packages, promote soybean production, help
farmers to form Oilseed Growers' Cooperative Societies (OGCSs), and
provide supplies to the oil mills.
(c)    Development of cotton processing by construction of eleven cotton
ginneries (saw and roller) with a total capacity of 56,000 tons/annum;
five spinning mills (ring frame and open-end) with a total capacity of
125,000 spindles; and four cottonseed solvent oil extraction plants with a
total crushing capacity of 120,000 tons/annum. New technologies and
improved work systems were to be introduced in the cotton processing
units.
(d)    Local technical training for about 25,000 people in rural storage, and
cotton and soybean processing and foreign training for 20 senior technical
and management staff; and provision of training for staff working in
various cooperative institutions. Construction or upgrading of six
Agricullural Cooperative Staff Training Institutes (ACSTIs), provision of
mobile training units, and partial financing of tuition fees and stipends.
3.3        Project Cost and Financing:
Sharing of InvesLment Costs               Project costs over a five-year implementation
period were estimated at Rs 5,054 million
Slate Equity            (US$468 million) of which Rs 4,925 million
--  4596              (US$456 million) was to be spent on
production facilities, including the CDS, and
the rest on institution-building. Cooperatives
setting up storage (Figure 1) or
agroprocessing units were to get term loans
Co-op Equity   from SCBs or SLDBs (covering 50% of
_  596    project costs for storage and 60% for
agroprocessing) and an equity contribution
from state governments (covering another
45% of costs in the case of storage and 35%
Long Term Loan                            in the case of agroprocessing). The remaining
5% of costs were to come from their own
resources by way of equity. NCDC was to
refinance all of the term loans by the banks and a part (55-60%) of the equity investment by
state governments. All NCDC financing was on a loan basis with the state government as a
guarantor. It was envisaged that once project facilities became profitable, the cooperatives
would increase their equity stake by re-purchasing shares from the Government; 15 years after
start-up cooperatives would own between 55% and 75% of equity. There were no co-
financiers involved in the project. The IDA Credit of SDR 210.2 million (US$220 million)



4
was to cover 47%  of total project costs. Of this, US$6.8 million was for institution-building,
US$4.7 million for the CDS and the balance for on-lending by NCDC.
4. Project Design and Organisation
4.1          Project Strategy and Scope: The project followed two earlier projects
implemented by NCDC, but at the time of appraisal of NCDC III, the experience of NCDC I
and II had not been evaluated critically (PCRs for these projects were only completed in 1987
and 1990) and the lessons learnt had not been incorporated into project design. The project
strategy was to promote rural and cooperative developmcnt through an institution-building
programme complemented by provision of term credit and equity finance to cooperatives.
The project strategy was well understood by the senior management of NCDC, but many of
the technical and field staff gave more importance to meeting the physical targets of the
project, such as construction of godowns and processing plants. The project was limited to
particular states and activities but the rationale for this selection was not clear. In the case of
rural storage, continued support under NCDC III was justified by the fact that there was
expected to be unfilled demand even after completion of NCDC I and II. However, the
selection of agroprocessing activities was not based on any careful assessment of the ability
and willingness of cooperatives to become involved in these sectors.' During the appraisal
process the rationale for supporting cooperative involvement in some agroprocessing activities
was questioned within the Bank. It was felt that providing public funds for these activities
was not justified as there was sufficient private sector interest. Concern was also expressed
about overcapacity in the cotton spinning industry and about the impact of various policy
distortions. The issue was resolved by including a "Textile Policy Study" in the project to
look into these questions.3"
4.2          Project Concept and Design of Components: The project was prepared by
NCDC with the overall concept of strengthening cooperatives through a mix of financial and
institutional support. However, the project suffered from  a number of weaknesses in design:
2/ NCDC disagrees, citing that in the case of both storage and agroprocessing units, selections were based on their
potential and demand from identified cooperatives in various states at the time of project formulation.
3/ At negotiations, GOI agreed to carry out a review of the textile sector based on existing and ongoing studies, and as
necessary implement further analyses to include: (a) a descriptive overview of the major regulations affecting the size,
location, production cost and efficient operations of textile enterprises; (b) description and evaluation of such factors on
enterprise profitablity; and (c) impact on international competitiveness of: domestic fiscal measures such as taxes and
tariffs, regulatory measures (e.g., controlled cloth policy, licensing requirements both for investment and operation,
quantitative import restrictions), investment incentives (e.g., credit), and impediments to modernization and rehabilitation.
Based on this work the Borrower was expected to develop a set of measures to increase the efficiency, competitiveness
and export potential of the textile industry. Completed in January 1986, the study was done by a six-member team from
three textile research associations--the Ahmedabad Textile Industry Research Association, the Bombay Textile Research
Assocation and the South India Textile Research Association. No supervision report cites this study, and no policy
adjustments seemed to result from it. NCDC considered it a task which was carried out at the insistence of the Bank.



5
(a)    Cooperatives were expected to provide only 5% of the cost of facilities.
This low level of equity contributed to a lack of sense of ownership on
the part of cooperative members. It also made profit-making
cooperatives hesitant to pay any dividend on shares, as most of this
would go to state governments who held 90% of equity. In the case of
units having already started operations and making profits, there appears
to be no incentive to repurchase shares from the state government
(para 3.3).
(b)    Interest rates on credit provided were comparable to rates available to the
private sector at the time of project appraisal, but there was no
mechanism to revise interest rates under the project to keep them in line
with the private sector.
(c)    About two thirds of project base costs (US$252 million in 1984 prices)
were to be spent on construction of 19 agroprocessing units. This
implied an average investment of about US$20 million in 1992 prices.
The size and capacity of the plants were often beyond the managerial
capacity of grassroot cooperatives.
(d)    State governments were not only the largest share holders but also the
guarantors for all loans to cooperatives, with neither the financing banks
nor NCDC bearing even a part of the credit risk. The state governments
were thus the virtual owners of these facilities and could not easily
relinquish management. Effectively, these were parastatals.
(e)    The project attempted to introduce new technologies and work systems.
Although the cooperative sector can play a role in upgrading agro-
industrial technologies, it would have been better to rely on simpler, more
traditional technologies which are more within the managerial capacity of
rural cooperatives.
4.3        In the context of Indian cooperative development, the project introduced a
number of innovations. The most important of these was the "mobile guides"--a cooperative
extension service made up of relatively junior officers from the SCBs, who regularly visited
rural areas to promote cooperative organisation and assist cooperatives in administrative and
financial matters (para 6.4). The design features which contributed most to implementation
problems were the top-down manner in which the investment pattern was set in the SAR, and
the emphasis on large-scale agroprocessing units.



6
5. Project Implementation
5.1         Effectiveness and Project Start Up: The project was approved by the Board on
June 19, 1984 and the Credit became effective on January 10, 1985 following the signing of
subsidiary loans agreements between various participating institutions. There were no major
issues outstanding between the Bank and the Borrower after Credit negotiations.
5.2         Achievement of Physical
Targets: Project performance during the first
Prolect Performance            three years was poor with all components
Percentage Achievernenls       facing major problems. Performance began to
25 0                                  _     improve after 1987 and by the time of Credit
200 .........   - --    ..............   ... .    closing, three years behind schedule, NCDC
had approved loans for all revised physical
t5 0      ................................  targets.   However, construction  of  a  few
ioa       --              ....              facilities was yet to be completed at the time
5 0                    -                      ..... g ... g .of preparation of this PCR, but all works are
expected to be finished by December 1993.
0  Stolage   0l1e4-   Gsaiag    Spamug     Funds for approved sub-projects after project
closure are being provided by NCDC from its
own resources. In the case of cotton ginning
A0.9^1 a. PlC0.194 of SAP Te,qt
and oilseed crushing, capacity targets set at
appraisal will be almost met (85-90%
achievement); while in the case of rural
storage and cotton spinning, targets will be exceeded by 50% and 140%, respectively
(Annex 1). The training component, which largely centred on "orientation" training for
elected officers of PACS and more intensive courses for managers of PACS and Mobile
Guides, was also carried out successfully with about 500,000 people being covered. In
addition, 11 people were sent overseas for training. These training programrnes were
complemented by construction of 12 ACSTIs and a national training centre in Delhi. The
flow of funds from NCDC and through the cooperative banks did not cause major problems.
There were a number of changes made during project implementation. At appraisal it had
been proposed that five spinning units and 11 ginning units would be set up. Of the ginning
units, five were to be free-standing mills, five were to be attached to the spinning mills and
one was to be attached to an oil mill. Eventually, 14 spinning mills were established each
with an attached ginning unit. The soybean seed processing component was dropped as
sufficient seed was becoming available through other projects; and, due to problems in
exporting cottonseed cake from India, only one unit was established to process cottonseed
with a modified design to also process sunflower seed and soybean cake. In 1987, it was
decided to make all states eligible for project assistance and eventually 14 participated in the
project. The sub-sector coverage was also extended and the project funded vegetable oil
refining units, mustard extraction units and vanaspati processing units. Funds were also
provided to a fruit and vegetable marketing cooperative in Karnataka (HOPCOMS) to expand
its retail and marketing facilities.



7
Cumulative Credit Disbursement              5.3         Project Costs and
Disbursements: Expenditures in
ISDA -                                                the initial project period were slow,
and after three years only about
... .................................................  ..   10%     of  the  eventual  total  was
spent. Credit disbursements also
............................................. .   . .   fell  far  behind   appraisal  targets   and
after some initial payments in
.......................................... ..........   .1985/86,  disbursements  virtually
stopped for a period of about two
,. . ..................  ...................................................   ye r . H w v r   p n c m l to
years. However, upon completion
. _______. _______. _______. _______. _______. _____  of  all  project-supported   activities,
9  6   t987    1988    t989    I990     1       992    total project costs, including Rs
670 million in 1993/94, will be Rs
Actal  REsimats                                       8,613 million, 70% above the
appraisal estimate. Due to a
decline in the value of the Rupee
relative to the US Dollar, project
costs in Dollar terms will amount to about 97% of the SAR estimate. Of the original Credit
amount of SDR 210.2 million, SDR 180.2 million was disbursed while SDR 30 million was
cancelled effective December 5, 1991. The fact that so much of the IDA credit was
disbursed--particularly in view of the relative inactivity in the first three years of
implementation and the large devaluations over the project period--represents an achievement
of NCDC to commit new subprojects and expedite works/claims in the later years.
Disbursement percentages were modified three times during implementation: (a) in 1987 IDA
reimbursement for NCDC subloan refinancing were raised from 85% to 100%, training
expenses from 50% to 75% and product development costs from 70% to 75%; (b) in 1990
IDA disbursement for NCDC's refinance of subloans was increased from 85% to 100% and
NCDC loans to states for equity contribution to cooperatives became eligible for
reimbursement at the rate of 50%; and (c) during the Gulf War initiative, NCDC loans to
states for equity contribution were eligible for reimbursement at an increased rate of 80%.
These modifications raised IDA's contribution to project financing from about 47% to 75%.
The Closing Date for the IDA Credit was extended three times from June 30, 1989 to June
30, 1992.
5.4         Factors Affecting Project Implementation:  Almost all components faced
difficulties in the early years of the project. The most common problems were obtaining
equity contribution from cooperatives; long procedural delays in loan sanction and
procurement; obtaining counterpart state financing; and land acquisition, especially for
ACSTIs which needed land in urban areas. Specific problems in cotton processing were that
cooperatives hesitated to get involved with the new ginning technology (saw ginning)
proposed by the project as this involved substantially higher investments; concerned
cooperatives also had reservations about the compatibility of new technology with cotton
varieties currently under production. Additionally, exports of cotton seed cake from India
were difficult due to problems of aflatoxin. In the case of the soybean component, the seed



8
processing units were dropped as the National Seeds Corporation was undertaking measures
with IDA assistance to improve soybean seed supplies. Project performance improved
dramatically after 1987 when the project was modified to allow all states to participate,
permit inclusion of larger godowns for input supply and marketing cooperatives and finance
tree crops, fisheries and all types of edible oil units.4' Other critical factors were the
dynamic role played by the NCDC staff, especially middle and senior level technical staff,
and the strong supervision support by the Bank, especially after 1987 (para 8.1). Three one-
year extensions to the Closing Date were approved for the project, in large measure reflecting
the pronounced acceleration in implementation and the expanded scope of project
investments."
5.5         Weaknesses in Project Implementation: The project as implemented had a
number of weaknesses:
(a)     Management: In most cases the cooperatives and cooperative
federations involved in the project appear to have had adequate technical
staff, but were generally weak with regard to financial and marketing
management. It is often difficult to attract top quality professionals to
work in rural areas at the restrictive pay scales offered by the
cooperatives. Given the marginal financial viability in the case of the
agroprocessing units, this could prove to be a critical area of weakness
(para 6.5). Cotton and oilseed processing enterprises are mostly run by
government civil servants and local political appointees who do not
always have relevant experience in running commercial operations.
These units were not run by grassroots producers, thereby diminishing a
sense of ownership. This problem is compounded by discontinuity in
management due to transfers of senior staff. The lack of grassroots
control and low equity share by members (para 3.3) suggest that these are
not cooperatives, but rather parastatals.
(b)     Cooperative Development: The lack of consultation with participating
cooperatives about their needs and abilities, along with their minimal
equity stake, resulted in little feeling of "ownership" and participation on
the part of beneficiaries.6' Moreover, the large agroprocessing units
supported by the project are being run by eminent local people, civil
servants, technicians or administrators appointed by the state-level
A second modification was proposed by NCDC and agreed by the Bank in January 1990 to expand the project scope
to include poultry, fishing and social forestry. However, no such subprojects were ever submitted for financing under
the project.
5/ NCDC maintains that the Bank should have granted one three-year extension to enable NCDC to plan and implement
sub-projects with longer gestation periods such as poultry and fisheries.
6/ NCDC disputes the PCR's observation about the lack of consultation, suggesting that sub-projects were formulated
only in consultation with participating cooperatives. NCI)C also disagrees with the PCR's conclusion that current
management arrangements and low equity contribution cause a low sense of ownership among cooperative members.



9
federation. Farmers often do not feel able to influence the management
of these units. Even in the case of rural godowns, these are often seen as
the shops of the cooperative fertilizer system or the Public Distribution
System (PDS) rather than potential income-generating assets belonging to
the entire memberships (para 6.1). The provision of credit and equity
financing up to 95% of project costs appears to have created expectation
among some cooperatives that in the future they might also get more
such financial assistance. As a result they may not be willing to set up
facilities with their own funds.
Rural India needs cooperatives that can plan, execute and manage
profitable investments. Institutional development will occur only as
cooperatives learn to undertake these activities on their own initiative.
The project did not support such a developmental process: Grassroots
planning opportunities were preempted by the government and the Bank
which decided what investment opportunities would be open to
cooperatives. Government agencies or officers took responsibility for
financing, constructing and commissioning sub-projects. Even the
management of completed sub-projects remains too often under the
control of government officials or nominated managers. To act like
entrepreneurial entities, cooperatives need to have a significant stake in
their investments. Project financing should not have been made available
to cooperatives that did not have the commitment and basic institutional
requirements for success.
(c)    Institutional Arrangements: The project design envisaged NCDC as
being primarily a refinancing agency, with the Registrar of Cooperative
Societies, SCBs and SLDBs playing a major role in sub-project
identification and appraisal. However, the project did not make sufficient
provision for strengthening such local-level promotional and appraisal
capabilities, and as a result programmes were managed in a top-down
manner with little flexibility. For example, cotton spinning units
continued to be approved despite a large increase in costs affecting their
financial viability (para 6.5). NCDC failed to build strong monitoring
and evaluation systems, and its ability to anticipate and offer solutions to
emerging problems remained weak over the project period. A lack of
familiarity with ICB procedures, slow sub-project appraisals, inadequate
foreign exchange from the Reserve Bank of India and rupee devaluation
resulted in long delays and cost overruns.
(d)    Development of Women: Women's issues did not figure prominently in
the project. Although a number are working as labourers and junior
technical staff, there are no women in technical or managerial positions
in the agroprocessing units. At local-level, while at least one woman
must be appointed to the PACS Board, women do not seem to play a



10
major role in decision-making. In at least two plants visited by the PCR
mission, safety conditions for female day-labourers were unsatisfactory.
6. Project Results
6.1        Rural Storage: It appears that a large proportion of the rural godowns capacity
built under the project are used for storage of fertilizers obtained from units in the cooperative
sector such as the Indian Farmers' Fertilizer Cooperative Ltd. (IFFCO) for sale to farmers. In
all states, rural stores are also being used for storage and sale of PDS commodities. In many
cases, especially in remote areas, local availability of fertilizers has helped increase fertilizer
use as well as disbursement and supervision of credit by the PACS. However, in other areas
where the private marketing system is relatively well developed, such cooperative facilities
may have generated competition to the private sector but are unlikely to have increased
aggregate fertilizer use which is largely determined by availability and price relationships.
Rural godowns have often helped the general development of PACS by providing a meeting
place and tangible asset around which to organise. This has sometimes also led to an
increase in general credit business.
6.2        Agroprocessing Units: The oil production units supported by the project have a
capacity to crush about 0.4 million tons/annum of different types of oilseeds. Over 1,150
OGCSs have been formed around the oil mills and are supplying all their requirements. The
main benefits to farmers are that the OGCS, which buys a substantial part of their output,
pays promptly, adopts more reliable weighing methods and avoids the need to transport
produce to market. The area under soybean in the districts covered by the OGCSs has
increased by over 300,000 ha over the last five years. However, this is only partly due to the
project as a number of private mills have also been set up in these areas and soybean prices
have been rising rapidly in large measure as a result of GOI's quantitative restrictions on
trade. Vanaspati and oil refining units set up in four states--Assam, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab
and Rajasthan--have helped the cooperative oil federation in these states to produce higher
value-added products and, in some cases, to start production of final consumer products. The
cotton mills set up would be able to process 48,000 tons/annum of raw cotton. The main
benefit to local farmers is that the mill buys their cotton locally, on payment of cash and at
prices 5-10% higher than those paid by the market.
6.3        Fruit and Vegetable Development:  Strengthening of HOPCOMS (Bangalore)
has allowed it to improve both its buying and selling networks. The main benefits to farmers
are higher product prices, proper weighing and prompt payment for produce. Having retail
outlets in the city, the cooperative is able to supply quality products directly to consumers
which enables it to cover its costs and make a profit. HOPCOMS operations have also forced
private fruit and vegetable traders to behave more competitively towards suppliers and
consumers.
6.4        Institution-Building: The training programme for PACS officials has provided
them with a basic knowledge of administration and accounting procedures which allows them
to discuss simple management and administrative tools such as profit and loss accounts. The



11
project support for Mobile Guides, whose function was to help farmers set up and strengthen
local cooperatives, has been extremely successful, as have the efforts of the Area Supervisor
who worked with the OGCSs. The project also helped NCDC build up its technical
capability and work experience, and strengthen its links with cooperatives and cooperative
federations in various states. However, NCDC has not developed into a self-sustaining credit
institution and many of the agroprocessing units are heavily dependent on institutional and
managerial support from the Government" (para 7.1). NCDC and the state cooperative
agencies gained valuable experience in planning and supporting cooperative development.
6.5        Financial Analysis: (Annex 2) The financial analysis of the rural storage
component suggests that godowns are not financially attractive investments for PACS
(FRR=7%).' The PACS are also heavily dependent on credit business (43% of sales) and
there is a need to increase storage and marketing activities to make better use of the storage
facilities created. Most of the project supported agroprocessing units have only recently
come into operation and it was only possible to make a preliminary estimate of their financial
viabilities. The analysis suggests that oil extraction units envisaged in the SAR (soybean and
cottonseed) are marginally viable (FRR of 12% and 10%, respectively). The oil processing
activities added after the 1987 project amendment--mustard oil and vanaspati units--appear to
be financially better investments with an FRR of 14% in the former case. With respect to
cotton, the older unit (Wardha), is likely to prove viable whereas the newer units, such as
Indira Mills, which have been set up recently at high costs following devaluation of the
Rupee, are unlikely to be financially viable (FRR=7%). FRRs are lower than projected in the
SAR because of higher operating costs, delays in start up of operations and, in the case of
Indira, higher investment costs. Moreover, the calculation in the SAR did not consider
working capital, which is a major item of expenditure in the case of the agroprocessing units.
Most of the agroprocessing units would be able to service their debts satisfactorily. The
financial analysis also shows that: (a) all the agroprocessing units are highly vulnerable to
fluctuations in input and output prices which are influenced not only by market conditions but
also by GOI trade policies; (b) interest on working capital is a major expenditure item, and
good stock and financial management is required to contain costs; and (c) improving the
quality of yarn from the cotton units and producing for the export market would substantially
improve earning capacity.
6.6        Economic Analysis: (Annex 2) In areas where private sector marketing is well
developed, the construction of rural storage is unlikely to have substantially raised the use of
fertilizers and other inputs, and investments are uneconomic (ERR=8%).  The
agroprocessing units are likely to prove economically viable (ERRs of between 11 % and
14%) except in the case of the soybean oil extraction unit, which is financially profitable
largely because of the high internal price of soybean oil (Rs 24,000/ton, equivalent to
US$760, compared to about US$446/ton in international markets). These ERRs are
?/ NCDC considers itself a self-sustaining institution as regards management and provision of technical and managerial
support to cooperatives. With respect to credit, GOI through NABARD refinances a portion of credit outflows and NCDC
must cover the balance from profits or from borrowings from the banking sector.
hi NCDC maintains that inclusion of recently acquired data would raise the FRR to about 11%.



12
substantially lower than those calculated at appraisal (between 28% and 50% for different
types of activities). In the case of storage, the main reason for the lower ERR is that private
input marketing has developed rapidly in recent years. Increased local availability through
cooperatives therefore did not raise input use to the extent projected in the SAR. However, in
remote areas where use of inputs is limited by local availability, the economic returns from
these investments could be attractive. In the case of the agroprocessing units, the lower ERRs
largely reflect the factors discussed in para 6.5. In the case of soybean, current international
price relationships are different from those used in the SAR. In particular, economic price
per ton used in the SAR for soybean, oil and cake were respectively US$258, US$798 and
US$315 (at the exchange rate of Rs 10.8/US$ assumed in the SAR) as compared to present
international prices of US$226, US$446 and US$195, respectively for the same products.
7. Project Sustainability
7.1        Project sustainability is at risk for a number of reasons: First, NCDC is not in a
position to raise sufficient funds to sustain its present level of activities and is heavily
dependent on GOI. In 1991/92 out of total financing by NCDC of Rs 3.3 billion,
Rs 2.2 billion came from the Central Government grants and loans, and included Rs 1.7
billion from internationally aided projects; while another Rs 0.7 billion was raised through
market borrowing for which the Central Government guaranteed repayment of both interest
and capital.9' Second, the project failed, however, to demonstrate credible, sustainable/viable
models for promoting cooperative development or entrepreneurial initiative. Third,
government civil servants cannot continue to run cooperative ventures, and unless
cooperatives are allowed to function as autonomous "privatised" units, members will not have
any sense of ownership and will not provide sustainable local-level management. Finally,
some of the institution-building activities like the highly rated mobile guide programme are
being discontinued in many states as the SCBs providing this service do not give it high
priority.
8. Bank Performance
8.1        Although Bank performance was generally good both in the period prior to
project effectiveness and during implementation, there were a number of weaknesses. NCDC
staff felt that the SAR proposals were far too inflexible and did not reflect their own ideas
about what was feasible and practical. There was also little attempt from the Bank to explain
the project strategy fully to NCDC staff especially at middle-level, and some project
proposals, which the technical staff of NCDC felt were not required, were implemented
nevertheless because it was felt that the "Bank wanted it". Initial Bank supervision missions
also failed to recognise the fundamental weaknesses in project design, and it was not until
1987 that major changes were made (para 5.4). After 1987, Bank supervision performance
improved and concentrated much more on the financial viability of sub-projects submitted for
9' NCDC suggests that these 1992 data reflect the last year of the project and a major infusion of refinancing from GOI
for NCDC loans to cooperatives. NCDC contends that a broader time horizon would demonstrate a larger proportion of
resources from NCDC profits and from NCDC capital market borrowings.



13
approval rather than rigidly following the SAR. However, most supervision missions did not
include expertise to cover technical aspects of the agroprocessing units, and as a result
technical monitoring of investments was weak.
8.2        Main lessons for the Bank:
(a)    Vigorous, viable, participatory-oriented cooperative institutions are a sine
qua non to successful credit or investment projects focused on
cooperatives. The Bank should use up-front conditionality to achieve
institutional priorities rather than expecting them to flow from
investment-dominated credit projects. Institutional goals might best be
reached through separate projects.
(b)    Financing large, discrete, capital-intensive agroprocessing units may not
be the most cost-effective way to promote cooperative development. It
may be better to focus more on activities within the financial and
managerial capabilities of local cooperatives such as marketing of output
and inputs, and on processing units which are small, labour-intensive and
can be gradually expanded.
(c)    Directed credit provided in a top-down manner with rigidly defined uses
is difficult to implement and may not yield optimal results. Project
design should be flexible and allow beneficiaries a major say in deciding
what their needs and priorities are. A cooperative development project
also should preferably use simple, tried and tested technologies.
(d)    It is essential that local-level bodies be drawn into supporting cooperative
development, and this should include NGOs and state-level institutions.
Consideration has to be given to rehabilitating, or even disbanding,
cooperatives which are non-operational.
(e)    Credit projects require intensive supervision to ensure good standards for
sub-project appraisal and quick, flexible decision-making to revamp the
project, if necessary.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1        Borrower performance during the project period was good and the NCDC made
every effort, within the constraints set by project design, to successfully implement the
project. NCDC was able to build up a dynamic team of managers who tried to expedite
implementation, especially towards the second half of the project period. GOI, state
governments and the ministries of agriculture, at both central and state levels, were also
supportive of the project and provided the necessary services and cooperation. Various
reporting requirements were adhered to, and most of the covenants were respected.
Significant exceptions were that, in many cases, financing was provided to sub-projects even



14
when cooperatives had not made their 5% equity contribution and some state-level
cooperative banks were allowed to participate despite having poor repayment levels. NCDC
failed to build strong monitoring and evaluation systems, and its ability to anticipate and offer
solutions to emerging problems often proved weak.
9.2        Main lessons for the Borrower:
(a)    Strong cooperative institutions should be prerequisites for, instead of
expected outcomes of, successful credit or investment projects. NCDC
and the Bank proceeded too often on the contrary assumption--that
assistance in the implementation of attractive investments would provide
the spark needed to transform cooperatives into dynamic entities.
(b)    Cooperative members need to develop a sense of ownership about the
activities undertaken and expect their management boards to exercise
appropriate financial discipline. Top quality professional management
should be recruited and given clear targets.
(c)    There is a need to define the respective roles of the public, private and
cooperative sectors with regard to development of storage, marketing and
industrialisation in rural areas. Government employees should not be
involved on a continuing basis in the running of cooperatives.
Government's role in the long-term should be limited to legislation and
regulatory measures, designed to ensure local-level democracy, proper
administrative procedures, the maintenance of accounts and regular
audits. In the short term, cooperatives may need to be motivated and
provided with administrative and financial assistance, but this should
include NGOs and other local-level bodies. Such NGO involvement
could be beneficial in fostering cooperative development that targets rural
women and/or addresses poverty alleviation.
(d)    Rather than providing directed credit in a top-down manner with rigidly
defined uses, credit projects should be flexible and allow beneficiaries a
major say in deciding what their needs and priorities are. Credit and other
forms of subsidies should be halted as these are difficult to sustain, foster
inefficiencies and discourage financial independence. Any investment
subsidies aimed at promoting cooperative enterprise need to be be kept
small, time-bound and non-prescriptive to promote healthy risk-taking
while also avoiding a need for the sort of managerial sophistication that
simply does not exist in most villages.
(e)    The credit needs of the cooperatives as well as the institutional
mechanisms for credit delivery need to be reviewed within the context of
overall reforms in the financial sector.



15
(f)    Administrative procedures for approval of contracts by NCDC and the
state governments, and for the release of foreign exhange by the Reserve
Bank of India need to be streamlined to ensure that delays do not affect
the financial viability of sub-projects.
(g)    NCDC and state agencies need to strengthen managerial and social
science research skills if they are to better understand rural cooperative
development problems and needs.
10. Project Relationship
10.1      The relationship between the Bank and the Borrower was good throughout the
project period and there were no major areas of disagreement. The transfer of supervision
responsibility to the Bank's New Delhi Office in 1989 facilitated implementation progress and
build-up of a closer relationship between NCDC and the Bank.
11. Consulting Services
11.1      Consultants: The project made use of various local consultants for detailed
design and construction supervision of the agroprocessing units. There were no major
problems. In most cases, consultants had good experience in the concerned technical fields
and some, like the All India Federation of Cooperative Spinning Mills (AIFCOSPIN), have
had a long association with the cooperative sector.
11.2      Contractors: For construction of rural storage facilities, the project relied on
small- to medium-sized local contractors, most of whom performed well. In the case of the
larger agroprocessing units, civil works did not create any problems. In contrast, there were a
number of delays in the supply of plant and equipment due to lengthy tendering and approval
procedures. Problems mostly concerned Indian suppliers who in some sectors, like spinning,
have long order books and cannot make deliveries sometimes even for two years. ICB
procedures did not cause any problems as such, although the management of some
cooperative units felt that they could have obtained better prices through negotiations.
12. Project Documentation Data
12.1      The DCA and the SAR covered major aspects of project implementation.
However, in retrospect, physical details of sub-project were given too much attention in
project documents while institution-building activities like the CDS, the training programmes
and the strengthening of the SCBs and SLDBs merited far more attention.
12.2      NCDC gave much importance to the preparation of this PCR. Specific studies,
such as that on the impact of rural storage, were commissioned; larger beneficiaries like the
agroprocessing cooperatives were asked to prepare status reports; and the mission was
provided most data and information. However, in some cases financial data were incomplete
and difficult to reconcile. The major area of weakness in performance evaluations was the



16
lack of critical sociological and institutional assessment. NCDC, along with other relevant
institutions, should examine: (a) how best to help rural and cooperative development using
its limited funds as a catalyst, and (b) how to create the right institutional incentive
framework at central and state levels to provide credit to cooperatives in an efficient and
sustainable manner.
2 November 1993



17
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE'
The ProJect
The  project wslas designed to support the  development
of the Indian Cooperative Movement by strenothening the
capacities  of  the NCDC throucgh efpandinci the scope  of  ita
activities  and e:tending its involvement into new  areas  in
participating  States.   The project provided  credit  for  a
rural storage component, involvinq the construction of  ahout
780(:)  rural  and marketing Qndowns.  oilseed  prod1r:tion -andJ
processing  component involving tlhe nsUtablishment ofi  oi I:ed
growers  cooperative societies, together with oil  e,:tr=ction
plants  ; a cotton processir-ig componernt involJinr-4 the  -tl:;b-
lishment  of  cottorn ginneries arnd spinning mills  ;  and  an
institution  building component, involving the  establishment
of  staff traLining in3t;itutes, and de.'lopment of 3  traininrn
programme  for staff of the rural rgodoil.ns, processinq  plants
4ad *-ooperative aciencies.
Implementation
The  implementat;ion  of the oroposed  project studer
NCDC-III is summarised below..
Storage component
The  implementation details of the storarje  progra iame
under NCDC-III may he seen in the table given below :-
(>picity in lakh tonnes
Ps. in million=
r3odown type    Original Tarrjet           Revised Target          rcomrnletsd upto
0 . 6. 1 P 02
No.   Capacity  Cast   No.   Capacity  C ost  Nor..  C, acit '   Cost;
nral t, r.167::0    6. Z      517  '3. 7e7  (397<.i'952  :,44'1  A.f,:>l               7 l  .
14oq.o  60
M13raetinq   1041    7 . 95 1',Co4  ?. 746 1Z41.8Z.,  tV1; 17.44e  1lZ63.'
Total         7 7-79  13.752  1 40:0.6":) 6517 25.453 2:34.889  7 58';  24.251 2Z15.2t
* IncILiding Uttar Pradesh Storace Programme transf ? -red to NCDC-II.
Problems during Implementation of Storage programme
The  storage  component '.'as to be  implemented  in  a
period of 4 years commencing from lst January, 19q4 i.e. from
the vear 1984-65 to 19R7-83.  Hos,eele, odUring the implemenrt--
tion  of the project, various problems arid  constraints  Aere
iThe Part I contribution from the Borrower presented in this PCR
represents NCDC's summary of a larger report it prepared for the
PCR exercise. The latter document will be added to the project file.



driJ  Fd l.I; iL    [u i'    ;                                    I      .U ] J edA . li-'  .1 t l     I E            g A  T   j:1    C'1   PL t. I .1                 
da ' i             dI.i d  L[U-DJ               ! Ii    aU   l           :    '          1   4: !4 :: ;'         9D.          l/ 1 J    ElL      B ( L  ': J   ! I J  O :-:
I Ci I[ CJJi J                L j         t,uI!4P  )6 4 EL'1 a                            L                          . IiDiJ4 I          -Ue    FjULIci c  J
-I      C.tA.,  I'J  :L61i , I           'I Lli-i CY '         iD l  itc    j U   D '   'it' L   dIi        I       la   i   ' 4   Il:OW         (- ' .I       ! cI-
-        LI t_l   A .I r   i    = c  I-J U ej ID iE    C LJ 1 4U'E,J tAI tLI CJj  It           l      IJ J  I  i-          CJ     i    U As i           .  t' LII4
i i(I T  j    I      ;c          I [U. I  C' ' lE                 J           L OI i         i!i           JI      I EL       WL, LJ        e I F    lLItiS. l-It'-
L.- i L L t   | s|     J      L      !C Lj G E     i --c! IILI -1        6 L;       j    J!j Li. [ C       t C..- 4  L     ae7iL -                    ILit,Ic  1v    i
I. L.[Et   c                                                                   JE           CK'
*jCJO4    T-.'4t 4                    4+ '                        (IA4 4JL'   iriSjU                                          -JI %6 IJ6rU    tjhii(.4LuJell
aI      lt'! d    'I j4 JL ]LC)' Ia                  C, LJII         111'JI      J    plJE  'it               LfLIU'E4 I;l[ cIL   PaLI                     i :fL-i'V
:JJ LA         iv-JiC JpC'F;   ri U1.   a 1Ci:-          '-"i  ! 6  'I- T9                 'J   jL C-1llC- I      .1 LJL   ! DI Li f)T IlC  I                       L,cF9  lvEl     
I i p        aI UJI        LJ I    p3u:j .Iu   E lA       E -Li I    C) 1-l pzo    I            I Cj7   T 11   t.          | C      1 4 U      a P1   I i C j       Li
' ;-'J 1 i- ~~~~~~~l      .         L    LL         'i!  Ll.... j:    #  .l .J.: o: 6 J ,J: i t      I      C    ........      . El L I L  7- . J^:i:g._#   i
lLL
L,   j J OA     l 0!|     I   j  31 :~   I    i! JI Q a     I I::   'Ji                                               '11   .4    D    & L    - ,J     _l- - l..........................  i P!,I{j'
s   ,L    I   o :    O  L -,C  ::  E,. l    J L)            i- I/Q4-      L:-  '.; .LA  :4 .J :  ClU IL   o rt j   J. 0       E L: SG i, (IC) C-'A,v   8;  ]
i.'    6U11 L+ii   p-34.J14 *lnqC                           '   :UL {           [;!  L 'l-I 1FJ;::: cst-l j.t~Lto.idwit_t  tf   j:lc'tu                    .t-.l eL
C; l4                 4 :l D     C)L:  IB l J lJ I  L t; .l LJ C.j     -.    .[ C  L a t J O_  l ) ittI .1. D ~ L          St k- LI ik!   ~ C    I T-i -l $'    l , !I tjl
lJ(JI    S L  lU 4l               .J 1  CiI  L1   4 _,                                                     'LI i) (.J.    I     C) lF A   S -b  :      4j j:l  J; (. j5I7) L Tl   j  j ! ;
Ui             (i  tJ  at     j1d;i)t 4 5lJ7-:.j ;          !       J                            -C; ; : :,6Zl I7 Li~  El .LI/  lF) k J   (Ji l '
:-: L i ( C         - ; D ....l     l S cj L.I.            Li C ,              f    ! :v -: LJ /.! | i v i   o 1 s;  I'.1 i;  Ip                          ti/JL4     t i  "* | it i  / 'I C  
'Dr GE  I! LJ                          s(:        s-  A!-  -     uit! .t     "!             ' e:/,  :J                  :;:; ;       :   :  4.  i-':
a[ua itaf'l        6d-3cUTI UJ lCaJ'
~~ ~~ ii---UJ'ZI{iIi~~ ~~~' .t:[JJ    1(1-' ii t(:t,t
--E I    L5C      J0C'. + 7       C I   :   JOtl    L:- Ic'slL:-1  t ic-  .5u ii'-- l u1'.i                 l.l l' 'I  Pc  t  uIC . 1- tJ
I             i  I | i     tJ        1         .                         -        ii C  !  |  4'i   i          4 t        l        i -I j    :  ' L   L           .1E' L 
-- icl! I j .'  i-  )1s7  :IJC'I j: ' 7iiJ    [ i a 1~ |             i'I -I      1,  1  '1   ,' 'Ii        dpi  AC !i '.d lJ    D~                       I Ii'I
i-! ~   ~      ~       ( C,! E'i' J's  Elt  :1l   I.w                                        c    t. I:vJi  !:i-'  "'l  C V., T,I 1-: :1 i,'    .l    aSUI :
L-J1   4        IL            oL i           4D    iitix              ai a L4  .l i7            tg L C,   '-   l:i A l   '.  C.) l. llii-C'  i.
L UiEJ'-1u                Iiu .l  LsscJ IJl'Ct..E                          'Li-' 1:I I a            , :'u'    Th4U CIICa   F,u                               f
.         -.o t          'L|  iJ: !      |  i . t) 1: L.Ilt 6k      Ci  |       lll -I l I                     IIJlP    t t6 i. -'I J i  I - ., tli]   K
ar1                   C  t       dll    1                               A1. ;  ir i4 I: D- ,''':               11t  LIlF, dlfij    l LA     L  i4)
"~~~'                      ;C.   . I o  D) ' I 1  1   [   Ji: ! : ;             t I   I t::, t J I J::   II j   L   .l......................... 1!  . d1 ::  i-! ;-I J  
U         1. ILJ 1 A rEf ( ! LJ.; t A   '  lJEX'
I'.CJI'   ~        c'iz.     -      tILJ4C- J     f)   '5..  [u           ii      'ujl.E '.I                 SE f          LI'.
p =  :.   K                     '  .   [t       i i   ir ' j    J L i    ; ; | I      C- .J    .0 C.:  : J -'.    L-1E  El;tj
iT L  'I4 Lit 1   D  U, :;. | '  d  t l  J   -i.'f  C-.'  'L[.J    F            sLl : i C    LI r   i CtL          L DL' 
J L '''  ''  id  I? 'iC4                  ..LU I~i0[-'3lD  [1,   1 Cl    a  '4            lf,' LI               . I1 Itil      0  [i
T             ' LJE 1 1:'4           .    1  ;;eLI .  ['Jtl]    .                                      i    E'.i   : 'l!El !  Di [
L4 : ,   I.',;_IJLAI:1 FC           'i 4 1        Li I           I'I i      I    1        LI'?  1.2111      Jlt..lIF'     I."'> ls           it'
a  ID   1J *JI..- - 
LtL.L i  L,          ii i              I     j LjlE  (  I E L1E (V :: 'L. O  !.j  sIs:   1 A       U! I      .L      tl 
E''' 4  1 1 1 '-'' t     i DD Ld uI' i lit.                    I . i :   .L. JL * P                   I   I       [ l     t'--iitZ14 a      L;I
w"i''' ;9 UI                                       i fji   4 -(         fii .ty (         3 Ii Iu.1  0.4 CJ's<j  D       *J                   (7  1i          I J  J
U cI  i4 e 4.               4Z' E' Ui J aI | CdL: .u                     i L14 .' 4Ul 'i-         J     j. [                           1.          L          7   L  LI :7 =JU.
a                  a |q          C-- 11   ID! '[ I -i tj D J |:j o  - rLL. LI F,)  O  JL jJi !- r.  17. . (:J I        I         LA -I 1:1 P ! D L i !- I .   J    i



19
s,Aifoe rn r  resp on-ib Ie cnre rn re r-i  rou I di i. n 1 t i.at te  lI-1p p rojert
ifl fl    1 nta I; ion   work.   rTi s- au.ed L ti Lff ic ien;t   e .1 .,y   in rQon-
ple  i irig   prpcoflnt rLt-tion  f orma].ities.   Tt is 7 , therefore,   the
C:lve  problems  may  b- resolved  serioui l o            1    (D that  f    I tu r  ruch
. tf r :'  p toc r ramaies   ar e nor; aFl 1 owed  Fn) u; IJ f'  nCn    .h:e-. ae--
.:  tl ts .
The   S Lates   nf Il;Jtar  Pradeshl,   M:Rrdhva   P ridea :h    and
r ris a    e xp er'ienc ed  d iffic-l 1;ie        i in  t a: imng  LAp   im pIimentt3lion
J f   the   sanctioned  programa-e  duie  to   prob . ecis   in or cu-_p inr
sites,  co.5ct  escalation.  etf-.   In  r emrfl.-- 2nr  far  fitunri,  are-s,s
)          IiF;hptle h 'e     I-,(:)e 1;o  l'-end'r'-  vs poor rDr to!T' t;he  r eS   iii il.7   trjci
b:y   c. on t:ract ors   'eere  ver y  h i i cph.  'The  costs   of   constru  :t ior
ina'eri als    like  cement  :irid  steel also  'nent LIp rin   accriunnt     of
levies   irnposed  in  the  C:entr .1  budget.   The   cou   r CiF Crt c i tiln  rjf
:odon,ns   s u f fe red  th eRau--e  bsb hl anti. r t      i.7ma  1as  t -t ken   t!)   f:he
imri emeriti n ,   acjeri         to e-nT   o l-n  tf f-" rr';menn   i ornPJd  -r.-ob-
l r TI'-.    T n  th-ese  *-i r,ij m  -a IInn e-:  -rrre  i r- nrl in ta  iIr r4 a,I iu 1.  h e
:i rtl       the  aJ.Src(i ji;  ri-'ol vIrI   P n  t1hp   :iF. I e nm ri t: *i   on  rf    I he
:;na      I-) T,rI ri aITfinf le  L [1  ',IV arir-e, I r n I. ann i.i 1 'p r rn-l r- am, ie -7 I -)L.i , Lri
h1   : Iia 1 k   C, C) out  h.: I   'oi.l d    Ic I   I[xe  o f 1:roI T lb 1C, 
The  inuile,nentaF i on  of  FlP  RInrC 'Aco  prolect  in  soime    if
*he l)9  cz1 l-,-n. =tSuf fered  dmle  toa  del 8v  in  PT-o; idinr  State  eT  .t t-v
;f: on  r j b k j on  Th isr prrb L efn ,  i;Lhe  r'e`fr)T'-. -,hf)i rJ ti b   rn'vi .ewi?d  -a t
Khf,  appropriate  level  al.  fhe  r3oJt of  Tr rdia ,  IJC DC  and  the
e mr: eOSe,l    f3fS.   A  p m-i  i r-a rI ' f  rpen-a I F   Ta& -A'   !.:-,r I-  fo-r   t h e
S . a t e s  ",ho  f a i l  to  c on t r i bLIt- e  th e i r p :q Li  ty  sh are s  i n  ti mr .
The   a.3vai l ai.i ;IV.    cf   or3i t ruc: l: trn  mRterial.s   Ln   time
!-Vi(  :in   ad e q uathe   qu anti ji e        sc-s Ii L- i l-;   1. lenentm    for   I lie
.:on-. t u.r t i n    o f   the  po.Jdowna-     I Ti  i. ,    hen efore *
hat   t-here should  be  . dvanrc   rp:1 ann i I In  fnr stor:: i.ng   of   C::on--
rtn1i c t ion  mat,erials  beforp  the  start  of  the i            ron 1.  in   di. ffer-
ent   Iocl ationcs  so  thal.: t-he  (con-tru-UCtion  wnor:  is  npt   hampered
o'1    ic-cou.nt   of  non-availahilbiL;v  of buildlinQ    materials.                     Trn
Sum.-T   cases,  original  d:esigjns  and  speci fications  may   b e   acd-
'lsL;edr  Ln sui 5t   the  locRl cownst:ri.ricion  lm;radi I ions               i    mni. iiii-,e
I;he  Lt s   nf materials  'hiirh  are  not  locally  available.
' s u  f i: :en i; Ie .me  is Iiat.eI  il  -cqi. .q.  r nii a   e   ianr.l   tor
th Ie  cons t rIL  t i on rof  .ido 1 a,n=.   To  avolci   delay  on  i-his  ac-on't,
i.t   is   iniph is i s ed  ,,a l  1 arid  frr?e  frc-m  di putte t    ndi  J. i ti catian
-ho ILd   l-:e  accu i red  to  ad avoi  i i av e . in I    art i na  t:h e   cons t rc -
iion.     Felevan1t   rules r rera rrdi nir  alienrt;ion  of  land    mnaV   b e
Sui tab I y modifiec  or  r-e 1 a ed  fo-' CT ak ijn      a-ailab]e  on  priority
ba; is   u iI; ab le  Govt .  Li.and  forT ` rnsL mt ion  of   ciridowns.
Oilseed  Processing  Component
The  details  of  the   ot ileed  projer::ts  envis-acied  in  the
Wor]d    iank: SAR  of  \ICDC-Ii I  TPIA  project  and   actuall.y    imple-
meinnted,  .re  sijnariin          i.n  thee i.  P,beilnoth



20
(Ps. in Million)
NO. of Unit-=   Capacity       Cost
SAR Target               8*         3600)00) :. tpa  1360.10 @
Actual Implemented    1             39.TK5) tpa    2-510.71
* Excluding seed processing component
@ Including seed processlnQ component
Learning Experience
The National Heavy EngineerinQ Cooperative Ltd.,
Pune,  (NHEC) w.1as appointed as Project Ilanaciement  ConsLiltant
t;o  erect/instal and commission the Oil extraction plants  at
lota  and  Chhindwara.  The performance of the I%HEC  in  this
context  has  not been Lup to the satisfactory  level  as  the
:Ofmrnis sioning  of these plants specially kota,  delayed  sLb-
staritially and experienced numerous bottlenec:s/problems to
commission as well as to stabilise the plant operations whiCh
crould  have  been avoided if a  proper,  e:tperienced  project
-onsu1tan t  was  appo in ted.  Care shoul-J be taken  wlhile  ap-
pointing a project consulltant.
Cotton Processing Component
The details of the total prorrammP taken up under
cotton processing component of NCDC-III TDA projects may be
seen in the table below :
(Ps. in millions)
Description        SAR Target                Revised Target
No.    Capacity   Cost   No.    Capacity   Cost
Ginneries      11   56100 tpa            14   48019 tpa
2145.6                    . 1:.1
Spinning Mlills 5   7500(-0 spd.         14   294720 spd.'
& OE .                    & 4608 Rts.1
tli  1  s
Learning Experience
On the recommendation of the respective State Govts.,
the Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka State Spinning
Mills Federations wlere appoirited as the Project Consultants
for the cotton processing projects at Wardha, Nandyal and
Malaprabha respectively. Tt *as observed in general that  the



21
parformance  of  these federations  in  rz oviJing   consultancy
services  and monitoring of implementation was not Up to  the
required   level  due to lack of  technical  and  professional
staf f.
Institution building component
The objective and rationale of the instituttion build-
irig  component  is  to particularly   promote  and   strengthen
cooperatives through an intensive training programme of the
riersonnel  involved   in the project.  It  Was  expected   that
qut al if ied professionals are impoloyed a 1; a I  ] eve1.  of manage-
mepr7  in the projects and by providing   job oriented   training
F;o management and for core staff so that the organisation's
efficiency could be improved. The component envisaged var-
ioUs training programmes to be conducted for different levels
o f  staff during the project period.  Besides. 6  Agricul tre
fBper ative   Staff Training  Institutes  (ACSTI  w ^ere   proposed
I-.) be  established  in the project States which  w as  fuirther
- :1ended tor another 6 non-SAR Project States.  Is such, total
l  Ar7STIs were to be establishtd under this component.  Apart
rP m   I1 i S,  financial assistance for  estabLi shment  o-f  one
Nrat: inal Centre at Delhi was also envisaged under the   Insti-
1;u1t,ir-n  Building component of t4CDC-lII Pro-ject.  Even   though
cit tar~gets for the training programmes t.lere envisaged  in  the
World  Bank SAR, targets for the various training   programmes
PnlVisaged Under the component wxiere evolved rlver the project
period.  The details of these t3-rgets and actual  implementa-
I ion thereof are given belowt-
'A' Categorv Staff train iiriQ
Pevised       Achievement    % of
Target       Lupto 31.Z.92    achievement
!(a              454            r39 . Z7
Fl'  Category Staff Training Achievement Lupto Z0.6.92
Project                      Expansion                        Total
Target Achiev- Percen-  Target Achiev- Percen-   Target Achiev- Percen-
ement   tage                 ement   tage                  ement   tage
PACS        13916    13345    95 950    11145   9821        8e8.C9     25065    23166    92.42
PAMS         12`52     1076.  65.94        20)    176       68.00        1452     1252    86.23
Total       15168    1442 1   95 .08   11349   997         88. 09       26517  24418    92. Cie



22
Ir    r i3 te, n~ r:yT      . i    f:8  f  '        r- i r in  r-
FRe" ised   Tar,oet                                          Ach i. ev  enriet. ,a     on           I t . I
C7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
; . [F,1,    _) . * . .E . 1. 11.E .        I rD r 4  I        S rt1       . r        F-r lr      1`1  -      'T l i '1`  I  
.,)  El   cc  ted                            .2,7'bP                   ., ,..v*:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ....
.125Z5    1 t )949W   66-4 ,S    6 F   Z 225 ,_r      51r '20  7     I  C),_ R     ro;),   67          F     <05 7.r
r  . . j  -. c r1   i7- V-  i  e   :,   ra -F r-, i  7,  w.-{|,  
rra r. E7.
t          fT -lsman   i                                  -s .  ,-1       t C !                     I '9. 1-
W,rkn   Cap.ital/Mrin  Mor   eompo !"1" |1''.' .,nen
n      n e     rd n                                         f , en   i e rn t;   r        F j l  ,          -
4 ici ;:r-                   r1~:g-,     i -.i   f.t   r j  e                   i ,;r !;i t    hl. 1 7:   -;
j   ,1 ~n 11.    of  Rj . Iu   )f              ch Pr              v Eo    .'jd~i-i.fr   s
'T    3                 t:                                     R rrrbX fr'rm  F-f   TIi  rjj    r.f
Worgfing  Capital/Margin  Money component
T n    C,)TderlP  t- -n F~ -rnc-+then   1: ho      f i n.,r n- i.                j  :{].i.eion . !T-
ti r cl arl > j Loi r,      -            iea I: iti rs.-ir    tl-    mIn-cr-i -di t    5,=
r,e  ,    of    '.-.he  P-AC>Ss       I'rAC r iDC .   be3en    r:)T`-)v,ji nr:1 ir:    maro i1.n    in ririe o_
-~i -,t3nce   of  R-  tlt} t:f.  P -ch   P(W;r3  tiiln.  gOCorjov~j                                P-ir.1  wn=3 i - +.
b P    rei tribuy-Fd    f >rc)m   fhz   1- lf"FICt-TlI T    rj.)A   fl .tjr-:- . dr Ta hi F! (1 nI        i            f
rnarguin    money    di;~bursempnt  tUFrder  f-hp    Comrponent.   ae-  f-.jt    tk                                t'?-
are   r)iverP    belor*
PAC')F7       7r  .e{                  "im,ctunt  Sriclti-oned
.1 ,,,. .  .,,               ,-' 1I rin    .  "I. 
Tree Crops Component
D-i - ir n mo   1;h e  cour- ,e   -if   ii f         men  . a  n tion   -, f  r.Jr'rr;.* f   T I I
pr ToiPct:,  Wor]d  E-R.nl I.Anct i nneH     f ir.ncir  i  a ,a-s is- taic   frir   TrniC
(7,j-r)i-r np7rir?  e  'M n 1h r1-7.-)pr tn; *n                r    2.)F  .    F- i. r-.,nrr i n        = i   -A .nr7 P
-fo      2     p .    g rco j ec:    e   e         i i       T -I- '.. : t a  anr     t1ahly ,  Ir-    i,: r      .  ,T" r,
..anct jciri.nJ o        .:rrl i ,  I I e  cm, inr,r'i e-i        Hm,ppe  ,   Fho                       t    7i' r  -rl r.
ei Orlrd biri  r1h h .a 1- :  .`i t         r        - a  droppedi  st no   pvf-w-rcr=:e  iro           m'de       'y
F, h re  .i!ni1. P infPeI.i rI.:R       '.'rni-7   Tri                                p -Hr:I'  r1 .!l,  O.-)f  3;ifj    f  tn: rl.     ri
p.r. 1Il T-. -1l;: ISrls- ... r                               Iw 11                                   I :1-i.t;):r  In}l t-r-



23
fruits and vegetables established at BangaLore by  increasing
procurement centres and sales outlets. The Corporation  reiffi-
bursed Rs. loo.99 lakhs as term loan to the societv and Ps.7o
lakhs as investment loan to the State Govt.
With  the  above  additional  infrastrucSture,   the
society  has  been  able to increase its  frLuit    vegetable
handling from pre-project level of 81) tonne per day to 120
tonne per day.
II. Imnact of NCDC-1II IDA ProJect
The World Bank SAP envisaged projections/estimates of
the performance/benefits to be achieved by the projects under
various  components  of  NCDC-III IDA  Project.   The  actual
performance/benefits realised by the projects have been
quantified through the evaluation studies of some af the
projects. A comparison has been made bettJeen the SAR projec-
tions/estimates and actual realisation thereof and summarised
in the table belotJ. :
(Rs. in 1k:hs)
Per Project PACS
at fu-ll development
SAR       Actual
Estimate Realised
A) Rural Storaae component
- Credit Disbursement                    7.00-)      8.64
- Input Distribution
i)  Fertilisers             6.00        5.WS
ii)  Seeds                    0.12        o.39
iii)  Pesticides               0.1c        0.24
- Consumer Goods distribution            -.C(:)      5.12
- Marketing of agricultural produce   5.20           0.54
- Total Business turnover               21.42       20.12
- Financial Rate of Return (X)           15%        12.99
- Economic Rate of Return  (%)          27.0        22 .2?
- Employment oeneration (Persons)        2           1
- Farmhousehold beneficiaries            770         1172
(Persons)



24
- Total beneficiaries (Persons)         4119          5860
- Benefits
i) Losses reduction                0. 16      C0. 17
ii) Transport & Faramers'           C.C)7       0.t06
time saving
iii) Net incremental farm output  0.86           0:3.97
iv) Total benefits                  1.09        1.`0
- Rural storage impact on farming community
(Figures in Rupees)
Per Farmer member of project PACS
Pre project  Post project  ' Increase
- Credit disbursement  610            652             40
- Input distribLution   211          1544            632
- Consumer goods distn.179            479            168
- Deposit Mobilisation  77            25             227
- Benefits
i) Losses reduction                 17
ii) Transport savings                 6
iii) tJet incremental                 91
farm outpLt
iv) Total benefits                  114
- Capacity Utilisation of the Godo(wins
i) PACS Godown (In %4)
'Year of Operation
1      2               4      5
SAR Estimate   15       ,1      5o     70        90
Actual                  73      69     91        81
Realised



25
ii) PAMS Godow'ins (In 'I')
'Year of Operation
SAR Estimate       . C":'   C ,tC,() )  50).( )(o  7C . C0    97(1- C)
Actttal          3   2 . C 309  Z.36
Reali.sed
iii)   Marketino Federation Godo'mns  (In 4)
'ear of Operabion.
1       2        3       4        5
SAR Estimate   1 5         C) C(:).('(:3  t(     ) , ( C ,    C)    ) 0. o 00
Actual           Z0.95  5:.64  53.20.
Realised
B) Oilseed Component
Organisation of nsCs 1-ndp,r cDS
No. of                  Per USCS
Average      Total    ElnpIoyment
membership benefi-
ciaries
SAR Estimate  'X200C         162 25       450 'C)      627
Actual           267          143           760        248
Realised
- Improvement  in oilseed3 prodo.'ction ,' producti.vity.
% Increase at project's
full development over
pre--projecrt level
i) PrndLIction                      1157
i i. ) Prr-odi-tct i vi l;v-,



26
- Rate of Returns ( Per cent
FRR         ERR
SAR Estimate           18              4C
Actual                 15.69           73073
-- Foreign exchange earnings (Per plant of 6C.)oC') tpa)
(Figures in million)
SAR estimate                        24O:). 30
Actual rea1ised                     272.60
(yearly highest level)
% increased in income of OSCS gro'wer
member:
SAR estimate                          7
Actual increased                      9
C) Cotton Processing component
- Per project Mill Beneficiaries
Farm House-   Total      Emplovment
hold bene-    benefi-
ficiaries     ciaries
SAR Estimate        40Cl)o    -21,2 00O       496
Actual Realised    6454        27,539         579
- Women development
i) % of Lijomen employment to total employment : 16.23
ii) % of women members to total membership    : 6.35
- Rate of Returns ( Per cent
FRR         ERR
SAR Estimate           15              34
Actual                 13               8.11



27
- Farmer members were paid  lM2%  hiLther for
their produce by the mills than the open
mar l et prices
D)Impact of Institution BuildinQ component
It  has  been observed  that an   alroLund  r7rownth  and
development  in the working of the project PACS wsas   achieved
w ith  the   implementation   storace   &   institLution    buildinri
projects.    Althoutgh, it is extremely diffiCutlt  to  qua rtif y
the projectwise contribution, it is .wel.l accepted  that in the
grow ith  and  dev'zl1pinent of rF-f'(  rp  I:n the :Ot7ms     tSrt    I S
attr ibt:ed   to the  iristitutiroiri b'...ldiria pai-ectCt.    rhe   var-
iouc  trainings impartPed  to PACS Secretary'/Manaeers and   other
=sfa f i..inrler the pro jrct1: ronntrTibu1ted  to7. thei.r overall dr1v  lrln
mnent  and knowledge about the  functioninno  of the   cooperative
systern  w.hic.h  in  turrn had a f-ivourah 1 e impact  o7n  Fhe P-i      A
btu.iness activi t i es.  The frequent vi si ts of miiobi I e guides to
FPAc.S    r e vie    andi mn n i. o r i n r. of  t 1 P rr i. r rnor  r Fr4 ,n T- 4 r5 d
efforts to encourage  fz;m bers   r.rt ic.iria t on  in the  aff ir   of
societies cou..kld, in part, a'trni.hjt"+d  to  increased mephership,
higjher  dieposit mobi I i-.at.ion. inc rea ,ed  lIvevIs    f  zoriit i es
busingss activitietc;, h -f:teT' ut i iisat ion of the  :)r-dnIlFn, etc.
Conclusions
TI-ie  detailed   evaualR;ion C     ,- Id   r, or r-  of  NfrDC-rT r
Cooperative Storaoe .!4 InstitLtion  R3ui1dinQ proiects  in Madhya
Pradesh, Karnatak-a, Orissa, West Bengal, Rajasthan  and  Uttar
Pradesh confirmed that the project ohbjectives of an expansion
and  improvement. of the agric'.,11tural inpuet; -nrd produce storaoe
and  marl:etinc  system  and reduction  in cjrain lc-sses and  pr o-
mnoting and ,trengtheninQ cooperati .ve minaagement have b een
aclhieved.  Thle beneficiIrv  SC)C ietie, Il.l('LId, by ,   aIn'Id  larrje,   be
able  to service  the debt liabilities of repayment of  orinci-
pal and interest.  The indLuction of the godolains in the   so r: -
ing  of  the beneficiary societies fmade easy- to  servics  the
various  needs  of the farmers.   Incrpase  in  i-he  nnn-credit
bLtsi ess   t urnover  of the project socieFies,  benefit,  per-
ceived by the members in terms of timely  and adequate  avail-
ability  of various inputs and consumer goods,   reduction   in
shorage   losses, savings in  transpo.rt cost and mpmbers'  time
and   inrreinental farfn iuttput havr  been the significant impact
o f  the  storage   and insti t u1;ion bui lding  proiects   on  the
benef i, i ary   inst it tt ions   and  farminr-g  crr1mun it.    .s  sttch
these projects of NCDC-III have prov*-d Luseful to the  farmers,
financially  viable  to  the c:ooperative  institution  and social-
lv dlesirable. The C,tate authorities are alive to the need
for, further improving  the ''tilisation  of the created   storaQe
facilities   and   are  in  the process  of  implementing   action
proc ra mm e  to make storf-rme godowris 'n  as r4ro'th centres f or   the
rUrTal developmnernt.



28
Similarly, the detailed evaluation study reports of
projects  each  of oilseed and c*otton  processing  components
appraised    the  achievements  and  expectations   of   these
projects.  The assessmen1t of - oilseed processing projects at
Knota,  Chhindwara and Morena confirmed that adequate  facili-
ties  and  infrastructure to ernhance the  oilseed  prodUction
have  been establisheci in th'4 respective project  areas.    An
adequate and efficient: oilseed processing plants have been
installed.  The oilseeds component objective of  substitLition
edible oil imports has  been achieving for the oil production
lb y  the established oilseed processing plants.  Besides  sutb-
stantial foreign exchange earnings have been perceiving
tIhrouLgh  exporting  the soybean cakes.  Oilseed  grow.ers  are
being benefited throuQh the Cocperative Development  Services
(CDS)  established  under lhese projects and  thev  are  paid
rPmtnerative    prices  for  their  oilseed  produce.    These
pro jects also have considerable impact on employment  genera-
tion and contributed to sUrrounding area development.
Also the achievpments- and impact of cotton processing
component  was  examined -through  the evaluation of            cotton
processing  projects at Ldardha, Nandvcil and  tMal.apr ahha.   An
efficient technology based cotton proc issing equi.pment/facil-
iti.res  establ ished under the NilCNr-IDA rroject have been  able
tr  prorJice improved q i.a ai ty lint a nd  aar ri at opti mal  costs.
ThIP grower members of the cotton grower cooperative societies
are benefited by way of vario'Ls  services provided under the
'projects.   They  are getting remnunerative  prices/bonus  for
their  kapas (seed cotton) w ith comparatively easy  mark eting
facilities.   These  facilities  have  gienerated    employment
opportLunities for the project area people and also contribut-
ed to alround deve lopment of the area.
The evaluated agro-industrial projects u-nder  oil=Ped
and  cotton  processing  coomponents have been  by  and  large
financially and economically viable projects.  Howiever,  much
remains  to  improve their capacity Lttilisations and  it  is,
therefore,   all  out  efforts  should  be  made   by   their
owner/operators in the years to r::ome.



29
PART III
Statistical Information
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Loan/Credit Title                Purpose                  Year of         Status
Approval
Agricultural Refinance   Provide credit through cooperative and  1975-82    All closed with
and Development       commercial Banks for on-farm                      ARDC IV
Corporation Projects I-  investments.                                   completed in
IV (Cr. 540, Cr. 715,                                                   1984.
Cr. 947 and Cr.
1209/Ln. 2095)
National Bank for     Improve the rural financial system and  1986      Closed in 1991.
Agriculture and Rural   improve credit delivery.
Development Credit
Project (Ln. 2653-IN)
National Dairy        Development of Dairy Cooperatives.    1978 and    NDDB I closed
Development Board I                                           1988     in 1985. NDDB
and II (Cr. 842, Cr.                                                   II ongoing.
1859/Ln. 2893)
Cotton Production     Promote cotton production, ginning      1976      Completed in
Project (Cr. 610)     and seed crushing.                                1984.
NCDC I (Cr. 871)      Construction of 5,100 rural godowns     1978      Completed in
and rehabilitation of 200 godowns.               1984.
NCDC II (Cr. 1146)    Construction of 7,100 godowns and 100   1982      Completed in
potato cold stores.                              1987.
2. Project Timetable
Item                            Date Planned        Date Revised         Date Actual
Identification1'
Preparation                                                               07/22/832/
Appraisal Mission                  11/83                                  11-12/83
Credit Negotiations                04/84              05/7/84             05/30/84
Board Approval                                                            06/19/84
Credit Signature                                                          10/12/84
Credit Effectiveness                                                      01/10/85
Credit Closing                   06/30/89             06/30/90            06/30/92
06/30/91
1/ Identification as part of NCDC I and IT implementation.
2/ By NCDC.



30
3. Credit Disbursement
IDA FY      Semester           Cumulative in USS                   Cumulative in SDR
Estimated    Actual    Actual as   Estimated    Actual    Actual as
in SAR                % of Est.  in SARV                  % of Est.
......... USS Million ........   ........ SDR Mlillion .
FY 85           1          1.0         -                       1.0
II        21.1         6.3         30         20.2        6.4         32
FY 86          I          45.4        8.2          18         43.4        8.3         19
II        74.0        34.8         47         70.7        31.4        44
FY 87          I         109.2        36.4         33        104.3       32.7         31
II        172.3       36.4         21         164.6       32.7        20
FY 88          1         170.9        40.7         24        163.3       36.1         22
11        193.9       50.3         26         185.3       43.1        23
FY 89           1        207.7        70.3         34        198.4        53.3        29
II        220.0       100.7        46         210.2       82.4        39
FY 90           1                    107.3         49                    87.6         42
II                   119.7         54                     97.0        46
FY 91           1                    133.6         61                    106.7        51
11                   189.1         86                    147.2        70
FY 92           1                    197.3         90                    153.4        73
II                   234.3        107                    180.2        86
I/ Based on exchange rate of USS1 = SDRO.95545 which was used to convert SAR loan figure of
USS220 million to DCA figure of SDR210.2 million.



31
4. Project Implementation'/
SAR Estimate       Actual or PCR      Actual as % or SAR
Estimate
Rural Storage
Storage Godowns                 1.37 mill. tons      2.04 mill. tons          149
PACS Assisted2/                   6,738 no.            4,393 no.               65
Soybean Production &
Processing
OGCS3'/                            800 no.              767 no.                96
Seed Processing Units             12.5 t/hour              -                   -
Oil Extraction                 240,000 t/annum     180,000 t/annum             75
Cotton Processing
Ginning                         56,100 t/annum      48,050 t/annum             86
Spinning                        125,000 spindles   299,300 spindles4/         239
Oil Extraction                 140,000 t/annum     36,000 t/annum5/            30
Institution Building
Technical Training (local)
Rural Storage                   24,800 staff6/         24,872                100
Cotton Processing                1,000 staff           4,873                487
Soybean Processing                100 staff             n.a.                n.a.
Technical Training (overseas)       20 staff              11                   55
ACSTIs7/                             6 no.              13 no.8/              217
Other Facilities
Oil Processing9/                      -             187,000 t/annum            -
Fruit Marketing                                     36,000 t/annumr
OGCS3/                                                    398
1/ For details and state-wise breakdown see Annex 1.
2/ Number of Primary Agricultural Credit Societies provided with margin money.
31 Oilseed Growers' Cooperative Societies.
4/ Includes 4,600 rotors.
51 Multiseed plant to process cottonseed, sunflower or soyacake.
6/ Includes 4,800 staff who where operating godowns constructed under NCDC I and II.
7/ Agricultural Cooperative Staff Training Institutes.
8/ 12 ACSTIs at State level and a national centre at Delhi.
9/ For details see Annex 1, Table 2.



5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
.. . . . . . . . Apraisal Estimate . . . . . . . . . .   . - - - - - - - - -                 Actual Costs  . . . . . . . . . . . .
Local      Foreign      Total       Local      foreign      Total       Local      Foreign      Total       Local     foreign      Total
. . .  .  Rs Million  . . . .    . . . .  tES Million . . .              . . . .  Rs million . . . . .   . . . .  USS Million  . . . .
Rural Storage                    1,017         118       1,135        94.2        10.9        105.1      2,549          -         2,549       168.4        -         168.4
Soybean Production &               985         84        1,069        91.4         7.8        99.0       2,343        178         2,5201/    108.6        8.3        116.9
Processing
Cotton Pr..:essing               1,423        232         1,655      131.7        21.5        153.2      2,478        654         3,132       119.6       31.6       151.1
Tree Crop.                          -           -           -           -                 -                  44         -            44          1.6       -            1.6
Institution Building               103          6           109        9.5         0.5         10.1         367        -            367        18.2        -          18.2
Contingencies                      968         119        1,087       89.7        11.0         75.0         -                       -           -           -           -
Total                         4,496        559        5,054       416.3        51.7       468.0       7,781        832        8,613       416.4       39.8        456.2
1/ Cost covers all oil processing plants, including the cottonseed plant which is now a nulti-seed facility, as well as oil mills not in the SAR and the CDS.



33
B. Project Financing
Credit Amount1/           Actual         Actual as Prop.
of Planned
SDR mill             SDR mill              SDR
Project Facilities2/
Rural Storage                            57.6                  51.7                90
Soybean Processing                       85.0                  47.3                56
Cotton Processing                        56.6                  68.3               121
Tree Crops                                                      0.4
Sub-Total                              199.2                167.7                 84
Institution Building
Civil Works                               1.6                  2.9                 181
Office & Teaching Equip. and              1.7                  1.2                 71
Vehicles
Local Training                            3.6                  3.9                 108
Fellowships                               0.2                  0.02                10
Sub-Total                               7.2                  8.02               111
CDS3/
Staff and Operating Costs                 3.8                  1.3                 34
Special Account4/                                                 3.1
Total                                   210.2                 180.2                86
1/ As per schedule 1 of DCA dated October 12, 1984.
2/ IDA financed credit to project facilities.
3/ Cooperative Development Services.
4/ Difference due to cross exchange rates.



34
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Unit         Appraisal Estimate         PCR Estimate
Rural Storage
Reduction in losses            Reduction in             2%,r0                   2%
losses
Trasport savings                   km                    12                     1o%I]
Increased Fertilizer Use        %o incrcase            10%                      5%
Sovbean Production &
Processing
Sovbean Production             000 tons p.a.            525                   950%
Processed Seed                 000 tons p.a.             11
Crude Sova Oil                 000 tons p.a.             40                      30
Cake                           000 tons p.a.            195                     146
Cottonseed Oil Extraction
Refined Oil                    000 tons p.a.             '0                       6
Extractions                    000 tons p.a.             55                      17
Hulls                          000 tons p.a.             32                      10
Ginning Plants
Lint                           000 tons p.a.             56                      48
Cotton Secd                    000 tons p.a.            121                     104
Spinning Plants
Yarn                           000 tons p.a.             16                      39
Other Oil Plants
Mustard Oil Extraction         000 tons p.a.             -                      105
Oil Refining                   000 tons p.a.                                     45
Vanaspati Production           000 tons p.a.                                     38
I] NCDC estimate.



35
B. Economic Analysis 1,
SAR                       PCR
Economic Rate of Return
Rural Storage                                   27                         8
Cotton Processing                               34                       13-14
Cottonseed Oil Extraction                       28                         11
Soyabean Component Aggregate                    49
Soyabean Oil Extraction                         40                      negative
Mustard Oil Extraction                           -                        12
l/ See Annex 2.
C.. Financial Impact /
SAR                    PCR
Financial Rate  or Return                    ..................       .................
Rural Storage
100 ton Godown                                     15                     7I0]
2,000 ton Godown                                   24                       2/
Soyabean Processing
Seed Processing Plants                             12                     - 3/
Solvent Oil Extraction Plants                       18                    12
Cotton Processing
Ginnery SGA (Saw Gins)
with Spinning Mills (1 Haryana, 1 Rajasthan)       57
with Cottonseed Oil Extraction Plant (1
Haryana, 1 Rajasthan)                               70
with Spinning Mills (1 Maharashtra)                60                      - 2/
freestanding (1 Maharashtra)                       37                     - 3/
Ginnery ISGE
Freestanding (2 Maharashtra)                       29                     -3/
Ginnery RGA (Double Roller Gins)
with Spinning Mills (1 Karnataka, 1 AP)            44                     - 5/



36
with Cottonseed Oil Extraction Plant in
Karnataka                                           53                       3/
Spinning Mill D (1 each Harvana and
Rajasthan)                                             17                       6/
Spinning Mill B (1 Maharashtra)                        16                   7-11 7/
Spinning Mill C (1 each Karnataka and AP)              15                      , 8/
Solvent Oil Extraction Plants (Cottonseed)             21                     10 q/
Mustard Seed Oil Extraction                             -                     14
l/ See Annex 2.
2/ Data not available - no FRR calculated.
3/ Not implemented.
4/ The Harvana project was not implemented. The Rajasthan unit has been recentlv commissioned and data
is verv limited.
5 These units were implemented in Karnataka (Malaprabha) and in Andhra Pradesh at Nandval. Separate
FRR for Ginning units has not been calculated.
6/ Spinning Mill in Haryana was not implemented. For spinning mill in Rajasthan, data was not available.
7/ Six spinnine mills of this tvpe have been implemented. Of these. two units, viz Wardha and Indira, have
been analvsed for the PCR.
3/ FRR shown as per NCDC PCR - for Nandval is 11%- and for Malaprabha 12%. If computed on the
basis of assumptions used in the PCRKfor other similar units, these FRRs would be lower.
9 Orizinal desien was amended to include suntlower sezd as well as cotton seed.
I0] NCDC estimates this FRR at II%.
D. Studies'/
Study Title              Purpose                  Status                 Impact of Study
Textile Policy Studv     NCDC Spinning            Completed              Helped define
Investment Policy                              NCDC's investment
policv for spinning
Evaluation of Mobile     Evaluate effectiveness   Completed              Discussed with SCBs
Guide Scheme
Evaluation of CDS in     Evaluate impact          Completed             Defined
Madhya Pradesh                                                          effectiveness
Effluent Treatment and    Identify problems and   Completed             Sub-projects are
Pollution Problems       solutions                                      being asked to
upgrade effluent
treatment facilities
Organisation Study of    Assess NCDC's ability    Undcrwav
NCDC                     to help cooperatives
l/ In addition to these studies a number of other status reports were done for preparation of the
PCR.



37
7. Status of Covenants
DCA/PA          Description of Covenants      Compliance              Remarks
Section
DCA      The Borrower shall relend the proceeds   OK
3.01(b)   of the Credit allocated to Category 1 to
NCDC. Terms shall include interest at
an effective rate not less than 7% p.a.,
with repayment over a period of fifteen
years, including a three year grace
period.
PA       NCDC subloans to Participating Banks    Generally  In three cases (one oilseeds and two
2.02(a)   shall be on the basis of an agreement  good    cotton projects) the terms of
which would include the terms,                   repayment have been revised both
conditions and procedures specified or           by NCDC to the Participating Bank
referred to in Schedule 2 of the Project         and by the Participating Bank to the
Agreement.                                       ultimate borrower cooperative
providing for an extended grace
period.
PA       NCDC subloans to States shall be made    OK
2.02(b)   on terms whereby the relevant
participating State shaU contribute by
way of equity- (a) 45% of the cost of
investment (incl. permanent working
capital) in rural storage, ginneries and
spinning mills; and (b) 35% of the cost
of investments (including permanent
working capital) in oil extraction and
soybean seed proces,sing.
PA       NCDC loans to Participating Banks or    Generally
2.02(c)   States shall be for 15 years with 3 years  good
grace at an interest rate defines
according to a formula in the Project
Agreement Section 2.02.
PA       NCDC subloans to States shall be not     OK
2.03(a)  less than 25% of the investment costs,
including permanent working capital, of
rural storage, ginneries and spinning
mills sub-projects.
PA       NCDC subloans to States shall be not     OK
2.03(b)   less than 20% of investment costs,
including permanent working capital, of
oil extraction sub-projects and soybean
seed processing sub-projects.
PA       NCDC shall furnish to the Association,   OK
2.06(a)   promptly upon preparation, plans,
specifications, reports, contract
documents and construction &
procurement schedules for the project,
and any material modifications thereof.
PA       NCDC shall furnish to the Association a  OK       Draft PCR has been prepared by
2.06(d)   Project Completion Report.                       NCDC.



38
DCA/PA          Description of Covenants        Compliance                Remarks
Section
PA 4.01   NCDC shall maintain records and            OK
separate accounts adequate to reflect its
operations and funancial condition in
accordance with consistentlv maintained
appropriate accounting practices.
PA 4.02   NCDC to furnish IDA audited funancial      OK
statements within 9 months after end of
each fiscal vear of its corporate
accounts.
PA SCH. Participating Banks shall not be eligible   Reasonable  Participating banks in some project
2.01 and  to approve subloans if their recovery               states did participate despite lower
02       rate is less than 75%.                               recovery rates. Supervision missions
agreed to this as the subject of
eligibilitv criteria is under review for
the whole country.
PA SCH. Participating Cooperatives investing in   Not good   Most of the commissioned factories
>,03(a)   Sub-projects shall contribute, by the               are not in compliance and, given the
time the facilities constructed therein            financial commitment required.
are commissioned. not less than 5% of               However, project factories are
the total investment costs of the Sub-              reviewing various wavs of increasing
project, including permanent working                farmer capital contribution, e.g., by
capital.                                            making partial deductions from a
factor,vs payment to the farmer for
sale of his raw material.
PA SCH. In case of agro-processing Sub-projects,      -       No examples yet.
X,03(b)   Participating Cooperatives shall
repurchase shares from the relevant
Participating State, which will represent
at least 10% of total cost of investment
of such Sub-project within 15 vears of
plant commissioning.
PA SCH. Participating Banks to appraise              OK
2,04      subprojects in accordance with standards
and criteria satisfactory to IDA. In
connection with ginning and spinning
mills, sub-loan standards will include
technical and environmental criteria and
staffing plans.
PA SCH. Sub-loans shall be made for a period      Generallv  See remark on 2.02(a) above.
2,05      not exceeding fifteen years including     good
upto three years of grace and at an
interest rate: (i) for rural storage Sub-
projects, 2 percentage points above the
rate specified in Sec.2.02(c) of the PA;
(ii) for processing plant Sub-projects, 3
percentage point above the rate
specified in respect of such Sub-projects
in the said Section.



39
DCA/PA          Description of Covenants       Compliance               Remarks
Section
PA SCH. When making a sub-loan to a             Generally
2,06     Cooperative, Participative Banks shall   good
obtain from the Cooperative its
agreement to a number of 'due
diligence' requirements.
PA SCH. Participating Banks shall, through         OK
2,07     NCDC, furnish to the Association, for
its review and comment., Sub-project
reports and feasibility studies, and
appraisal recommendations as the
Association shall request
PA SCH. The Participating Bank shall furnish       OK
2,08     periodically, to the respective Registrar
of Cooperative Societies and to NCDC,
statements of Sub-loans approved.
PA SCH. Participating cooperatives carrying out    Generally   While generallv good technical staff
2,09     agro-processing sub-projects shall fill its  good  are being employed, insufficient
middle and senior level positions with            attention is being paid to
professionally qualified and experienced          management and financial staff.
staff recruited on a competitiwe basis.
PA SCH. Participating Banks to monitor progress  Reasonable  Progress reports prepared by
2,10     of sub-projects and furnish NCDC                   NCDC and participating agencies.
reports on operational performance of             However, state reports in particular
godowns and processing plant sub-                 still need to be strengthened to
projects after commissioning.                     show progress in areas of
institutional development.
PA SCH. Participating Banks shal have the lcgal     -       Never invoked.
2,11     right to suspend sub-loans to coops.
PA SCH. Conditions of sub-loans to the Oilseed     OK       The seed processing component of
2,12     Federation and the Marketing                       the project was dropped in the very
Federation of Rajasthan shall require             initial stages of implementation. The
each of them to undertake (i) to                  state governments were of the view
provide, not later than June 30, 1985,            that adequate seed processing
adequate staff for its Cooperative                capacity existed in the State Seed
Development Service; and (ii) to set the          Corps. and the National Seeds
sale price at all times for processed seed        Corporation.
at such level as will cover at least the
production cost.



40
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Identification/      Appraisal      Negotiations       Supervision1/
Preparation
......................... Staff Weeks .
FY 82                    8.6
FY 83                    6.9
FY 84                   56.3               109.2            17.6                0.7
FY 85                                                                           40.4
FY 86                                                                           34.5
FY 87                                                                           21.9
FY 88                                                                           24.7
FY 89                                                                           10.9
FY 90                                                                           19.7
FY 91                                                                           16.9
FY 92                                                                           13.4
Total                 71.8               109.2            17.6               183.1



B. Missions
Stage of Project    Month/Tear   No. of    SW in the    Specialization1'                      Performance, Rating Status                           Type of Problem
Cycle                             Persons       field
Availdbte   Project       Devel       Legal       Overall
Funds       H9 t.       Iapct    Covenrnts    Status
Appraisal              May-84        6           36          ML/E, Al, E,
cO", COOP, l
Supervision 1          Dec-84        1            2              ML/F              2            2           1           1          n/a             Managerial (Man)
Disbursement (Disb)
Supervision 2          Aug-85        3           15          ML/E, CR, Al          3            2           2           1          n/a^     Man, Subproject ID (Subproj)
Supervision 3          Mar-86        5           15        ML/E, E, CR, Al,        1            2           2         n/a**          2       Man, Subproj, Disb, Policy
F                                                                                    (Pot)
Supervision 4          Dec-86        2            8             ML/F, E             1           2           2         n/a**          2                 Man, Disb
Supervision 5          Jul-87        2            6            ML/F, Al            1            2  -        2         n/a^*          2      Man, Subproj. Disb, Training
(Cng)
Supervision 6          Jan-88        4           12           ML/F, A, Al           1           2           2         n/a**          2                 Man, Disb
Supervision 7          Jun-88        1            1               ML/F              1           2           2         n/a*e          2            Man, Subproj, Disb
Supervision 8          Dec-88        1            2              ML/F               1           2           2         n/al*          2            Man, Subproj, Disb
Supervision 9          Sep-89        4           12          ML/F, [, E, A         2            2           2           2            1            Man, Subproj, Disb
Supervision 10         Apr-90        4           14          ML/F, F, A, E         2            2           2       -  2             2         Man, Subproj, Disb, Exch
Rate (Xch)
Supervision 11         Nov-90        3            6           ML/E, F. A           2            2           2           2            2         Man, Subproj, Disb, Xch
Supervision 12         May-91        3            8           ML/E, f, A           2            2           2           2            2         Man, Subproj, Disb, Tng
Supervision 13         Nov-91        3            3           ML/E, F, A           2            2           2           2            2         Man, Subproj, Disb, Tng
Supervision 14         May-92        3            7           HL/E, F, A            1           2           2           2            2            Man, Subprol, Pot
ML:  Mission Leader;  AC:  Agriculturalist;  Al:  Agro-industry Specialist;  COM:  Computers;  COOP:  Cooperatives;  CR: Credit;   E: Economist;  F:  financial
Analyst; T: Training.
* 1979 form 190 did not separate development impact and overall performance.
* 1985 form 190 did not rate compliance with covenants.
Current 590 used beginning with supervision mission No. 9.



42
INDIA 2
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION III
PROJECT
ANNEX 1
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS



INDIA: National Cooperative Development Corporation III Project
Annex 1: Performance Indicators
Table 1.  Planrwed and Actual Imlpemented Project Facilities                                              (Page 1)
Rural Storage                            Soybean Oil Extraction 1/                   Cotton Seed Oil Extraction
t Plarmed     |         Actual       |          Planned                Actual        |      Plarried      |       Actual
T o   I Cap. 000 t.    No.      Cap. 000 t.    No.    Cap. 000 t.    No.    Cap. 000 t.   No.   Cap. 000 t.   No.   Cap. 000 t.
p-a.                  p.a.                  p.a.                 p.a.
Andhra Pradesh                   -           -           221          31
Assam                            -           -
Haryana *                       -            -            50         168                                                      1         30          -         -
Himachal Pradesh                -            -             5           5
Karnataka *                      916         180         782         151                                                       1        30          1         36
Kerala                           -           -           134          27
Madhya Pradesh *              1,870          370       1,530         393         3          180         3         120
Maharastra *                     -           -           501         468                                                       1         30         -          -
Orissa *                      1,225          263         327          99
Punjab                           -           -             7          42
Rajastan *                    1,000           78         500          81         1           60         1          60          1         30         -          -
Tamil Nadu                       -           -           205         249
Uttar Pradesh *               1,643          310         716         159
West Bengal                   1,125          175         852         167
NAFED/NCCF                      -            -             2            2
Total                     7,719       1,376       5,832        2,042         4         240          4         ISO         4        120          1         36
*   States origanalty covered in the SAR.
1/ Three soybean seed processing plants were proposed in the SAR but were dropped as seed processing capacity created under the National Seeds Projects I and II was
inadequate.



INDIA: National Cooperative Development Corporation III Project
Annex 1: Performance Indicators
Table 1. Plarnred an  ActuaL laplemented Project Facilities                                                  (Page 2)
Cotton Giming                                               Cotton Spimning                              ACSTis
SAR                             PCR                             SAR                          PCR                SAR        PCR
No.     | Cap. 000 t.         No.          Cap. 000 t.         No.     t cp. '000           No.     Cap. '000           No.        No.
I                             I                                  spindles p.a.              mpindles p.a._
Andhra Pradesh                  1             5.44             3              8.54              1             25.0          3            74.9                       1
Assam
Haryana                         2            10.88                                              1            25.0
Himachal Pradesh                                                                                                                                                    1
Karnataka                       2            10.88             3              8.98              1            25.0           3            74.9            1          1
Kerala                                                                                                                                                              1
Madhya Pradesh                                                                                                                                           1          1
Maharastra                      4            18.02             6              19.48             1            25.0           6           145.0                       1
Orissa                                                                                                                                                   1          1
Punjab                                                         1              5.61                                           1           1.9                        1
Rajastan                        2            10.88             1              5.44              1            25.0            1           2.73'           1          1
Tauil Madt                                                                                                                                                          1
Uttar Pradesh                                                                                                                                            1
West Bengal                                                                                                                                              1          1
NAFED/NCCF                                                                                                                                               1          1
TotaL                      11            56.10            14              48.05             5            125.0          13          299.3            6        13k/
3/ Rotors.
4/ inciucding a National Centre at Delhi.



45
INDIA: National Cooperative Dcvclopment Corporation III Project
Annex 1: Performance Indicators
Table 2. Other Oil Mlills Implemented1'
State                Location          Description         Capacity      Number of    Cost
000 t/annum      OCSs        Rs Mill.
Assam              Amingaon    Expansion of                   18.8           -          160.8
Vanaspati Unit
Madhya Pradesh    Morena         Mustard Oil                 30.0           250         189.0
Extraction
Sehore       Vegetable Oil                30.0            -         180.5
ReFinery
Punjab             Khanna        Expansion of                 18.8           -          145.0
Vanaspati Unit
Rajastan           Bikaner       Groundnut/Mustard            45.0          120         260.0
Oil Extraction
Kota         Vegetable Oil                15.0            -         107.0
Refinery
Kota         Mustard Oil                  30.0           28         171.0
Extraction
Total                       187.5          398        1,2133
/ Units not originally in the SAR.



46
Table 3: Exchange Rates and Inflation Rates
1984      1985      1986      1987      1988       1989      1990      1991
EXC1ANGE RATES
Rs. per US$ 1/                  11.363    12.369    12.611     12.962    13.917    16226      17.504    22.742
Rs. per SDR 1/                  11.647    12.558    14.795    16.761     18.703    20.798    23.749    31.116
1984/85   1985/86   1986/87   1987/88   1988/89   1989/90   1990/91   1991/92
Rs. pr US$2/                    11.866    12.490    12.787    13.440    15.072    16.865    20.123    24.330
Rs. per SOR 21                  12.103    13.677    15.778    17.732    19.751    22274       27.433    33.809
DOMESTIC INFLATORS
Pricelndicies3/                    126       126       13t       153        160       164       185       218
WPI (1981 -82=I00)
Inflation Rate                    0.00      8.73      11.68      4.58      2.50     12.80      17.84      7.34
Inflators                       185.71    185.71    170.80    152.94    146.25    142.68    126.49    107.34
(to convert current to 1992/93 prices)
INTERNATIONAL INFLATORS
MUV Index (1 990= 00) 41         68.33      74.75     84.87     92.08     94.98     97.33    101.06    104.32
Inflation Rate                    9.40     13.54       8.50      3.15      2.47      3.83       3.23      4.04
Inflators                       158.83    145.19    127.88    117.86    11427      111.51     107.39    104.04
(to conrvert current to 1992/93 prices)
1/ Period average. Source: IFS, yeartoak 1992 and IFS Volume XLVI, No 3. Marcrh 1993; and p-ojections by World Bar*(.
2/ Average ot calender years.
3/ Source: Economic Survey, 1992-93, Government of India, Ministry of Finance, Economic Oivision;
and pfojections by the World Bank.
41 Source: World Bank, International Economics Department, February 1993.



47
INDIA: National Cooperst. Development Corporation III Poleat
Table 4: Yearwise Pniaect Costs in Current and Constant Pnces
19684,85    1985,86   1988,87   1967,88    1988,89   1989,90    1990,91    I99 192    1962,93   199J3n4     Totl
Rs. million
Local Currency Costs                                                              (Current Pricesl
RuratStorag                         0.1     289.1      2793       339.7     9043       325.1     224J       181.0        5.8       0.0    2549D
Oilseeds                                      522       59.7      1925      233.7      187.1     2119       498.4      5235      4C5 3    23423
Cotton                             31B        0.0       633       169.4     212.4      139J      3776      1208.7      1351      139 S    24781
Tree Crops                                                                                         8.7        8.2       ISO        9.1       44D
Instrluiton Buiiding                40        7.8       131        191       419        38.7      802        87.1       4a.7      491      367A
Total                              357       3489      4159       7214    13923         6887     903 2     1961.4      729      8603.7    77801
Rs Million
j1992/3 Pnces) I1
RuralStonage                        0.2      5389      477.1      5195     13223       4839      2843       1943         38        00     3tO43
Oilseeds                            0 0       968      102 D      294 4     341.8      238 4     268 J      532 1      523 5     378.4   27742
Cotton                             58.7        00      10IB       259.1     3101       1995      4771      12974       1351      1295    297A.4
Tre Crops                           0 0        0.0       0.0        0 0       0 0        0 0      110         8 8       180        8.5       463
Instrtjion Bulding                  7.4       14 1      232        303       813        524      101 4       720        467       482       455.1
Total                              683      648D       710.4    11033    20362         954.1    11424      21054       729a      580tt   10058a3
_USS million
Foreign Currency Costs                                                            (Current Prices] 21
Rural Storage                       00        0.0        0.0        00        00         00        00         00         00        00        0 
Oiiiaees                            0 0       0 3        0.4        1 1       1 2        08        0 8        1.5        1 3       0 9        8 3
Conton                              07        00         13         33        37         22        50        13.1        12        1 1       316
Tree Crops                          0.0       00         00         00        0.0        00        00         00         00        00         00
Instrtumlon8uilding                 00        00         00         00        00         00        00         0.0        00        0.0       00
Total                               0.7       0 3        1 7        A 4       4 9        3.0       5 7       14B         2 5       1 9       39J
USS million
(1992/3 P mces) 3/
Rural Storage                       0 0        0 0       0.0        0.0       0 0        0 0       0 0        0.0        0 0       0 0        0.0
Ol1eeds                            0 0       0.5        0.5        1.3       1 4        0.9       0 8        1.6        1.3       0 9       9 1
Cotton                              I 1       0 0        1.7        3.9       4 3        2.4       5 3       136         1 2       1 0       341
Tre,Crops                           00         00        00         0.0       00         0.0       00         00          0        0 0        0 
Inlstituton Building                0 0       0 0        0.0        0.0       0 0        0 0       0 0        0 0        0 0       0 0       0.0
Tot l                               1.1       0 5        2.1        5.2       56         3 3       6 1       152         2 5       1 9       4.37
Rs milion
(1992/3 Prces( 4/
RuralStorage                        0.0        0.0        00        00        00         00        00         00         0.0       00         00
Oiliseeds                           0.0       119       115        329       345        22D       204        395        329       211       227D
Cotton                             281   -    0.0       41.7       979       1062       60.9      1329      3408        30D       251       t 884D
Tree Crops                          0.0        00        00         00        00         00        00         0.0        00        00         00
In,rtjitton Building                0.0        0.0       0 0        0.0       0 0        0 0       0.0        0 0        0 0       0 0        0.0
TottJ                              28.1       119       532       13DJ       140.7      82.9      1533      3802        623       47 1     1091 .1
11 Using local currency inflators (Table 31.
21 Conwrwd using cutrent exchange rates (Table 3).
3/ Using oreign currency inflators (Table 3).
4/ 1992/3 US$ values convetcd to 1992/3 Rs. using the 19923 exchtknge rate of US51 .Rt29J59






48
ANNEX 2
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. INTRODUCTION
1.        This annex looks at the financial and economic viability of a selection of sub-
projects financed under NCDC III. Many units have only recently been completed and
as a result it is not possible to make projections of their future performance which would
be meaningfully different from those in the SAR. On this basis, the analysis was
restricted to two cotton spinning units, three oilseed units and a consolidated sample of
149 rural godowns. Despite considerable effort it proved difficult to get reliable
information even on these units, and to reconciLe and fully confirm the data supplied.
A major problem was that many critical positions in finance and accounts are still in the
process of being filled up. Some of the other operating personnel have also been
appointed very recently and there were some obvious limitations in their ability to give
adequate data. The analysis presented is therefore only indicative. Each of the tables
showing financial projections are accompanied by a note setting out data limitations and
assumptions made. The economic analysis is based on the same basic data as the
financial analysis and is hence subject to the same caveats.
B. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Textile Units
2.        The two textile units considered are Wardha Zilla Shetkari Sahakari Soot
Girni Ltd., which is a relatively older unit operating since 1989, and Indira Sahakari Soot
Girni Ltd., which has commenced operations recently. The Wardha Unit is based on
roller ginning technology and the Indira Unit is based on saw ginning technology - the
new ginning technology promoted under the project.
3.        The Wardha Unit: Based on actual figures for the period up to 1992/93 and
mission estimates thereafter, the financial rate of return (FRR) for the unit is estimated
at 11%, which is much lower than the 16%o envisaged in the SAR (Table 2). The major
reason for the difference between the PCR and the SAR estimates is higher operating
costs; the cost of power and utilities has risen sharply with a rise in power rates over a
5 year span of 114% (these costs have risen to Rs24 million or 19% of the total
operating costs as against Rs4 million or 7.3% expected in the SAR); wages, salaries and
administrative costs have also shown very steep increases as compared to what was
envisaged in the SAR. The second factor was delays in project start up - in the SAR
the project was expected to generate revenues from year 3 but instead this has happened
from the year 5. Lastly, the SAR calculations took no account of interest on working
capital which in an agro-processing of this kind is a major cost item.



49
INDIA: National Cooperative Development Corporation 1II Project
Annex 2. Financial and Economic Analysis
4.        Net financial benefits are expected to stabilize at about Rs18 million per
year. With this level of income the company should be able to service its debts and also
have some surplus over the project life.  This is despite the fact that it shows
accumulated losses as of now. However, this partly reflects the written down value
method of depreciation followed, which results in higher incidence of depreciation in the
initial years.
5.        The financial structure imposed as a result of project funding also appears
to have a number of weaknesses. Although the company had already begun incurring
interest liability from the very start and had been provided with funds for meeting such
a liability during the pre-operative stage, the total funds provided (Rs3.7 million) was
much less than the interest liability (Rs8.2 million) which it had to meet during this
period.
6.        The Indira Unit: The project as implemented is unbalanced. Originally, it
was intended to have the same capacity as the Wardha Unit i.e. 24,960 spindles, but due
to cost overruns during implementation, it was decided to restrict the capacity to 21,120
spindles. However, most of the buildings and other facilities are built to accommodate
the originally intended capacity. This unit has started its operations very recently and
has not completed even one year. The figures of capacity utilization shown in the
projections from 1993-94 onwards are based on the projections given by management and
modified by the mission.
7.        The Indira unit shows an FRR of 7%o (Table 4). This FRR is lower than
estimated in the SAR partly due to the factors discussed above for the Wardha unit.
However, the FRR for Indira unit is also well below that estimated for Wardha unit
despite the fact that the Indira unit has a newer and more efficient plant; sales
realization per ton (Rs60,000) is slightly higher than the Wardha unit; and power
utilization is substantially lower (340 units per 1,000 spindle shifts as opposed to 450
units in Wardha). The main factor responsible for the lower FRR is investment costs.
The investment for the Indira unit in respect of spinning is Rs200 million as compared
to Rs133 million for the Wardha unit which has a higher capacity.  The higher
investment costs, which reflect the higher costs associated with the saw ginning unit, and
changes in duties and exchange rates, are also reflected in increased debt burden and the
general unviability of this unit.
8.        Net financial benefits at full development are expected to stabilize at Rs2l
million per year. With this level of revenues the unit will find it very difficult to meet
its debt obligations and generate operating surpluses. In fact, in many years, the interest
liability alone has been nearly the same as the net financial benefits. By the year 16
when the cumulative debt obligations amount to Rs255 million, the cumulative operating
surplus will amount to Rs251 million only (Table 4). The unit is very likely to incur



50
INDIA: National Cooperative Development Corporation III Project
Annex 2: Financial and Economic Analysis
penal interest for expected defaults. It may be necessary for this unit to be financially
restructured.
Oil Extraction Units
9.        As mentioned earlier, three oil units have been considered for financial
analysis. Of these, the soyabean oil unit was implemented more or less as envisaged in
the SAR whereas the cottonseed oil unit was subsequently modified to include a
sunflower seed oil component. The mustard oil unit was not part of the original project
design.
10.       The Chhindwara Unit (Soyabean): The project has been in operation for
about one year and nine months. The FRR for this unit is estimated at 12%o as opposed
to 18%o projected in the SAR (Table 6). One of the reasons for the lower FRR is
adverse changes in relative prices. The cost per MT of soyabeans has more than
doubled to 220% as compared to the SAR estimate while the price of crude soya oil has
lagged behind and has increased by 190%. Similarly, prices for hexane and power have
risen more than price of soyabean oil. Additional factors have been delayed start up
with revenues only starting in year 7, and the fact that the SAR calculations took no
account of sales and distribution costs, corporate overheads and interest on working
capital. The last item was a serious omission as the unit needs to carry a large inventory
of raw materials.
11.       Although the unit will be able to meet its debt obligations eventually, the
overall position does not appear to be very satisfactory. The unit has been incurring
interest liability and debt repayment obligation for a long time without generating
adequate surpluses. A good part of the annual net cash flows will be used up in meeting
its debt obligation under the project. The cumulative net financial benefits exceed the
cumulative debt obligation only in the 12th year.
12.       Morena Unit (Niustard): The Morena Unit has been in operation for a little
over three years. However, it has been experiencing certain technical problems that
prevent it from achieving full capacity utilization. The analysis assumes that the unit will
be able to solve these problems. As a result it will be able to raise its crude oil
recovery rate from 33.5% to 36% and use capacity fully from 1993-94 onwards. The unit
had to pay a high price for mustard seeds during 1991-92 and had continued doing so
during 1992-93. While it was able to obtain a good price realization of Rs27,400 per ton
in 1991-92, the prices slumped during 1992-93 to Rs23,104 per ton. As a result, the unit
has suffered a major loss in 1992-93 (based on tentative unaudited accounts). For the
purposes of analysis it has been assumed that raw material prices will return to more
normal levels.



51
INDLA National Cooperative Devlopment Corporation III Project .
Annex 2: Financial and Economic Analysis
13.       The project is expected to show a FRR of 14% (Table 8). As mentioned
above, a mustard oil unit was not envisaged in the original SAR and hence there is no
point of comparison.
14.       From the information provided, it appears that the project will be in a
position to meet its debt obligations but it is only by the year 10 that cumulative net
financial benefits exceed cumulative debt obligations. However, this is dependent on its
ability to achieve higher levels of capacity utilization and improve recovery rates. This
unit had to begin meeting its debt obligations before generating operating revenues.
This has put a considerable strain on the unit's financial position.
15.       Nargund Unit (Cottonseed/Sunflower): This unit is expected to generate
a FRR of 10%o compared to the SAR estimate of 20.5%o (Table 15). While the Nargund
Urnit cannot be strictly compared with the cottonseed oil unit originally envisaged, some
observations have been made based on the information available. The FRR is lower
because of higher operating costs associated with utilities and administration; the
inclusion of interest on working capital, which does not appear to have been considered
in the SAR; and delayed start up.
16.       Like most of the other units, the Morena unit had to service its interest and
loan liability when it was not in a position to do so. Most of the margin money provided
has been utilized for the purposes of servicing its liability for interest and loan repayment
and the unit has been under considerable financial stress. From the projections made
available, only in its fifteenth year this unit will be in a position to generate net
cumulative financial benefits to cover its cumulative debt obligation. However, the
figures do show that the unit just about manages to meet its debt obligations. The
findings regarding this unit are somewhat tentative as information available is limited
and when the unit was visited the arrangements for managing the finance function at the
unit were somewhat ad hoc and temporary and it was not possible to get answers to
many questions.
Rural Storage
17.       The analysis of the storage sector is based on the information provided by
the National Cooperative Development Corporation in respect of a consolidated sample
of 149 godowns. Figures are based on a weighted average of performance of different
godowns. The financial analysis for godowns has been carried out only in respect of 100
ton godown as income and expenditure figures for a 2,000 ton godown are not available.
18.       The financial projections show an FRR of about 7o compared to the SAR
estimate of 14.8%o (Tables 14). There is a substantial difference between sources of
income between what was projected in the SAR and current findings. At appraisal, the



52
INDL.A National Cooperative Development Corpomtion III Projea
Annex 2: Financial and Economic Analysis
major part of total income was expected to come out of margin on sale of fertilizers
(26%) and on consumer goods (27%o). The income from margins on incremental credit
was to be a relatively small part of total income (19%), as was the income from food
grains and farm equipment (11% each). Actual figures show a very different picture.
Income from incremental credit is far more important than envisaged in the SAR (almost
50%). The sample survey also showed that while incomes from fertilizer sales (22%) and
from consumer goods (25%o) were close to what was expected at appraisal, the income
from sale of agricultural machinery and food grains is insignificant.
19.       The analysis of the PACS suggests that these societies are substantially
dependent on the credit business as the main source of income. Income from storage
appears to be relatively low and by itself would not make these units viable. Urgent
attention needs to be given to increasing the income from storage as well as from the
other businesses such as sale of seeds, pesticides, food grains etc. and from sale/hire of
farm equipment. Moreover, in order to strengthen the position of the PACS, it will be
necessary to reduce the expenditure levels associated with the stores. The stores have
a very good commercial potential and present a very good opportunity for PACS to
enhance their earnings. However, it appears that adequate efforts have not been made
to increase the earnings from the godowns and often they are perceived as "government
property". Considering the fact that almost all of the equity capital in a PACS is
contributed by the GOS concerned, changing this is likely to be a slow process.
Overall Comments and Observations
20.       This section contains the overall comments and observations following the
financial analysis of the selected units. Some recommendations for increasing the overall
effectiveness, particularly of the financial management operations, are also given below:
In order to improve commercial orientation, the NCDC should
organize intensive training programs in financial management,
management control, both within the NCDC as well as in the
assisted units.
To ensure viability it will be useful if financial projections could be
made for the agro-processing units, at least as an annual exercise.
This should also be for units under implementation so that rnid-
course corrections can be made, if warranted.
In respect of organizations like MP Oil Federation, there are
possibilities of some arbitrariness in the allocations of income and
expenditure between the units particularly on account of allocation
of organization wide common expenses, interest etc.



53
INDIA: National Cooperative Development Corporation III Project
Annex 2: Financial and Economic Analysis
It will be useful if NCDC were to insist on proper accounting records
being maintained right from the beginning of the project and proper
accounting personnel were to be appointed for this function. Since
many of the projects are new the impact of this shortcoming has not
been felt so far but it is likely to become critical as the operations
increase and the transactions become more complex.
At present the entire margin money is released to the units at the
beginning. It will be useful to examine if this could be done through
an annual review process so as to bring NCDC in closer touch with
the units, avoid diversion df funds, ensure better control over
avoidable expenditure etc. Annual review and release of working
capital has been effectively utilized by some other organizations. In
this context, it will also be useful for the NCDC to insist on annual
planning process being introduced within the units assisted by it.
A critical factor determining the success of this entire project is
stability in management and NCDC needs to take active steps to
ensure this.
At present each of the divisions of the NCDC seems to maintain its
own information system. There is a need for institutionalization of
this function so that the information is available centrally . For this
purpose it will be useful to constitute a cell reporting to the
Managing Director's office. This cell should also assist the top
management in long range and strategic planning exercises,
conducting interfirm comparisons, carrying out competitive analyses,
monitoring technological developments in relation to the fields in
which NCDC is involved etc.
For optimization of profits, the textile units should adopt
computerized spindle allocation through usage of linear programming
models so that product mix decisions are taken after exploring all the
constraints and the product mixes. Use could be made of readily
available computer packages.
The way the responsibilities for the implementation of the project
has been distributed, it is not always possible to clearly pinpoint the
accountability. This situation needs to be remedied. The bankers
who are involved in the project do not seem to feel a sense of
identification towards the project.



54
INDIA: National Cooperative Development Corporation III Project
Annex 2: Financial and Economic Analysis
In executing projects of this kind in future, it is essential that only
projects which can be effectively carried out within the limitations of
the managerial resources of the unit are taken up. It is also essential
that the unit locations are chosen properly. It needs to be noted that
the financing schemes of NCDC are quite liberal. If money were to
be lend on normal commercial terms, the position would look much
worse. There is a need for NCDC to involve itself more closely with
the financial aspects of the project and for greater attention to be
paid to the viability related issues.
The marginal position revealed by the financial analysis should not
be considered as irreversible. Many of the problems of the project
are a result of managerial factors and it should be possible to remedy
the situation if appropriate steps are taken in this regard.
C. ECONONMIC ANALYSIS
21.       In the SAR, economic rate of return (ERR) estimates were made for various
project supported activities. As is normal in credit projects, no ERR was estimated for
the project as a whole. The PCR follows the same approach - revised ERR are prepared
for those activities for which performance data was available, and for which financial
analysis has been carried out. No attempt is made to estimate an ERR for the project
as a whole.
Main Assumptions
22.       The main assumption underlying the economic analysis are discussed below:
23.       Overall Assumptions: The ERR estimates are based on economic prices. In
the case of internationally traded commodities such as cotton lint, oil and oilcake,
economic prices are based on parity prices. Where price projections are available
(cotton), these have been used (Table 15). Based on these economic prices, correction
factors were calculated to convert financial revenue streams to their economic value
(Table 16). In the case of various non-traded commodities, including labor, a standard
conversion factor (SCF) of 0.8 has been used to convert financial to economic values.
In the case of investment costs, these have been reduced by an average of 25% to allow
for payment of import duties, sales tax etc. All analysis has been carried out at costs and
prices prevailing in early 1993. The value of past investments and benefit streams has
been increased to take account of inflation.



55
INDIA: National Cooperative Development Corporation III Project
Annex 2: Financial and Economic Analysis
24.       Cotton Units: Prices of lint have been corrected to reflect parity prices. In
the case of cotton yarn, international prices vary tremendously depending on the quality
of yarn. For similar counts, export prices from India are about 20-25% higher than price
for local sales. However, part of this price premium reflects better quality of the export
product. For the same quality products international prices are assumed to be about
10% higher.
25.       Oil Units: The economic analysis of the soyabean component carried out in
the SAR assumed that benefits would accrue from two different sources - increased value
added through processing, and increased production resulting from establishment of seed
processing units and the creation of the Coope'rative Development Services (CDS).
While the soyabean processing units and the CDS have been set up, the seed processing
component has been dropped. Oilseed production has increased sharply in many areas
visited by the mission and farmers report substantially higher incomes over alternative
crops. However, there were a number of factors responsible for this including attractive
prices; creation of local processing capacity (independently of the project); and in some
areas the creation of irrigation facilities. The quantitative analysis has therefore been
restricted to the processing unit financed under the project, although the creation of the
CDS has had an important positive impact.
26.       Rural Storage: In the SAR, expected benefits of constructing rural stores
were a reduction in storage losses equivalent to 2% of stored quantity; lower transport
costs due use of trucks (by the PACS) as opposed to bullock carts (by farmers); and
higher farm production resulting from increased use of fertilizer. The bulk of economic
benefits (80%) was projected to come from the increased use of fertilizer with only 14%
from reduced storage losses and 6% from lower transport costs. It was assumed that
increase in fertilizer use would be equivalent to 10% of the fertilizer sold through the
godown and each ton of fertilizer would increase output by about 2.9 tons - the fertilizer
response ratio was taken at 1:7.3 (on a nutrient basis) and nutrient content was taken at
40%. In the revised economnic analysis fertilizer use is assumed to rise as a result of the
rural stores. However, with the increasing liberalization of fertilizer marketing and
growing involvement of the private sector, creation of rural storage may have had less
impact than envisaged. It has been assumed that 5% of fertilizers handled by the PACS
would not have been sold without the project. The impact of this fertilizer on output
value has been estimated in the same way as in the SAR. Rural stores are also being
used for sale of seeds and pesticides, and 10% of gross sales have been allocated as
project benefits. Benefits of reduced losses have been assumed to be 2%, as in the SAR
- 2%. Benefits from moving from bullock carts to trucks were not considered, as



56
INDlA: Nadonal Cooperative Devlopment Corpomtion III Project
Annex 2.- Financial and Economic Analysis
increasingly .more farmers are already using trucks and mini-vans. The estimates of
quantities handled by rural stores are based on the sample survey of 149 stores'/.
Results of the Economic Analysis
27.        The ERR calculations for the various activities are shown in Tables 17 to 22
and are summarised below:
SAR          |          PCR
...................   %   . ...........    ...
Cotton Processing                               34                      13-14
Soyabean Oil Extraction                          40                    negative
Mustard Oil Extraction                                                   12
Cotton Sced Oil Extraction                      28                       11
Soyabean Component Aggregate                    49
Rural Storage                                   27                        8
The analysis shows that cotton processing, and extraction of mustard oil and
cottonseed/sunflower oil are viable activities, although return is not very attractive. The
rural storage component is of doubtful economic benefit in areas where the private
sector is active and is adequately supplying farmers needs. In remote areas, however,
such stores may prove extremely attractive. If, as assumed in the SAR, fertilizer use goes
up by 10% of what is sold through the store, the investment would be very attractive
(ERR =30%). The soyabean processing component appears economically unattractive.
While prices of soyabean and cake in India are at about equivalent international levels,
Indian soyabean oil prices are very high compared to international prices - Rs24,000/ton
(USS760/ton) as opposed to about $430-450/ton which have been prevailing in
international markets for the past years. Thus units like Chhindwara, which are just
viable in financial prices, are therefore economically unviable21.
/  The survey reported margins accruing to PACS from activities like fertilizer sales. Gross sales values
were derived from these figures as margin on products handled by PACS is normally 3%.
2/ Soyabean processing units normally operate on a gross margin (difference between value of oil and cake
produced and price of soyabean) of about 15%. In the case of Chhindwara, the equivalent margin is
30%.



57
INDIA: National Cooperatve Development III Project
Table 1: Financial Projection for Wardha
1988-89   1989-90   1990-91   1991-92   1992-93    1993-94    2012-13
No of spindles installed             24960      24960     24960      24960      24960        24960      24960
No of days                             365        365       274         366       365           365       365
No of shifts                             3          3         3           3          3            3         3
Spindle shifts installed          27331200  27331200  20517120   27406080  27331200       27331200  27331200
Capacity utilization (%)             76.15      890.2     90.11       8&813      88.62        90.00     90.00
Spindle shifts operated           20812709  24331327  18487977   24152978  24220909       24598080  24598080
Output per spindle shift (gMs)       90.90      97.27    100.80       94.86      94.75        99.00    100.00
Totalyarn production (MT)          1891.88    2366.71    1863.59    2291.15    2294.93      2435.21    2459.81
Yam realization %                    88 11      8599       86.13      85.99      86.50        86.50     86 50
Cotton consumed (MT)               2147.17   2752.31    2163.69     2664.44    2653.10      2815.27   2843.71
Realizable waste (%)                 11.50      13.78     13.55       1286       1Z27         1Z27      1227
Realizable Waste (MT)               246.93     379.27    293.18      342.65    325.54        34.5.43    348.92
Invisible Waste (%)                   0.40       0.23      0.32        1.15       1.23         1.23      1.23
Invisible Waste (MT)                  8.59       6.41      6.92       30.64      3263         34.63     34.98
Cotton
Cotton Financial PricelMT (Rs)       21730      21895     21745      27259      28787        28787      28787
Cost of cotton consumed (Rs. mio)    46.66      60.26     47.05       7263       76.37        81.04     81.86
Waste Financial Price /MT (Rs)        471.2      4865      5417        7635      6643         6643       6643
Realization from waste (Rs. mio)      1.16       1.85      1.59        2.62       2.16         2.29      2.32
Net cost of cotton consumed (Rs. mio    45.49   58.42     45.46       70.01      74.21        78.75     79.54
Stores & spares (Rs. mio)             0.91       1.62      1 57        2.78       3.66         3.72      3.72
Packing materials (Rs. mio)           1.10       1.63      1.30        2.05       2.05         2.18      2.20
Total I (Rs. mio)                    47.50      61.67     48.33       74.84      79.93        84.65     85.46
Power (Units/1000 spindle shifts)      553        508       499        472        476          450        450
Power (Units)                     11509428  12360314   9225500   11400206  11529153       11069136  11069136
Financial Rate/Unit (Rs)              1.0C       1.08      1.36        1.45       1.94         2.14      2.14
Power (Rs. mio)                      11.51      13.35     1Z55        16.53      2Z37         23.69     23.69
Water (Rs. mio)                       0.24       0.25      0.19        0.28       0.38         0.38      0.38
Total 2 (Rs. mio)                     11.75     13.60      1Z73       16.81      2Z74         24.07     24.07
Wages & SaJares (Rs. mio)             2.18       3.22      5.b0        9.21      10.32        10.32     10.32
Total 3 (Rs. mio)                     2.18       3.22      5.80        9.21      10.32        10.32     10.32
Repairs & maintenance (Rs. mio)       0.22       0.16      0.2        0.41       0.60         0.61      0.61
Rent, rates and taxes (Rs. mio)       0.02       0.03      0.02        0.05       0.06         0.06      0.06
Insurance (Rs. mio)                   0.42       0.33      0.35        0.48       0.45         0.45      0.45
Factory overheads (Rs. mio)           0.21       0.25      0.31        0.40       0.57         0-57      0.57
Total 4 (Rs. mio)                     0.87       0.78      0.90        1.34       1.67         1.68      1.68
Administration salaries (Rs. mio)     0.26       0.33      0.34        0.47       0.50         0.50      0.50
Other admin ovesreads (Rs. mio)       2.17       1.52      2.29        3.32       3.51         3.51      3.51
Selling expenses (s. mio)             0.38       0.57      0.52        0.60       0.68         0.72      0.72
Interest on working capital (Ra mio)   1.47      0.70      0.26        1.88       1.88         2.00      2.02
Total 5 (Rs. mio)                     4.28       3.12      3.40        6.27       6.57         6.73      6.76
Total Recurrent costs (R3. mio)
(1 +2+3+4+5)                         66.57      8Z38      71.16      106.46    121.24        127.45    128.29
Revenues
Yam (MT)                           1891.88    2366.71    1863.59    2291.15    2294.93      2435.21    2459.81
Financial Price/MT (Rs)              42450     45970      45920      53600      59300        59300      59300
Yam sales (Rs. mio)                  80.31     108.80     8558       132.81     136.09       144.41    145.87
Other income (Rs. mio)                0.21       1.07      0.57        1.38       1.25         1.25      1.25
Total revenues (Rs. mio)             80.52     109.87     86.14      124.18     137.34       145.66    147.11
Net Financial Benefits (Rs. mio)     13.95      27.48     14.98       15.72      16.10        18.21     1&82



58
INDLA: National Cooperative Development IlIl Project
Tanle 2: Financtal Rate of Retum ror Warana
Invesment  Net Financial  Net Cash   Cum,ulative   Interest   Loan Repay.  Total Debt  CirnuIatv
Benefits     Flows    Net FInancBl  Lability    Olisganon   ObIlgaton      Oebt
Benefits                                         Ooliganon
(Rs. mio)    (Rs. mic)    (Rs. mmo)   (Rs. mic)   (Rs. mmo)    (Rs. mio)    (Rs. mio)    (Rs. mio)
Year 1(194-B -                        13.33         0.00      -13.33       0.00         1.00         0.00        1.00         1.00
Year 2 (1985-88)                        7.41         0.00       -7.41       0.00         1.00         0.00        1.00         2.00
Year3(1986-87)                         65.60         0.00      -65.60       0.00         6.18         000         6.18         8.18
Year4 (1987-88)                        41.84         0.00      -41.84       0.00         8.32         3.96       12.28        20.46
Year 5 (1988-89)                        4.82        13.95        9.13       13.95        8.13         5.46        13.59       34.05
Year6                                               27.48       27.48      41.44         7.42         5.71       13.13        47.18
Year 7                                              14.98       14.98      56.42         6.48         5.71       12.19        59.37
Year8                                               15.72       15.72      72.14         5.93         5.71       11.64        71.01
Year 9                                              16.10       16.10      88.24         5.19         5.71       10.90        81.91
Year 1o                                             18.21       18.21      106.45        4.45         5.71        10.16       92.07
Year 11                                             1821        18.21      124.65        3.71         5.71        9.42       101.49
Year 12                                             18.21       18.21     142.86         2.97         5.71        8.68       110.17
Year 3                                              18.21       18.21     161.07         2 22        5.71         7.93       118.10
Year 14                                             18.21       18 21     179.27         1.48         5.71        7.19       125.29
Year 15                                             18.21       18.21     197.48         0.74        5.69         6.43       131.72
Year 16                                             18.21       18.21     215.68         0.00         0.00        0.00
Year 17                                             18.21       18.21     233.89         0.00        0.00         0.00
Year 18                                             18 21       18.21     252.10         0.00        0.00         0.00
Year 19                                             18.21       18.21     270.30         0.00         0.00        0.00
Year 20                                             18.21       18.21     288.51         0.00        0.00         0.00
Year 21                                             18.21       18.21     306.72         000         0.00         0.00
Year 22                                             18 21       18.21     324.92         0.00        0.00         000
Year 23                                             18.21       18.21     343.13         0.00         0.00        0.00
Year 24                                             18.21       18.21     361.33         000          000         0.00
Year 25                              -36.62         18.82       55.44     380.15         0.00         0.00        0.00
66.50      131.72
FRR 6)                                  11.3 %



59
Notes to Tables 1 and 2
Wardha Unit
1.    Actual figures for five years from 1998-89 to 1992-93 were available from the
accounts of the unit. The accounts have been kept separately in respect of the Spinning
Unit and in respect of the Ginning Unit.
2.    The capacity utilizations have been calculated by dividing the actual production by
the total available capacity. The projections from 1993-94 onwards are slightly higher
than what have been achieved so far except in 1990-91. 1990-91 was only a nine month
period due to a change in the accounting year. From 1993-94 it is assumed that there
would be a 90%o capacity utilization. The allowance of 10% for absenteeism,
breakdowns, non-availability of back-materials, etc. is considered reasonable. Spindle
shifts operated is based on information derived from the above assumption of capacity
utilization.
3.    The output per spindle shift in grams is an average and is as per the information
provided by the Unit. Once again 1990--91 is to be taken as unusual, it being a nine
month period. There has been a slight decline in the output per spindle shift during
1991-92 and 1992-93. It is however assumed that the mill will be in a position to
increase its productivity as it has already achieved about 101 grams in past and quite a
few mills have been achieving this level of productivity.
4.    The yarn production is actuals for the five years and derived on the above
assumptions for the remaining years.
5.    Yarn realization percentage i.e. yarn realized to cotton consumed is shown at
actuals for five years. It has been assumed for several reasons that it is likely to
maintain at this level. If the mill is in the position to achieve a higher realization, the
production and profitability would certainly increase. Cotton consumed is based on the
actual consumption upto 1992-93 and projected consumption after that.
6.    Realizable waste has been assumed to continue at the proportion shown in 1992-
93.
7.    Invisible waste % is also assumed to continue at the same level.
8.    The financial price of cotton per metric ton is as per actuals based on the
information provided by the Unit. For the purposes of analysis the price prevailing in
1992-93 is assumed to continue. Cost of cotton consumed is derived from the unit price
and the financial price.
9.    Waste price per metric ton is the derived figure from the realizations reported.
Cost of cotton consumed and the waste value has been tied in with the accounts.



60
10.   Stores and spares is assumed to be increasing in the same proportion as the
increase in the activity level in comparison with 1992-93.
11.   Expenditure on packing materials is assumed to be increasing in proportion to the
activity level.
12.   While the power rates have been going up, the consumption / 1000 spindle shifts
have shown a decline over the years, with a slight increase in 1992-93. It is assumed that
it would continue at 450 units / 1000 spindle shifts.
13.   Salaries and wages have been frozen at the same level as 1992-93.
14.   Repairs and maintenance cost is taken in proportion to the activity level.
Insurance, factory overheads, administration salaries, other administration overheads etc
have been kept constant at the 1992-93 level.
15.   Selling expenses have been derived by keeping them proportionate to the sales of
1992-93.
16.   Interest on working capital for has been calculated only on the portion borrowed
from the banks over and above the funds available from the NCDC project. Thus, the
working capital available as a part of margin money is not considered here.
17.   Yarn sales quantities are as per accounts. Financial price per metric ton upto
1992-93 is at actuals and has been frozen at the figure of 1992-93. Yarn sales value is
arrived at accordingly.
18.   Other income is as per the accounts and is expected to continue at the level of
1992-93.
19.   The staggering of the investment figure over the years is as per the information
provided by NCDC.
20.   The total span of the project has been taken to be 25 years as was done originally
while preparing the SAR.
21.   It has been assumed that the assets will have a residual value of Rs. 36.62 million.



61
INDIA: National Cooperative Development IlIl Project
Table 3: Financial Projection for Indira
1993-94   1994-95   1995-96   1996-97   1997-98    1998-17    2017-18
Noofspindlesinstalled                21120      21120     21120       21120      21120        21120     21120
No of days                             365        365       365         365        365          365       365
No of shifts                             3          3         3           3          3            3         3
Spindle shifts installed          23126400  23126400  23126400   23126400  23126400       23126400  23126400
Capacity utilization (%)              6.00      83.00      86.00       88.00     90.00        90.00      90.00
Spindle shilts operated           18501120  19194912  19888704   20351232  20813760       20813760  20813760
Output per spindle shift (gms)        88.00     90.00      93.00       95.00     97.00        99.00     102.00
Total yarn production (MT)          1628.10   1727.54    1849.65     1933.37   2018.93      2060.56   2123.00
Yam realization %                     84.00     85.00      86.00       86.50     87.00        87.00      8.00
Cotton consumed (MT)                1938.21    2032.40   2150.76    2235.11    2320.61      2368.46   2412.50
Realizable waste (%)                  15.60     14.60      13.60       13.00     1230         11.90      11.00
Realizable Waste (MT)               302.36    296.73    292.50       290.56    285.44        281.85    265.38
Invisible Waste (%)                    0.40      0.40     , 0.40        0.50      0.70         1.10       1.00
Invisi ble Waste (MT)                  7.75      8.13       8.60       11.18     16.24        28.05      24.13
Cotton
Cotton Financial Price/MT (Rs)       28787      28787     28787       28787      28787        28787     28787
Cost of cotton consumed (Rs. mio)     55.80     58.51      61.91       64.34     66.80        68.18      69.45
Waste Financial Price /MT (Rs)        6643       6643      6643        6643       6643         6643      6643
Realization from waste (Rs. mio)       2.Q1      1.97       1.94        1.93      1.90         1.87       1.76
Net cost of cotton consumed (Rs. mio    53.79   56.54      59.97       6Z41      64.91        66.31      67.69
Stores & spares (Rs. mio)              2.80      2.90       3.01        3.08      3.15         3.15       3.15
Packing materials (Rs. mio)            1.46      1.55       1.66        1.73      1.81         1.84       1.90
Total 1 (Rs. mio)                     58.04     60.98      64.63       67.22     69.86        71.30      7Z73
Power (Units/1000 spindle shifts)      385        370       355         345        340          340       340
Power (Units)                      7122931   7102117   7060490    7021175   7076678        7076678   7076678
Financial Rate/Unit (Rs)               2.14      2.14       2.14        2.14      2.14         2.14       2.14
Power (Rs. mio)                       1524      15.20      15.11       15.03     15.14        15.14      15.14
Water (Rs. mio)                        0.29      0.30       0.31        0.32      0.32         0.32       0.32
Total 2 (Rs. mio)                     15.53     1550       15.42       15.34     15.47        15.47      15.47
Wages & Saaries (Rs. mio)              3.90      5.20       6.40        8.40      8.40         8.40       8.40
Total 3 (R3. mio)                      3.90      5.20       6.40        8.40      8.40         8.40       8.40
Repairs & maintenance (Rs. mio)        0.34      0.35       0.36        0.37      0.38         0.38       0.38
Rent, rates and taxes (Rs. mio)        0.07      0.07       0.07        0.07      0.07         0.07       0.07
Insurance (Rs. mio)                    0.85      0.85       0.85        0.85      0.85         0.85       0.85
Factory overheads (Rs. mio)            0.30      0.35       0.40        0.45      0.50         0.50       0.50
Total 4 (Rs. mio)                      1.56      1.62       1.68        1.74      1.80         1.80       1.80
Administration salares (Rs. mio)       0.36      0.36       0.36        0.36      0.36         0.36       0.36
Other admin overheads (Rs. mio)        1.50      1.70       1.90        2.30      2.50         2.50       2.50
Selling expenses (Rs. mio)             0.70      0.74       0.80        0.83      0.87         0.89       0.91
Interest on working capital (Rs mio)   2.93      3.04       3.15        3.23      3.30         3.30       3.30
Total 5 (RP. mio)                      5.49      5.85       6.21        6.72      7-03         7.05       7.07
Total Recurrent costs (Rs. mio)
(1+2+3+4+5)                          84.52      89.15     94.34        99.42    102.55       104.01     105.47
Revenues
Yam (MT)                            1628.10    1727.54   1849.65     1933.37   2018.93      2060.56   2123.00
Financial Price/MT (Rs)              60000     60000      60000       60000     60000        60000      60000
Yam sales (Rs. mio)                   97.69    103.65     110.98      116.00    121.14       123.63     127.38
Other income (Rs. mio)                 0.50      1.00       1.00        1.25      1.25         1.25       1.25
Total revenues (R3. mio)              98.19    104.65     111.98      117.25    122.38       124.88     128.63
Net Financial Benefits (Rs. mio)      13.67     15.51      17.64       17.83     19.83        20.87      23.16



62
IND0A: National Cooperatuve Development Il Project
Table 4: Financiai Rates of Return frc Indra
Investments Net Finarcial  Net Cads   Ctxnumative   Interest   Loan Repay.  Total Debt  CLrnublathe
Benefits     Flows   Net Financial  Liabiity    Obligation    Obligation  Debt
Benefits                                       Obiigation
(Rs. mlo)    (Rs. mic)    (Rs. mlo)   (Rs. mlo)   (Rs. mio)    (RS. mba)    (Rs. mbo)    (Rs. mio)
Year  (99C-91)                        42.20         0.00     -42.20        0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
Yew 2(g99i-92                        134.40         0.00    -134.40        0.00       12.92         0.00       12.92        12.92
Year3(1992-93                         12.70        o00       -12.70        0.00       12.92         0.00       12.92       25.84
Year 4 (1 93-94)                      10.80        13.67        2.87      1367        14.95         0.00       14.95       40.79
Year S                                             15.51       15.51      29.17       14.95         8.28       23.23       64.02
Year6                                              17.64       17.64      46.81       13.87         8.28       22.15       86.17
Year 7                                             17.83       17.83      64.64       12.80         9.85       22.65      108 82
Year8                                              19.83       19.83      84.47       11.52         9.85       21.37       130.19
Yew 9                                             20.87        20.87     105.35       10.24         9.85       20.09       150.28
Year 1                                           20.87        20.87     126.22        8.96         9.85       18.81      169.09
Yew 11                                            20.87        20.87     147.09        7.68         9.85       17.53       186.62
Year 12                                           20.87        20.87     167.96        6.39         9.85       16.24      202.86
Year i3                                           20 87        20.87     188.83        5.11         9.85       14.96      217.82
Year 14                                           20.87        20.87     209.70        3.83         9.85       13.68      231.50
Year 15                                           20.87        20.87     230.57        2.55         9.85       12.40      243.90
Year 16                                           20.87        20.87     251.44        1.27         9.79       11.06      254.96
Year 17                                           20.87        20.87     272.31        0.00        0.00         0.00
Year 18                                           20.87        20.87     293.18        0.00        0.00         0.00
Year 19                                           20.87        20.87     314 05        0.00        000          0.00
Year 20                                           20.87        20.87     334.92        0.00         0 00        0.00
Year 21                                           20.87        20.87     355.80        0 00        0 00         0 00
Year 22                                           20.87        20.87     376.67        0.00         0.00        0 00
Year 23                                           20.87        20 87     397.54        0 00        0.00         0.00
Year 24                                           20 87        20.87     418.41        0.00        0.00         0.00
Year 2S                              -45.00       23.16        68.16     441.57        0.00         0.00        0.00
115,00      254 96
FRR (%)                                7.42 %



63
Notes to Tables 3 and 4
Indira Unit
1.    The operations of the Indira Unit have effectively commenced during the financial
year 1993-94. Due to paucity of funds the capacity envisaged originally i.e. 24960
spindles was restricted to 21120 spindles. Since some facilities were created for the full
capacity, the incidence of the capacity not eventually created has been borne by the
capacity actually created.
2.    Since the Unit has commenced its operations very recently, most of the figures
shown here are projections based on information provided by the NCDC, AIFCOSPIN
and the discussions held subsequently with their representatives and the Chairman,
Managing Director and other senior officials of the Unit.
3.    Since the Indira and Wardha Units happen to be located in the same area, and
are characterized by many similar operating conditions, considerable use has been made
of the information available in respect of the WArdha Unit. However, due consideration
has been given, wherever felt necessary, to the distinctive operating conditions of the
Indira Unit as evident from whatever records were available for perusal.
4.    The capacity utilization %o is based on the projections provided by the Unit and
has been gradually assumed to increase over the years.
5.    The output per spindle shift is on the basis of the estimates provided by the Unit.
It is expected to gradually increase over the years as Unit gains experience. On the basis
of its experience in the last few months, the Unit expects to do a little better than the
Wardha Unit in this respect.
6.    The yarn production and the yarn realization % is derived from the above
assumptions. The Unit expects to achieve a higher yarn realization % as its plant and
equipment is said to be maintained and is likely to be maintained in a better condition.
The projected realizable waste %o and the wastage quantity reflects this.
7.    The financial price for cotton has been taken at the same level as for Wardha in
1993-94 and the cost of cotton waste price per metric ton, realization from waste, net
cost of cotton arrived at accordingly.
8.    Cost of stores and spares is based on the estimates provided by the Unit and
appropriately adjusted for the yearly quantities. Packing materials have also been
considered the same way.
9.    Power cost has been taken by applying the same rates per unit as for Wardha.
The power costs are lower than Wardha on account of two factors:
(i)   because of lower capacity; and



64
(ii)   because of the way in which the production processes are sequenced and
organized, the type of technologies selected for different sections etc.
While the rates are significantly different from, and lower, as compared to Wardha, they
seem reasonable on the basis of the records of the Indira Unit. Furthermore, they are
likely to decline per unit of production as experience is gained.
10.   Water, wages and salaries, repairs and maintenance, rents and taxes are based on
the information provided by the NCDC, AIFCOSPIN and the Unit.
11.  Insurance and factory overheads have been estimated on the basis of the
information provided by the Unit.
12.   The administrative salaries are as per the information provided by the Unit and
duly reflect the increases over the next five years after which they have been frozen.
13.   The other administrative overhead and selling expenses are as per the estimates
provided by the Unit.                       1
14.   The Unit expects to have a higher level of working capital borrowed from the
banks as compared to Wardha. Interest rates have been assumed at 18% on the working
capital level.
15.   The financial price of yarn is taken at a slightly higher rate as compared to
Wardha as Unit has been able to achieve that as per information supplied to us and is in
a position to maintain that.
16.   Other income has been taken on the same basis as Wardha.
17.   The staggering of the investment has been appropriately reflected while
computing the net financial benefit.



65
INDIA: National Cooperative Development IlIl Project
Table 5: Financial Projections for Chhindwara
1991-92    1992-93  1993-94  1995-2015    2015-16
Raw materials (MT)                  22469       44613    60000       60000       60000
Financial Price/MT (Rs)              7667        6881     7293        7293        7293
Cost of soybeans (Rs. mio)          172.27     306.98   437.58       437.58     437.58
Gunny Costs (Rs. mio)                 1.00        3.30     4.50        4.50        4.50
Total 1 (Rs. mio)                   173.27     310.28   442.08       442.08     442.08
Hexane/MT (liters)                     8.4         7.3      7.0         7.0         7.0
Hexane use (Liters)                188740      325675   420000      420000      420000
Hexane Price/KiloLiter (Rs)          7027        9600    10000       10000       10000
Cost of Hexane (Rs mio)               1.33        3.13     4.20        4.20        4.20
Miscellaneous costs (Rs. mio)         3.40        6.40     8.80        8.80        8.80
Total 2 (Rs. mio)                     4.73        9.53    13.00       13.00       13.00
KWH/MT                              65.00       62.85    50.00       50.00       50.00
KWH consumption (Lakh)               14.60      28.04    30.00        30.00       30.00
Grid Eectricity cost (Rs. mio)        2.80        5.80     6.00        6.00        6.00
Coal for steam (Rs. mio)              2.00        4.60     7.10        7.10        7.10
Total 3 (Rs. mio)                     4.80       10.40    13.10       13.10       13:10
Variable/contract labor cost (Rs. mio)  0.70      0.70     1.00        1.00        1.00
Fixed Labor cost (Rs. mio)            1 00        1.40     1.50        1.50        1.50
Total 4 (Rs. mio)                     1.70        2.10     2.50        2.50        2.50
Administrative overheads (Rs. mio)    1.00        1.40     1.50        1.50        1.50
Insurance (Rs. mic)                   1.50        1.50     1.70        1.70        1.70
Repairs and maintenance (Rs. mio)     1.30        1.80     1.50        1.50        1.50
Total 5 (Rs. mio)                     3.80        4.70     4.70        4.70        4.70
Sales and distribution cost (Rs. mio)  6.50     2230    26.20         26.20      26.20
Interest on working capital (Rs. mio)  2.50      11.20    15.00       15.00       15.00
Corporate overheads (Rs. mio)         0.60        1.10     1.50        1.50        1.50
Total 6 (Rs. mio)                     9.60       34.60    42.70       42.70       4270
Total Recurrent Costs (Rs. mio)
(Total 1 t2+3 +4 +5 6)             197.90      371.61    518.08     518.08      518.08
Revenues
Crude Oil recovery (%)               17.35       17.27    17.75       17.75       17.75
Crude Oil produced (MT)              3898        7705    10650       10650       10650
Financial Price of Crude Oil/MT (Rs)    26441   22953    24000       24000       24000
Revenues from Crude Oil (Rs. mio)  103.08      176.85   255.60      255.60      255.60
Extraction (%)                       81.5       81.75      8Z5         8Z5         82.5
Extraction produced (MT)            18312       36471    49500       49500       49500
Financial Price of Extraction/MT (Rs)  5092      6132     6500        6500        6500
Revenues from Extraction (Rs. mio)  93.25      223.64   321.75      321.75      321.75
Total Revenues (RP. mio)            196.32     400.49   577.35       577.35     577.35
Net Financial Benefits (Rs. mio)    -1.57       28.88    59.27        59.27      59.27



66
INDIA: Natoral Cooperative Development III Pro ject
Table 6: Financal Rate of Relum for Chhina*ara
InvestmenNet Financial Net Cash OjmubtSe   Imerest  Loan Reay. TotalDebt  QiumDebt
aenefIts   Flows  Net Financal Lability    Obligation   Obligatbon  Oilgation
Benef its
(Ps. mio)  (Rs. mio)  (Rs. mio)  (Rs. mic)  (Rs. mic)   (RS, mio)   (Rs. mio)  (Rs. mio)
Yeart (1t93-87)                   73.77      0.00  -73.77        0.00       4.82        0.00       4.82      4.82
Year2(1t97-88)                    68.93      0.00  -68.93        0.00       9.11        0.00       9.11      13.93
Year3 (1t98-89)                   29.84      0.00  -29.84        0.00      1235         0.00      1235      26.28
Year4(t989-90)                    39.47       0.00  -39.47       0.00      16.65        3.09      1974       46.02
Year 5(1 90-91)                   23.32       0.00  -23.32       0.00      18.56        6.09      24.65      70.67
Year6 (1931-92)                   40.22     -1.57  -41.79       -1.57      20.61        8.59      29.20      99.87
Yea 7                             37.45      28.88   -8.57      27.30      2Z11        1226      34.37     134.24
Year 8                             0.00      59.27    59.27     86.57      20.51       14.49      35.00     169.24
Year9                              0.00      59.27    59.27    145.84      18.63       17.65      36.28     205,52
Year 10                            0.00      59.27    59.27    205.11      16.33       20.95      37.28     24280
Year 11                            0.00      59.27    59.27    264.38      13.61       20.95      34.56     277.36
Yea- 12                            0.00      59.27    59.27    323.65      10.88       20.95      31.83     309.19
Year13                             0.00      59.27    59.27    382.92       8.16       20.95      29.11     338.30
Year 14                            0.00      59.27    59.27    44Z19        5.44       20.95      26.39     364.69
Year 15                            0.00      59.27    59.27    501.46       2.71       20.88      23.59     388.28
Year 16                            0.00      59.27    59.27    560.73       0.00        0.00       0.00
Year 17                            0.00      59.27    59.27    620.00       0.00        0.00       0.00
Year 18                            0.00      59.27    59.27    679.27       0.00        0.00       0.00
Year 19                            0.00      59.27    59.27    738.54       0.00        0.00       0.00
Yea 20                             0.00      59.27    59.27    797.81       0 00        0.00       0.00
Yea 21                             0.00      59.27    59.27    857.08       0.00        0.00       0.00
Yea 22                             0.00      59.27    59.27    916.35       0.00        0.00       0.00
Year 23                            0.00      59.27    59.27    975.62       0.00        0.00       0.00
Year24                             0.00      59.27    59.27    1034.89      0,00        0.00       0.00
Year25                         -167.20       59.27   226.47    1094.16      0.00        0.00       0.00
200.48      187.80     388.28
FAR                                11.9 %



67
Notes to Tables S and 6
Chhindwara Unit
1.    The project was started in September 1992. 1993-94 is expected to be the first
proper year of operation. Data from tentative accounts for 1992-93 have been provided
and considered in the projections. These are not based on audited figures.
2.    As per the tentative figures provided for 1992-93, the prices of soybean has been
depressed due to substantial improvement in the supply position. These are expected to
increase moderately in 1993-94.
3.    The major elements of cost, apart from raw material, happen to be gunny costs,
procurement costs, hexane cost, and utilities cost. Besides, sales and distribution cost an
interest on working capital, constitute a very major element of cost.
4.    The financial price per MT (metric ton) considered in each year includes a
element of transportation cost and incidental pdrchase expenditure. For instance, for
1993-94 the breakup is as follows:
(i)   cost of raw materials    Rs. 7,150
(ii)  transportation           Rs.  125
(iii)  incidental              Rs.   18
Total                    R s. 7. 29
5.    The gunny bag costs have been considered at Rs. 75 per MT after considering a
cost of Rs. 15 per bag, with eleven bags required per metric ton and a salvage value of
approximately Re.1 per bag.
6.    Hexane cost per litre have been shown to decline on the assumption that
continuity in running the plant is likely to result in declining hexane cost per MT.
7.    The miscellaneous costs for 1993-94 would be as follows:
Item                        Per MT                 Total (Rs in million)
Commission to Oilseeds
Growers Coop Societies         70                       4.2
Mandi Tax & Other
Procurement Charges            79.5                     4.8
TOTAL                          149.5                      9
8.    Sales and distribution costs mainly relate to deoiled cakes (DOC) for exports.
The breakup per metric ton is as follows:



68
9.    Transport                                              Rs. 350/-
10.   Gunny bags                                             Rs. 75/-
11.   Clearing and Forwarding                                Rs. 105/-
TOTAL                                           Rs. 530/-
On the whole sales and distribution costs of extractions would amount to Rs. 26.2
million.
12.   Interest on working capital pertains to the payments made in respect of loans
taken over and above the margin money provided by the NCDC. The rate of interest
considered is 18%.
13.   Crude oil recovery is assumed to improve over the years and stabilize at 17.75%.
The extraction % is expected to stabilize at 82.59o.
14.   The financial price assumed for extraction is Rs. 6,500 per metric ton.
15.   Prices have been frozen at Xhe level estimated in respect of the year 1993-94.
16.   Investments have been staggered as per the information provided by the NCDC.
The total span of the project has been taken to be 25 years as was done originally while
preparing the SAR.
17.   It has been assumed that the assets will have a residual value of Rs.167.2 millions.



69
INDIA: National Cooperative Development liI Project
Table 7: FinanciaJ Projections for Morena
1990-91    1991-92  1992-93  1993-1994  1995-2014        2014-15
Raw materials (MT)                 12673       14320    14607       30000       30000        30000
Financial Price/MT (Rs)             7189        9281      9551       8145        8145         8145
Cost of mustard (R3. mio)           91.11      132.90   139.51      244.35     244.35       244.35
Gunny Costs (R3. mio)                1.00        1.10     1.50        3.00       3.00         3.00
Total 1 (Rs. mio)                   9211       134.00   141.01      247.35     247.35       247.35
Miscellaneous costs (Rs. mio)        3.40        4.30     4.40        8.90       8.90         8.90
Total 2 (Rs. mio)                    3.40        4.30     4.40        8.90        8.90         8.90
KWH/MT                                 73         68        50         50          50           50
KWH consumption (Lakh)                  9         10         7         15          15           15
Grid Bectricity cost (Rs. mio)       1.40        1.90     2.30        3.00       3.00         3.00
LDO (Rs. mio)                        0.50        0.80    ,1.00        1.80        1.80         1.80
Total 3 (Rs. mio)                    1.90        2.70     3.30        4.80        4.80        4.80
Variable/contract labor cost (Rs. mio)  0.10     0.20     0.20        0.40       0.40         0.40
Fixed Labor cost (Rs. mio)           0.30        0.40     0.80        1.60        1.60        1.60
Total 4 (Rs. mio)                    0.40        0.60     1.00        2.00        2.00        2.00
Administrative overheads (Rs. mio)   1.90        2.25     2.80        2.80       2.80         2.80
Insurance (Rs. mio)                  1.55        1.55     1.70        1.70        1.70         1.70
Repairs and maintenance (Rs. mio)    0.45        0.95     1.50        2.60       2.60         2.60
Total 5 (Rs. mio)                    3.90        4.75     6.00        7.10        7.10         7.10
Sales and distribution cost (Rs. mio)  0.90      0.40     1.20        2.25       2.25         2.25
Interest on working capital (Rs. mio)  4.90      5.60     5.70       11.65       11.65       11.65
Corporate overheads (Rs. mio)        0.30        0.40     0.40        0.80        0.80        0.80
Total 6 (Rs. mio)                    6.10        6.40     7.30       14.70       14.70       14.70
Total Recurrent Costs (Rs. mio)
(Total 1+2+3+4+5+6)                107.81      152.75   163.01      284.85     284.85       264.85
Revenues
Crude Oil recovery (%)              34.05        34.4    33.45         36          36           36
Crude Oil produced (MT)              4315       4926      4886      10800       10800        10800
FinanciaJ Price of Crude Oil/MT (Rs)    24532  27400    23104       24000       24000        24000
Revenues from Crude Oil (Rs. mio)  105.86      134.97   112.89     259.20      259.20       259.20
Extraction (%)                      63.15       6Z55    63.75          64          64           64
Extraction prockuced (MT)            8003       8957      9312      19200       19200        19200
Financial Price of Extraction/MT (Rs)  2188     2470      2557       3000        3000         3000
Revenues from Extraction (Rs. mio)  17.51       2Z12    23.81        57.60      57.60        57.60
Total Revenues (Rs. mio)           123.37      157.10   136.70      316.80     316.80       316.80
Net Financial Benefits (Rs. mio)    15.56        4.34   -26.31       31.95      31.95        31.95



70
WNOLA: National Cooperative Oevelopment III Pro ject
Table 8: Financil Rate of Retum for Morena
InvestmentNet Financial Net Cash Cumubtive   Interest  Loan Repay. Total Debt  Cum Debt
BSenefis    Flows  Net Financal  Liability    obligation   Cbilgation  Cbligaton
Benefits
(IRs. mio)  (Rs. mic)  (Rs. mic)  (Rs. mio)  (Rs. miD)   (Rs. mio)   (Rs. mic)   (Rs. mil)
Year1 (1I88-89)                    65.42       0.00  -65.42        0.00       5.47        0.00       5.47        5.47
Year2 (1939-90)                     8.18       0.00   -8.18        0.00       6.43        0.00        6.43       11.9
Year3 (1 90-91)                     8.44      15.56     7.12      15.56       6.43        0.00       6.43       18.33
Year4                              49.78       4.34  -45.44       19.91      10.00        3.51       13.51      31.84
Year5                              30.00    -26.31   -56.31       -6.41      11.89        4.18       16.07      47.91
Year6                               7.18      31.95    24.77      25.54      1218        4.18       16.36      64.27
Year7                               0.00      31.95    31.95      57.49      11.64        7.23       18.87      83.14
Year8                               0.00      31.95    31.95      89.44      10.70        9.48       20.18     10332
Yeaws                               0.00      31.95    31.95     121.39       9.47       10.40       19.87     123.19
Yea 10                              0.00      31.95    31.95     153.34       8.11       10.40       18.51      141.7
Yea 11                              0.00      31.95    31.95     185.29       6.76       10.40       17.16     158.86
Year 12                             0.00      31.95    31.95     217.24       5.41       10.40       15.81     174.67
Yea13                               0.00      31.95    31.95     249.19       4.06       10.40       14.46     189.13
Year14                              0.00      31.95    31.95     281.14       2.71       10.40       13.11     20Z24
Year 15                             0.00      31.95    31.95     313.09       1.35       10.42       11.77     214.01
Year 16                             0.00      31.95    31.95     345.04       0.00        0.00       0.00
Yea 17                              0.00      31.95    31.95     376.99       0.00        0.00       0.00
Year 18                             0.00      31.95    31.95     408.94       0.00        0.00       0.00
Year 19                             0.00      31.95    31.95     440.89       0.00        0 00       0.00
Year 20                             0.00      31.95    31.95     47284        0.00        0.00       0.00
Yea 21                              0.00      31.95    31.95     504.79       0.00        0.00        000
Year 22                             0.00      31.95    31.95     536.74       0.00        0.00        0.00
Year 23                             0.00      31.95    31.95     568.69       0.00        0.00        0.00
Year 24                             0.00      31.95    31.95     600.64       0.00        0.00        0.00
Year 25                         -115S82       31.95   147.77     63259        0.00        0.00        0.00
11261      101.40     214.01
FRR                                 13.6%



71
Notes to Tables 7 and 8
Morena Unit
1.    Mustard oil project was not envisaged in the orginal SAR and thus corresponding
comparisions are not available.
2.    The project is considreded to have started in 1991 even though some opeartions
were carrreid for for brief period 1989-90. Accordingly the cash flows have been shown
begining with 1991.
3.   In respect of 1991-92 the revenue figure has been shown at Rs. 157 million. This
is significantly different from the sales figure reported for the Unit's accounts for the
same period which was at Rs. 347 million. In the evaluation study report of the NCDC
the figure for sales mentioned is Rs. 164 millions.  MP Oil Federation has not been
able to provide proper explanation for this. It was decided to proceed with the analysis
without waiting any further for explanations frorti the MP Oil Federation. The tentative
figures reported to us for 1992-93 is in the same range as that reported to us for 1991-92
for the purposes of this analysis.
4.    While the capacity utlisations have not exceeded 50 percent till 1992-93. MP Oil
Federation expects to reach its fu'll utilisation by 1993-94. The projections have been
prepared accordingly.
5.    The financial price of mustard, according to the NCDC and MP Oil Federation,
has been ruling abnormally high due to the unusual demand for this oilseed and the MP
Oil Federation deciding to pay higher price to ensure supplies.
6.    The major element cost apart from raw material happen to be gunny costs,
procurement costs and utility costs.
7.    The interest on working capital also constitutes a significant element of cost and
has been computed in respect of the projected bank borrowings in respect of working
capital.
8.    The crude oil recovery percentage has been in the range of about 34 percent but
is expected to improve to about 36 percent in future years. The financial price projected
for the crude oil is expected to rise nominally and is not expected to reach the level
which was reached in 1991-92.
9.    The revenue form extractions per ton of mustard oil is relatively lower than that
for soybean.
10.   The prices have been frozen at the level estimated in respect of the year 1993-94.
The investments have been staggered over the years as per information provided by the
NCDC. The total span of the project has been taken to be 25 years as has been done in



72
relation to other projects while preparing the SAR.
11.   It has been assumed that the assets will have a residual value of Rs. 115.82
million.



73
INDA: National Cooperative Development HII Project
Table 9: Financiai Prolecuons tLr Nargurtd
1993-94 1994 -95  1995-2016   2016-17
Raw materlal (MT)
Cottonseed                                   14400   21600       24000      24000
Sunflower                                     6000    9000       10000      10000
Financial Price/MT (Rs)
Cottonseed                                    5000    5000        5000       5000
Suntfl0wer                                    8000    8000        8000       8000
Cost of seeds (Rs. mio)
Cottonseed                                   72.00   108.00     120.00     120.00
Sunflower                                    48.00    72.00      80.00      80.00
Totai 1 (Rs. mio)                            120.00   180.00     200.00     200.00
Hexane (Rs. mio)                               1.20     1.80       2.00        2.00
Caustic Lye (Rs. miC)                          2.30     3.50       3.90        3.90
Fullern Earth (Rs. mio)                        0.20     0,40       0.40       0.40
Other refining chemicals (Rs. mio)             0.20     0.30       0.40       0.40
Total 2 (Rs. mio)                              3.90     6.00       6.70        6.70
Grid Elecricity costs (Rs. mic)                3.20     4.90       5.40        5.40
Coal tr steam (Rs. mio)                        9,70    14.60      16.20       16.20
Total 3 (Rs. mio)                             12.90    19.50      21.60       21.60
Vanable/contract labor costs (Rs. mio)         1.70     2.40       2.80       2.80
Fixed Labcr costs (Ps. mio)                    0.50     0.80       0.90        0.90
Tcml 4 (Fs. mio)                               2.20     3.20       3.70        3.70
Administration costs (Rs. mio)                 3.70     5.60       6.20        6.20
Interest on working capital (FIs. mio)         2.02     5.90       7.20       7.20
Maintenance costs (Rs. mio)                    1.20     1.80       2.00       2.00
Tctl 5 (Rs. mic)                               6.92    13.30      15.40       15.40
Total Recurrent Costs (Rs. mio)              145.92   222.00     247.40     247.40
(Total 1 +2 3 + 4+5)
Output (MT)
Cottonseed Oil                                2160    3240        3600       3600
Sunflower Oil                                 2400    3600        4000       4000
Cottonseed Cake                               6480    9720       10800      10800
Sunflower Cake                                3480    5220       5800        5800
Firs3tSecond cut lint                          864    1296        1440       1440
Soap Stock                                     144      216        240        240
Husk                                          4320    6480        7200       7200
Financial Price/MT (Rs)
Cottonseed Oil                               25000   25000       25000      25000
Sunflower Oil                                24000   24000       24000      24000
Co'tonseed Cake                               3800    3800        3800       3800
Sunflower Cake                                4000    4000        4000       4000
Frst/Second cut lint                          7000    7000        7000       7000
Soap Stock                                    6000    6000        6000       6000
Husk                                          1500    1500        1500       1500
Revenues ham (Rs. mio):
Cottonseed Oil                               54.00    81.00      90.00       90.00
Sunflower Oil                                57.60    86.40      96.00      96.00
Cottonseed Cake                              24.62    36.94      41.04      41.04
Sunflower Cake                               13.92    20.88      23.20      23.20
First/Second cut linter                       6.05     9.07      10.08       10.08
Soap StorX                                    0.86     1.30       1.44        1.44
Husk                                          6.48     9.72      10.80       10.80
OtherWaste                                    0.30     0.40       0.50       0.50
Total Revenues (Rs. mio)                     163.84   245.70     273.06     273.06
Net Financial Benefits (Rs. mlo)              17.92    23.70      25.66       25.66



74
INDLA Naftional Cooperative Development III Praject
Table 10: Finarcial Rate ot RetrAn for Narguni
InvestmenN'et Financal Net Cash Cumuatkve   Interest   Loan Repay. Totai Debt  Cum Debt
Benefits   Flows  Net Financial Lability    Obigaidon   Obligation  ObIligacn
Benef its
(Rs. mia)  (Rs. mic)  (Rs. mio)  (Rs. mio)   (Rs. mic)   (Rs. mio)   (Rs. mio)   (Rs. mil)
Year 1 (1938-89)                   59.10       0.00  -59.10        0.00       285          0.00       285        285
Year2(1989-90)                      216        0.00   -2.16        0.00       Z85          0.00       285        570
Year3 (1990-91)                    3692        0.00  -36.92        0.00       6.85        0.00        6.85      1Z55
Year4 (1 91-92)                    31.26       0.00  -31.26        0.00      10.24         1.83      1Z07       24.62
YearS (1932-93)                    59.56       0.00  -59.56        0.00      14.50         1.83      16.33      40.95
Year6 (1933-94)                     0.00      17.92    17.92      17.92      14.27        4.91       19.18      60.13
Year 7                              0.00      23.70    23.70      41.62      13.63        7.81       21.44      81.57
Year8                               0.00      25.66    25.66      67.28      1Z61         1213       24.74     106.31
Year9                               0.00      25.66    25.66      9294       11.03        1Z13       23.16     129.47
Year 10                             0.00      25.66    25.66     118.60       9.46        1Z13       21.59     151.06
Year 11                             0.00      25.66    25.66     144.26       7.88        1Z13       20.01     171.07
Year 12                             0.00      25.66    25.66     169.92       6.31        1Z13       18.44     189.51
Year 13                             0.00      25.66    25.66     195.58       4.73        1213       16.86     206.37
Yea- 14                             0.00      25.66    25.66     221.24       3.15        1213       15.28     22t.65
Year15                              0.00      25.66    25.66     246.90       1.57        1211       13.68     235.33
Year 16                             0.00      25.66    25.66     27Z56        0.00        0.00        0.00
Year 17                             0.00      25.66    25.66     298.22       0.00        0.00        0.00
Year 18                             0.00      25.66    2566      323.88       0.00        0.00        0.00
Yea 19                              0.00      25.66    25.66     349.54       0.00        0.00        0.00
Year 20                             0.00      25.66    25.66     375.20       0.00        0.00        0.00
Yea 21                              0.00      25.66    2566      400.86       0.00        0.00        0.00
Yea2r 2                             0.00      25.66    25.66     426.52       0.00        0.00       0.00
Year 23                             0.00      25.66    25.66     45218        0.00        0.00       0.00
Yeaw 24                             0.00      25.66    25.66     477.84       0.00        0.00        0.00
Yea 25                           -67.27       25.66    9Z93      503.50       0.00        0.00        0.00
121.93      113.40     235.33
FFR                                  9.6%



75
Notes to Tables 9 and 10
Nargund Unit
1.    The Nargund Oilseed project was oiiginally envisaged for cottonseed oil.
Subsequently sunflower oil has also been incorporated in its production programme. The
plant has commenced its operations and is still in its first year. Thus the analysis has
been carried entirely on the basis of projections as past figures are not available. The
projections of this unit would not be strictly comparable with the projections available in
the SAR which was for a purely cottonseed project.
2.    When stabilised the project is expected to process 24,000 tonns of cottonseed oil
and 10,000 tonns of sunflower oil.
3.    The major elements of cost apart from raw material happen to be utilities,
chemicals, interest on working capital and administration costs. The administration costs
appear to be on the higher side and seem to include some cost elements which could
have figured separately.
4.    The financial price per metric tonne of cottonseed oil is projected to be Rs.
25,000 per MT and that for sunflower oil Rs. 24,000 per MT.
5.    The financial price projected for cottonseed cake is Rs.3,800 per tonne and that
for sunflower cake is Rs. 4,000 per tonne.
6.    The investments have been staggered as per the information provided by the
NCDC. The total span of the project has been taken to be 25 years as was done while
preparing the SAR.
7.    It has been assumed that the assets will have a residual value of Rs. 67.27 million.



76
INDIA: National Cooperative Development IlIl Poject
Table 11: Sources of Income and Expenditure for Rural Stores 1/
Year 1     Year 2       Year 3      Year 4      Year 5 Years 6-25
... . ....Rs.
INCOME
Margin on credt                        0      65000        50000      37000       88000        90000
Fertilizers                            0      27000       33000       36000       58000       42000
Seeds                                  0       3000         1000        1000        4000        3000
Pesticides                             0        1000        1000        2000        4000        3000
Foodgrains                             0       2000         1000        2000        3000        2000
Consumer goods                         0      37000        26000       31000       53000       47000
Farm e.quipments sale/hire             0           0           0           0           0           0
Rent trom space                        0           0           0           0           0           0
TotalIncome                            0      13500C      112000      109000      210000      187000
EXPENSES
Salaries & Wages                       0'    80000         75000      78000      118000       110000
General Administration                 0      34000        32000      32000       48000        46000
Total Expenses                         0     114000       107000      110000     166000       156000
Net Financial Benefits                  0      21000         5000      -1000       44000        31000
1/ Figures for a representative rural store based on simple average of sample of 149 stores.



77
Table 12: Costs and Returns for Rural Stores I/
1985-88   1988-87   i987-88   1 988-89    I 989-90   1 990-91    1991 -92    1992-93
Total Net Prot fcr sample PACS (Rs)
MP                          56000     366000     561000     350000      350000    1394000 -202000.00
KarnatLka                  21000    1418000    2242000    1240000   -359000        936000 1872000.00
Cris sa                         0    -12000      154000      42000   -112000        48000   24000.00
Rajeasthan                      0      60000     646000   -513000    -114000       418000  418000.00
UP                              0          0          0      33000       97000      61000  151000.00
Ws                                                71000     162000       10000      10000   10000.00
Total                       77000    1832000    3674000    1314000   -128000    2867000 2273000.00
Total Na. of PACS in sample
MP                              3         26         34         34          34         34         34
Karrataka                       1         32         36         36          36         36          36
Onssa                           0          6         24         24          24         24          24
Rajasthan                       0          4         19          19         19         19          19
UP                              0          0          0           1          9          9           9
Ws                              0          0         22         22          22         22          22
Total                           4         68        135         136        144        144         144
Net Profdt per sample PACS (Rs)                                                                        E-aectad)
MP                       18666.67   14076.92   16500.00   10294.12    10294.12   41000.00   -5941.18   -5941.18
Karnatka                 21000.00   44312.50   62277.78   34444.44   -9972.22   2600.00   52000.00   52000.00
Oissa                        0.00   -2000.00    6416.67    1750.00   -4666.67    2000.00    1000.00    1000.00
Rajasthan                    0 00   15000.00   34000.00  -27000.00   -6000.00   22000.00   22000.00   22000.00
UP                           0.00       0.00        0.00   33000.00    10777.78    6777.78   1677.78    16777.78
WS                           0.00       0.00    3227.27    7363.64      454.55      454.55     454.55     454.55
Total                    19250.00   26941.18   27214.81     9661.76    -888.89   19909.72   15784.72   15784.72
Total No. of PACS in SAR statss
MP                             19        258        614        913        1093       1203       1332        1430
Karnataka                      17        257        429        615         638        649         680        790
Cris sa                         0         72         l1       172         215        231         254        263
RaiastMan                       0         53        171        273         320        332         349        365
UP                              0          0          0         102        149        394         586        725
we                              0          0         41         102        145        501         747        758
TotalSAR                       36        640       1366       2177        2560       3310       3948        4331
Total Non-SAR                                                                                     744        882
Grand Tobl                                                                                      4692        5213
Prop. DistdbuLron of PACS
MP                           0.53       0.40        0.45       0.42       0.43        0.36       0.28       0.27
Karnatakk                    0.47       0.40       0.31        0.28       0.25       0.20        0.14       0.15
Orissa                       0.00       0.11        0.08       0.08       0.08        0.07       0.05       0.05
Rajasthan                    0.00       0.08       0.13        0.13       0.13       0.10        0.07       0.07
UP                           0.00       0.00        0.00       0.05       0.06        0.12       0.12       0.14
Ws                           0.00       0.00       0.03        0.05       0.06       0.15        0.16       0.15
Total SAP                    1.00        1.00       1.00       1.00        1.00       1.00       0.84       0.83
Total Non-SAR                                                                                    0.16       0.17
Grand Total                                                                                      1.00       1.00
Weighted Profit per PACS (Rs)
MP                        9851.85    5674.76    7416.54    4317.19     4395.11   14901.21   -1686.63   -1629.75
Karrtaka                  9916.67   17794.24   19558.69    9730.52   -2485.26    5097.89    7536.23    7880.30
Orissa                       0.00    -225.00      521.41     136.26    -391.93      139.58      54.13      50.45
Rajasthan                    0.00    1242.19    4256.22   -3385.85    -750.00    2206.65    1636.40    1540.38
UP                           0.00       0.00        0.00    1546.16     627.30      806.78    2095.43    2333.38
WB                           0.00       0.00       96.87     345.01      25.75       68.80      72.37      66.09
TotalSAR                 19768.52   24486.19   31849.73    12691.30     1420.96   23220.90    9707.94   10240.85
Total Non-SAR                                                                                 1538.11     1725.76
Grand Totl                                                                                   11246.05    11966.81
Weighted Average Invesmi
Cost per PACS (Rs)
MP                       7784722   59460.94   66299.41   61859.21    62975.59   53608.01    41873.40    40461.35
Karnaalka                87675.93   74556.77   58309.66   52450.62    46271.61    36404.13   26908.21    28136.71
Orissa                       0.00   17662.50   12757.69   12404.23    13185.55   10956.80    8499.15    7920.77
Rajasthan                    0.00    9968.01    15068.08   15094.43    15046.05   12073.21    8953.24    8427.87
UP                           0.00       0.00       0.00    7710.00    9577.65   19587.58   20551.91    22885.63
We                           0.00       0.00    4474.91    6985.43     8444.60   22566.33   23736.34   21678.67
TotaJSAR                165523.15  161648.22  156909.76  15650391   155501.05  155196.05  13C522.25  129511.00
Non-SAR                                                                                      21406.65   22840.97
Grand Total                                                                                 151928.90  152351.97
1/ Basad on weigrted averages of sample su-vey of 149 rural stcres.



INDIA: National Cooperative Development III Project
Table 13: Construction of Rural Stores
Investment                        Number of Stores Buit
Cost
per store    1985-86    1986-87    1987-88    1988-89    1989-90    1990-91    1991 -92    1992-93             Total
SAR States             ......... Rs .
MP                          147500          19         239        356         299        180         110         129         98          1430
Karnataka                   185667          17         240        172         186         23          11         31         110           790
Orissa                      157000           2          68         41          61         43          16          23          9           263
Rajasthan                   120368                      53        118         102         47          12          17         16           365
UP                          164556                                            102         47         245         192        139           725
WB                          149091                                 41          61         43         356         246         11           758
Total for SAR States                        38         600        728         811         383        750         638        383          4331
Non-SAR States              135000                                                       200         200         344        138           882
5213
Cumulative PACS Buidup                      38         638       1366        2177       2760        3710        4692       5213
00
1985-86    1986-87    1987-88    1988-89    1989-90    1990-91    1991-92    1992-93
..... Rs million .
Total Inv. - SAR godowns                  6.29       96.99      114.23     126.92       59.56      116.40      96.93       58.35
Total Investment- Non-SARfgodowns                                                       31.10      31.04       52.26       21.02
GrandTotel Investment                     6.29       96.99     114.23      126.92       90.66     147.44      149.19      79.38
GrandTotal Net Proft                      0.75       15.62      43.51       27.63        3.92      86.15       52.77      62.38



79
INDIA: National Cooperative Development III Project
Table 14: Financial Rate of Return to Rural Stores 1/
FRR Computation                    Grand Total Grand Total  Net Cash
Investment  Net Profit    Flows
(Rs. mio)   (Rs. mio)   (Rs. mio)
Year I (10 95-86)                         6.29        0.75      -5.54
Year 2 (1986-87)                         96.99       15.62     -81.37
Year 3 (1 987-88)                       114.23       43.51     -70.72
Year 4 (1 988-89)                       126.92       27.63     -99.30
Year 6 (1 989-90)                        90.66        3.92     -86.74
Year 6 (1 990-91)                       147.44       86.15     -61.29
Year 7 t 991 -92)                       149.19       52.77     -96.43
Yeai 8 (1992-93)                         79.38       62.38     -16.99
Year 9                                               6238       62.38
Year 10                                              62.38      62.38
Year 11                                              62.38      62.38
Year 12                                              62.38      62.38
Year 13                                              62.38      62.38
Year 14                                              62.38      62.38
Year 15                                              62.38      62.38
Year 16                                              62.38      62.38
Year 17                                              62.38      62.38
Year 18                                              62.38      62.38
Year 19                                              62.38      62.38
Year 20                                              62.38      62.38
Year 21                                              62.38      62.38
Year 22                                              62.38      62.38
Year 23                                              62.38      62.38
Year 24                                              62.38      62.38
Year 25                                              62.38      62.38
Year 26                                              61.93      61.93
Year 27                                              54.75      54.75
Year 28                                              46.04      46.04
Year 29                                              36.33      36.33
Year 30                                              29.35      29.35
Year 31                                              17.99      17.99
Year 32                                               6.23       6.23
FRR (%)                                                           7.2 %
1/ Based on weighted average of sample survey.



80
Notes to Tables 11 and 14
Rural Stores
1.   Two types of storage projects one of 100 MT capacity and another 2000 MT
capacity were to be funded under the project. Separate identifiable information was not
available in respect of 2000 MT godowns and hence these have not been analysed.
2.    NCDC had carried out an evaluation of the Rural Storage component of the
project by taking a sample of 149 PACS from 6 states. Their calculations showed an
FRR of 15.24% based on a simple average analysis which was not entirely correct.
Reworked figures based on a weighted average of godowns in various states yields an
FRR of 7.24%.
3.    SAR states account for around 92% of the PACS built up under the project and
these 6 sample states, namely Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, West Bengal,
Rajasthan and Karnataka, cover almost 100% of'PACS built in SAR states. Non-SAR
states account for around 8% of the total PACS built under the project.
4.    The methodology used by us to ascertain FRR for the storage component is as
follows:
a)    Determine the profit per PACS in each year for each state based on the sample
data of total profits earned by the PACS for each year after 1985 and the number
of PACS studied.
b)   Ascertain the share of each state in the total PACS built up under the project on
a year-by-year basis based on the status of total PACS buildup in each state. This
includes the non-SAR states PACS buildup too.
c)    Ascertain the weighted average profit per PACS for each year by weighting the
profit per PACS in each state (see a) above) with the percentage distribution of
PACS in each state (see b) above) for the same year. The performance of non-
SAR states' PACS is assumed to be similar to that of SAR states' PACS.
d)   Use latest year's performance (1991-92) for future projections (including for 1992-
93).
e)    Generate the total benefits stream on the basis of the actual total PACS built up
in each year of the project upto 1993 and the weighted average profit per PACS
for that year. As the first batch of PACS was built in 1985-86 and the last batch
in 1992-93, the time frame used for the benefits calculation is 32 years, with each
PACS getting a period of 25 years for assessing its gross benefits.
f)   Investment cost of a PACS varies across different states. Gross investment in
PACS in each state across the years is based on PACS buildup and the investmerkt



81
cost per PACS for that state. These gross investment figures are then aggregated
for each year to arrive at the total investment cost in all PACS for all states
across the years. This is shown as the gross rural storage component investment.
Benefits stream and PACS buildup has been linked to yield benefits from each
established PACS for a period of 25 years.
g)    Based on e) and f) above, FRR for this component is 7.24%.
5.    After discussion with NCDC staff on this refined methodology, they reduced their
FRR for this component from 15.24% to 9.76%o, insisting at the same time that the
earlier mentioned investment costs included capitalized interest on term loan (50%0o of
investment @ 10.5% p.a.) for the first three years. This was not reflected in their earlier
FRR computation for simple average of 149 godowns. If we exclude the impact of
capitalized interest from our calculation of investment costs, the FRR stands revised at
9.44%.



INDIA: National Cooperative Development Corporation III Project
Annex 2: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 15.   Economic Parity Prices
Cotton                            |                            Soyabean
Lint                 Oit                  Cake                  Beans                 Oil                  Cake
.                             .  . .  . . . . . . . . .  USS/ton    . .                         .         .  .  .  .   . . . . . .
Wortd Price 1/                                     1,5102/               6923/                 1533/                 2264/                 4464'                 195 4/
Ouality Adjustment                                   80%                    -                   80%                   90%
Freight and Insurance 5'                             (70)                  35                  (20)                   20                    35                   (20)
Landed Price (fob or cif)                           1,138                 727                   102                  223                   481                   175
........... .. .RsOD00/ton.                                                                .   . . . . . . .  . . .    . . .
Landed Price                                         35.8                 22.9                  3.2                   7.0                  15.2                  5.5
Domestic Transport/Handling Costs                   (0.7)                  0.5                 (0.5)                  0.5                   0.5                  (0.5)
Ex-Mill Economic Price                               35.1                 23.4                  2.7                   7.5                  15.7                  5.0
Current Ex-Milt Financial Price                      28.8                 25.0                  3.8                   7.3                  24.0                  6.5
2/ Expressed in 1993 prices.
21 Projected price for 1995, cif Europe, Middling (1-3/32).
3/ Current (May 1993) prices, cif Rotterdam.
4/ Current (April 1993) prices.
Negative figure, in parenthesis, are for exported items; positive figures for imported items.



83
iNDIA. National Cooperative Development Corporation nl Project
Annex 2 Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 16. Financial and Economic Prices
Financial Price 7      Economic Price        Conversion
.              Rs'000/ton ......                  Factor
Cotton Products
Lint                                28.8                 35.1                  1.2
Yarn (Wardha)                       59.3                 65.2                  1.1
Yarn (Indira)                       60.6                 66.0                  1.1
Soyabean Products
Soyabeans                           7.3                   7.5                  1.0
Oil                                 24.0                  15.7                 0.65
Cake                                6.5                   5.0                  0.8
Mustard Products
Secd                                8.1                   6.5                  0.8
Oil                                 24.0                  19.2                 0.8
Cake                                3.0                   2.4                  0.8
Cotton Seed Products
Seed                                5.0                   4.0                  0.8
Oil                                 25.0                 23.4                  0.9
Cake                                3.8.                  2.7                  0.7
Sunflower Products
Seed                                8.0                   6.4                  0.8
Oil                                 24.0                  19.2                 0.8
Cake                                4.0                   3.2                  0.8



INDIk: NiongeI Cooperatwe Dwelopment III Project
Table 17: Ecnomic nalysis Ila Warrha
1904-85     1985-88    190fi-87    1987-88    1988-09    1989-9         1990-91    101-92    1992-93   19903-2011    2012-13
.............  r ii .........n
INCOME
Yom                                                                                     88.34      119.68       94.13      135.09      149.70      158.85      160.45
Waste                                                                                   0.93         1.48        127        2.09         1.73        1.84       1.85
Other                                                                                   0.24         1.18       0.62         1.51        1.37        1.37       1.37
ToNI Incomo                                                                             89.51      122.33       96.03      138.69      152.80      162.06      163.68
EXPENSES
Colon                                        .                                          55.99       72.31       56.46      87.16        91.65       97.25      96.23
Spares                                                                                  0.73         1.29        1.25       2.23        2.93        2.97        2.97
Packing                                                                                 0.88         1.31        1.04        1.64        1.64        1.74       1.76
Ulilhes                                                                                 9.40        10.88       10.19       13.45       18.19       1926        19.26
Wages & Selafes                                                                          1.74        2.57        4.64        7.37        826         826        8.26
Owrheads                                                                                0.70        0.62        0.72         1.07        1.34        1.35       1.35
Admin. a Wrxdng Cap.                                                                     3.42        2.49        2.72        5.01        526         5.38       5.41
Tolal Expenses                                                                          72.85       91.49       77.02      117.91      12927       13621       13723
NET INCOME                                                                              16.66       30.84       19.01      20.78        23.53      25.84       26.45
NET NCOME (1I92    Prlcus) I/                                                           24.36       44.01       24.04       22.31       23.53      25.84       26.45
AIESThENT COSTS (Currant Prices)       13.33        7.41        65.6       41.84        4.82
ECON. NW. COSTS (1992)93 Prices) 2V    18.57        10.32      84.03       47.98        5.29
NET ECON. BENEFITS (192j93PiPces)    -18.57      -10.32      -84.03      -47.98        19.07      44.01       24.04       22.31       23.53       25.84       26.45
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETLURN:         13.8 %
1/ Wilaud to 1992J93 prices uslng tactors gven In Ainnex 1, Table 3.
2/ Irlamd to 19921  ecnomIc pices using factrs given In Amex 1, Tatie 3; and a carrwson laccta of 0.75.



INDIA: Naona I Cooperative Development III Project
Table 1 8: Econofnic Analysis Icr hncira
1990-91     1991-92     1992-93     1993-94      1994-95     1D95-96    1996-97      1997-98   1998-2017   2017-18
............. FIRs m llion.
INCOME
Yam                                                                         107.45       114.02      122.08      127.60      133.25       136.00      140.12
Waste                                                                         1.61         1.58        1.55        1.54        1.52        1.50         1.41
Other                                                                         0.55         1.10        1.10        1.38        1.37        1.37         1.37
Tobl Income                                                                 109.61       116.69      124.73      130.52      136.14      138.87       142.90
EXPENSES
Colon                                                                        66.95        70.21       74.30       77.21       80.16       81.82       83.34
Spares                                                                        2.24        2.32        2.40         2.46        2.52        2.52        2.52
Packing                                                                       1.17         1.24        1.32        1.38        1.45        1.48        1.52
Uliltles                                                                     12.42        12.40       12.34       12.27       12.37       12.37        12.37       X
Wages & Salaries                                                              3.12        4.16         5.12        6.72        6.72        6.72        6.72
Overheads                                                                     1.24         1.29        1.34        1.39        1.44        1.44         1.44
Admin. & Wrdng Cap.                                                           4.39        4.68         4.97        5.37        5.62        5.64        5.66
Total Expenses                                                               91.54       96.30       101.79      106.82      110.28      111.98       113.57
NET NCOME                                                                    18.07       20.40        22.94       23.71       25.86       26.89       29.33
NET NCOME (1992,93 Prices) 1/                                                18.07       20.40        22.94       23.71       25.86       26.89       29.33
INVESTMENT COSTS (Cirren1 Prices)        42.2        134.4        12.7       10.80
ECON. MN. COSTS (1992/93 PrIces) 2/     40.03       108.20        9.53        8.10
NET ECON. BENEFITS (1992J93Prices)     -40.03     -108.20        -9.53        9.97       20.40        22.94       23.71       25.86       26.89       29.33
ECONOMiC RATE OF REETURN:          12.5 %
11 inllated to 1992/93 Vices using taclcrs given In Annex 1. Table 3.
2/ kliated to 1992193 emnomic pices using lacrrs given In Annex 1, Tatie 3; and a mnverslon ataclr al 0.75.



INDIA: National Cooperative Development III Project
Table 19: Economic Analysis for Chhindwara
1986-87   1987-88   1988-89   1989-90   1990-91    1991-92   1992-93   1993-94  1994-2015  2015-16
............. .Rs milion.
INCOME
01                                                                                              67.00      114.95     166.14     166.14      166.14
Cake                                                                                            74.60      178.91     257.40     257.40     257.40
Total Income                                                                                    141.60     293.86     423.54     423.54      423.54
EXPENSES
Soyabean                                                                                       172.27     306.98      437.58     437.58     437.58
Gunny bags                                                                                       0.80        2.64       3.60       3.60       3.60
Hexane & Misc.                                                                                   3.78        7.62      10.40      10.40      10.40
Unlities                                                                                         3.84        8.32      10.48      10.48       10.48
Wages & Salaries                                                                                  1.36       1.68       2.00       2.00       2.00
Overheads                                                                                        3.04        3.76       3.76       3.76       3.76
Admh. & Working Cap.                                                                             7.68       27.68      34.16      34.16      34.16
Tota Expenses                                                                                   192.77     358.68     501.98     501.98     501.98
NET INCOME                                                                                     -51.17     -64.82     -78.44      -78.44     -78.44
NET INCOME (1992V93 Pnces) 1/                                                                  -54.93     -64.82     -78.44      -78.44     -78.44
INVESTMENT COSTS (Current Prices)       73.77      68.93      29.84       39.47      23.32      40.22       37.45
ECON. INV. COSTS (1992/93 Prices) 2/    94.50      79.05      32.73       42.24      22.12      32.38      28.09
NET ECON. BENEFITS (1992/93 Prjces)    -94.50     -79.05     -32.73     -42.24     -22.12      -87.31     -92.91     -78.44      -78.44     -78.44
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN:   Negative
1/ hiflated to 1992V93 prices using factors given in Annex 1. Table 3.
2/ hiflated to 1992/93 economic pices using factors given hi Annex 1. Table 3; and a conversion factor of 0.75.



INDIA: National Cooperative Devoopmont IlIl Project
Table 20: Economic Ansysis for Morena
1988-89   1989-90   1990-91   1991-92   1992-93   1993-94  1994-2014  2014-15
............. .Rs millon.
INCOME
01                                                            84.69     107.98      90.31     207.36     207.36     207.36
Cake                                                          14.01      17.70      19.05      46.08      46.08      46.08
Totd Income                                                   98.70     125.68     109.36     253.44     253.44     253.44
EXPENSES
Mustard Seed                                                  72.88     106.32     111.61     195.48     195.48     195.48
Gunny bags                                                     0.80       0.88       1.20       2.40       2.40       2.40
Utlities                                                       1.52       2.16       2.64       3.84       3.84       3.84
Wages & Sdaries                                                0.32       0.48       0.80       1.60       1.60       1.60
Ovetheads                                                      3.12       3.80       4.80       5.68       5.68       5.68
Admhi. & Working Cap.                                          4.88       5.12       5.84      11.76      11.76      11.76
Misc.                                                          2.72       3.44       3.52       7.12       7.12       7.12
Total Expenses                                                86.24     122.20     130.41     227.88     227.88     227.88
NET INCOME                                                    12.45       3.48     -21.05      25.56      25.56      25.56
NET INCOME (1992193 Prices) 1/                                15.75       3.73     -21.05      25.56      25.56      25.56
INVESTMENT COSTS (Current Prices)      65.42        8.18       8.44      49.78      30.00       7.18
ECON. INV. COSTS (1992193 Prices) 2/   71.76       8.75        8.01      40.08      22.50       5.39
NET ECON. BENEFiTS (1992/93 Prices)    -71.76     -8.75        7.74    -36.34     -43.55       20.18      25.56      25.56
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN:          11.9 %
1/ inflated to 1992/93 prices using factors given in Annex 1. Talie 3.
2/ Inflated to 1992/93 economic prices using factors given in Annex 1, Tatie 3; and a conversion factor of 0.75.



INDLA: NafonaI CooperatWe Dovelopmont III Project
Table 21: Emnomic Analysis icr Nargund
1988-99    1989-90   1990-91   1991-92   1992-93   1993-94   1994-95  1995-2016  2016-17
............. Rs  mili .n.
INCOME
Cotonseed Oil                                                                                48.60      72.90      81.00      81.00
Cononseed Cake                                                                                17.24     25.86      28.73      28.73
SunflowerOiQ                                                                                 46.08      69.12      76.80      76.80
Sunflower Cake                                                                               11.14       16.70     18.56      18.56
Other                                                                                         10.95      16.39      18.26      18.26
Tolal Income                                                                                 134.01    200.97     223.34     223.34
EXPENSES
Cotonseed                                                                                    57.60      86.40      96.00      96.00
Sunflower Seed                                                                               38.40      57.60      64.00      64.00
Hexane & Other Chemicals                                                                      3.12       4.80       5.36       5.36
UtlIties                                                                                     10.32       15.60      17.28     17.28
Wages & Salaries                                                                               1.76      2.56       2.96       2.96
Admin. & Wor1dng Cap.                                                                         5.53       10.64      12.32     12.32
Total Expenses                                                                               116.73     177.60     197.92    197.92
NET INCOME                                                                                    17.27     23.37      25.42      25.42
NET INCOME (1992/93 Prices) 1/                                                                17.27     23.37      25.42      25.42
INVESTMENT COSTS (CurrentPrices)      59.10       2.16      36.92      31.26      59.56
ECON. MN. COSTS (1992,93 Prices) 2/   64.83        2.31      35.03     25.17      44.67
NET ECON. BENEFITS (1992/93 Prices)    -64.83    -2.31     -35.03     -25.17     -44.67       17.27     23.37      25.42      25.42
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN:         10.6 %
1/ Inflated to 1992/93 prices using factors given In Annex 1. Table 3.
2/ Illated to 1992/93 ecnomlc pices uslng factas gIven In Annex 1, Table 3; and a mnverslon faclor of 0.75.



INDA: Naticnal Cooperatve Development IlIl Poject
Table 22: Economic Analysis or Ptiral Stcres 1/
Year 1     Year 2      Yea 3       Year 4      Year 5     Year 6     Yea- 7     Year B Years 9-25
...........  ..... Rs.
INCONE
FrIlIzers 2/                        0.0         2.7         6.7        16.6        33.3       66.5       86.5      126.4     133.0
Seeds3/                             0.0         0.4         1.0         2.4         4.8        9.5       12.4       18.1      19.0
Pesticides3/                        0.0         0.4         1.0         2.4         4.8        9.5       12.4       18.1      19.0
Foldgains 4/                         0.0        0.3         0.7         1.6         3.3        6.5        8.5       12.4      13.0
1.3
Toal Inccrne                         0.0        3.7         9.2        23.0        46.0       92.0      119.6      174.8     184.0                 00
EXPENSES
Salarles & Wges                     0.0         2.2         5.5        13.8        27.5       55.0       71.5      104.5     110.0
General AdmInIstalclr                0.0        0.9         2.3         5.8        11.5       23.0       29.9       43.7      46.0
Aepairs and  eintenarte                          3.1         3.1         3.1         3.1        3.1        3.1        3.1       3.1
Total Expenses                       0.0        6.2        10.9        22.6        42.1       81.1      104.5      151.3     159.1
INVESTMENT                          155.0
NET BENEFITS                      -155.0        -2.5        -1.7         0.4         3.9       10.9       15.1       23.5      24.9
ECONCOIMC RATE OF RETUFRN:           8.4 %
1/ Figures lcr lul drslcpment are based on a simple avea ge dsample ol 149 staes. Phasing ol benefit Is the same as the SAR.
2/ Benefits Iom feUzer assume: gos salevalue Rs1.4 milUmn d whtdch5% Is lncremenal. Physical reims arel :29 and monety relxns are 1:19.
3/ Benefits Irom seedsipesIckdes are calcualed ascr faerliHzE except sales values are Rsla),000 each i wtich 10% Is incrementl.
4/ Foodgahn sales are Rs66)000 and reduced losses are equal tl 2% of this.



