Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C    P.   i& d-   7t)
Report No. 5035-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (NCDC) III PROJECT
May 30, 1984
South Asia Projects Department
Agro-Industries and Credit Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
US$l          =      Rs 10.8
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Units are used
1 kilogram (kg)               =       2.20 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)            =       1,000 kg = 0.98 long ton
I quintal                     =       100 kg
1 meter (m)                   =       1.09 yards
1 centimeter (cm)             =       0.01 meters
1 millimeter (mm)             =       0.001 merers
i square meter (m2)           =       10.75 square feet
I kilometer (km)              =       0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)                -       2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (km2)      =       0.386 square mile
1 lakh                        =       100,000
1 million (M)                 =       10 lakhs
INDIAN FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
Kharif season   -      Monsoon season
(Nay to October)
Rabi season     -      Dry season
(November to April)
1/  This Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject tc change.  Conversions in
this report have been made at US$1 to Rs 10.8 which was the long-term
rate projected by the Bank in May 1984.



FOR OFFICUL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
ACSTI        Agricultural Cooperative Staff Training Institute
AP           Andhra Pradesh
CCTIMP       Center for Cooperative Trainers' Training and Materials Production
CDS          Cooperative Development Service
CGC          Cotton Growers' Cooperative
CTC          Cooperative Training Center
DCCB         District Central Cooperative Bank
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
FRR          Financial Rate of Return
GOI          Government of India
GCoS         State Government
ICAR         Indian Council of Agricultural Research
IFFCO        Indian Farmers Fertilizer Cooperative Ltd.
HP           Msadhya Pradesh
NABARD       National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
NCCT         National Council for Cooperative Training
NCDC         National Cooperative Development Corporation
NDDB         National Dairy Development Board
RTC          National Textile Corporation
DILFED       State Cooperative Oilseed Growers' Federation in HP
OSCS         Oilseed Growers' Cooperative Society
PACS         Primary Agricultural Credit Society
PCS          Primary Cooperative Society
PLDB         Primary Land Development Bank
RAJFED       SCMF in Rajasthan
RBI          Reserve Bank of India
RCS          Registrar of Cooperative Societies
RNS          Regional Marketing Society
SAU          State Agricultural University
SCB          State Cooperative Bank
SCMF         State Cooperative Marketing Federation
SES          State Extension Service
SLDB         State Land Development Bank
SSC          State Seed Corporation
UP           Uttar Pradesh
This document has 2 resricted distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disisd without World Bank authorization.



INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (NCDC) III PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:            National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC).
Amount:                  SDR 210.2 million (US$220 million equivalent).
Terms:                   Standard.
Onlendint Terms:         Government of India (GOI) to NCDC:  Repayment over
15 years, including 3 years' grace, at an interest
rate of not less than 7% per annum, the standard
rate for GOI onlending to NCDC for projects taken
up with foreign assistance.
NCDC to State Cooperative Banks (SCB) and State
Land Development Bank (SLDB): Repayment over 15
years, including 3 years' grace, at an interest
rate of not less than 8% per annum for rural
storage investments and not less than 9.5% per
annum for agro-processing investments.
SCB and SLDB to ultimate beneficiaries: Repayment
up to 15 years, including up to 3 years' grace, at
an interest rate of not less than 10% per annum
for rural storage investments and not less than
12.5% per annum for agro-processing investments.
GCOI will bear the foreign exchange risk.
Proiect Description:    The proposed project is designed to support the
development of the Indian cooperative movement by
strengthening the capabilities of the National
Cooperative Development Corporation, through
expanding the scope of its activities and
extending its involvement into new areas in nine
participating States. The project provides credit
for a rural storage component, involving the
construction of about 7,800 rural godowns in six
States; a soybean production and processing
component, involving the establishment of 800
Oilseed Growers' Cooperative Societies, together
with soybean seed processing plants and solvent
oil extraction plants in six States; a cotton
processing component, involving the establishment
of eleven *:otton ginneries and five spinning mills
in five States; and an institution-building



component, involving the establishment of Staff
Training Institutes in six States, and developmeut
of a training program for staff of the rural
godowns, processing plants, and cooperative
agencies. The major risk in a project of this
scope would be poor implementation. lovever, NCDC
has considerable experience and capable management
and has performed satisfactorily in previous
IDA-financed projects, so this risk is c'nsidered
to be small. Technical risks are minor.
Estimated Cost: 1
(US$ millions)
Item                          Local        Foreirn         Total
Rural Storage                                94            11            105
Soybean Production & Processing             91              8             99
Cotton Processing                          132             21            153
Institution-building                         9              1             10
Base Cost                               326             41           367
Physical Contingencies                      22              4             26
Price Contingencies                         68              7             75
Total Project Cost                      416 I/          52            468 jj
1/ Including about US$40 million in taxes and duties.
Financing Plan:                                      (US$ millions)
Local        Foreign         Total
IDA                                     168             52            220
State Governments                        80              -             80
NCDC                                    146              -            146
Cooperative Societies                    22              -             22
Total                               416             52           468
m               =



Estimated Disbursements:
(US$ millions)
IDA. FY                    FY85       FY86     FY87     FY88      FY89
Annual                      21.1      52.9     98.3      21.6    26.1
Cumulative                 21.1       74.0    172.3    193.9    220.0
Rate of Return:   At least 28%
Appraisal Report: No. 5035-IN dated May 30, 1984.



INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (NCDC) III PROJECT
Table of Contents
Pase No.
I.    AGRICULTURE AND AGRO-INDUSTRIES ........ . . . . . . .  .......... .......  1
-  The Role of Cooperatives ..           .. ...............................  8
-  Previous Bank Group Involvement in Related Activities ....    10
II.   PROJECT INSTITUTIONS ...............                 ........ .....    11
-  The National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC)
and its Role in the Agricultural Credit System ........           11
-  State Cooperative Banks (SCB)    .....................               13
-  State Land Development Banks (SLDB)                                 14
-  State Cooperative Marketing Federations (SCMF) ...........    15
-  Primary Marketing Societies (PMS) ........a.............    15
-  Primary Agricultural Credit Societies (PACS) .............    16
-  Cotton Growers' Cooperatives (CGC)    ...........O ......    17
-  Cooperative Training ....... .. ..... .. ...... ....... ....         17
III.  PERFORMANCE UNDER THE PREVIOUS NCDC PROJECTS ................    18
IV.   THE PROJECT AREA .                                                      20
V.    THE PROJECT ....................                             ......    21
-  Project Genesis ....9.- .. ..            ...                ...     21
-  Project Objectives and Rationale ............22
-  Project Description           .... ....... ........  .....    24
-  Project Costs ..........................................            27
-  Finauciug .........0*00-46                                          29
-  Lending Terms             ........... .......    30
-  Procurement ..... *.*..* ..*.....     *****.....*..    32
-  Disbursement ..........................................    33
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to India in
November/December 1983 comprising Messrs. J. Duester, A. Felleke,
Nmes P. Annez and N. Mattson (Bank) and Messrs. F. Heidhues and
J. Villeneuve (Consultants).



-ii-
VI.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .... .. ... .. ....... .. .... .. ... ....    34
-  Implementation Organization ..............................   34
-  Preparation and Appraisal of Subprojects .................   34
-  Physical Implementation - General ........................   35
-  Implementation of Rural Storage Component ................   36
-  Implementation of Soybean Production and Processing
Component ...........*.**.*.......*a..........***e*.    36
-  Implementation of Cotton Processing Component ............   37
-  Institution Building and Training ........................   37
-  Review of Textile Sector ...*es....* ...*........**............   38
-  Monitoring and Evaluation, Accounts, Audits and
Reporting ......................................****..    38
VII.  PRODUCTION AND MARETING . ............... ..... . . ................... .    39
-  Soybean Production       .........*...............   39
-  Production of Processed Products ..........................    40
-  Marketing of Soybean Products ............................   41
-  Narketing of Cotton Products .............................   42
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .............. . ............. -.     43
-  Economic Analysis ... .    ..................... .....   43
-  Beneficiaries and Employment Effects ....................    46
-  Foreign Exchange Earnings . ......................... .  ...   47
-  Financial Analysis .....................................    47
-  Role of Women .....................................*...    49
-  Environmental Effects ...... ........4......      *...*.   49
-  Project Risks ................................*...    49
XI.   ASSURANCES AND RECOKMENDATIONS ................ . ...........    51
ANINEXES
1.  Sumary Cost Tables
2.  Economic Analysis of Project Investments
3. Financial Analysis for Project Processing Plants and Rural Godowns
4.  Eligibility Criteria for Project Coopera_ive Institutions
5.  Subproject Appraisal Criteria
6.  NCDC Financial Statements
7.  NCDC:  Program Projections and Funding 1983184 to 1989/90
8.  Target Indicators and Nonitoring Trigger Levels
9.  Projected Quarterly Disbursements
10. Table of Contents Project File



-iii-
CHARTS
World Bank 26083:  Agricultural Credit in India ............. e. 75
NAPS
IBRD 18023
IBRD 18024
IBRD 18025
IBRD 18046



INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (NCDC) III
I. AGRICULTURE AND AGRO-INDUSTRIES
Introduction
1.01    India has a population of about 720 M, growing at an annual rate of
about 2Z. Since 1960, per capita income has grown at an annual rate of 1.4%
and reached US$260 in 1982. Much remains to be done to improve the living
standards of the vast mass of urban and rural poor who comprise almost 50%
of the total population. Accordingly, Government of India's (GOI) develop-
ment plans emphasize maintaining food self-sufficiency, alleviating poverty
and creating employment, especially in rural areas.
Agricultural Sector Performance
1.02    Agriculture is the dominant sector of the economy.  It contributes
about 40% of GDP, accounts for about 70% of all employment and provides the
base for about 50% of India's exports. During the last decade GOI has con-
centrated on raising foodgrain production by increasing use of irrigation,
fertilizers, plant protection and quality seeds and backed this effort with
improved extension and research services. The response has been impressive
and foodgrain production grew sufficiently to meet consumer demand, eliminate
imports and reduce real foodgrain prices to consumers. At the same time
India was able to build up buffer stocks which enabled it to overcome the
effects of severe droughts in 1979/80 without foodgrain imports. After two
years of normal rainfall with annual production growth of 15Z and 5% in
1980/81 and 1981/82 respectively, the country experienced in 1982/83 one of
the worst droughts in recent years. It is remarkable that agricultural
production only declined by 4% to 6%. While performance in the recent past
suggests that future average foodgrain supplies would exceed demand, the
balance remains delicate and the need for foodgrain imports to maintain
consumer supplies or adequate buffer stocks could arise from time to time.
The shortage of edible oils persists and, unless a major breakthrough in
oilseed production is achieved, the situation may continue or even worsen.
Agricultural Sector Priorities
1.03    GOI continues to give high priority to grain production, and the
Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980/81 - 1984/85) target is to build a 15 M ton
reserve stock. Expanded and improved rural storage, marketing, and input
supply facilities play a vital role in this strategy. Since the domestic
foodgrain situation has significantly improved, diversification has become an
increasingly important goal.



-2-
Agricultural Production and Services
1.04    Production of foodgrains dominates the agricultural sector and
cereals occupy about 61% of cropped area, followed by pulses (19%), oilseeds
(10%) and fibers (5.5%). The rest of the arable area (4.5%) is devoted to
root crops, sugar cane, plantation crops (including important export crops
like tea, coffee and cashew), orchards and a wide variety of vegetables and
spices. Foodgrain production has increased rapidly from about 60 M tons in
the early 1950s to about 133 M tons in 1981/82, mainly due to the increase in
production of wheat (8 H to 38 M tons) and rice (25 M to 54 M tons). Due to
severe drought, foodgrain production fell to about 127 M tons in 1982/83.
While oilseeds are among the most important agricultural commodities in
India, production growth has not kept pace with that of foodgrains. To
accelerate production, GOI is actively promoting diversification into
non-traditional seeds such as soybean, sunflower and safflower. Groundnut
still remains the most important edible oilseed crop, but non-traditional
seeds represent an increasing share in total oilseed production. Soybean
production, which assumed greater importance in the early 1970s, has grown
since 1975/76 at the phenomenal rate of 38% p.a., largely as a result of area
expansion. Cotton production showed a moderate growth rate of 2.6% p.a.
between 1971 and 1982, of which about 2.2% was the result of variety improve-
ment and yield increase.
1.05    An efficient input supply system plays an essential role in increas-
ing productivity. Between 1960 and 1981/82, fertilizer use has increased
from 0.3 M to over 6 M nutrient tons, or at an average annual growth rate of
15%; and it continues to grow rapidly. Improved seeds supply has been sup-
ported by the two National Seed Projects (Ln. 1273-IN and Cr. 816-IN), in
which six of the seven soybean and cotton project States participated.  Use
of pesticides has also increased from 100 tons technical grade material to
over 60,000 tons in the last 20 years. A continued rapid increase in input
use, particularly by small and marginal farmers, will require an expanded and
modernized storage and distribution system, able to reach the less accessible
rural areas. The proposed project, through the involvement of Cooperative
Societies, is specifically designed to provide this infrastructure in rural
areas. Through the efforts of GOI and the States, storage capacity owned by
Cooperative Societies and by private businesses has increased from 12 M tons
in 1975 to over 24 M tons in 1981/82. With these additions to capacity,
storage availability is beginning to catch up with needs that arose with
large increases in agricultural production in recent years. The proposed
project would support the planned capacity expansion of the Cooperative
Societies.
1.06    GOI and State Governments (GOS) give high priority to providing
adequate agricultural research and extension. State specific research is the
responsibility of State Agricultural Universities (SAD). Region specific
research is undertaken jointly by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research
(ICAR) and SAU. On behalf of GOI and GOS, ICAR sanctions research programs,
and provides funds and technical support to SAU. While research efforts for
cotton are quite adequate, much must still be done in soybean research which
began in the early sixties at SAU, Pantnagar, Uttar Pradesh (UP) and
Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh (MP). ICAR, under its "All India Coordinated
Soybean Research Project" maintains research centers in various States
including NP. A number of soybean varieties and production technologies have



_3_
been evolved from this work. SAU Rajasthan has been given primary respon-
sibility for soybean research, although no research has yet been undertaken
since soybean is a new crop. However, it maintains a foundation seed farm in
the area which would be used for the soybean program. ICAR's "All-India
Cotton Research Project" supports joint research with SAU, providing research
staff, working capital, and equipment. Besides cooperative cotton research,
ICAR also maintains four regional centers to serve the main cotton regions of
India. A number of varieties and hybrids have been released to date, and
further intensive research is underway.
Oilseeds
1.07    Oilseed production and processing are important because edible
vegetable oils are key consumer items, being the main source of essential
fatty acids in the Indian diet. Annual consumption of vegetable oils is
about 6 kg per capita as compared to only 4 kg in the early 1960s. (In
developed countries, average per capita consumption of oils is 25 kg).
Growtn in consumption has been particularly rapid since GOI liberalized its
policy on imports in 1976/77. The composition of aggregate consumption of
fats has changed over time. After World War II, there was a considerable
substitution toward vegetable oil consumed in hydrogenated form (Vanaspati)
from animal fats (ghee). In addition, cheaper alternatives to groundnut oil,
traditionally the most widely consumed vegetable oil, have slowly become
popular. Refined cottonseed oil is now widely consumed, particularly in the
southern States, and refined soybean oil is marketed in small quantities in
soybean producing areas.
1.08    Edible oils have also played an important role in India's balance of
trade.  After imports were liberalized, vegetable oils became a major import
item.  Since 1975/76 they have replaced foodgrains as the largest food import
and in 1981/82 amounted to US$424 M. On the other hand, oilseed cakes are
one of India's major agricultural exports. Oilcake exports have risen very
rapidly during the 1970s, except for some downturns, and in 1981/82 reached
US$156 M. They are second only to tea, and in most years account on average
for over 9% of total agricultural export revenues. Currently, oilseeds are
not imported in any quantity.
1.09    Oil processing is a very old industry in India as extraction of oil
with more or less artisanal methods has been carried on for centuries. About
314 of all oilseeds are crushed in outdated plants which do not extract the
maximum of edible oil. However, village-based extraction processes using
bullock powered mortar and pestle mechanisms (ghanis) are declining in impor-
tance, and available seed crushing capacity of this type has fallen substan-
tially. Traditional processes have been largely replaced by motor powered
expeller units which represent the bulk of oil crushing capacity in the
country. Solvent extraction units are also being installed, but these still
account for only a small share of the total capacity available in the
country.
1.10    The quality of existing oilseed processing technology needs to be
improved so that maximum value added could be realized by extracting all
products from oilseeds in a usable form. For example, the simple expeller
units which dominate the cottonseed crushing industry do not decorticate and
delint the seeds before crushing, and valuable linters are thereby lost. The



-4-
cake from these crushing units still has a high oil content and when it iS
fed to cattle, this oil is lost since it cannot be digested. Although
Indian-grown soybeans have a very high protein content, the cake produced and
sold for export is sold without premium because poor preparation and treat-
ment in existing processing facilities produce unattractive cake, which is
not as easily marketable as properly prepared cake. Inadequate drying of
groundnut cake is partly responsible for toxin contamination which has
created difficulties in export markets.
Cotton
1.11    Cotton is a traditional Indian cash crop occupying about 4.6% of the
total cropped area in the country in recent years. Cotton lint, cloth, and
yarn are all important export earners. Cotton cloth is a basic domestic
consumer item, second in importance only to food in the consumer basket of
lower income groups. However, annual consumption of cotton cloth is only
about 10 m per capita, which is low relative to the world average.
1.12   While India has the largest cotton area in the world (25% of world
total), it is only the fourth largest producer, and historically its yields
have been among the lowest. In the period shortly after independence, most
of Indian cotton production was of the short and mec-ium staple varieties.
Since that time, there bas been a major researcb effort to introduce improved
varieties with longer staple length, better quality fiber, and higher yields.
Much progress has been made and the average staple length of Indian cottons
has risen steadily. In recent years two important new varieties, Varalaksbmi
and DCH-32, both medium to long staple, have been successfully introduced
and the fiber they produce is of unprecedentedly high quality by Indian
standards and of very good quality by world standards.
1.13    Cotton processing yields a number of useful products: lint, edible
oil, high protein cake, linter, soapstocks, and hulls. The adequacy of
processing facilities plays a particularly important role in determining
producer incomes since without processing, cotton is of very little use. In
addition, cotton is quite bulky and expensive to transport and the returns to
growing cotton depend critically on the availability of processing facilities
within a fairly small radius.  Also, since the lint produced from seed cotton
is a high valued product for which substantial quality premia are paid, the
technical quality of the processing plays a crucial role iD realizing the
full potential value of the raw material.
1.14    Unfortunately, in India, cotton processing has not kept pace with
the agronomic advances in cotton production, and existing processing capacity
is mostly ill-suited to current needs. This weakness is particularly acute
in ginning where most of the installed capacity is very old, much of it even
dating from the pre-World War I period. Ginneries rarely have full time
professional management. They are generally small locally based family
operations. Large industrial investors are virtually non-existent in the
sector. Although many of the cottons produced in India are suitable for saw
gins, which are more efficient than roller gins, their use is very uncommon.
In fact, the superiority of saw ginning for most types of cotton is not yet
well recognized. Furthermore, proper cleaning equipment to complement the
ginning machinery is rarely used. As a result, even though the seed cotton
improves in quality every year, the ginned cotton lint still has a high trash



-5-
content because of inadequate cleaning, and reduced staple length due to
broken fibers. Even the poorer quality traditional varieties of cotton could
be processed to produce much better lint with modern machinery and better
operating procedures. The proposed project would address some of these
problems.
1.15    The next stage of processing cotton lint, and the final stage with
which project investments would be concerned, is cotton spinning. This
activity is part of the large and complex Indian textile sector which
accounts for about 4.4% of total GDP and approximately 17.2% of industrial
production. The performance of the textile sector over the last ten years
has been poor. During the period 1971 to 1981, total textile production
increased at only 1.5% p.a., compared to the overall growth rate of the
industrial sector of 4.7Z p.a. During the same period, yarn production grew
at 2.7% p.a.
1.16    The textile industry is broadly divided into the organized mill
sector, and the decentralized powerloom and handloom sector. The organized
mill sector is composed of composite mills-and spinning mills. Composite
mills are vertically integrated units engaged in spinning, weaving, dyeing
and finishing. They have a listed installed spindle capacity of 12.4 M
spindles and 211,000 looms, while mills with only spinning operations have
a listed installed spindle capacity of 10 M. The organized sector can be
further categorized into the private sector including cooperative spinning
mills (para 1.18), and the publically owned mills. The organized sector
employs 1.2 K people representing about 7X of industrial employment, and
accounts for almost all the yarn and 25% of the woven cloth produced in the
country.
1.17    The decentralized weaving sector, comprising about 3 M handlooms and
570,000 approved powerlooms, is the primary market for the yarn produced in
spinning mills. It is estimated that another 160,000 powerlooms are now
operating without authorization. The decentralized weaving sector has grown
substantia-lly in recent years as urbar-based composite mills have slowly
reduced their production. Handloom production increased from 1,977 M meters
during 1971 to 3,300 M meters during 1982. In the same period, powerloom
production increased from 1,500 M meters to about 4,100 M meters.
1.18    While production in composite mills has been on the decline since
1975, the number and capacity of spinning mills has increased substantially
in recent years. In contrast to composite mills, spinning mills are dis-
persed widely throughout the country, with the more recently established
mills located mostly in rural areas. Prior to 1960, textile mills were
privately owned. With the closing of many private mills due to such factors
as labor problems and obsolescence of equipment, GOI formed the National
Textile Corporation (NTC) to take over and operate some of the closed mills.
NTC, a public sector corporation, now operates 140 mills, representing 20% of
total installed spindles. Since the early 1960s, GOI and GOS encouraged the
development of cooperatively owned spinning mills. These now number 66 with
a total of 1.6 M spindles, and a mill average of 24,200 spindles, repre-
senting about 7% of total installed spindle capacity.
1.19    While it has undergone many changes in recent years, the spinning
industry in India still suffers from serious problems. The most important of



-6-
these are: a distorted policy environment, high cost operations, low quality
products, low labor productivity, poor lint quality, poor factory mainr-
tenance, and inadequate management practices. GOI policy influences textile
prices, including those for yarn, by a number of fiscal interventions incluid-
ing tariffs and domestic taxes. In addition to such interventions, GOI also
controls investments through licensing policy. The current policy is to
limit the growth of spinning capacity in congested urban areas plagued by
labor difficulties, and encourage the location of new capacity in rural
areas. While certain GOI policies do have distorting effects in the sector,
the cooperatively owned segment of the private spinning industry does not
receive special advantages. In 1975, the Bank analysis of the textile sub-
sector indicated that privately owned and cooperative spinning mills were
treated equally in the legal and administrative structure of the textile
industry, and the situation remains very much the same today. Because of
poor processing (para 1.14), relative to world standards, Indian cotton lint
is excessively dirty, and has a more variable staple length and a higher
percentage of Immature fibers. This low quality lint causes many operational
difficulties in spinning and tends to both raise the cost of operations and
lower the quality of the yarn produced. The third major weakness of the
Indian spinning industry is the very inefficient use of labor. Besides using
excessive numbers of workers, mills also manage the labor force they have
very poorly. Mills are staffed so that workers have no off days in the week.
Working conditions are quite substandard and the work environment is
unhealthy, particularly at certain times of the year. Labor productivity
inevitably suffers. Absenteeism is a serious problem, and in fact, is one of
the main causes of down time for many mills. For the skilled and
semi-skilled jobs involved in the spinning process, minimal training is
provided, and workers are expected to just learn their job by experience. As
a result, the jobs are often done poorly, and since almost all workers
receive close to minimum wages, they have little incentive to do differently.
In the proposed project mills, many of these labor practices would be
changed. While the labor force would be much smaller, the mill would be
staffed to plan free days for workers. Environmental conditions would be
improved and formal training and job grading provided (para 5.16).
1.20    As the foregoing discussion shows, the Indian spinning industry is
beset with a number of difficulties. Nonetheless, some mills, among them
some of the best cooperative mills, function very well even in this difficult
environment. Well run and managed mills should be promoted even further by
setting up model cooperative mills in rural areas. These mills would
incorporate a number of innovative practices that should greatly increase
efficiency of operations and hence profitability. Their improved functioning
could demonstrate to cooperative and other mills in the States the benefits
of these superior operating practices.
1.21    Given the difficulties in the sector, a thorough re-examination of
existing policy must be undertaken to elaborate a plan for gradual
rationalization and policy reform in the sector. For this reason, a review
of the textile sector should be undertaken. Important issues to be addressed
are:



-7-
-   the yarn supply and distribution system and cloth marketing
system;
-   labor policies and their impact on the sector's efficiency;
-   regulations governing pricing and composition of mill outputs;
-   tax, duty and surcharge structure, including import and export
duties and quantity restrictions. This should-also include the
duty and tax structure on polyester viscose and polynosic fibers;
-   GOI regulation of loomage in the organized and powerloom sector;
-   availability of credit and RBI regulations governing working
capital requirements; and
-   support service structure for the sector, particularly research
in appropriate technology and training.
To begin examining these issues, GOI would undertake a textile sector review
based on Terms of Reference agreed with the Bank. The study would propose a
set of measures which would result in an increase in the efficiency, competi-
tiveness, and export potential of the industry (para 6.13).
Demand Projections
1.22    Overall domestic demand for cloth, both for the long-term period
1961-1982 and the short-term period of the late 1970s to early 1980s, has
increased at a fairly consistent rate. Total demand for textiles grew
between 1961 and 1981 at about 1.85% annually. Within this total, demand for
blended fabrics increased most rapidly, at 21% p.a. during the 1970s, while
demand for man-made fabrics expanded by about 5% p.a. However, a reversal of
the trend occurred in 1978 and in 1980-83, the composition of textile demand
had stabilized. Therefore, it has been assumed that in the medium term, the
structure of demand for cotton and non-cotton fabrics would remain unchanged.
At the same time, per capita income growth is projected to accelerate sub-
stantially. Earlier, low per capita income growth at a time of rising food
prices led to a postponement of demand for textiles in general. This situa-
tion is expected to improve in future and would result in a rising textile
demand.
1.23    In projecting future demand development, a declining population
growth rate of 2.10% to 1.97% p.a. from 1985 to 1990 and of 1.81% p.a. to
1995 has been assumed. The annual GDP growth rate has been assumed to remain
at the 5% level achieved during the first three years of the current
Five-Year Plan. A high investment ratio of about 25% of GDP and a diver-
sified export structure augur well for a continuing high growth performance.
Based on numerous studies, which have estimated income and price elasticities
for textiles in India, an elasticity with respect to changes in per capita
income of 0.4 has been used in this projection. The projections are rela-
tively insensitive to a change in income elasticity. Relative prices have
been assumed to remain constant. Thus, taking into account both population
growth and per capita income growth, the demand for textiles is estimated to
increase at 3.26% p.a. during 1984 to 1990, and at 3.16% p.a. thereafter.



-8-
Total consumption of fabrics would increase from 10 billion m in 1983 to 15
billion m in 1995. The projected total textile demand has been broken down
into cotton, cotton blends and man-made fabrics on the basis of the 1980-1983
structure of demand. Under these assumptions, the demand for cotton textiles
would increase from 7.5 billion m in 1983 to 10.9 billion m in 1995. Per
capita consumption of fabrics is projected to increase from the 1983 level of
14.3 m to 16.5 m by 1995. Of this, 73Z would be cotton cloth, 9% cotton
blends, and 18% man made fabrics.
Requirements for Additional Spinning Capacity
1.24    Of a total of 22 M spindles of registered installed capacity, only
about 20 M are truly available for production, the other 2 M being so
obsolete as to be unusable. Given Indian spinning efficiencies and
availability factors, which are somewhat lower than world standards, avail-
able capacity would have to be fully utilized to reach the level of yarn
production estimated for 1983. To arrive at projections of future spinning
capacity, the expected decline in the usable capital stock must be taken into
account. Installed capacity in India is relatively old. In fact, it is
estimated that over 50% of installed spindles are now over 20 years old.
Given a useful life of 30 years for spinning equipment, future replacement
requirements will be very substantial. In addition to 2 M totally obsolete
spindles, it is estimated that there are now probably 2 M spindles in an
early stage of obsolescence and another 6 M in need of modernization and
rehabilitation. Based on the projected demand for cloth, total spindles
required, given current efficiency ratios and availability factors, reach
levels of 24.3 M in 1990 and 28.4 N in 1995.  When compared with the 20 M
spindles currently available for production and the levels of available
spindles projected for the future, the need for investment is clear. This
investment should be a balanced mix of new mills, as under the proposed
project, and modernization and rehabilitation of existing mills.
The Role of Cooperatives
1.25    The cooperative movement in India started in 1906 with the organiza-
tion of farmers' credit societies. Since then, it has grown and diversified
and is now an established institution of considerable national importance.
GOI maintains a strong commitment to the continued development and irprove-
ment of the cooperative structure, and has assigned to Cooperative Societies
an important role in reaching national development objectives, particularly
in the agriculture and agro-industrial sectors. Cooperative Societies today
number over 0.3 M and total membership is over 90 M people.
Cooperative Structure
1.26    The cooperative system functions as a tiered system operating at the
village, district, and State level. Primary Agricultural Credit Societies
(PACS) provide farmers with short-term credit, distribute inputs and consumer
goods, and some have started to provide marketing services for agricultural
commodities. District Cooperative Central Banks (DCCB) provide PACS with
medium and short-term credit. They are partly financed by State Cooperative
Banks (SCB), but use also their own resources. Some spinning mills and
ginneries are organized as Primary Cooperative Societies (PCS), and PCS are
also sometimes organized in support of specific crops as in the case of



-9-
soybeans. Regional Cooperative Marketing Societies and State Cooperative
Marketing Federations (SCMF) provide wholesale marketing services. In
agro-industrial and specifice crop development activities, specialized apex
institutions at the State level generally provide support to the PCS. In
some activities, such as dairy farming and cotton spinning, cooperative
institutions operating nationwide and providing technical services have also
been established.
1.27    The State and national level cooperative institutions most concerned
with the proposed project are NCDC, SCB, State Registrars of Cooperative
Societies (RCS), Cooperative Federations, PACS, PMS, and other PCS. These
are discussed in Chapter II. Some others of major significance are:
-   National Cooperative Union of India, established in 1929 for
promotion, research, education, training, national and inter-
national liaison, public relations, and dissemination of
information.
-   National Dairy Development Board (NDDB), set up by GOI in 1965
to provide technical, engineering, research, training advisory
and support services for development of India's dairy industry.
NDDB, in conjunction with its financial affiliate the Indian
Dairy Corporation, concentrates on extending finance and services
to cooperative dairy development projects. Recently, NDDB has
also become active in the promotion of oilseed production and
processing.
-   National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of ineia,
established in 1958 as an apex national body of several State
Marketing Federations to assist in marketing of farm produce,
distribution of consumer goods, and supply of farm machinery
and inputs.
Cooperatives and Agro-Industry
1.28    In recent years, Cooperative Societies have become active in process-
ing of a number of agricultural commodities.  They are, among others,
involved in the production of fertilizers, compound animal feed, milled rice,
sugar, tea, lint cotton, cotton yarn, and edible oils. Cotton processing is
an area in which cooperatives have been quite active. The first cooperative
spinning mill was establishad in 1966. Now, 39 mills are run by Weavers'
Cooperatives and 27 by Cotton Growers' Cooperatives (CGC). Most cooperative
spinning mills and ginneries are run by PCS, but in some cases, SCMF own and
operate mills as well. In some cotton producing States, State Cooperative
Spinning Mill Federations assist in setting up new mills, provide technical
assistance to existing mills, and coordinate the activities of cooperative
mills in the State. The All india Federation of Cooperative Spinning Mills
offers a number of engineering, management, quality control and testing, and
research services to the cooperatives.
1.29    Oil extraction is another important agro-processing activity for
Cooperative Societies. The oldest cooperative oil processing plant, located
in Maharashtra has hbn Qperating siz.ce 1964. There are now about 40
cooperative solvent extraction units in operation and eight more are under



-10-
construction.  In addition, numerous small expeller mills are also coopera-
tively owned and operated.  While most oil mills are private businesses,
about 12% of registered cottonseed crushing capacity is cooperatively owned.
Cooperative Societies have only recently become active in soybean oil extrac-
tion and they now own about 5% of total oil extraction capacity.
Performance
1.30    The performance of Cooperative Societies varies substantially from
State to State and from one activity to another. Agricultural credit
activities at the village level have generally had very mixed results (paras
2.17-2.20). Still, many PACS in States with a strong agricultural base
function well and make a substantial contribution to agricultural develop-
ment. Indian cooperative dairy activities are recognized as an example of
successful cooperative organization all over the world. Cooperatives are a
major force in the Indian fertilizer industry. Yet some other cooperatively
owned agro-industrial concerns are not nearly so successful.
1.31    In cotton ginning and spinning, the performance of Cooperative
Societies is much like that of the rest of the industry, variable. In gin-
ning, Cooperative Societies often operate better than average ginneries
because they tend to be newer and thus have more modern equipment. Some of
the cooperative spinning mills are among the best anywhere in the country,
while others do not match this performance.  In oilseed processing, the
Cooperative Societies have recently taken a new direction, and attempted much
more ambitious, and more economically viable undertakings.
1.32    The performance of the cooperatives often depends on their success
in solving problems of ineffective management. In some activities such as
village level storage and credit, resources are often insufficient to
properly train and pay managers. In others, particularly agro-processing,
Cooperative Societies are under pressure to pay less than competitive
salaries to managers and sometimes to accept political appointees in manage-
ment positions. Under the project, a number of steps would be taken to
improve cooperative management.
Previous Bank Group Involvement in Related Activities
1.33    In their continued efforts to increase agricultural production, GOI
and GOS have given a high priority to making inputs and credit readily avail-
able to farmers. Because of the long standing institutional involvement of
the cooperative movement in these activities, GOI and GOS rely on it as an
important part of the network for delivering these services. Also, with the
substant'al progress India has made toward self-sufficiency in food, the need
to balance support for production with improvement of post-harvest facilities
has become apparent. GOI has encouraged the Cooperative Societies to take on
many of these activities, and the Bank Group has supported a number of GOI
undertakings in this area.
1.34    Through a series of credit projects, ARDC I-IV (Cr. 540-IN PPAR
#2702, Cr. 715-IN PPAR #3518, Cr. 947-IN and Cr. 1209/Ln 2095), the Bank
Group funded term credit for on-farm investments to oe provided through
Cooperative and Commercial banks. Although the schemes financed met with



-11-
considerable difficulties in recovering on loans, GOI and GOS are increasing
their efforts to collect overdues and thus recycle the funds disbursed.
1.35    Beginning in 1973, the Bank Group has participated in four coopera-
tive dairy projects implemented by NDDB and IDC (Cr. 482, Cr. 521, Cr. 522,
Cr. 824). These projects have been quite successful (para 1.30) and are
cited as exemplary cooperative projects. More recently, through the NCDC I
and II Projects, IDA funded rural godown and cold storage infrastructure
(Chapter III).
1.36    To improve the food distribution system and minimize seasonal and
inter-regional price variations by building buffer stocks, LnA provided funds
(Cr. 267-IN, PPAR #3751) to the Food Corporation of India, for the construc-
tion of 90,000 tons of conventional warehouse capacity and 100,000 tons of
silo storage. The project has achieved its objective of providing needed
storage facilities for the Food Corporation of India (FCI), but due to delays
in contracting for a high technology construction method cost overruns
occured and only five of the ten envisaged silos were built. The lesson
learnt from this project is that traditional storage technology using godowns
procured under competitive bidding procedures advertised locally might have
been the preferable choice. A second grain storage project (Cr. 747-IN),
financing construction of conventional bag warehouses (1 M tons) also for
FCI, is now under implementation, and should be completed by June 1985.
1.37    To improve cotton production and to maximize recovery of useful
products from cotton activities, IDA funded cotton production enhancement
and cotton ginning and seed crushing facilities (Cr. 610-IN) in Haryana,
Punjab, and Maharashtra. The ginning component of the project promoted the
use of modern saw ginning technology to replace roller gins. The project
was successfully completed in March 1984 and the completion report is now
being prepared.
II. PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
The National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) and its Role in
the Agricultural Credit System
2.01    NCDC is an all-India public undertaking established under the
National Cooperative Development Corporation Act, 1962. Its main objectives
are to promote and finance projects and programs carried out by agricultural
and agro-industrial Cooperative Societies. Under the Act, NCDC is authorized
to advance loans, provide grants and subsidies, and participate in the share
capital of cooperative enterprises with inter-State activities. Within these
broad limits of authority, NCDC has promoted projects involving grain
storage, sugar factories, oil extraction, ginneries, spinning mills, dis-
tribution of fertilizer and other inputs, marketing of agricultural produce
and trade of consumer goods in rural areas. NCDC provides direct equity
participation in some cooperative ventures with inter-state activities, in
others, it provides loans to GOS for equity participation in cooperative
investment projects. It also channels loan funds tnrough SCB and SLDB and
provides technical assistance to banks and Cooperative Societies to ensure
that these investments are used and operated efficiently. Thus, NCDC's role
is not limited to pure investment financing, but also includes furnishing



-12-
technical and managerial support to the investors during the course of sub-
project implementation and in the operational phase. NCDC has, over the
years, acquired considerable experience in the technical and managerial
aspects of the implementation of agro-processing projects. Among others,
NCDC has undertaken implementation of several large projects funded by inter-
national agencies. Total NCDC disbursements in the three years from 1980/81
to 1982/83 amounted to Rs 1,065 M (US$98.6 M) for agro-processing and Rs 718
M (US$66.5 M) for rural storage projects.
2.02    NCDC is governed by a General Council of 51 with responsibility for
policy and a Board of Management of 12 members with responsibility for
general management. NCDC's Managing Director is its chief executive. He is
supported by a General Manager, a Financial Advisor, a Specialists' Pool and
five Chief Directors in charge of storage and marketing, processing,
industries, consumer goods, and weaker sections (tribal population, harijans
and landless laborers). NCDC has a staff of about 450, including more than
100 specialists in cooperative management and technical aspects of
agro-industry. NCDC has seven Regional Offices and four Project Offices in
the States.
2.03    In contrast to NCDC's activities in project lending for the coopera-
tive sector, the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD)
has sole national level responsibility for refinancing agricultural credit to
Cooperative and Commercial Banks. The agricultural credit system includes
the banks in the cooperative structure, which handle about 58% of the credit
business. At the State level, cooperative banks include the SCB which
provide short-term lending and the State Land Development Banks (SLDB) which
handle long-term lending. The Commercial Banks and Regional Rural Banks
handle about 42% of the business and operate outside the cooperative struc-
ture. Chart 26083 details the links between the various institutions in the
agricultural credit system. NABARD is responsible for inspection of coopera-
tive banks, for guiding and strengthening all agricultural credit delivery
and for monitoring effective implementation of NABARD refinanced investments
for on-farm development. NABARD refinances annually more than one million
subloans to individual farmers, and the sheer volume of these activities
makes them difficult to monitor. NCDC lends through some of the same finan-
cial intermediaries (SCB and SLDB). There are two important differences in
the way NCDC lends which make it highly improbable that the repayment perfor-
mance of the loans and control over the use of funds would be as poor as that
of the whole agricultural credit system. Subloans to be financed by NCDC
through State level banks are channeled to Cooperative Societies for produc-
tive investments undertaken by them. Subloans do not go to individual
farmers, thus the ability and incentive to repay are much greater. Secondly,
the number of subloans is much smaller, only about 8,000 subloans would be
made under the project in five years. All subprojects would be thoroughly
appraised before subloan commitment (paras 6.03-6.05) and monitored during
and after implementation (para 6.14).
NCDC's Sources of Funds and Lending Operations
2.04    NCDC'B funds consist of grants and loans from GOI, retained earnings,
and borrowings from the market. The first of such market borrowings was made
in 1974/75; further issues of Rs 1,390 M (US$128.7 M) followed and bonds
outstanding amounted to Rs 1,417 M (US$131.2 M) as of March 31, 1983, while



-13-
borrowings from GOI totalled Rs 1,909 M (US$176.8 M).  The capital account
(called NCD Fund Account) had a cumulative balance including reserves of
Rs 823.5 M (US$76.3 M). NCDC's debt:equity ratio currently stands at 4:1 and
would rise to about 9:1 by 1988/89. However, NCDC's lending has a very low
risk factor since all loans to SCB and SCMF are guaranteed by the GOS con-
cerned, therefore this high gearing is considered satisfactory. NCDC's
Comparative Balance Sheets, Statements of Income and Expenditure and Sources
and Application of Funds are summarized in Annex 6, Tables 1-3. As the
figures show, NCDC's operating results have been quite impressive. Interest
income increased from Rs 43 M (US$4.0 M) in 1975/76 to Rs 298 M (US$27.6 M)
in 1982/83. Excess of income over expenditure also increased during this
period from Rs 10 M (US$0.9 M) to Rs 35.3 M (US$3.3 M).  However, with the
increased activities NCDC would undertake during project implementation in
terms of advising investors, reviewing subproject appraisals, monitoring
construction progress and operations of project facilities, and in terms of
training involvement, the present margin of 0.75% would not be sufficient to
cover the costs NCDC would have to incur. Under the project it would be
increased to 2.5% for loans for agro-processing facilities and 1% for rural
storage facilities (para 5.23).
2.05    NCDC lends funds to GOS and client cooperatives.  NCDC's loan par-
ticipation in individual capital investments has ranged from 50% to 75% of
total costs, the balance being met by borrowing Cooperative Societies, by GOS
as loans and share capital, or by SCB as loans.
2.06    NCDC lends for two categories of schemes--Centrally (GOI) Sponsored
Schemes and NCDC Sponsored Schemes. Programs promoted by GOI include margin
money for fertilizer distribution, special programs for underdeveloped States
and investments in agro-industries. Most lending under the proposed project
would fall into this GOI sponsored category. NCDC schemes include storage,
distribution of agricultural inputs, and marketing of outputs and consumer
goods. NCDC also finances from its own funds, as grants, numerous promo-
tional activities, including training programs. The institution building
component of this project would fall into the latter category.
2.07    Loans outstanding at March 31, 1983, totalled Rs 3,698 M
(US$342.4 M). About 79% of this was owed by GOS, 19% by SCB and 2% by other
cooperative institutions. Equity participation in national level and
inter-State Cooperative Societies on March 31, 1983 amounted to Rs 29.9 M
(US$2.8 M). NCDC's loan recovery record has been excellent. Recovery
against total demand was 99% in each of the three years 1981/82-1983/84.
Because of this excellent repayment record and because all lending is guaran-
teed by GOS, there is no reserve specifically designated for bad debts.
After meeting repayment obligations to GOI on NCDC's own borrowing, loan
repayments by borrowers are recycled by further lending. The annual cash
inflow from loan repayments between 1983/84 and 1990/91 is expected to
average Rs 507.3 M (US$47.0 14).
State Cooperative Banks (SCB)
2.08    The SCB in each State is the apex institution in the three-tier short
and medium-term cooperative credit structure. The SCB of eight of the nine
project States would participate as financial intermediaries (para 2.10).
All DCCB within a State are shareholders in the apex SCB, and provide short



-14-
and medium-term funds for credit to the village level Cooperative Societies
based on limits prescribed by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). Besides
serving as bankers to their member DCCB and Cooperative Federations in the
State, SCB do general banking business, arrange for the supervision and
inspection of DCCB, and provide training facilities. SCB and DCCB compete
with Commercial Banks for deposits, but, by virtue of their lending to DCCB
and PACS on the lower levels, they are the major institutional source of
short-term credit to small farmers. SCB borrowings from NABARD usually
constitute 20-50% of the funds advanced to DCCB and other borrowers in
project States. They have been reasonably profitable and their own funds,
deposits and lending have generally grown faster than the inflation rate.
This trend is expected to continue.
2.09    The Board of Directors/Management Committee of the SCB, which
includes the Registrar and State nominees, sets policy guidelines for opera-
tions. The Managing Director as chief executive is appointed by the Board
with the approval of RCS. The present Managing Directors of SCB in all
project States are GOS o-ficers on deputation, and are generally competent
and experienced with cooperatives. They recognize the need for further
improvements of SCB organization and operational procedures and are currently
implementing the recommendations worked out by consultants financed under
NCDC II. These efforts are mainly directed toward strengthening Long-Term
Loan Departments and setting up Organization and Methods Departments.
2.10    SCB credit operations are in general carried out on a sounder footing
than those of other lending institutions because most lending operations are
short-term, where incentives for beneficiaries to repay are greater due to
the seasonally recurring need for inputs. Recovery performance of SCB in the
project States is satisfactory. The percentage of overdues to total demand
for all participating SCB is lower than 1OZ. Eligibility criteria for par-
ticipation of SCB in the project would be increased from those applied to the
NCDC II Project (para 5.10). However, these eligibility criteria have still
been set somewhat lower than what the SCB are now achieving to allow them the
flexibility to continue onlending activities when the recovery performance
would temporarily fall below current levels in cases of bad harvests. The
Government of West Bengal has proposed to use, as under the NCDC II project,
the SLDB West Bengal as onlending channel for the 1,150 loans planned under
the project for storage investments by PACS and PMS in West Bengal
(paras 2.11-2.13). While SCB lending to lower level cooperative banks is now
limited to short and medium-term funds, they have been chosen to onlend
long-term to PCS under the project. The reasons for using SCB rather than
the regular long-term lending channel, the SLDB, are primarily: (i) GOI and
GOS wished to develop long-term lending capabilities in the SCB so as to
diversify long-term lending sources; (ii) the SCB, because of their access to
rural savings, are generally much stronger financial institutions; (iii) the
SCB have a well established relationship with the PCS who are the final
borrowers from other lending activities, while the SLDB only have experience
lending to individuals through Primary Land Development Banks (PLDB).
State Land Development Banks (SLDB)
2.11    SLDB are the apex cooperative institutions engaged in long-term
lending for agriculture in contrast to SCB which lend short and medium-term
funds (paras 2.08-2.10), and other than Commercial Banks are the only source



-15-
of long-term credit to individual farmers. SLDB function through branches or
affiliated Primary Land Development Banks (PLDB). They provide development
loans for periods up to 15 years, mostly refinanced by NABARD. Each farmer
who wishes to obtain a loan from either a PLDB or an SLDB must become a
cooperative member.
2.12    The SLDB West Bengal was chosen as financial intermediary for the
rural storage investments by PACS because no other cooperative institution
is available, and GOI and GOS West Bengal accord high priority to the godown
construction program envisaged under the project.  Given the importance of
the investment, this program should be carried out in spite of SLDB West
Bengal's current unsatisfactory financial position if SLDB West Bengal con-
siderably improves its recovery performance in the near future.  To ensure
this, as a condition for commitment of NCDC funds, SLDB West Bengal would
have to meet annual recovery targets (Annex 4). NCDC would monitor the
activities of SLDB West Bengal to ensure that the project is properly imple-
mented.
2.13    The SLDB West Bengal's recovery performance deteriorated between
1978179 and 1981/82 as the following figures show:
1978179   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83
Z of Overdues to demand      34.6      37.0       52.4      65.7       61.4
There are now signs of improvement, however, and GOS West Bengal and the new
SLDB Managing Director expect that overdues will drop to less than 50% at the
end of 1983/84 because: (i) the climatic conditions to guarantee good har-
vests were exceptionally good; (ii) GOS West Bengal's commitment to financial
discipline in the credit system has much improved; and (iii) SLDB West Bengal
has embarked on a rehabilitation program worked out in consultation with
NABARD to improve operations and recoveries. Because SLDB West Bengal's
current financial position is weaker than that of SCB in other project
States, NCDC would monitor the project much more closely in West Bengal.
State Cooperative Narketinx Federations (SCMF)
2.14    SCMF provide statewise wholesale marketing services through Regional
Cooperative Marketing Societies (RCMS), PMS and PACS. Procurement, storage,
processing and distribution of agricultural inputs and agricultural produce
account for most of their business volume. Each SCMF is governed by its
general body of members and a Board of Directors with the Managing Director
as member. The Engineering Divisions of SCNF in the project States would be
actively involved in supervising construction of project facilities (para
6.06).
Primary Marketina Societies (PMS)
2.15    PMS distribute farm inputs and market and process agricultural
produce at the block and market levels. Both PCS, as societies, and
individual farmers may join PMS and use their services. PMS provide
wholesale marketing services to PACS and some basic marketing services
directly to farmer members. The largest share of their business is the sale



-16-
of consumer goods, followed by agricultural inputs, particularly fertilizers,
which PMS usually handle as agents of the SCMF. PMS compete with private
traders but do business mostly in areas where private traders do not provide
adequate services.
2.16    During recent years, PMS have been able to expand substantially.
Membership in the project States between 1978/79 and 1981/82 increased by
about 3% p.a. While share capital rose by 8.5% p.a., at an annual growth
rate of 38%, PMS sales of consumer goods increased more rapidly. Fertilizer
sales expanded at 16% p.a., and sales of agricultural produce (excluding UP)
increased at almost 6% p.a. (Annex 10).
Primary Agricultural Credit Societies (PACS)
2.17    PACS form the basis of the cooperative movement in rural India.
Operating at the village level, they are the first tier of both the coopera-
tive credit and marketing structure in the State, although in most cases they
provide their members with short-term credit only. Gradually, the functions
of the PACS have expanded from provision of credit to offering a number of
diversified services. New activities include stocking and retailing of
agricultural inputs and essential consumer items, and the purchase of
foodgrains. Recently, some PACS have also collected savings deposits from
members. Each PACS is a member of a DCCB, which is the source of most of
its finance. However, to promote lending-in-kind by PACS, DCCB have also
supported the farm input supply system and other operations of PACS
affiliated with them.
2.18    The weaknesses of the PACS and other PCS include inadequate manage-
ment, unclear supervision and ineffective administrative control, a limited
resource base, and narrowly focussed service package. Since 1973, to improve
the profitability of PACS and other PCS, GOI encouraged amalgamation to make
the business base sufficient to justify employing a qualified manager. In
the proposed project States, restructuring and consolidation has resulted in
a reduction in the number of PCS from 58,232 prior to the organization to
30,400 in 1982 (Annex 10). Reorganization is not complete, however, and
consolidation is proceeding.
2.19    Each PACS has a Management Board directing its business.  The Board
includes the Secretary/Manager paid from income, elected members, and nor-
mally three GOS nominees; the DCCB and other banks may also be represented.
The Board appoints a paid manager/secretary who, in consultation with the
President, carries out the day to day business. Smaller and financially weak
PACS may also operate with an honorary secretary. Other staff include an
accountant/clerk, storekeeper and helpers, depending on the nature and volume
of business undertaken. One weakness of the PACS is that often
manager/secretaries are not sufficiently qualified for their jobs. Under the
project, all participating PACS would employ a full-time paid manager,
suitably trained, to enable him to prepare the subproject report, monitor
construction progress, and manage the PACS new business efficiently and with
full accountability.
2.20    The PACS in the six rural storage project States have experienced a
dynamic development during recent years. Between 1978/79 and 1981/82 their
membership increased annually by 6.2% to a total of over 25 M members in



-17-
1982. Thus, in 1983, on average 57Z of all farm households were members of
PACS. The percentage for individual States varied from 36% in West Bengal to
97% in Karnataka (Annex 10). Membership is not compulsory, but since many
small farmers do not have access to credit from Commercial Banks, only their
membership in PACS guarantees them seasonal agricultural inputs. Share
capital and lending increased at 10.3Z and 12.7Z p.a., respectively. An
improved resource mobilization effort is reflected in the growth rate of
deposits of 15.1% p.a. over the period (Annex 10). Repayment performance of
PACS to DCCB is highly variable. Therefore, as under NCDC I and II, only
PACS which meet certain eligibility criteria would be eligible for lonZ-term
investment loans under the project. The eligibility criteria used under NCDC
I and II, as the limited experience with repayment performance for NCDC I
subloans shows, have worked quite successfully so far (para 3.02).
Cotton Growers' Cooperatives (CGC)
2.21   In 1919, cotton growers of Gadag (Karnataka) established the first CGC
to market their cotton. Today, Gujarat has the highest number (325) of CGC,
out of which 140 own ginning and pressing facilities. The sale of cotton
through Cooperative Societies is well developed in India. In 1982/83, about
30% of all cotton lint, a total of 2.4 M bales, was sold through Cooperative
Societies including SCMF. Of this, Maharashtra had the highest share (1.8 M
bales), followed by Gujarat (0.4 M bales). Cooperative involvement in cotton
trading in all other States is much smaller and adds up to 0.2 N bales only.
Over time, the functions of CGC have widened to suit each Society's needs.
CGC have developed their operations by providing credit, grading and ginning
seed cotton, and more recently, spinning cotton lint. Today, 29 cooperative
spinning mills are operated by CGC. GOI and GOS actively support integrated
development of CGC through loans and equity participation for cotton process-
ing facilities.
Cooperative Training
2.22   Since 1962, cooperative personnel in India have been trained in a
three-tier system administered by the National Council for Cooperative Train-
ing, an autonomous organization affiliated to the National Cooperative Union
of India. The Vaikunth Mehta National Institute of Management at Poona in
Maharashtra educates high level cooperative management staff. At the inter-
mediate level, 16 Cooperative Training Colleges offer standard higher diploma
courses in cooperation, cooperative marketing, consumers' cooperation and
accountancy. These colleges also have short-term functional courses,
workshops and seminars for personnel already in service. The Bankers' Train-
ing College, the College of Agricultural Banking, the RBI Staff College and
the FCI Staff Training College offer specialized training which is open to
SCB and other cooperative staff. At the PCS level, 77 Cooperative Training
Centers (CTC) offer cooperative training. Their activities are coordinated
at the State level by State Committees on Manpower Planning and Training
under the chairmanship of the RCS. Tne Managing Directors of the various
cooperative organizations, including SCB, are members. The CTC offer basic
courses of up to 24 weeks duration as well as short-term management courses
of 8 weeks duration in cooperative marketing, consumer cooperation, coopera-
tive banking and cooperative audit to newly recruited junior level personnel
in PCS and Government departments. CTC training activities have not always
been successful. Their courses tend to be academic in nature since they must



-18-
cater to staff from all types of cooperatives. As a result, graduates have
not been trained in important subjects directly related to their jobs. Since
physical facilities, particularly lodging, are unsatisfactory, the CTC are
not attractive to students. This problem is compounded by the inadequacy of
stipends which requires the students to make substantial outlays of their
own.  Furthermore, because they find it difficult to function without their
secretaries/managers, most Cooperatives Societies are reluctant to depute
their staff for training for long pezods.
2.23    The ongoing process of amalgamation of PACS is in itself not suffi-
cient to guarantee a healthy cooperative sector; it needs to be accompanied
by more clearly focussed, expanded and more effective training of staff of
PACS, cooperative banks and related institutions and most importantly
improvement of guidance and supervision of PACS to strengthen their manage-
ment. To improve the functioning of the entire cooperative sector to satis-
factory levels, a major long-term program is required. The proposed project
would undertake such a program for all PACS and Cooperative Societies
involved in the implemeutation of the various pro,ect components. It would
support the establishment of six ACSTI in the States participating in the
rural storage component and partially finance tuition fees and stipends for
all project staff (para 5.18). The six ACSTI would be required because the
existing CTC have to cater to the entire cooperative structure and therefore
cannot be reorganized to serve only the PCS involved in the proposed project.
If special courses would be introduced to serve project staff, the throughput
capacity would be too small to achieve the training targets. The proposed
project would, therefore, improve the functioning of CTC by upgrading their
teaching equipment. It would also finance training of the backlog of 4,800
out of 6,700 staff who operate godowns financed under NCDC I and II. These
staff were to have been trained by now, but have not been trained due to lack
of funds.
2.24    This institution building program under NCDC III would complement
NABARD's efforts to strengthen the agricultural credit delivery system. In
1984, NABARD has started a pilot project testing a new approach to improve
credit delivery at the farm level. The pilot project operates initially in
three districts in India to establish a contact between PACS secretaries and
newly appointed development officers in the DCCB whose tasks are to:
(i) train, assist and guide PACS secretaries and in that way strengthen the
operations of the PACS; and (ii) offer a channel of communication with higher
management of the lending banks. In addition, the secretaries participate
continually in a monthly one-day training which focusses on credit, technical
and management aspects pertinent to their job. If initial operations in
three districts prove successful, nine more districts would be added later.
III. PEKFORMANCE UNDER THE PREVIOUS NCDC PROJECTS
3.01    Since 1979, IDA has supported cooperative activities in India through
NCDC.  In 1979 and 1981, Credits of US$30 M (Cr. 871-IN) and US$125 M
(Cr. 1146-IN) were provided for NCDC I and II, respectively. NCDC I finances
the construction of 5,100 rural godownas and rehabilitation of a further 200
godowns in Haryana, Orissa and LU. NCDC II provides financing for 7,100
godowns in AP, Bihar, Himachal Pradesh, Maharashtra and Punjab and 100 potato
cold stores in the same States except AP, and in West Bengal.



-19-
3.02    The godown construction program under NCDC I has been executed well,
although the number of godowns was reduced by about 40Z due to cost overruns.
The revised program (para 3.01) is expected to be completed by June 30, 1984,
the project completion date. As of March 31, 1984 about 91% of the NCDC I
IDA Credit had been disbursed and all funds should be disbursed by Decem-
ber 31, 1984, the Closing Date. In 1983, the first payments fell due on
sub-loans made to PCS under the NCDC I project, and 1OOZ have been paid.
Besides regular IDA supervision, NCDC, in the framework of its ongoing
monitoring and evaluation program, is reviewing the godown construction under
NCDC I. So far, evaluation reports have been prepared for Haryana and UP and
a similar evaluation report for Orissa is under preparation. These evalua-
tion studies, as well as IDA supervision reports, indicate that the new
godowns have already had a substantial impact in the first few years of their
operation. Although only a limited number of godowns have been in operation
for more than one year, ex-post evaluation at this point indicates that there
has been a marked upward trend in membership, credit disbursements, sales of
fertilizer and consumer goods of the PACS concerned. While it is difficult
to clearly attribute the increased business activities solely to the con-
struction of the godowns, they certainly play an important role in the promo-
tion of the PACS activities. However, capacity utilization of the godowns
has increased at a slower pace than expected because PACS have sometimes been
excluded from grain procurement schemes, but State level institutions are now
taking measures to include the PACS. The godowns are appreciated by the
rural population because they create a focal point for cooperative activities
and make integrated services of credit, supply of farm inputs and basic
consumer goods more accessible. This is particularly beneficial to the rural
poor who often have no alternative sources of credit and consumer goods.
While the NCDC reports do not provide quantification of storage loss reduc-
tions, indications are that they are substantial. Apart from savings in
transport costs derived from using truck rather than bullock transport,
availability of inputs, especially of fertilizer in rural areas, appears to
have improved and fertilizer use has increased substantially as a result.
3.03    The NCDC II project has now, after a slow start, gained considerable
momentum in implementation. In view of higher than anticipated cost
increases, the rural storage as well as cold store components had to be
reduced by about 11% and 17% respectively. It is expected that the reduced
construction program will be completed within the project period, by June
1987. Implementation progress of the storage program has been very satisfac-
tory in sce States, while others have fallen significantly behind targets.
NCDC has taken steps to speed up implementation, particularly by strengthen-
ing staffing and improving the supply of materials for construction.
Shortage of cement and steel should be less acute in future. With the slow
start of project implementation, disbursements have fallen behind SAR projec-
tions. As of March 31, 1984 about US$28.0 M, equivalent to 24% of the IDA
Credit had been disbursed. However, it is expected that with the steps being
taken by NCDC, disbursements will speed up and be completed by the project
Closing Date and commitments, as of December 31, 1984, equal to 47% of the
total Credit, give evidence to this effect. Apart from the above mentioned
cost escalation, the major problem has been failure of SCB to apply strict
subproject appraisal criteria to the financially weaker PACS. Steps are
being taken to ensure that NCDC and SCB apply stricter subproject appraisal
criteria, particularly in the case of small and weak Primary Societies.
Measures are also being initiated to strengthen the training for



-20-
managers/secretaries and staff of the PACS. The proposed project would take
into account the experience gained under the NCDC I and II projects in
strengthening subproject appraisal criteria and including a substantially
enlarged training component which would also provide training for staff of
PACS constructing storage facilities under NCDC II.
IV. THE PROJECT AREA
4.01    The Project would encompass nine States (Map IBRD 18023), selected in
accordance with the GOI and GOS investment priorities directed toward promot-
ing development in backward rural areas through cooperatives. The rural
storage component of the project would include: Karnataka, MP, Orissa,
Rajasthan, UP and West Bengal (Map IBRD 18024). These are States which have
a strong enough cooperative system to support the program and in which a need
for expansion of capacity has been identified. The soybean component would
include the five soybean growing districts of Rajastban and 15 soybean grow-
ing districts of MP (Map IBRD 18025). The cotton processing component (Map
IBRD 18046) would include AP, Haryana, Karnataka, Rajasthan, and Maharashtra.
The institution building component would cover all nine project States and
national institutions in New Delhi.
Soybean Component
4.02    In Rajasthan, the project area for the soybean component of the
project would include five districts in the southeastern region of the State.
The project area in MP would comprise fifteen districts in the west central
section of the State. These areas have been chosen because they have
agronomic potential for successful soybean cultivation. All project areas
are rainfed except for parts of two districts in Rajasthan. In the irrigated
areas paddy is the most remunerative crop, and farmers tend to plant as much
of it as availability of irrigation water permits. However, there is not
always sufficient water to meet crop irrigation demands, and this has
encouraged cultivation of crops with lower water requirements, among them
soybeans. In the irrigated districts, much land once devoted to coarse
cereals with low water requirements is now planted to soybeans because it is
more profitable, and this crop substitution is expected to continue further.
Currently, soybean yields in the irrigated area average 1.0 ton/ha and could
increase to 1.5 ton/ba. In rainfed areas in MP, soybeans have been cul-
tivated on heavy black soils that were previously left fallow during the
Kharif season, by making minor investments in improved surface drainage, and
this practice is expected to expand in the project areas. On light soils in
Rajasthan and MP, hectarage under soybeans would also increase througha more
intensive cultivation of lands now left fallow during the Kharif season, and
substitution of soybean for jowar on unirrigated lands. Currently, soybean
yields in rainfed areas average only about 0.8 ton/ha but could increase to
1.2 ton/ha. Only about 20Z of the total area under soybeans is now under
improved varieties.
Cotton Component
4.04    India's cotton productivity is low, about 170 kg of lint/ha.  The
main reasons for this low productivity are undependable precipitation (about
70% of cotton area is rainfed) and losses due to pests and diseases. None-
theless, yields have risen over the last decade, mainly through use of



-21-
improved varieties, better pest control and new cultivation on irrigated
lands. Between 1950/51 and 1980/81 production increased by about 130%,
mainly from yield increases. In total, Indian cotton production is expected
to continue to increase 13% over the next five years by bringing new areas
under irrigation and increasing productivity.
4.05    The cotton component includes parts of five States:  AP, Haryana,
Karnataka, Maharashtra and Rajasthan. In AP, the project area would be
located in the Guntur district. There, over 57% of the cultivable land is
now irrigated. In 1983/84, 100,000 ha were planted to cotton and this is
expected to expand substantially in the future, as irrigated area increases.
Cotton yields average about 379 kg of lint/ha in irrigated conditions. Cur-
rently, 78% of the lint produced in the State is in the long to superior long
category (28-35 mm). In Haryana, the project area would be in the Hissar
district, where a total of 375,000 ha are irrigated either by canal or
tubewell. In 1982/83, over 188,000 ha were planted to cotton. Average
cotton yields are 386 kg of lint/ha on irrigated land. About 71% of the
cotton produced in Haryana is of superior medium staple length (22 mm to 24
mm). In Karnataka, the project area would include the Annigeri and Hubli
sections of the Dharwar district. Dharwar is the second largest cotton
growing district in the State, and the area under cotton is 241,000 ha. In
the State, yields on irrigated and rainfed land average 379 kg and 109 kg of
lint/ha respectively. About 61% of the lint produced in the State falls into
the superior medium staple length (22 to 24 mm) category. In Maharashtra,
the project areas would include five districts: Wardha, Yavatmal, Jalna,
Buldana and Jalgaon. Area planted to cotton in Maharashtra is substantial,
about 34Z of the total in the country. However, yields are low, about 95 kg
of lint/ha. About two-thirds of the lint now produced in Maharashtra is of
long to superior long staple length (28-35 mm). In Rajasthan, the cotton
project area would be in the Ganganagar district. The area is irrigated by
the Rajasthan Canal, and about 270,000 ha are planted to cotton. Cotton
yields have increased substantially with the advent of irrigation and now
average about 270 kg of lint/ha. In the State, about 54% of total cotton
produced is classified as superior medium staple (22-24 mm).
4.06    Together, the project States account for over 55Z of Indian cotton
production. Each of the project areas was chosen as one which had substan-
tial cotton production relative to available processing capacity. In
Rajasthan, AP, and Karnataka, the project areas are those in which production
has increased very rapidly in the recent past due to new lands coming under
irrigation and introduction of improved varieties. New processing facilities
are required to meet this increase in production. In Maharashtra and
Haryana, the project areas are established cotton producing districts in
which production is expected to grow steadily. Even though there are avail-
able processing facilities, there is still a need for additional capacity.
V. THE PROJECT
Project Genesis
5.01    The first IDA Credit supporting the Indian cooperative movement
through NCDC was made in 1979 which financed construction of rural godowns.
A second followed in 1981 for rural godowns and potato cold storage. Since



-22-
then, NCDC has identified a need for more rural storage and a stronger invol-
vement in agro-processing. Therefore, project feasibility studies were
prepared in April 1983, and a request for financing was forwarded through GOI
in August 1983. The proposed project is based on NCDC feasibility reports
and the findings of a September/October 1983 preappraisal and a Novem-
ber/December 1983 appraisal mission.
Project Objectives and Rationale
5.02    The project would be a continuation and expansion of the preceding
two IDA supported NCDC projects and aims at:
-  promoting development in rural areas through expansion and
improvement of the agricultural input and produce storage and
marketing system and reducing grain losses;
-  substituting edible oil imports through expanding and strength-
ening processing of locally produced oil seeds;
-  modernizing and increasing the efficiency and quality of
cooperatively run ginning and spinning mills; and
-  institution building, particularly promoting and strengthening
cooperatives through an intensive training program.
5.03    Each project component aims at improving the efficiency of a certain
cooperative activity and in each of these components, Bank Group involvement
has a specific contribution to make. For rural storage, the Bank would
support GOI's program for expanding storage capacity in remote rural areas
where private investors tend not to invest. In soybean production and
processing, the Bank would promote use of improved technology and efficiently
sized facilities. In cotton spinning and ginning, through Bank involvement,
project investments would be designed to improve product quality and
efficiency of operations by improved plant design, promoting improved ginning
techniques and demonstrating the advantages of higher quality lint, and more
rational use of labor in spinning operations. Furthermore, problems in
India's textile sector would be addressed by initiating a dialogue between
GOI and the Bank on the appropriate steps to be taken to improve sectoral
performance. Finally, the institution building component would support
necessary efforts at improving the quality of cooperative management in all
the activities with which the project would be involved.
5.04    The rural storage component aims at providing timely supplies of
inputs and produce marketing services to less developed regions of the par-
ticipating States. Together with agricultural credit and extension, the
storage and marketing facilities would form the third vital element of an
effective support system for adoption of modern input use. At the same time,
the additional storage would strengthen GOI's food procurement and consumer
goods distribution system. Storage facilities would provide less accessible
villages in project States with a center for agricultural activities, and
thereby strengthen the role of village Cooperative Societies in promoting
rural development.



-23-
5.05    The soybean and cottonseed oil extraction facilities financed would
increase domestic production of edible oil, now imported in large quantities.
The high protein cake produced in the oil extraction process would be mainly
exported, thereby earning valuable foreign exchange. Under the project,
improved seeds would be produced and distributed as a part of an improved
input package. This, together with promotion of soybean cultivation and
provision of a guaranteed market for soybeans would increase soybean produc-
tion and thereby farm productivity and incomes. Since soybean is a new
oilseed crop still to be developed, it is critical that processing facilities
be installed in the soybean growing areas as production is promoted. This is
particularly important for soybeans because, except for limited direct domes-
tic consumption of traditional varieties, there is no alternative to crushing
the beans for oil. In the early stages of soybean development, there was
such a critical need for processing facilities that many small uneconomic
units were set up. But such a situation cannot persist over the long run.
The crop has taken sufficient hold to start rationalizing the industry and
planning capacity which is technically and economically appropriate. Project
investments would contribute to this goal by installing from the outset
modern, efficient processing facilities in new soybean areas. Using the
cooperative structure would facilitate this since the operators of the
processing plants can rely on the Oilseed Growers Cooperatives (OSCS) to
coordinate production development and raw material procurement, thereby
making large plants viable.
5.06    While processing facilities provide an incentive to grow soybeans,
to ensure production response, adequate supplies of seeds must also be avail-
able. Currently, in both Rajasthan and NP, there is an urgent need for
improved seeds of high genetic quality and viability. Production of improved
seeds is far below estimated needs in the two States, based on existing
hectarage alone, without considering additional needs if the cropped area is
to expand. The SSC facilities in Rajasthan and MP are fully utilized in
producing other types of seed and are unable to increase production of
soybean seeds. Private seed processors have shown little interest in branch-
ing into soybeans. Therefore, to provide adequate supplies of this input
critical to increasing productivity, facilities for soybean seed processing
would be financed under this project.
5.07    The ginning and spinning component aims at initiating a long term
rehabilitation and modernization of the cooperative cotton processing sector.
Project investments in ginneries would improve lint quality and thus permit
production of higher quality yarn at lower processing costs. This would
involve:  (I) installing ginning equipment technically suited to locally
produced cotton varieties (para 1.12) in ginneries of an economical size,
capable of supporting full time professional management, and (ii) investments
in cleaning equipment required to produce good quality lint.
5.08    The spinning component would improve the efficiency of cooperative
spinning activities by installing new mills with substantially improved
equipment, mill design and management. Measures would be taken to improve
labor productivity by deploying the labor force more rationally, training
workers, and upgrading the work environment. These project mills would serve
as examples to the sector as a whole and as small scale training centers for
other cooperatives in the region.



-24-
5.09    Project supported institution building would improve the functioning
of the cooperative system. This would be achieved by ensuring that qualified
professionals would be employed at all levels of management in project
institutions (para 6.06) and by providing practical, job-related training to
management and other core staff. In rural storage, this would entail provi-
sion of appropriate, accessible training for secretary/managers and warehouse
managers of Cooperative Societies. For the larger processing units, in
addition to the training of management staff, plant managers would be
recruited competitively and paid competitive salaries to attract and retain
the best management talent. To ensure that Cooperative Societies have a
sufficient stake in their own enterprises and the independence to run them,
there would be a specific timetable for purchase of GOS equity by Cooperative
Societies in project investments (para 5.22).
Project Description
5.10    The project would be a credit project.  Individual subprojects would
be appraised by SCB (paras 2.08-2.10) and, in West Bengal, by the SLDB (paras
2.11-2.13) based on guidelines set out in Annex 5. NCDC would assist and
participate in appraisal. At appraisal NCDC would decide jointly with SCB
whether it would be necessary to employ engineering and/or management con-
sultants. If consultants are required, NCDC would ensure that they would
have appropriate qualifications. Detailed eligibility criteria for par-
ticipating institutions are provided in Annex 4. From a number of proposed
alternative locations, preliminary sites for agro-processing facilities have
been chosen (Maps IBRD 18024, 18025 and 18046). The selection is based on
consideration of raw materials availability, suitability of land, services
and surrounding infrastructure, and proximity to markets. Final site selec-
tion would be made at subproject appraisal. Evaluation of a number of potenr
tial sites suggests that there are sufficient appropriate sites in each
project State.
Rural Storage
5.11    In the rural storage component, about 7,800 godowns of sizes varying
between 50 and 10,000 tons and with a total capacity of 1.37 M tons would be
constructed in six States: Karnataka, MP, Orissa, Rajasthan, UP and West
Bengal. These godowns would be used for stocking and marketing of agricul-
tural inputs (fertilizers, seeds and pesticides), agricultural produce
(foodgrains, oilseeds, cash crops), and essential consumer goods.
Soybean Production and Processing
5.12    Soybean Production.  To promote soybean production, Oilseed Growers
Cooperative Societies (OSCS) would be established in areas of NP and
Rajasthan with good production potential. For the purpose of promoting these
Cooperative Societies, the SCNF (para 2.14) in Rajasthan (RAJFED) and the MP
State Cooperative Oilseed Growers' Federation (OILFED) would establish
Cooperative Development Services (CDS). The CDS would be responsible for
providing farmers with an improved input package including improved seed,
fertilizer and fungicides. They would go into the project areas to promote
soybean production, and help farmers to form OSCS. OILFED and RAJFED would
purchase all soybeans offered by OSCS members. The CDS would coordinate
OILFED and RAJFED procurement of soybeans from growers by communicating



-25-
expected production levels and arranging for transportation. Vehicles and
equipment for CDS, incremental staff expenditure, operating cost for CDS and
seconduent of a Secretary/Manager to the OSCS for the first two years of
operation would be financed. Technical advice on soybean cultivation would
be the responsibility of the Extension Service operated by DOA, not of the
CDS.
5.13    Seed Processing.  Three seed processing plants would be constructed
under the project, two in MP and one in Rajasthan to be owned and operated by
OILFED and RAJFED, respectively. Decentralized plants would be constructed
to reduce transportation costs and to avoid the difficulty in operating the
very large cold store that would be required for a single plant satisfying
all soybean requirements for the project areas.
5.14    Soybeau Oil Extraction. To ensure a ready outlet for increased
soybean production, four solvent oil extraction plants would be constructed
in each of the project areas of Rajasthan (one) and MP (three).  They would
be designed to use modern oil processing technology and operate at an effi-
cient size of 200 tons of soybean throughput per day for 300 days per year.
They would produce crude, degummed soybean oil and high protein cake.
Cotton Processing
5.15    Ginning.  Eleven ginneries using two different technologies, saw
ginning and roller ginning models, each appropriate for different staple
length cottons, would be financed. In each of the two models, the design of
material handling, seed cotton and lint cleaning, and precision ginning and
baling processes would be specified to produce high quality lint in environ-
mentally safe conditions. In both Haryana and Rajasthan, two ginneries, each
producing 5,440 tons of lint p.a. would be constructed. In each of these
States, one ginnery would be attached to a spinning mill and one to a cotton-
seed oil extraction plant. In Maharashtra, two ginneries producing 5,440
tons of lint p.a., one attached to a spinning mill and another free-standing,
as well as two free-standing ginneries (3,570 tons annual capacity) would be
constructed. In Karnataka and AP, three ginneries, each with 5,440 tons
annual capacity would be constructed: one in AP attached to a spinning mill;
and two in Karnataka, one attached to a spinning mill and another to an oil
extraction plant. The ginneries in Maharashtra, AP and Karnataka would be
equipped with saw gins or roller gins, depending on the results of tests
currently being undertaken. The different technology would be used to accomr-
modate the longer staple length cottons which are grown in these States. All
ginneries would be equipped with modern baling presses.
5.16    Spinning.  One spinning mill would be financed in each of the five
States. Ringframe spinning mills with about 25,000 spindles each would be
financed in Naharashtra, Karnataka and AP. In Haryana and Rajasthan,
open-end spinning mills would be installed. All spinning mills would produce
lOOZ cotton yarn only and use technology designed to fully utilize the clean
lint provided by project ginneries to produce high quality yarn in environ-
mentally safe conditions. While the mills would be equipped with modern
machinery, consideration would be given to the need to maintain a proper
balance between labor and capital intensive production technology. Spinning
mill operations would introduce important innovations in the use of labor.



-26-
The labor force would be about half that in existing spinning mills of com-
parable size. Although the manning per spindle would still be above interna-
tional standards, it represents a substantial improvement over standards
prevailing in India. While reducing the total mill labor force, the plant
would be manned on a four shift basis. Since workers have no planned off
days in a three shift system, they simply take off days on a random basis.
Mill managers never know how many workers will come to work on any given day,
and therefore need a large standby labor force. Because of the reduced
absenteeism and rationalization of production planning that a four shift
system would permit, worker productivity would still increase sufficiently to
permit higher monthly wages to be paid to workers in all four shifts.
In-plant training would be provided as well; this would not only ensure an
adequately trained labor force, but also facilitate proper job grading and a
job ladder to reward the better workers. This training would be given on
separate equipment handling the whole production line on a small scale.
There, new workers could learn their jobs without costly disruptions of
normal production activities. Besides recruiting qualified managers, project
mills would also implement improved management techniques.
5.17    Cottonseed Oil Extraction.  Four cottonseed oil extraction plants of
100 tons throughput per day would be constructed. These plants would be
located in major cotton producing areas of Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Karnataka
and Haryana. It is proposed that three of the oilseed extraction plants be
combined with a ginnery which would directly transfer all ginned cottonseed
to the oil extraction plant. Only in Maharashtra would the oil extraction
plant be free-standing, because it would be located in an area where a number
of ginneries are already in operation. While much cottonseed in India is now
crushed using simple expeller processes without delinting and decortication,
project plants would have full preparatory lines and use solvent extraction
processes to extract the maximum amount of oil from the expeller cake.
Institution Building
5.18    It will be essential to the success of the project that all godowns,
processing plants and implementing agencies have technically qualified and
experienced staff. To ensure this, a training program for approximately
20,000 personnel of various categories in rural storage, for 1,000 staff in
cotton processing, and for 100 staff in soybean processing would be financed.
For the rural storage component, the program includes the construction of
physical facilities to provide accessible job related training that would be
mandatory for staff of project-financed storage facilities. It also includes
upgrading of trainers and the provision of self-study materials. Six
Agricultural Cooperative Staff Training Institutes (ACSTI) would be con-
structed or upgraded (para 2.23) and equipped, and inadequate equipment in
existing training facilities would be replaced. Finally, to complement the
training in ACSTI, mobile training units would be deployed. For the
agro-processing components middle and senior management staff of SCMF, CDS
and staff in all processing plants would be trained in appropriate Indian
Technical or Management Institutes. Tuition fees and stipends for all par-
ticipants in training courses would be financed through grants from NCDC, 50Z
of which would be reimbursed by IDA. In this way neither the Cooperative
Societies nor the trainees themselves would have to bear this financial
burden. In the same manner the ACSTI would finance training of a backlog of
about 4,800 staff operating godowns constructed under NCDC I and II (para



-27-
2.23). About 20 senior technical and management staff would receive techni-
cal training abroad. On the operative level, workers in spinning mills would
be trained in-house (para 5.16), whereas staff of soybean and cottonseed
crushing plants would be trained in plants already in operation.
Project Costs
5.19    Project costs over the five year period would be Rs 5,054 M
(US$468.0 M) of which Rs 432 M (US$40.0 M) would be duties and taxes. About
11.OZ, Rs 559 M (US$51.7 M) would be foreign exchange. Details of costs,
sunmarized below, are in Annex 1.



-28-
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIUE DEVELOPNT CORPORATION (NCDC) III PROJECT
-      PROJECT COST StUARY
(Rs Million)            (US$ million)                I Total
-__                       -      Foreign    Base
Local  Foreiun Total    Local Foreign Total  Exchange    Costs
A. RURAL STORAGE
NADHYA PRADESH                                 270.8    31.3   302.1   25.1       2.9  28.0         10         8
KARNATAKA                                      131.5    15.2   146.7   12.2       1.4  13.6         10         4
ORISSA                                         169.1    19.6   188.7   15.7       1.98  17.5        10         5
NEST BENGAL                                    142.5    16.5   158.9   13.2       1.5  14.7         10         4
UTTAR PRADESH                                  237.7    27.5   265.2   22.0       2.5  24.6         10         7
RAJASTHAN                                       65.7      7.6    73.3    6.1      0.7   6.8         10         2
Sub-Total RURAL STORAGE                          1,017.3   117.7 1,135.0   94.2    10.9 105.1          10        29
3. SOYBEAN PRODUCTION I PROCESSING
MADNYA PRADESH                                 743.4    63.8   807.3   69.8       5.9  74.7          0       20
RAJASTHAN                                      241.4    20.4   261.8   22.3       1.9  24.2          8         7
Sub-Total SOYBEkAN PRODUCTION I PROCESSING        984.9    84.2 14069.0   91.2       7.8  99.0          0        27
C. COTTON PROCESSING
KARNATAKA                                      356.0    48.8   405.6   33.0       4.5  37.6         12        10
MAHARASHTRA                                    372.6    57.3   429.9   34.5      5.3  39.8          13        11
HARYANA                                        293.4    56.6   350.0   27.2       5.2  32.4         16         9
RAASTHAN                                       292.8    57.1   350.0   27.1       5.3  32.4         16        9
ANINRA PRADESH                                 107.3    12.0   119.3    9,9       1.1  11.0         10        3
Sub-Total COTTON PROCESSING                     1,422.9   231.9 1,654.7  131.7    21.5 153.2           14        42
D. INSTITUTION BUILDING
DELHI (NCDC)                                    12.9      1.6    14.4    1.2      0.1   1.3         11        0
KARNATAKA                                       12.9      0.5    13.3    1.2      0.0   1.2          4        0
ANDHRA PRADESH                                   0.5      0.1     0.6    0.0      0.0   0.1         20        0
RAJASTHAN                                       13.7      1.0    14.7    1.3      0.1   1.4          7        0
MADHYA PRADESH                                  17.2      1.3    18.6    1.6     0.1   1.7           7        0
ORISSA                                          15.4      0.4    15.8    '.4     0.0   1.5           2        0
VEST BENGAL                                     11.2      0.4    11.6    1.0      0.0   1.1          3        0
UTTAR PRADESH                                   18.1      0.4    18.5    1.7      0.0   1.7          2        0
MAHARASHTRA                                      0.6      0.1     0.7    0.1     0.0   0.1          16        0
HARYANA                                          0.5      0.1     0.6    0.0     0.0   0.1          20        0
Sub-Total INSTITUTION BUILDING                    102.8      5.9   108.7    9.5      0.5  10.1          5         3
Total BASELINE COSTS                              3.527.8   439.7 3,967.5  326.6    40.7 367.4           11       100
Phusical Contingencies                           235.2    42.1   277.4   21.8       3.9  25.7         15         7
Price Contingencies                              732.9    76.7   809.6   67.9       7.1  75.0          9        20
Total PROJECT COSTS                               49495.9   558.5 5,054.4  416.3    51.7 468.0           11       127
---~~~~~~~~~~~=-- -3    ----=-_-__-___--_=                                                 =



-29-
5.20    Cost estimates of the facilities to be constructed, updated to April
1984, are based on actual construction costs for similar installations (rural
godowns and solvent oil extraction facilities) or estimates. The costs of
the institution building component are based on past experience. Physical
contingencies of 20% of base costs were added for civil works, except for
godown construction where 5% was used, since experience with NCDC I and II
indicates that this is sufficient. Physical contingencies of 10% were
applied to plant, machinery and other fixed asset costs; and a rate of 20% to
staff training costs. Total physical contingencies amount to Rs 277 M
(US$25.7 M) or 7% of baseline costs. Price contingencies on foreign costs,
amounting to Rs 77 M (US$7.1 M) were calculated, in accordance with the 1984
guidelines, at the following rates, compounded annually: 0.1% for FY84, (for
two months only), 5.7% for FY85, 8.5% for FY86, 9% for FY87 and FY88, and
8.2% for FY89. Price contingencies on local costs amount to Rs 733 M
(US$67.9 M), computed on the basis of 1.3% for FY84, 7.7% for FY85, 7% for
FY86 and FY87, 6.7% for FY88, and 6% for FY89. Total price contingencies
amount to Rs 810 M (US$75.0 M) or 20% of baseline costs.
Financing
5.21    The financing pattern would be as follows:
Funds for Equity Participation    Other Funds
By GOS, Financed    NCDC
By /a       with     with   Funds to
Participating Budgetary  NCDC   Particip.   IDA
Cooperatives    Funds    Funds   Coops.    Funds  Total
---US$ M---
Rural Storage                6.6         26.3     32.8       5.3     60.3   131.3
Oil Extraction and
Seed Processing           9.5          28.5     38.0      24.9     89.0   189.9
Cotton Processing            6.3         25.1     31.4       3.5     59.2   125.5
Cooperative Development
Service                      -            -        -       4.6      4.7     9.3
Institution Building           -            -        -       5.2      6.8    12.0
Total Costs                 22.4         79.9    102.2      43.5    220.0   468.0
Percentage of Total Costs   4.8          17.1      21.8      9.3     47.0   100.0
/a Including SCMF and OILFED in MP.
5.22    The proposed IDA Credit of SDR210.2 M (US$220 M) would be made to
GOI, who would bear the foreign exchange risk. The Credit would finance
about 51% of costs, net of duties and taxes (Rs 4,623 M equivalent to
US$428.1 M). NCDC' s 31.1% contribution to total project costs would be
financed from its own resources and market borrowings. The Table below shows
the ownership structure of the project facilities and its modification over
time:



-30-
Ownership Structure of Facilities to be Financed
Debt:Equity              Contribution to Equity
Ratio          As % of Total            As Z of Total
Project Cost                Equity
Particip.     State     Particip.    State
Coops.    Governments   Coops.   Governments
A. At Commissioning
Oil Extraction and
Seed Processing          60:40          5         35 /a         12.5       87.5
Rural Storage, Cotton
Ginning and Spinning     50:50          5         45 /b         10         90
B. 15 Years After Commissioning
Oil Extraction and
Seed Processing           0:100        75         25            75         25
Rural Storage                0:100       65         35            65         35
Ginning and Spinning         0:100       55         45            55         45
/a   15% financed through GOS budgetary allocations and 20% through
long-term loans by NCDC to GOS.
lb   20% financed through GOS budgetary allocations and 25% through
long-term loans by NCDC to GOS.
Participating Cooperatives would increase their equity contribution by repur-
chasing GOS shares amounting to 10% of the total cost of investment at an
annual rate of 1% of the total cost of investment, starting in the fifth year
of operation. NCDC would not commit loan funds before investors have agreed
to this repurchase and to pay dividends on equity to GOS as to any other
shareholder. The shares would be repurchased at the face value of the
original GOS equity contribution because the Cooperative Act does not permit
the use of an appreciated value. ExpendiLure for Institution Building and
the CDS would be financed by NCDC on a grant basis. Of the IDA Credit about
US$11.5 M would be given by GOI to NCDC as grant for Institution Building and
the establishment of the CDS. The balance would be channeled through NCDC in
the form of long-term loans. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
OS and NCDC will contrib-ite to financing as described above.
Lending Terms
5.23    The IDA Credit would be on standard terms.  GOI would onlend to NCDC
at not less than 7% p.a. for 15 years including 3 years of grace. This is
the standard rate for GuI onlending to NABARD and NCDC for projects taken
up with foreign assistance. Taking into account the US$11.5 M in GOI grants
for Institution Building and the CDS, GOI would still realize a 5.9% spread
on the total value of the Credit. NCDC would onlend to SCB and SLDB (IDA
funds) and lend to GOS and SCB/SLDB (own funds) at not less than 8% p.a. for
investments in rural storage and at 9.5% p.a. for investments in
agro-processing, thus increasing its margin from 0.75% under the NCDC II



-31-
project to 1% and 2.5% respectively. All loans would be for 15 years includ-
ing three years grace period. The higher margin would be needed to cover the
cost of NCDC's increased involvement in subproject preparation, appraisal,
monitoring and especially training. SCB/SLDB would make direct loans to
ultimate beneficiaries for up to 15 years including up to three years grace
period, depending on the projected cash flows for each facility to be
presented at subproject appraisal. Interest rates charged to borrower
cooperatives would be not less than 10% p.a. for investments in rural storage
and not less than 12.5% p.a. for investments in saro-processing facilities.
The 10% interest rate applied to subloans for godowns is identical to that
available to small and marginal farmers for on-farm investments. This is
justified because most PACS members would be in the small farmer category.
In accordance with the country's declared development priorities, GOI
provides incentives for investments in agro-processing and post-harvest
activities in remote rural areas. In view of these priorities, GOI had
proposed that the 10% interest rate should also be applied to investments in
agro-processing facilities. However, to maintain uniformity in lending terms
for agro-industrial investments, the iuterest rate would be not less than
12.5% p.a., the prevailing rate for similar investments in backward areas to
industrial borrowers.
5.24    Inflation for nonr-agricultural items in India has declined from a
high of 21.9% in FY81 to 7.8% in FY82, 1.2% in FY83 and 6.2% for the first
nine months of FY84. It is projected to be 8% in FY85, 7% in FY86 and FY87
and 6% thereafter. The proposed interest rates to ultimate beneficiaries
would thus be positive in real terms. A Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
GOI and NCDC reflecting the above onlending terms would be a condition of
Credit effectiveness.



-32-
Procurement
5.25    Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
/a
Project Element                          Procurement Method                Total
ICB       L:I^      Other /b   NA /c   Cost
-   -   Us$ MI
Civil Works                           -     190.8           -        -    190.8
-     (89.7)         -         _    (89.7)
Machinery and Equipment for
Agro-Processing Facilities      95.4      i7.9 /d     6.0 /e      -    119.3
'44.9)     (8.4)      (2.8)       -    (56.1)
Teaching and Office Equipment         -       3.2 /f      0.8        -      4.0
-      (1.5)      (0.4)       -      (1.9)
Training, Fellowships, Incr.
Staff Expenditure, Perm.
Working Capital and
Preop. Costs                       -         -           -    153.9    153.9
-         -          -    (72.3)   (72.3)
Total                              95.4     211.9         6.8    153.9   468.0
(44.9)    (99.6)      (3.2)   (72.3)  (220.0)
-=:       3====        -= -    -       =    _=
/a The figares fnclude physical and price contingencies. Figures in
parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA Credit.
/b Solicitation of at least three price quotations.
/c Procurement procedures not applicable.
/d Contracts of US$20,000 to US$500,000.
/e Contracts of less than US$20,000, to be let after obtaining at
least three quotations.
If Contracts exceeding US$20,000.
5.26    NCDC, which has considerable experience in implementing and coor-
dinating the construction of agro-processing plants (para 2.01), would decide
jointly with the investors on the need for recruitment of general engineering
consultants and it is expected that most agro-processing plants would require
these consultancy services. Such consultants would be hired locally and
would have full responsibility for tendering, engineering, or in tne case of
single-responsibility contracts awarded to general contractors, review of
engineering done by contractors, supervision of construction, test runs and
commissioning.
5.27    It is expected that about 15 contracts for plan-; and machinery for
soybean seed processing and solvent soybean and cottonseed oil extraction
plants and another 35 contracts for plant and machinery for ginneries and
spinning mills would be awarded following ICB procedures. For the construc-
tion of spinning mills, specifications would be prepared by engineering
consultants, reviewed by NCDC, and contracts would be let for plant sections
categorized as follows: (i) fiber preparation; (ii) carding and blow room;
(iii) spinning; (iv) coning and reeling; and (v) ancillary. If contracts are



-33-
awarded to general contractors, as single-responsibility contracts, these
contractors would be prequalified. With the ICB threshold for machinery and
equipment set at US$500,O00 it is expected that about 80X of the value of
machinery and equipment would be procured under ICB procedures.
5.28    In all cases where ICB is involved, a margin of preference equal to
15Z of the c.i.f. bid price of imported goods or the actual customs duties
and import taxes, whichever is less, would be allowed for domestic manufac-
turers. All IDA financed contracts over US$1 M for machinery and plant
equipment awarded after ICB would be subject to prior review by IDA. This
would cover the bulk of the total value of such contracts. All other con-
tracts awarded following ICB procedures would be subject to post-award
reviews.
5.29    For about 7,800 rural godowns (US$131.3 M) about 7,000 civil works
contracts would be awarded after LCB. These contracts would each be small
and dispersed over the six Project States. They would be spread over an
implementation period of four years and only one or at most a few of them
would be constructed by the same Cooperative Society within a given year,
making bulking impossible. Consequently, ICB would neither be practicable nor
evoke interest from international contractors. For similar reasons, the
civil works contracts (about 30) for processing plants would be let under
LCB.
Disbursement
5.30    The proposed IDA Credit is expected to be disbursed over a period
of five years. Disbursements would be made against certified statements of
expenditure (SOE) to be submitted by NCDC to the Bank. Documentation for the
SOE would not be sent to the Bank but retained by NCDC and SCB/SLDB for
review by supervision missions. In the implementation of the NCDC I and II
projects, NCDC and SCB/SLDB maintained adequate project accounts and prepared
SOE documents according to Bank guidelines. The projection of quarterly
disbursements is attached as Annex 9. Typical disbursement profiles for
agricultural credit and crop processing projects in South Asia and experience
from NCDC I and II were used to develop the disbursement projections. Dis-
bursements woulc' be made in six categories:
(a) 85% of expenditures disbursed by NCDC as loans to SCB/SLDB
(US$208.6 M);
(b) 50% of expenditure disbursed by NCDC for the construction of
six ACSTI (US$1.7 M);
(c) 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 70% of local
expenditures for teaching and office equipment and vehicles
for CDS (US$1.8 M);
(d) 50% of expenditures for domestic training (US$3.8 M);
(e) 100% of expenditure for fellowships (US$200,000); and
(f) 50% of expenditures for the CDS.



-34-
Preparatory work for project implementation started after appraisal and some
beneficiaries entered into financial commitments for engineering and design
work. In view of this situation, eligible expenditure made after January 1,
1984 but prior to Loan/Credit signature, up to a limit of about US$1 M would
be financed retroactively.
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Implementation Organization
6.01    As in the NCDC I and II projects, NCDC would be the main implementing
agency and would supervise implementation in the nine project States. GOS
would provide overall policy guidance to participating Cooperative Societies
in each State. The Registrar of Cooperatives (RCS) in each State would carry
primary responsibility for subproject identification and promotion, and for
the formation of OSCS and CGC (para 2.21). RCS staff would also guide and
assist Secretary/Managers of PCS in preparing subproject reports and loan
applications. NCDC's staff in Regional and Project Offices and specialists
from headquarters would assist in subproject preparation and execution.
SCB/SLDB would assist in preparing loan applications, appraise subprojects,
function as onlending channel, and supervise subproject implementation.
6.02    Ownership of project investments would be as follows:
(a) rural storage godowns would be owned and operated by State-
level SCMF (1,000 ton to 10,000 ton godowns), and by PCS at
village level (50 and 100 ton godowns by PACS and certain
other PCS, and 250 to 1,000 ton godowns by PMS);
(b) soybean seed processing and soybean oil extraction plants would
be owned and operated as affiliates with independent management
by OILFED and RAJFED, who would also operate the CDS;
(c) ginneries and spinning mills would be owned and operated by SCMF
as independent affiliates in Haryana, and by CGC elsewhere. The
four cottonseed oil extraction plants would all be owned and
operated by SCMF as independent affiliates; and
(d) NCDC would own the ACSTI to be established in the six rural
storage States to be operated by SCB/SLDB.
Preparation and Appraisal of Subprojects
6.03      For all investments to be financed under the project, owners/
operators, supported by RCS, SCB/SLDB and NCDC staff (para 6.01), would
prepare subproject reports/feasibility studies and loan applications. Sub-
project reports/feasibility studies would include analysis and justification
of godown or agro-processing facilities covering proposed size, location, and
financial viability. It was confirmed at negotiations that NCDC would, by
December 31, 1984, prepare and furnish to IDA pro-forma subproject reports of
proposed rural godowns and of feasibility studies of agro-processing plants.
Subproject reports and feasibility studies would contain data pertinent to
the criteria detailed in Annex 5. They would be reviewed by RCS and thus
enable GOS to arrange for provision of its share of finance in a timely



-35-
manner. For rural godowns up to 1,000 tons, unless written notice of any
reservations on the proposed subproject is given by RCS or NCDC to SCB/SLDB
within seven working days of receipt of subproject reports, the latter would
be entitled to assume that GOS would provide its share of the equity out of
pre-allocated budget funds, supplemented by borrowing from NCDC, and NCDC
would provide funds to GOS to purchase equity and to SCBISLDB to onlend to
borrower cooperatives. RCS and NCDC would give written consent to commitment
of funds subsequent to appraisal for all other types of investment.
6.04    Assurances were obtained at negotiations that SCBISLDB would appraise
subprojects in accordance with standards and criteria satisfactory to IDA.
The appraisal would include a review of technical, managerial and financial
aspects based on field investigation by their staff. NCDC would review the
feasibility studies for all agro-processing facilities and would also par-
ticipate in their appraisal by SCB/SLDB. It would review not less than lOZ
of all subproject reports for rural godowns. It was confirmed at nego-
tiations that, in order to satisfactorily perform their implementation func-
tions: 'i) participating banks would strengthen their capacity to appraise
and further process loans and increase their engineering, general credit and
training staff; and (ii) SCMF and OILFED would strengthen their engineering
staff to oversee construction and monitor the work of consultants and con-
tractors. It was also confirmed that NCDC would hire additional staff as
needed. This would include: eight technologists; 12 project and program
officers; one engineer; and one cost analyst.
6.05    The Bank would, after appraisal by SCB/SLDB and NCDC, and prior to
loan approval by them, review the feasibility reports and appraisal recommen-
dstions for the first agro-processing plant of each type in each State.
Thus, reports for five out of 11 ginneries, all five spinning mills, all four
cortonseed oil extraction plants, two out of three soybean seed processing
plants, and two out of four soybean oil extraction plants would be reviewed
by the Bank. Similarly, the Bank would also review the first two subproject
reports from each State for rural godowns, one for a godown up to 1,000 tons
and one for a larger godown. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(i) NCDC would submit these reports to IDA for review; and (ii) SCB/SLDB
would periodically submit to RCS and NCDC statements of loans approved.
Physical Implementation - General
6.06    It is of utmost importance that all project facilities would be run
by qualified management and professional staff. Accordingly, assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the SCB/SLDB would ensure, through appropriate
covenants in sub-loan agreements, that all middle and senior level management
positions of agro-processing facilities would be filled with professionally
qualified and experienced staff recruited on a competitive basis. Assurances
were also obtained that agro-processing facilities would: (i) be under
separate management; (ii) be run as independent profit centers; and
(iii) introduce accounting systems following standard commercial practices.
The engineering divisions of all SCNF and of OILFED in MP as well as those of
SCB would have an important role in engineering, tendering and supervision of
construction for godowns for PCS and PMS. The larger gcdowns to be owned by
SQ0F would be designed by their own engineering staff. In the case of
soybean seed processing and oil extraction plants, the OILFED and RAJFED
engineering divisions would either supervise general consultants responsible



-36-
for tendering, supervision of engineering and construction by a
single-responsibility contractor, and participate in engineering of civil
works or assume themselves the role described above. In the cotton process-
ing component, SCMF would have a similar role in engineering where they are
the owners/operators, e.g., in Haryana. In States where CGC would be
owners/operators of project facilities, general consultants would be
recruited who would be supervised by NCDC jointly with the State Federation
of Cooperative Spinning Mills.
Implementation of Rural Storage Component
6.07    PCS and SONF would prepare subproject reports for review and
appraisal by SCB/SLDB. These would include projections of: (i) shcrt and
medium-term credit business; (ii) sale of consumer goods; (iii) sale of
seasonal farm inputs; and (iv) storage of marketable surplus of farm crops.
Construction of godowns for PCS would be supervised in West Bengal by the
engineering division of SCMF West Bengal.
Implementation of SoybLeanL Production and Processing Component
Soybeaun Production
6.08    The CDS established and financed under the project would have primary
responsibility for the soybean production component. Their tasks would be
formation and registration of OSCS and provision of an improved input package
to OSCS members (para 5.12). In each of the four project areas (three in HP
and one in Rajasthan), about 200 OSCS would be established in a period of
four to six years. To register with RCS, each OSCS would have to gather a
minimum of 25 members willing to purchase share capital. Potential OSCS
members would have to demonstrate land ownership and their willingness to
grow soybeans and sell through Cooperative Societies to RAJFED and OILFED.
While CDS would not be involved with technological and agricultural questions
which would be handled by the State Extension Services (SES), they would
cooperate closely with the SES and SAU. The input supply specialists from
CDS and the subject matter specialists from the Extension Service would
attend research and training meetings to stay abreast of developments in
soybean production technology. The CDS would thus complement the SES and not
replace it. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that by June 30, 1984,
OILFED and RAJFED would appropriately man the CDS. The Director of Agricul-
ture in MP is a member of OILFED's Board, in Rajasthan the Director there
would become a member of RAJFED's Board. The Managing Directors of OILFED
and RAJFED, or their designated representatives, would become members of the
State Coordination Committee and the State Planning Committee. Their par-
ticipation would help ensure that adequate extension services are provided
for in the project area and that CDS and SES coordinate their activities
effectively. To facilitate and expedite registration of OSCS and to super-
vise their activities, the RCS would second one Deputy Registrar to both
RAJFED and OILFED. Accordingly, at negotiations it was confirmed that by
June 30, 1985: (i) GOMP and GOR would provide adequate extension services in
all project districts; and (ii) the above appointments would be made.
6.09    Seed plant operators would cooperate with the State Seed Certifica-
tion Agency (SSCA), the State Seed Testing Laboratory (SSTL) and SAU. The
SSTL, which is part of DOA, would be responsible for conducting laboratory



-37-
germination and field tests to verify acceptability of the germination rate
of varieties processed in the plant. Quality control is the responsibility
of the SSCA. It would monitor seed production and processing, and certify
the final product. Seed growers would require adequate breeder and founda-
tion seed to produce sufficient seed quality soybean for the processing
plants. In MP, research has started and appropriate varieties have been
developed. In Rajasthan, there has as yet been no work on soybean varieties.
Therefore, it was confirmed at negotiations that by June 30, 1985: (i) GOR
would direct SAU Rajasthan to start a high priority program of research to
develop appropriate soybean varieties and produce adequate breeder and foun-
dation seed; (ii) GOR would make arrangements for the provision of breeder
and foundation deed; and (iii) GOMP would provide funds and direct SAUNP to
allocate necessary resources to the production of breeder and foundation seed
in quantities to be specified by OILFED.
6.10    While the seed processing plants would be located on the same site
as the oil extraction plants, the two facilities would be managerially dis-
tinct, and accounts and financing would be handled separately. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the management of OILFED and RAJFED would
determine the sale prices of improved soybean seed at a level reflecting at
least production costs.
Implementation of Cotton Processing Component
Ginneries and Spinning Mills
6.11    Ginneries attached to spinning mills or oil extraction plants
(para 5.15) would be constructed simultaneously with larger facilities, but
would start operations one year earlier because of the shorter construction
period. In all cases, the two facilities would be managerially distinct, and
accounts and financing would be handled separately. Project ginneries would
purchase seed cotton from CGC members and other far_ers in the area, and sell
lint to attached spinning mills and in the open market. In Haryana, and
Rajasthan, the ginnery equipment to be purchased would be of saw gin type
with appropriate specifications. A test of the desirability of saw gins vs.
roller gins for the cotton produced in AP, Karnataka and Maharashtra is being
undertaken and results are expected in mid-1984. The spinning mills would be
designed to function much more profitably and efficiently than those cur-
rently in operation. This would require raising standards of equipment,
plant design, management systems, and deployment and training of operatives.
It was confirmed at negotiations that ginning and spinning equipment and
technical and environmental specifications, management, and staffing
guidelines to be followed would be satisfactory to IDA.
Institution Building and Training
6.12    Training at the national level would be coordinated by a Project
Manpower Planning and Training Committee, chaired by the Managing Director,
NCDC. Other members would include: (i) RCS of participating States; (ii)
Chief Executives of SCMF; (iii) Chief Executives of SCB; and (iv) repre-
sentatives of NABARD and others as required. Following the instructions and
guidelines of this committee, NCDC's project Manpower and Training Coor-
dinator would administer the training program. In the States, Regional
Training Coordinators appointed by SLB/SLDB would administer and coordinate



-38-
training activities, monitor the progress of the program towards meeting the
targets set out in a Statewise Manpower and Training Plan, initiate inves-
tigations into failures to meet the timetable for training, and update the
project-related training activities. They would be assisted by Committees on
Manpower Planning already established for NCDC II or newly formed for the
proposed project. The Committees would be chaired by RCS and would have as
members the Managing Directors of SCB/SLDB, SCMF, the Regional Director or
Training Coordinator of NCDC (Committee Secretary), the Project Manpower and
Training Coordinator of NCDC, the Principal of ACSTI (in relevant States) and
others as required. Construction of the six ACSTI would be implemented and
supervised by the engineering cell of SCB and, in West Bengal, by the SCMF.
The ACSTI would be administered by SCB and, in West Bengal, by SLDB. Since
the training program should start right at the project outset it would be
necessary to rent class space until new facilities would be completed; and
for NCDC to recruit and train in CCTTMP, teaching staff for ACSTI. Accord-
ingly, it was confirmed at negotiations that by June 30, 1985: (i) SLB/SLDB
would appoint Regional Training Coordinators; (ii) NCDC would work out
Statewise Manpower and Training Plans; (iii) NCDC would suitably strengthen
CCTTMP's staff; (iv) ACSTI teaching staff would be recruited and trained in
CCTTMP; and (v) temporary class space would be rented and training started.
Review of Textile Sector
6.13    As discussed in para 1.21, GOI's Ministry of Industry would, by
June 30, 1986, carry out a study of the textile sector and it was confirmed
at negotiations that the study would cover the terms of reference outlined in
Annex 5, Appendix 2. This study would propose a set of measures which would
result in an increase in efficiency, competitiveness and export potential of
the industry. The measures to be proposed are expected to form the basis for
a follow-up dialogue on the textile sector between GOI and the Bank.
Monitoring and Evaluation, Accounts, Audits and Reporting
6.14    NCDC would have overall responsibility for monitoring and evaluation
of the project. At the State level, monitoring would be the responsibility
of SCB/SLDB. They would prepare progress reports for NCDC and GOS. Monitor-
ing would cover two distinct phases: construction and start-up, and regular
operations. For the former, practical arrangements would be similar to those
implemented under NCDC II. These have worked well and would be adequate.
For operations, the performance of the project units would be monitored
relative to targets set at subproject appraisal. If certain key indicators
(Annex 8) fall outside of a certain range of the values projected at sub-
project appraisal, SCB/SLDB in the case of rural ctorage, and NCDC in con-
junction with SCB/SLDB for other components, would conduct a detailed field
investigation which would result in a report establishing the reasons for the
poor performance of the borrower and recommending how to improve it.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that: Ci) monitoring reports would
be prepared by SCB/SLDB (a) quarterly for all subprojects under construction,
and for agro-processing units in operation, and (b) annually for godowns in
operation; (ii) NCDC would receive copies of monitoring reports and review
them; and (iii) reports would be issued within six months of the close of
each monitoring period. It was confirmed at negotiations that SLB/SLDB would
undertake field investigations in all case where performance indicators have
fallen below target levels and reports submitted to NCDC.



-39-
6.15    An Evaluation Unit was established under NCDC II.  This unit collects
pre-project data, follows up project implementation, and measures costs and
benefits realized in comparison with appraisal estimates and projections.
This unit is an independent department of NCDC, reporting directly to the
Managing Director. Activities of this unit would be expanded to include
evaluation of processing units that would be financed under the proposed
project. It was confirmed at negotiations that NCDC would recruit, by
December 31, 1984, and maintain thereafter the necessary supplementary staff
for the unit. Consistent data for the evaluation reports would be gathered
twice yearly. Evaluation reports based on these data would be prepared at
project completion. Evaluation data would be made available to the Bank upon
request. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that these procedures
would be followed.
6.16    The accounting systems of NCDC and the participating SCB/SLDB are
satisfactory. During implementation of the two previous IDA-assisted
projects, accounts have been introduced that reflect the subproject cycle
including appraisal, loan approval, disbursements, contributions by GOS,
interest charges, installments due, collections of dues and overdues and
follow-up actions required. Similar accounting systems would be introduced
by all newly created project entities. These accounts would be reviewed
periodically by IDA supervision missions. NCDC's accounting system meets
statutory requirements and follows standards acceptable to the Government
Auditor General. It has been modernized and simplified upon recommendation
of management consultants employed under the first NCDC project. The GOI
A.uditor General carries out a statutory audit of NCDC accounts, but NCDC also
follows the practice of appointing a firm of chartered accountants to audit
financial statements relating to special projects. This practice would be
continued under the project and, in addition to their annual audit report,
the auditors would prepare a separate opinion on whether all funds withdrawn
from the Bank under the statement of expenditure (SOE) procedure have been
used for the purposes for which they were withdrawn. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that these audit arrangements would be continued and
that audited accounts of NCDC and participating SCB/SLDB together with
long-form and short-form audit reports, separate opinions on the SOE proce-
dure, and certified annual financial statements would be submitted to the
Bank within six months of the close of each financial year. All important
information on physical progress in implementation and on accounting and
financial matters would be summarized in NCDC's quarterly and annual reports.
In addition, annual work programs with related cost estimates would be
prepared by NCDC before the start of each financial year and submitted to
IDA.
VII. PRODUCTION AND MARKETING
Soybean Production
7.01    In the crop year 1983, about 27,000 ha in Rajasthan and 890,000 ha
in MP were planted to soybean producing an estimated 25,000 tons and 710,000
tons, respectively. The present yield is 1.2 ton/ha irrigated in Rajasthan
and 0.8 ton/ha rainfed in NP and Rajasthan. Introduction of certified seed
and improved access to other needed farm inputs in the project areas is



-40-
expected to increase yields to 1.2 ton/ha in rainfed areas and to 1.5 ton/ha
in irrigated areas.
7.02    Soybean is a highly profitable alternative to most crops currently
under cultivation. As a result, the area under soybean has increased quite
rapidly in BP, over 30X p.a. in recent years. Adoption by farmers of project
technology and cropping pattern is expected to increase from 10Z in the first
project year to 35% in the fourth year when three of the soybean crushing
plants would go into operation, and then to 65Z at full development in the
eighth year. In Rajasthan, about 20,000 tons of soybean would be available
from project farmers for start-up operations of the oil extraction plant in
year four. In MP, project farmers could supply the two project plants with
about 100,000 tons of soybeans at start-up. At full development (year
eight), incremental soybean production by project farmers would be about
75,000 tons in Rajasthan, and 450,000 tons in MP. This would be more than
adequate to supply project plants (capacity 60,000 tons p.a. in Rajasthan
and 180,000 tons p.a. in MP). Therefore, future plans might include expan-
sion of project plants or construction of new ones.
Production of Processed Products
7.03    Estimated throughput in project plants at full development would be
as follows:
Syeau Seed Proesssing t3 plants)       000' tons p.a.
Raw Material Inputs                            16.2
Seed Outputs                                   10.5
Soybean Oil Extraction (4 plants)
Raw Material Inputs                           240.0
Outputs:  Crude Soybean Oil                    40.0
High Protein Extractions            195.0
Cottonseed Oil Extraction (4 plants)
Raw Material Inputs                           120.0
Outputs:  Refined Cottonseed Oil               20.0
Linters                               8.0
Extractions                          55.0
Soapstocks                            2.0
Hulls                                32.0
Cotton Ginning (11 ginneries)
Raw Material Inputs (Seed Cotton)             183.9
Outputs:  Cotton Lint (baled)                  56.1
Cottonseeds                         121.1
Cotton Spinning (5 spinning mills)
Raw Material Inputs (Lint)                     18.5
Outputs:  Cotton Yarn - various counts         16.3



-41-
Marketing of Soybean Products
7.04    The CDS would be responsible for distributing processed soybean
seeds. In MP, the OILFED, and in Rajasthan, the RAJFED, would procure
soybeans produced by farmer members of OSCS for crushing in their extraction
plants.
7.05    In solvent extraction plants, the main end products would be:  crude,
degummed soybean oil and high protein soybean cake. Two minor b)-products,
husks and sweepings, would be blended back into the solvent extracted cake
after toasting and flaking. Even with the husks and sweepings blended with
the cake, the protein content of Indian soybean cake would still be above the
world standard level of 44%.
7.06    The crude, degummed soybean oil would be sold in the domestic market.
The main consumers would be the hydrogenation plants producing vegetable ghee
(Vanaspati). Currently, two-thirds of the crude oil used as inputs for
Vanaspati is imported. Substitution of domestic for imported oils in
Vanaspati production alone would provide a more than adequate market for
project plants. Current domestic soybean oil production is about 40,000
tons. Therefore, even if total domestic production of crude soybean oil were
to grow very rapidly and the consumption of crude oils for Vanaspati produc-
tion were to remain constant, the market is unlikely to be saturated in the
foreseeable future. However, consumption of crude oils for Vanaspati has
grown very fast, on an average of over 9% p.a. in the last several years, and
should continue to grow, although somewhat less rapidly, in the future. In
both NP and Rajasthan, there is considerable installed capacity for Vanaspati
production, so there should be no difficulty in finding a ready market for
the crude soybean oil.
7.07    In the initial years, soybean cake would have to be marketed abroad.
Relative to other high protein cakes used for animal feed, soybean cake is
rather expensive and demand for cake can now be satisfied by cheaper alterna-
tives, primarily groundnut cake. The export market for soybean cake has been
very good in recent years. Exports of soybean extractions have been at
around 200,000 tons (about US$36 N) p.a. in 1980/81 and 1981/82. Exports are
divided between Western Europe, Eastern Europe, and Southeast Asia. The
Eastern European market is likely to show the most growth in the near future.
All indications are that exports are constrained by supply rather tian the
availability of external markets. Therefore, there should be no difficulty
in exporting the soybean cake that would be produced at full development of
the project.
7.08    The marketing prospects for soybean cake would improve considerably
with the increase of production planned under the project. OILFED and RAJFED
would be able to accumulate sufficient production of cake for export in bulk
shipment. This would avoid mixing with lower quality cake which is less
desired in world markets. Thus, the cake processed in the project plants
would be more marketable and could even be sold at some premium because of
its higher protein content.



-42-
Marketing of Cotton Products
7.09    Refined cottonseed oil to be produced in the project plants would be
marketed domestically. Currently, imports of edible oils are more than
1,000,000 tons p.a. (US$424 M in 1981/82), and the market could certainly
absorb further production. Cottonseed oil itself has not been imported in
large quantities, one reason being its relatively high price. Cottonseed oil
which can substitute for imported oils, is now the primary domestic oil used
in Vanaspati production. In 1981/82, cottonseed oil amounted to about 17% of
total oil used for Vanaspati which absorbed about 56% of total cottonseed oil
production in the country. Thus, the market for domestic oils as input for
Vanaspati production is virtually assured. Cottonseed oil is also marketed
as refined oil for direct consumption. The major refined oil now consumed in
India is groundnut oil, but because of its relatively high price, other oils,
cottonseed among them, have slowly been substituted for it. Except in
1981/82, the demand for refined cottonseed oil has grown substantially over
the past few years. Even assuming that cottonseed oil is not substituted for
other edible oils, there should be a substantial increase in the demand for
cottonseed oil. Estimates of the expenditure elasticity of demand for edible
oils are close to 1. Given these assumptions, the demand for refined cotton-
seed oil is expected to increase at around 2.5% p.a. in the next few years.
7.10    Like soybean cake, the cottonseed extractions produced in the project
plants would be sold primarily in export markets. Currently, the main domes-
tic use for cottonseed cake is for mixing into high grade livestock feed.
This market has great potential for the future, but is still relatively
small. Furthermore, the installed capacity of feed plants, though growing,
is not that large, and the amount of cottonseed cake that can be incorporated
into the feed mix is limited. Therefore, in the short term, the domestic
market should not be relied upon to absorb all the increases in de-oiled cake
production from the project. However, export prospects for the future are
good. While there are intermittent bans on the export of cottonseed expeller
cake (which has a fairly bigh oil content), decorticated extractions may now
be exported freely. Over the years, India has exported to a number of
countries in the EEC and Eastern Europe. Exports to the latter have grown
particularly rapidly, and are expected to grow further.
7.11    Linters, soapstock and hulls are minor by-products rf the oil extrac-
tion and rpfining process. Approximately 7% of cottonseed throughput (by
weight) is converted to linters. Linters are readily marketed domestically
as they have a number of industrial uses, for example in the furniture and
cellulose industries. Soapstock is a by-product of the refining process and
only constitutes about 1.3% of throughput. Soapstocks are used for produc-
tion of cosmetics and soaps, and are in short supply in many areas in India.
Finally, the cottonseed hulls constitute a little over a quarter of the
weight of the cottonseed. These are generally used locally as low grade
cattle feed and sell at a low price. Cottonseed oil extraction plants now in
operation sell all these products by regular auctions held on their premises
and the project plants would do so as well.
7.12    Ginneries sell lint either directly or through trading organizations
to either spinning mills or exporters. Cooperative ginneries often make use
of the services of the SCMF to help market the ginned lint. Five of the
eleven project ginneries would be attached to spinning mills which would



-43-
directly purchase most of the lint produced in the ginneries. The remainder
would be sold to outside spinning mills, usually by auction, or to SCMF for
export. Three other ginneries would be attached to cottonseed oil extraction
plants and all of their cottonseed output could be absorbed by those plants.
7.13    Lint produced in project ginneries would be of a quality considerably
above that of most other lint produced in the area. It is expected that it
would be sold at a premium to local spinning mills. For all proposed gin-
neries there are sufficient spinning mills in the vicinity to provide a ready
market for the lint they would produce. The eight ginneries which would uot
be attached to oil extraction plants would sell cottonseed, generally by
auction, to nearby cottonseed processors. All sites proposed for ginneries
have sufficient oil extraction capacity in the vicinity to absorb the cotton-
seed that the project ginneries would produce.
7.14    Perhaps the most complex market of all project commodities would be
that for the yarn produced in the spinning mills. There are three principal
agents in this market: private traders, Cooperative Marketing Societies
purchasing on behalf of Weavers' Cooperatives, and weaving mills purchasing
directly for their own use. In aggregate terms, by far the most important of
these are the private traders who deal in most weaving and spinning centers.
The project mills would be free to sell their yarn to whoever pays the
highest price. High quality yarn is in short supply in India and, therefore,
project mills would have no difficulty selling their yarns at a premium.
Since there are many types of yarn and demand for different counts varies
from place to place, the feasibility report for each spinning mill would
provide a detailed marketing plan for the projected yarn output. Aggregate
demand projections (paras 1.22-1.24) indicate that on an all-India basis, the
demand for yarn would be more than sufficient to absorb the output of the
project mills.
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Economic Analysis
Rural Storage Component
8.01    The major quantifiable benefits of the rural godowns component would
derive from reduced storage losses of fertilizers and grains, lower transport
costs, and time savings for farmers in purchasing inputs and basic consumer
goods and marketing outputs. Greater availability and use of fertilizers,
seeds and pesticides would also induce production increases. Evaluation
studies carried out by NODC indicate that following the construction of
godowns, PACS membership grows and credit disbursements as well as fertilizer
and consumer goods sales increase.
8.02    While losses resulting from inadequate and substandard storage can be
substantial, they are difficult to quantify. Studies carried out in India
estimated losses in traditional storage at 6.6% of production, and loss
prevention through efficient storage at about 5Z. In addition, in tradi-
tional storage conditions, quality deterioration was found to be significant,
reaching an average of 10% of the product value. In the economic analysis,
the prevention of storage losses has been estimated at 2% of total farm
produce and fertilizer handled by all levels of the project's rural storage



-44-
facilities. Thus, the 2% savings is achieved once in the entire storage
cycle. For further detail see Annex 2, para 3.
8.03    Construction of rural storage facilities would bring marketing about
2 km closer to the farmers. Savings in transport costs would be achieved by
switching from bullock cart transport in small loads to larger volume truck
transport. These savings have been estimated to amount to Rs 2.2 per ton/km
and would result in an average transport benefit of about Rs 26 per ton of
produce and fertilizers handled. As most of the fertilizer and produce
transport occurs in the planting and harvesting seasons when farm labor
requirements peak, the savings in farmers' time are significant. They have
been estimated at Rs 3.6 per ton of produce handled.
8.04    Timely and accessible supplies of fertilizers and other farm inputs
are essential for encouraging modern input use and raising agricultural
production. New godown investments have been observed to increase fertilizer
use in rural areas in India by more than 25%. Studies of determinants of
fertilizer use also indicate that accessibility has an important effect on
fertilizer consumption. In the ERR calculation, fertilizer use has been
assumed to increase by only 10%. Based on a fertilizer response ratio of
7.3:1 (on a nutrient basis), additional agricultural production would amount
to over 200,000 tons of grain p.a. at full development.
Cotton Processing Componeut
8.05    The main economic benefits of the cotton component would result from
efficient ginning of seed cotton into high quality lint and spinning of lint
into high quality yarn. The ginning operation would also make cottonseed
available for solvent extraction to produce edible oil and cottonseed cake.
The cottonseed oil extraction plants would generate benefits in the form of
the value added from processing cottonseeds into refined cottonseed oil and
other by-products: high protein extraction, cake, linters and soapstock.
The modern solvent oil extraction plants to be built would not only permit
more of the cottonseed that is produced to be crushed, but also improve the
extraction of high value products from the seed.
8.06    In calculating the economic values, capital and operating costs have
been adjusted by first removing duties and taxes. Items likely to be
imported were valued at their CIF border price. For non-traded items includ-
ing seed cotton, a standard conversion factor of 0.8 has been applied to
financial costs to estimate economic equivalents, except for unskilled labor
where a special conversion factor of 0.6 has been applied. Economic prices
for cotton lint have been derived from commodity price forecasts. To take
quality differences into account, an adjustment factor of 0.95 has been
applied to the better qualities of lint and 0.7 for the lower quality lints.
Yarn has been valued at quoted export prices f.o.b Bombay, adjusted for
internal transport, handling and insurance costs and projected to increase at
the same rate as Bank projected cotton prices. Items that are likely to be
imported were valued at the CIF price. Non-traded items, like cottonseed,
were adjusted by the standard conversion factor. For key traded inputs such
as hexane, coal and diesel fuel, import or export parity prices were calcu-
lated and projected on the basis of commodity price forecasts and Bank
reports. Selected economic prices are in Annex 2.



-45-
8.07    Refined cottonseed oil was border priced at an import parity, using
prevailing US prices for refined oil, adjusted for transport and insurance
costs. The price was then projected for the entire period using the histori-
cal correlation between cottonseed oil prices and soybean oil prices and EPD
projections. Cottonseed cake was priced at export parity, using quoted
export prices, then adjusted for internal transport, handling, and insurance
costs. The price was projected using commodity price forecasts for soybean
cake and the historical relation between the two cake prices. Hulls, linters
and soapstock were priced at domestic prices net of taxes and transfers, and
adjusted using the standard conversion factor.
Soybean Production and Processing Component
8.08    The main benefit of the soybean production subcomponent of the
project would be the increased net income to farmers. The improved input
package including improved seeds promoted and distributed by the CDS (5.12)
would increase the net revenue to farmers per hectare devoted to soybeans.
Also, hectarage under soybeans would increase because marketing channels
would be improved with the assistance of the CDS and the oil extraction
plants would provide an outlet for the soybeans brought to market. Critical
to the production gains cited above is an adequate supply of improved soybean
seeds of appropriate varieties. Therefore, the quantifiable benefits from
investments in seed processing are measured by gauging their effects on farm
incomes through improved input/output ratios in soybean production.
8.09    Construction of solvent oil extraction plants would provide the
necessary oil extraction capacity to process soybean seeds, using modern
technologies which achieve better extraction ratios. The value added in the
oil extraction process would be the main benefit from these investments. The
increased oil pLoduction would help alleviate the shortage of edible oils,
imports of which amounted to US$424 N in 1981/82.
8.10    In the soybean component, capital and recurrent costs were adjusted
in similar manner to those for other components of the project. Inputs for
soybean oil extraction were priced as in the cottonseed oil extraction
analysis. Soybean was valued at export parity adjusting for transport,
insurance, and handling. Crude oil and soybean cake were parity priced, as
import and export commodities respectively.
8.11    Since project investments would affect farm production through input
services and through provision of processing facilities and adequate supplies
of improved seeds, agricultural benefits were estimated using representative
farm models for four project areas: (i) irrigated areas in Rajasthan;
(ii) unirrigated areas in Rajasthan; (iii) unirrigated light soils in NP; and
(iv) unirrigated black cotton soils in NP. Taxes were deducted from agricul-
tural input and non-traded output prices which were then adjusted using the
standard conversion factor. Traded outputs (paddy, wheat, and soybean) were
priced as in the rural storage component, at world prices. Improved soybean
seeds were priced at zero in economic terms, since the full economic costs of
production of improved seeds were incorporated in the ERR calculation and no
benefits but those derived from use of improved seeds in the farm budgets
were attributed to the improved seed production investment. The cost of
maintaining bullocks was accounted for by attributing the total value of



-46-
fodder by-products to their upkeep. Family labor used in farm production was
valued using a shadow wage of 0.6. The economic cost of irrigation water
used was its opportunity cost, which was assumed to be paddy production less
inputs (valued at economic prices). It was assumed that farmers would adopt
the project technology relatively slowly, 10% in the first project year and
65% at full development. The project technology and cropping pattern were
phased in over several years. The fact that farmers adopting the project in
later years would derive less benefits was also taken into account in the
aggregation of benefits. Only changes in crop input/output ratios
attributable to the project were counted as benefits. The assumptions on
adoption of project technology are based on past experience of cooperative
promotion of the crop in MP.
Economic Rates of Return
8.12    The economic rates of return of project investments are presented
in Annex 2. Base ERR vary from 28X to around 50%. Sensitivity analysis
follows a similar pattern for all investments. Rates of return are far more
sensitive to operating expenses than to capital costs. Rates of return are
sensitive to delays in realizing benefits, although much less so to delays in
start-up.
Beneficiaries and Employment Effects
8.13    About 6,700 godowns would be constructed for PACS.  Given an average
PACS membership of 770 in the project States, about 5.2 M farm housekolds
with about 27.6 M people would benefit direct'y from project investments in
rural storage. In the cotton processing component, four CGC with about 4,000
members would own and operate the spinning mills in AP, Karnataka,
Maharashtra and Rajasthan. Thus, the number of farm household beneficiaries
from this component would be about 21,000. At full development about 1.3 H
farmers (para 8.19) would participate in the production of soybean. With
their family members the number of direct beneficiaries would be about 6.9 M.
The total number of beneficiaries at the farm level would therefore be
34.5 M. About 24,600 project staff would benefit from training supported
under the project. Project investments would generate employment in two
ways:  first, the permanent labor requirement to staff project plants and
storage facilities, and second, the transitory labor requirement for con-
struction activities. The table below indicates the employment that would be
generated in each project component expressed in number of permanent job
opportunities and man-years of transitory employment generated.



-47-
Transitory
Permanent             Employment
Emplovment              Man-Years
I.  Rural Storase                   13,230               75,138
II. Cotton Component
A. Ginning                        563                 2,124
B. Spinning                     2,227                3,060
C. Oil Extraction               1,632                6,228
III. Soybean Component
A. Cooperative Devel-
opment Services             432                    0
B. Seed Processing                161                  785
C. Oil Extraction               2,076                2,923
IV. Training                            18                  689
Total                          20,339                90,947
Forei2n Excban2e Earnings
8.14    Project investments would produce exports and substitutes for
imports, and would thereby generate foreign exchange directly and save on
outlays of foreign exchange. Assuming that all oil produced is a direct
substitute for imports, about US$48 H in foreign exchange in 1984 prices
would be saved annually at full development of the project. If 65Z of the
cake produced were to be exported, then foreign exchange earned annually at
full development would amount to an additional US$41 M in 1984 prices.
8.15    The project would include a substantial training component to promote
more efficient management of all agro-processing and storage operations.
Through this, the project is expected to have a demonstration effect on other
producers in these sectors. The costs of training have been included in the
rate of return calculations but no specific benefits have been attributed to
training.
Financial Analysis
8.16    A financial analysis was undertaken for a representative model of
each processing unit, two model godowns and for the net effect of the project
on cash flows of NCDC, SCB and SCMF. This calculation was based on past
(when applicable) and projected business activities. Projected Balance
Sheets, Sources aud Uses of Funds, Income and Expenditure Statements, and
Program Projections for NCDC (paras 2.01-2.07) are in Annex 6 and Annex 7,
for SCB and SLDB West Bengal and SCMF in Annex 10. Prices used for the
financial analysis, projected cashflows for rural godovns of 100 tons and
2,000 tons capacity, five different types of ginneries, three different types
of spinning mills, cottonseed and soybean oil extraction plants and two
soybean seed processing plants are in Annex 10. The financial rates of
return (FRR) and selected sensitivity analyses are in Annex 3, Table 2.   R
for processing plants vary from 12Z to over 501 and for godowns from 15% to



-48-
24%. The pattern in sensitivity analysis is similar to that displayed in the
economic analysis. Generally, the FRR are quite sensitive to increases in
operating costs or reductions in benefits. FRR are also sensitive to a lag
in benefits but not so sensitive to higher capital costs and delays in
start-up. None of the project units would be expected to have difficulties
meeting debt service obligations (Annex 10).
8.17    As is evident from the tables in Annex 2, the ERR differ substan-
tially from the FRR. One reason is that the rates of return are not strictly
comparable. FRB were calculated for operating units while ERR were calcur
lated for integrated components for soybeans and cotton processing. Thus, in
cotton processing, the ERR is a weighted average of rates of return for
spinning and ginning. The FRR for spinning is lower than that for ginning.
In the light of this, the ERR for the cotton processing component is not
surprising. In soybean processing the FRR has been predetermined at 12% to
find a financial price for the seed, since there is no market price for the
plant output (para 8.18). Therefore, it cannot really be compared to the ERR
of the soybean component as a whole. Soybean oil extraction also has a high
ERR relative to the FRI. A perusal of financial and economic prices for this
component indicates that the margins from oil processing are much more sub-
stantial in economic than in financial terms, and hence increase the ERR
relative to the FRR. Since the FRR of certain ginneries turned out to be
quite high, some additional sensitivity tests were run for the ginnery model
with the highest FRR. Generally it was found that the rate of return still
remains acceptable when certain critical assumptions are modified.  For
example, if the price of all outputs relative to seed cotton input prices
falls 10%, the FRR falls to 36%. If utilization falls 10% below projected
levels, the rate of return falls to 30%.
Soybean Seed Processing
8.18    Since the seed processing plants would be the only suppliers of
improved seeds for the foreseeable future, the price is not an exogenous
parameter. Rather, it must be set to ensure a minimum acceptable FRR for the
funds devoted to seed processing. In Rajasthan, the plant required is
smaller than that in NP so the price must be set somewhat higher than that
charged in MP. These prices would be set at Rs 5,4,5 (US$502.3) and Rs 6,425
(US$594.9) per ton in MP and Rajasthan respectively. Analysis of the effect
of seed price changes on the financial attractiveness to farmers of the
project technology indicates that even if these break-even prices were
charged, farmers would gain substantially by adopting the project.
Farm Incomes
8.19    At full development, income in constant terms for project farmers is
expected to be on average Rs 425 (US$39) or 7% greater than income of
non-participating farmers. From project start-up to full develo7ment, income
of 1.3 M project farmers would grow from Rs 4,479 (US$415) to Rs 6,577
(US$609). Given average family size in India, this represents per capita
incomes of Rs 846 (US$78) and Rs 1,241 (US$115) at project start-up and full
development respectively. At the start of the project, the absolute poverty
threshold for rural areas would be Rs 1,140 (US$106). Given average incomes
in the project area, more than half of the participating farm families could
be estimated to be below the poverty threshold.



-49-
Role of Women
8.20    Women would be employed extensively in the investment stages of the
project as they traditionally comprise a substantial percentage of the
unskilled labor for construction in all project States. They would also be
employed in many stages of cotton processing. Some ginneries employ women as
their main operative labor force. Spinning mills increasingly hire female
labor, esDecially in such processes as rolling yarn into cones. In the
weaving industry, women work as weavers in the southern regions of India and
are traditionally employed in warp and yarn preparation all over the country.
In the production of soybean, women would participate in weeding and harvest-
ing activities.
Environmental Effects
8.21    In project facilities, care would be taken to minimize damaging
environmental impacts of agro-industrial activities. Rural storage
facilities have no important environmental impact. On the other hand, they
reduce losses of fertilizers and pesticides, and thereby conserve resources.
The oil processing plants incorporate improved methods for dust emission
control, and removal of solvent from plant effluents. Effluent water treat-
ment, fairly uncommon in India, would be provided as well. In ginneries and
spinning mills currently operating in India, pollution of the work environ-
ment reaches unsatisfactorily high levels. The project ginneries would
substantially improve environmental conditions by automating handling and
cleaning processes. In spinning mills, use of cleaner lint, central dust and
waste collection systems, machine cleaners, and improved air purification
systems, together with much improved plant 'housekeeping," would reduce
cotton dust contamination in the air to safe levels.
Proiect Risks
General
8.22    Because of the scope and complexity of the project, there would be
some risk of inadequate implementation. However, steps would be taken to
min;mize this risk, e.g., by recruitment of general consultants and award
of single-responsibility contracts. Furthermore, NCDC has considerable
accumulated experience, capable management, and has performed adequately in
previous IDA projects and investments supported by other international aid
agencies (para 2.01). NCDC understands what is required to see a project of
this size to completion, and is willing to take the steps that would be
necessary to make it successful. Therefore, this risk in implementation is
assessed to be small.
Rural Storagte
8.23    This component repeats investments undertaken in other IDA projects;
since much of the uncertainty has been eliminated, the risks associated with
project implementation are relatively minimal.  In particular, sub-appraisal
procedures have been improved and refined based on experience with NCDC I and
II, and elimination of inappropriate investments should be reasonably effec-
tive.



-50-
8.24    The major risks for the rural storage component are macro variables,
i.e., cost increases for civil works. In the past, these have been substan-
tial and more than expected. It is always a possibility that some unforeseen
shock would push these costs above the projected price levels used to calcu-
late investment costs. In the future, however, sharp price increases are not
as likely as in the past because many key building material prices have been
decontrolled. Therefore, their movements should reflect a smooth trend
determined by market forces rather than the abrupt changes that sometimes
result from administered pricing systems.
Soybean Production and Processing
8.25    The major risk for agricultural production would of course be
climatic, particularly given that most soybean cultivation would be rainfed.
Also, farmers may not choose to adopt the project technology. However, given
the past successes in introducing soybean cultivation, this risk is assessed
to be minor.
8.26    In seed processing, financial risks are minimal since the product
worsuld be administratively priced, and unsatisfied demand would far outstrip
the output of project plants. There could be difficulties if necessary
breeder and foundation seed were not produced in adequate quantities.
However, it was confirmed at negotiations that availability of breeder and
foundation seed would be assured.
8.27    Soybean oil extraction facilities face two important uncertainties:
availabilitv of raw material and price fluctuations of outputs and inputs.
Climatic factors can certainly affect the former and little can be done to
mitigate this risk. However, given such problems, projections of soybean
production (para 7.02) point to more than adequate supplies for the plants
that would be constructed, so there could be room for shortfalls. There
could be delays in reaching projected soybean production levels, but sen-
sitivity analysis indicates that returns on soybean extraction investments
are relatively insensitive to any possible delays in start-up. Probably the
most important risk these facilities could face is short-term fluctuations in
input or output prices that would squeeze profit margins. In the medium
term, if there were no substantial intervention in the market, a significant
reduction in profit margins would not be likely to persist. However, in the
short run, this could be a serious problem. Risk would be similar for cot-
tonseed oil extraction although higher margins mitigate somewhat the gravity
of short-term price fluctuations.
Cotton Processing
8.28    The risks for ginning investments would consist primarily in dif-
ficulties with raw materials procurement, and short-term input and output
price fluctuations. Provision of sufficient working capital would help to
minimize these risks although climatic and agronomic factors that cannot be
completely controlled could play a role. Spinning mills face similar risks.
In addition, government intervention in their activities could also hurt
their profitability. However, it appears likely that within the constraints
set down by overall textile policy, spinning mills would be allowed to func-
tion without much interference.



-51-
IX. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01    During negotiations, the following main assurances were obtained:
(a) onlending terms and conditions for loans from GOI to NCDC, NCDC
to GOS and SCB/SLDB, and from SCB/SLDB to PCS, SCMF and OILFED
would be as set out in para 5.23 and laid down in a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement between GOI and NCDC;
(b) NCDC would contribute from its own resources the funds necessary
to (i) fill the gap between equity participation of Cooperative
Institutions and OS, and long-term finance from IDA; and
(ii) finance the institution building program and the establish-
ment of CDS (para 5.22);
(c) NCDC would not commit funds for loans to GOS of project States
unless they would have furnished an undertaking satisfactory to
IDA that they would contribute equity amounting to: (i) 45Z of
investment costs for rural storage, ginnery and spinning mill
sub-projects; and (ii) 35% of investment costs for oil extraction
and seed processing subprojects (para 5.22);
(d) NCDC would not commit funds for loans to SCB/SLDB unless they
would meet the specified eligibility criteria for participation
as onlending channels (para 5.10);
Ce) NCDC would ensure that OILFED and RAJFED would: (i) appro-
priately man the CDS in MP and Rajasthan (para 6.08); and
(ii) set prices for improved soybean seed as specified in
para 5.10;
Cf) NCDC would not commit funds for loans to SCB/SLDB unless they
would have agreed to: (i) appraise all subproject loan appli-
cations (para 6.04); (ii) periodically submit to RCS and NCDC
statements of loans approved (para 6.05); (iii) monitor project
project progress at State level and prepare and submit monitor-
ing reports on operational performance of godowns and agro-
processing facilities after commissioning (para 6.14); Cvi)
incorporate covenants into loan agreements with owners/
operators stipulating that Cooperative Institutions investing
in subproject facilities would have to pay in equity of 5% of
total investment costs; and in the case of agro-processing
facilities, repurchase GOS shares amounting to 10% of investment
costs within 15 years of plant commissioning (para 5.22);
(g) NCDC would: (i) jointly with SCB/SLDB appraise subprojects for
agro-processing facilities (para 6.04); and (ii) submit to IDA
subproject reports/feasibility studies and appraisal recommen-
dations for review (para 6.05);
(h) NCDC would: ti) carry out monitoring and evaluation functions
(para 6.14); and (ii) collect consistent evaluation data (para
6.15);



-52-
(i) NCDC would not commit funds for loans to SCB for investments in
(i) ginning and spinning unless the owners/operators would have
agreed that spinning mills and ginneries would be designed in
accordance with technical, environmental and staffing criteria
satisfactory to IDA (para 6.11); (ii) agro-processing facili-
ties unless the owners/operators would have agreed that manage-
ment would introduce accounting systems following standard
commercial practices (para 6.06); and middle and senior level
staff positions would be filled with professionally qualified
staff recruited on a competitive basis (paras 6.06); and
(j) NCDC would: (i) have its accounts audited annually in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to IDA; (ii) send copies of the
audit reports and audited annual accounts to IDA within six
months of the close of each financial year, such audit reports
to include a separate opinion by the auditors on the utilization
of funds withdrawn under (SOE) procedure; and (iii) prepare
quarterly and annual reports and annual work programs, and submit
them to the Bank (para 6.16).
9.02    Retroactive financing up to a total of about US$1 M would be made
available against eligible expenditure incurred after January 1, 1984 (para
5.32).
9.03    Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOI and NCDC would
be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
9.04    With the above assurances, the project would be suitable for an IDA
Credit of SDR 210.2 M (US$220 N) on standard IDA terms.



ANNEX 1
-53-                                     Table 1
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIUE DEUELOPMENT CORPORATION (NCDC) III PROJECT
Project Components by Year
(Rs Million)
Total
Rise Costs              - -
_________-              1US$
1     2       3       4     5      Rs   Million)
A. RURAL STORAGE
ARDHYA PRADESH                             25.9   80.5  108.4   87.3    -   302.1    28.0
KARNATAKA                                  28.2   37.2   37.9   43.4       -   146.7    13.6
ORISSA                                     32.7   48.1   54.1   53.8    -   188.7    17.5
NEST BENGAL                                24.8   38.5   47.5   48.2    -   158.9    14.7
UTTAR PRADESH                              93.9   90.8   80.5        -    -   265.2    24.6
RAJASTHAN                                  11.3   16.5   21.7   23.7    -    73.3         6.8
Sub-Total RURAL STORAGE                      216.8  311.6  350.2  256.4    - 1i135.0   105.1
B. SOYBEAN PRODUCTION I PROCESSING
.ADHYA PRADESH                             58.6  190.8  303.0  172.8 82.0   807.3    74.7
RAJASTHAN                                  25.4   76.8  103.9   40.0  15.7   261.8    24.2
Sub-Total SOYBEAN PRODUCTION I PROCESSING     84.0  267.6  406.9  212.9  97.7  1X069.0    99.0
C. COTTON PROCESSING
KARNATAKA                                  18.6  102.6  238.3   42.3  3.8   405.6    37.6
MAHARASHTRA                                34.8  182.6  146.5   50.8  15.2   429.9    39.8
HARYANA                                    31.9  141.4  114.4   47.1  15.2   350.0    32.4
RAJASTHAN                                     -   31.9  141.4  114.4 62.2   350.0    32.4
ANDHRA PRADESH                             21.5   74.6   23.2        -    -   119.3    11.0
Sub-Total COTTON PROCESSING                  106.9  533.1  663.8  254.6  96.4  1,654.7   153.2
D. INSTITUTION BUILDING
DELHI (NCDC)                                4.3    3.0    2.7    2.7  1.8    14.4          1.3
KARNATAKA                                   1.8    4.9    3.6    2.2  0.7    13.3          1.2
ANDHRA PRADESH                              0.2    0.3    0.1        -    -       0.6     0.1
RAJASTHAN                                   2.4    5.5    3.9    2.2  0.7    14.7          1.4
MADHYA PRADESH                              3.9    5.9    5.0    2.9  0.9    18.6          1.7
ORISSA                                      2.0    5.2    4.4    3.2  1.1    15.8          1.5
NEST BENGAL                                 1.6    4.3    3.1    1.9  0.6    11.6          1.1
UTTAR PRADESH                               2.3    5.7    5.2    4.0  1.3    18.5          1.7
MAHARASHTRA                                 0.2    0.4    0.2        -    -       0.7     0.1
HARYANA                                     0.2    0.3    0.1        -    -       0.6     0.1
Sub-Total INSTITUTION BUILDING                18.8   35.4   28.3   19.2  7.2   108.7    10.1
Total BASELINE COSTS                           426.5 1J147.6 1,449.1  743.0 201.3  3,967.5   367.4
Physical Contingencies                       33.5  101.0   93.0   44.6   5.2   277.4    25.7
Price Contingencies                          22.5  157.0  321.3  231.4  77.4   809.6    75.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                            482.5 19405.6 1i863.4 1t019.0 283.9 5,054.4   468.0
Taxes                                        55.2  158.1  149.7   64.9  3.5   431.5    39.9
Foreign Exchange                             72.4  205.4  194.6   81.8  4.2   558.5    51.7



-54-
ANNEX 1
Table 2
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (NCDC) III PROJECT
Project ComPonents by Year
CRs Million)
Total
Totals Including Contingencies
(USS
1      2        3       4       5   . Rs    Million)
A. RURAL STORAGE
HADHYA PRADESH                                 28.6    95.2   137.6   118.7        -    380.1      35.2
KARNATAKA                                      31.1    44.0    48.1    58.9        -    182.2      16.9
ORISSA                                         36.1    56.9    68.6    73.1        -    234.7      21.7
VEST BENGAL                                    27.3    45.6    60.2    65.5        -    198.6      18.4
UTTAR PRADESH                                 103.6   107.5   102.2         -      -    313.2      29.0
RAJASTHAN                                      12.5    19.6    27.5    32.2        -     91.8       8.5
Sub-Total RURAL STORAGE                          239.1   368.7   444.3   348.5        -  1,400.6    129.7
B. SOYBEAN PRODUCTION I PROCESSING
MADHYA PRADESH                                 68.1   240.2   382.8   227.0 114.0  1v032.0         95.6
RAJASTHAN                                      29.4    96.6   129.7    52.1  22.1    328.9         30.5
Sub-Total SOYBEAN PRODUCTION I PROCESSING          97.5   336.8   511.5   279.1 136.0  1,360.9    126.0
C. COTTON PROCESSING
KARNATAKA                                      21.8   129.6   305.8    5B.1   5.2    520.5         48.2
MANARASHTRA                                    40.1   220.8   193.9    70.0  20.8    545.5         50.5
HARYANA                                        36.8   173.0   153.2    64.4  20.8    448.3         41.5
RAJASTHAN                                          -    39.4   185.6   170.1  89.5    484.5        44.9
ANDHRA PRADESH                                 24.9    92.0    29.9         -      -    146.6      13.6
Sub-Total COTTON PROCESSING                       123.5   654.9   B68.4   362.6 136.3  2,145.8    198.7
D. INSTITUTION BUILDING
DELHI (NCDC)                                     5.0     3.8      3.6     4.0   2.8      19.3       1.8
KARNATAKA                                        2.2     6.1      5.0     3.4   1.2      17.9       1.7
ANBHRA PRADESH                                  0.2      0.4      0.2       -      -      0.8       0.1
RAJASTHAN                                        2.8     7.0      5.4     3.4   1.2      19.7       1.8
MADHYA PRADESH                                   4.6     7.6      6.9     4.3   1.4      24.9       2.3
ORISSA                                           2.4     6.6      6.1     4.9   1.7      21.6       2.0
WEST BENGAL                                      1.9     5.5      4.3     2.9   1.0      15.6       1.4
UTTAR PRADESH                                    2.7     7.3      7.3     6.1   2.2      25.6       2.4
MAHARASHTRA                                     0.3      0.5      0.2       -      -      1.0       0.1
HARYANA                                         0.2      0.4      0.2       -      -      0.8       0.1
Sub-Total INSTITUTION BUILDING                     22.3    45.2    39.2    28.9  11.5    147.1        13.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                 482.5 1,405.6 1.863.4 1i019.0 283.9  5,054.4    468.0



-55-                         ANNEX 2
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (NCDC) III PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.      The economic benefits of the project components are discussed in
paras 8.01-8.17 of the report. In calculating the ERR a project life of 25
years has been assumed. To calculate economic values, sales and excise
taxes, duties and subsidies, which vary by commodity and States, have been
eliminated; unskilled labor has been shadow priced at 60% of the financial
wage rate, taking into account different wage levels for agricultural and
non-agricultural labor and seasonality. Non-traded inputs and outputs
including skilled labor have been converted into economic values with the
standard conversion factor SCF of 0.8.
2.      Economic prices for traded goods are based on border prices (IBRD -
projected prices were used when available, otherwise Indian quotations)
converted at the official exchange rate. For importables import parity
prices have been calculated by adding to c.i.f. prices internal transport,
insurance and handling costs; exportables were valued at the export parity
price by deducting internal transport, insurance and handling costs; the
local cost components were shadow priced with the SCF. Of the main output
items, foodgrains have been assumed (in the without project situation) to be
imported, except for wheat, in which India is expected to be a marginal
exporter in good and an importer in poor harvest years.  Therefore, an
average export.import situation has been assumed up to 1990 (no internal
transport and handling costs were applied). After 1990 India is expected to
become an importer of wheat. Cotton lint and yarns are potential export
items and have been valued at their export parity prices. Cottonseed is a
non-traded commodity. Soybeans, soybean cake and cottonseed cake were
treated as exportables. Export parity prices of soybeans are based on IBID
projections; soybean and cottonseed extractions are valued at Indian export
prices, taking into account IBRD-projected international prices. Edible oils
are a major import item and, therefore, soybean and cottonseed oil have been
valued at their import parity prices. The financial and economic prices used
are listed in Table 1.
3.      Storage Losses.  Based on storage loss studies carried out in India,
the storage facilities -f the project are expected to reduce losses from an
average 3.5% under traditional to 1.5% under modern project financed storage.
This results in 2% savings in losses of both fertilizers and farm produce,
each of which would be stored on average close to half a year in the coopera-
tive storage chain. There would be two storage cycles per year, one for
Kharif and one for Rabi crops. Only the produce purchased and farm inputs
sold by PACS and those PMS dealing directly with farmers are taken into
account, and the RCMS and Federation godowns are regarded as extension of the



-56-                        ANNEX 2
Page 2
storing period of the same produce or farm inputs. Quantities of produce and
fertilizers stored are computed on the basis of a capacity utilization of 15Z
in the first, 30% in the second, 50Z in the third, 70% in the fourth and 90X
in the subsequent years.
4.      TransRort Cost SavinMs.  The calculation of transport cost savings
is based on the difference between bullock cart transport cost of Rs 3.0 per
ton/km, and truck transport cost of Rs .32, resulting in savings (converted
with SCF) of Rs 2.15 per ton/km. The average distance reduction for farmers'
bullock transport would be 12 km.
5.      Impact of Fertilizer Use on Farm Output.  In calculating the effect
of timely and easily accessible supplies of fertilizers on agricultural
production, the results of 4 years of fertilizer response trials, carried
out by IFFCO, have been used. The fertilizer response ratios (kg of grain
per kg cf nutrient) varied significantly by crop, soil type, season and State
from 12.6:1 for Kharif paddy to 3.5:1 for Rabi cotton (Annex 10). The
response ratio for grains applied by the Planning Cormmission for India of
7.3:1 has been used in the economic analysis. The costs of additional fer-
tilizer used, of transport (Rs 2.2 per ton/km), handling and spreading (Rs 18
per ha), and additional costs of harvesting and threshing (Rs 30 per quintal
of fertilizer) have been taken into account.
6.      Soybean Component.  Farm models vere built on the basis of individual
crop budgets and cropping patterns for the with and without project situa-
tions. The changes in input/output ratios taken for project farmers were
those that could be reasonably attributed to the project input services and
processing plants. Technical change and changes in the cropping pattern that
are likely to have taken place without the project were included in the
without project farm models. However, since there are a number of impon-
derable factors which come into play and may affect the success of soybean
production promotion, only 75% of the net incremental economic benefits were
counted for the ERR calculation.
7.      For the soybean component, only one rate of return was calculated
because it is not possible to separate the benefits of an integrated com-
ponent of this type. Both the input services and the seed processing plant
affect farm productivity, but the availability of oil extraction facilities
would also affect use of farm inputs and hectarage under soybean. Trying to
attribute fractions of total benefits to specific components becomes too
arbitrary to be of interest. However, to ascertain that the oil extraction
investment is viable in economic terms, an ERR calculation was performed in
which the only benefits were the value added in processing. As Table 2
shows, oil extraction generates a good return by itself. Even if benefits
lag by a full year, the ERR still exceeds the opportunity cost of capital.



ANUE 2
Table 1
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (NCDC) III PROJECT
Prices Used for the Financial and Economic Analsjis
Financial Prices       Economic Prices
(Re/ton)              (Rslton)
Aaricultiral ProductionlStorage            1984            1985        1990
Soybeans                                 3,159            2,090       2,789
Jowar                                     1,355           1,084       1,084
Paddy                                    2,085            3,552 a/   5,074 /
Wheat                                     1,685           1,652 b/   3,004 b
Fertilizers:
Urea                                   2,316            2,454       3,274
T5P                                    2,583            2,689       2,948
Nuriate of Potash                      1,299            1,776       1,988
Soybean Seed Processing
Improved Soybean Seeds:
MP                                    5,320                -           -
Rajasthan                             6,175                -           -
Soybean Oil Extraction
Crude Soybean Oil                      12,475            7,459       8,615
High Protein Extraction                 2,758            2,439       3,399
Cotton Ginnina/Spinning
Seed Cotton:
AP and Karnataka                       5,520           4,416       4,416
Haryana, Maharashtra,
and Rajasthan                       4,700            3,760       3,760
Cottonseed (all States)                 1,900            1,440 c/   1,440 el
Lint:
AP, Karnataka                        18,235 )
Habarashtra                          14,941 )         14,492 d/  16,012 A/
Haryana and Rajasthan                11,471 )
Cotton Syinning
Cotton Yarn:
108                                  20,395 )         22,005 e/  23,765 eI
20s                                 -24,200 )
40s                                  34,980           33,407 V   36,161
Cottonseed Oil Extraction
Refined Cottonseed Oil                  15,135          10,971      12,392
High Protein Extractions                 1,275           1,116       1,632
a/ Rice price; paddy price derived by using the milling ratio of 66S.
bI Wheat prices exclusive of transport and handling costs (pars 2 of Annex 2).
c( Economic price of cottonseed at oil extraction factory was adjusted for
transport and handling.
A/ Weighted average price.
eJ Weighted average price of 10. and 20s.
j/ 1986.



-58-               ANNEX 2
Table 2
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (NCDC) III PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Proiect Investments
Sensitivity Analysis
Switchinx Values Z Change 11       (1 yr. lax in Benefits)
Base ERR                Operating   Investment            ERR
Component                Z       Benefits      Costs       Costs                Z
Rural Storage         27          -48            168         211               22
Cotton Processing    34           -14             18          162              14
Cottonseed Oil
Extraction        28           -22             36         144               18
Soybean Component
Aggregate         49           -33             48 21        -               26
Soybean Oil
Extraction        40           -18             25         220               18
jJ  The percentage change in the indicated variable vhicb reduces the rate of return
-o 12%, the Opportunity Cost of Capital (OCC).
/ Total costs.
Note: The economic and financial rates of return are not strictly comparable
(see para 8.17 for further details).



-59-
ANE= 3
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEELPNMEN  CORPORATION (NCDC) III PROJECT
Financial Analysis for Proiect Processing Plants and Rural Godowns
Base      Svitching Vslues Z Chaune 1/      Sensitivity Analysis
FRR    Bene-    Operating    Investment  (1 yr Lag in Benefits)
Investment                              2     fits       Costs          Cost               FRR Z
Rur-l Storate
100 ton Godown                          15     - 9          17           25                12
2.000 ton Godown                        24     -41         117          173                20
Soybean Processing
Seed Processing Plants                  12 /   XA          NA            Rh                 6
Solvent Oil Extraction Plants           is     - 5           6           44                 8
Cotton Processing
Ginnery SCA (Saw Gins) 3)
with Spinning Mills
(1 Haryana, 1 Rajasthan)              57     -17         22           302                17
witb Cottonseed Oil
Extraction Plant
l Haryana. 1 Rajasthan)               70     -18         23           391               19
with Spinning Mills
MNabarashtra)                        60     -10          11          iso                11
Freestanding (1 Maharashtra)          37     - 9          11          170                11
Giwnury ISCB
Freestanding (2 Maharashtra)          29     - 7           9          114                 9
Ginnery RCA (Double Roller Gins)
with Spinning Mills
(1 Karnataka, 1 AP)                   44     - 9         10           210               10
with Cottonseed Oil Extraction
Plant in Karuataka                    58     - 7           8          112                 8
Spinning Mill D
(l each Earyana and Rajasthan)        17     - 7         10            34                10
Spinning Kill B
(1 Maharashtra)                       16     - 7         11            31               11
Spinning Mill C
tl each Karnataka ad AP)              15     - 5          7            17               10
Solvent Oil Extraction
Plant. (Cottonseed)                   21     -12          17           66                13
The percentage change in the indicated variable wbich reduces the rate of return to
121, the OCC.
]/ The rate of return for the mce model ginneries very because working capital
requirements differ when the ginneries are attached to oil extraction plants or
spinning nil s. Also in different States, the cotton varieties and ginning argins
vary and thereby affect the rate of return.
Note: The economic and financial rates of return are not strictly comparable
(see para 8.17 for further details).



-60-                         ANN    4 L
IN'DIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (NCDC) III PROJECT
Eligibility Criteria for Proiect Cooperative Institutions
State CooDerative Banks (SCB)
1.      SCB would be eligible to serve as onlending channel for project funds
in any one year if they demonstrate a recovery rate (defined as the interest
and principal ratio of collection to demand) jI of not less than 75Z at the
end of the previous financial year.
State Land Development Bank (SLDB) West Benzal
2.      The SLDB West Bengal would be eligible to serve as or'lending channel
for project funds if it demonstrates at the end of each of the FY84 to FY88
that the following minimum recovery rates (defined above) have been achieved:
{i) 50% by June 30, 1984; (ii) 55% by June 30, 1985; (iii) 62Z by June
30, 1986; and 75Z by June 30, 1987 and thereafter.
State Cooperative Marketing Federations (SCHF) and State Cooperative Oilseed
Growers Federation in Madhya Pradesh (OILFED)
3.      SCMF in all project States and OILFED in NP would be eligible for
participation in the investment program if they can demonstrate to SCB/SLDB
that they are financially viable institutions on the basis of the latest
audited financial statements.
Primary Cooperative Societies
4.      (a)  Primary Cooperative Societies would be eligible for participa-
tion in the investment program if they can demonstrate that they have
achieved a repayment performance to their DCCB of not less than 551 against
total demand; (b) NCDC would have the authority to grant exceptions from the
eligibility criteria requirements for PCS upon thorough review of each
individual case. Such exceptions would not amount to more than 101 of total
subloan approvals for any one State.
jJ Demand for this purpose is defined as the aggregate of principal and
interest on loans fallen due during the year under consideration plus
overdues from previous years.



-61-                        ANNEX 5
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (NCDC) III PROJECT
Subproiect Appraisal Criteria
The criteria listed below shall be applied in the appraisal of sub-
projects by SCB/SLDB or joint appraisals by NCDC and SCB/SLDB. They shall be
supplemented by additional criteria if necessary.
1. General Criteria
(A) Cooperative Institutions applying for subproject loans shall agree
that they shall adhere to project objectives and to all legal,
financial, technical and administrative arrangements, as described
in the legal documents and agreements pertinent to the subproject.
(B) Cooperative Institutions shall be financially and organizationally
viable and acceptable to NCDC/SCB/SLDB as sub-borrowers.
(C) Cooperative Institutions applying for subproject loans shall (i)
not have qualifications in their audit reports with respect to
fraud unless appropriate action has been taken which would lead to
the removal of the qualification; and (ii) demonstrate that the
audit of their accounts shall have been conducted in a timely
manner in accordance with their bylaws.
2. NanaRement and Financial Criteria
Cooperative Institutions applying for project loans shall
demonstrate that: (i) their organization, staffing, and operational
procedures for efficient operation of the facilities as well as
their provisions for training are satisfactory; (ii) projected
financial benefits from subproject activities shall ensure a
minimum internal rate of return on investment of 12%, calculated
before distribution of benefits to members; (iii) adequate
provisions for working capital shall be made in accordance with RBI
guidelines; and (iv) the cash flow generated by the subproject
activities shall permit loan repayment within 15 years (including
the grace period).
3. Technical Criteria
Cooperative Institutions applying for subproject loans shall
demonstrate that the final locations chosen for the subproject
facility are suitable in terms of size and infrastructure (road,
railway, pover and water connection). Tentative locations are in
the Appendix.



-62-
ANNEX 5
Page 2
4. Other Criteria for Rural Stora2e
Cooperative Institutions applying for subproject loans for godowns
shall demonstrate the need for new or additional storage on
the basis of past and current levels of business turnover and with
reasonable assumptions concerning projected future turnover.
5. Other Criteria for Aero-ProcessiuR Units
Cooperative Institutions applying for subproject loans for
investment in agro-processing facilities shall: (i) demonstrate
that (a) sufficient raw materials are projected to be available at
the time of plant commissioning for processing within a reasonable
distance from the plant and taking into account other purchasers in
the area, (b) realistic projections of future production and
marketed surplus of raw materials show that this will continue to
be the case, (c) in the project areas sub-borrowers can purchase
inputs on terms competitive with other buyers in the area;
(ii) document in detail (a) the installed capacity of existing
processing uiits in the area from which inputs are to be supplied,
Cb) estimates of the annual production levels of existing units
including explanations why units in the area, if any, are not
processing at full capacity, and (c) the overall capacity and
production position within the State to demonstrate the need for
increased capacity on a broader basis; (iii) furnish a detailed
sales plan for their output identifying buyers within the area, the
volume of their current purchases. The plan shall demonstrate that
the loan applicants can offer products that are (a) competitively
priced, (b) well suited to purchasers requirements, and (c) of
adequate or superior quality; (iv) demonstrate that they can market
output on competitive, or more favorable terms than those currently
prevailing; and (v) demonstrate that there is at the time of
appraisal or wi:l be by commissioning, an adequate demand for the
product in the State or a wider market in which they can
effectively compete. Realistic projections of future demand shall
be presented to show that this will continue to be the case.



INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (NCDC) III PROJECT
Number of ProDosed Godowns in Each Proiect State by Capacitv
Karnataka        MP        Orissa       Raiasthan        UP      West Bengal    Total
Rural Storage
Component
50 tons             -             -            -            600        162              -          762
100 tons           800        1,650           741            350      1,435         1,000         5,976
250 tons             20           50          388             50          -            100          608
500 tons             28           50           39              -          -              -          117
1,000 tons             55          105           42               -          5             -          207
2,000 tons             13            -           15               -         13            25           66
3,000 tons              -            6            -               -          7             -           13
4,000 tons              -            -            -               -          9             -            9
5,000 tons              -            9            -               -          6             -           15
6,000 tons              -            -            -               -          5             -            5
10,000 tons              -                         -               -                                     11  -  I
916       1,870         1,225          1,000      1,643         1,125         7,779
10
n



-64-                        Annex 5
Appendix 1
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (NCDC) III PROJECT
Tentative Locations for Soybean and Cotton ProcessinR Facilities
Soybean Production and Processing ComDonent
1. Raiasthan
(a)  Cooperative Development Service to Cover Following Districts:
(Three District Offices)
Kota, Bundi, Banswara, Chhitaurgarh and Jhalawar
(b)  Soybean Seed Processing Plant
Kota (2.5 tons throughput per hour)
_c)  Solvent Extraction Plant
Kota (200 tons throughput per day)
2. Madhya Pradesh
(a)  Cooperative Development Service to Cover Follovin2 Districts:
(Eight District Offices)
Sagar, Tikamgarh, Panna, Damoh, Chhatarpur, Guna, Shivpuri,
Vidisha, Rajgarh, Jabalpur, Narsimhapur, Chhindvara, Seoni,
Mandla and Balaghat
(b)  Soybean Seed Processiua Plants
Guna and Chhindwara (5 tons throughput per hour each)
(c)  Solvent Extraction Plants
Damoh, Guna and Chhindwara (200 tons throughput per day each)
Cotton Processing Component
(a)  Ginning and Pressinrk (total 11 ginneries with baling presses)
Harvana (Hissar District)
Adampur and UklanA - two ginneries with saw gins of 5,440 tons
capacity (lint) p.a. each with baling presses
Rajasthan (GanRana2ar District)
Raisinganagar and Sriganganagar - two ginneries with saw gins of
5,440 tons capacity (lint) p.a. with baling press



Annex 5
-65-                         Appendix 1
Page 2
Andhra Pradesh (Guntur District)
Chilakaluripet - one ginnery with roller gins or saw gins of
5,440 tons capacity (lint) p.a. with baling press
Karnataka (Dharwal District)
Annigeri and Saundatti - two ginneries with roller gins or saw gins
of 5,440 tons capacity (lint) p.a. each with baling presses
paharash-ra
Hinganghat (Wardha District) and Hadgaon (Yavatmal District) - two
ginneries with saw gins or roller gins of 5,440 tons capacity (lint)
p.a. each with baling presses
Lonar (Buldhana District) and Ambad (Jalna District) - two
ginneries with saw gins or roller gins of 3,570 tons capacity
(lint) p.a. each with baling presses
(b) Spinning
Andhra Pradesh (Guntur District)
Chilakaluripet - one mill with 25,000 spindles for ring frame
spinning with capacity of 1,900 tons p.a. of yarn
Haryana (Hissar District)
Adampur - one mill with 25,000 spindles equivalent for open-end
spinning with capacity of 4,800 tons p.a. of yarn
Karnataka (Dharwal District)
Saundatti - one mill with 25,000 spindles for ring frame spinning
vith capacity of 1,900 tons p.a. of yarn
Naharashtra (Wardha District)
Hinganghat - one mill with 25,000 spindles for ring frame spinning
vith capacity of 2,900 tons p.a. of yarn
Raiasthan (Ggnganasar District)
Raisinganagar - one mill with 25,000 spindles equivalent for open-end
spinning with capacity of 4,800 tons p.a. of yarn
(c) Solvent Extraction Plants
Haryana (Hissar District)
Uklana - one plant with capacity of 100 tons throughput per day
Karnataka (Dharwal District)
Annigeri - one plant with capacity of 100 tons throughput per day
Maharashtra (Yavatmal District)
Yavatual - one plant with capacity of 100 tons throughput per day



-66-                        Annex 5
Appendix 1
Page 3
Raiasthan (GanaanaRar District)
Sriganganagar - one plant vith capacity of 100 tons tbroughput
per day



-67-
ANNEU 5
Appendix 2
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (NCDC) III PROJECT
Review of the Indian Textile Sector
1.        With reference to the cotton spinning component of the project, it
was confirmed that GOI would undertake a review of the textile sector based
on existing and upcoming studies and, if it considers necessary, undertake
further study, to cover the following areas:
(a)  A descriptive overview of the major regulations that affect the
size, location, production cost, and efficient operations of
textile producers in India;
(b)  A description and evaluation of their effect on profitability and
international competitiveness of the following more specific
factors:
(i; fiscal measures, such as taxes and tariffs;
(ii) regulatory measures, such as controlled cloth policy,
licensing requirements both for investment and operation
and quantitative import restrictions;
(iii)  investment incentive measures currently available to the
various segments of the industry such as the availability
of credit and impediments to modernization and
rehabilitation.
As a result of the above evaluation, the study would propose a set of
measures which would result in an increase in efficiency, competitiveness
and export potential of the industry. The results of the review would be
made available to the Association by June 30, 1986.



INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (NCDC) III PROJECT
NCDC: Comparative Balance Sheets (as on March 31) 1/
Actual 1979/80. 1982/83 and Proiected 1983/84 to 1989/90
Assets                          1979/80       1982/83          1983/84        1984/85   1985/86    1986/87    1987/88          1988/89    1989/90
---------------------------------Re M------------_____________________
Fixed Assets                        9.9          16.5              15.3           14.3      13.3        11.3        11.3          10.3         9.3
Equity Investments                 22.1          68.1              29.9           29.9      29.9        29.9        29.9          29.9        29.9
Loans to GOS & State Banks ./ 1,927.8         3,697.6          4,574.6        5,556.1   6,658.0    7,883.0    9,327.6         10,950.0   12,778.5
Bond Redemption Deposits           58.2         194.6            245.2           271.5     298.5       297.0       231.3         115.3          -
Interest Accured                   51.3         163.0            218.1          257.2      284.0       291.1       303.1         325.9       345.9
Pre-paid Expenses                  50.1          42.7             42.6            42.6        9.8        9.8         9.8           9.8         9.8
Bank and Cash Balances             59.7           0.7             64.9           108.1     108.7       124.0       120.1         129.7       103.0
TOTAL      2,17;.1       4,183.2           5,190.6        6,279.7   7,402.2    8,646.1   10,033.1        11,570.9   13,276.4
0'
Liabilities
NCDC Fund & Reserves              559.4         823.5             876.0          931.0     988.5    1,048.5    1,111.0         1,176.0    1,244.9
Loans from GOI                  1,006.9       1,909.2          2,484.1        3,145.7   3,821.0    4,560.9    5,444.4          6,427.2    7,652.8
Bonds and Promissary Notes  /   569.0         1,417.7          1,797.7        2,170.2   2,592.7    3,037.7    3,477.7          3,967.7    4,378.7
Other Liabilities 4/               43.8          32.8              32.8           32.8         -           -          -             -           -
TOTAL     2.179.1       4.183.2           5.190.6        6.279.7   7.402.2    8.647.1   10.033.1        11.570.9   13,276.4
jJ Source: NCDC December 1983.
2/ All loans are guaranteed by GOB.
O/  Bonds and promissory notes with maturity of 10-15 years.  Current interest rate 8.25X.
A/ Income Tax.



INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (NCDC) III PROJECT
NCDC: Comparative Statements of Income & Expenditure
Actual 1979/80. 1982/83 and Proiected 1983/84 to 1989/90 1J
Income                             1979/80    1982/83    1983/84    1984/85    1985/86    1986/87          1987/88    1988/89    1989/90
----------------------------------------------Re M------------------------- -------------------
Grants from GOI                        6.0         7.7          -           -           -          -            -           -           -
Interest on Loans to
GOB and State Banks                141.9       278.2       359.0      433.1       516.3       587.1        701.2       803.2       911.9
Interest on Redemption Deposit         8.6        20.7        20.9        25.8        28.2       30.6         29.0        22.2         1.9
Dividend on Investments                0.1         1.1         1.0         1.0         1.0        1.0                      1.0
TOTAL                              156.6       307.7       380.9      459.9       545.5       618.7        731.2       826.4       914.8
,Expenditure
Grants to GOB and State Banks         21.4        21.4        20.0        22.0        24.0        26.0        28.0        30.0        32.0
Interest on GOI Loans                 87.4       120.1       149.2       179.0       217.6      250.2        314.2       363.4       408.9
Interest on Bonds and
Promissory Notes                     8.2        82.9       127.9       160.9       196.4      230.0        271.5       305.0       339.0
Administration                          -         21.3        21.2        23.0        25.0        27.5        30.0        33.0        36.0
Income Tax                              -          8.7        10.0        20.0       25.0        25.0         25.0        30.0        30.0
Excess of Income over
Expenditure                         39.6        53.3        52.6                   57.5        60.0         62.5        65.0        68.9
TOTAL                              1           307,        380.9      459.9       545,5       618.7        731.2       826,4       914.8
J  Source:  NCDC December 1983



INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (NCDC) III PROJECT
NCDC: Proiected Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds - 1983/84 through 1989/90 1J
Sources                                1983-84    1984-85    1985-86    1986-87        1987-88    1988-89    1989-90
-----------------------------------Rs M-----------------------------------
Opening Balance                           38.9        64.9      108.1       108.7        124.0      120.1       129.7
Loans from GOI
(a) Budgetary Allocations               412.5      341.7       340.0       380.0       400.0       430.0       430.0
(b) Internationally Aided
Programs                            285.0      477.0       527.7       590.0       770.0       910.0    1,230.0
Market Borrowings                        380.0       400.0      450.0       500.0        550.0      600.0       650.0
Loan Repayments                          260.4      335.2       411.8       499.0        577.4      677.6       789.5
Interest                                 305.0      395.0       490.5       581.0       690.2       781.4       892.9
Redemption of Sinking Fund                  -         27.5       27.5        55.0        110.4      144.7       117.2
TOTAL                               1.681.8    2.041.3    2.355.6    2.713.7       3,222,0    3 663.8    4.239.3
Uses
Loan to GOS and State Banks            1,137.5    1,316.7    1,523.7    1,724.0        2,022.0    2,300.0    2,618.0
Grants to GOS and State Banks             20.0        22.0       24.0        26.0         28.0       30.0        32.0
Repayments to GOI:
Principal                             122.6      157.1       192.4       230.1       286.5       357.2       434.4
Interest                              149.2      179.0       217.6       250.2       314.2       363.4       408.9
Repayment of Bonds:
Principal                                -        27.5        27.5        55.0        110.0      110.0       239.0
Interest                              127.9      160.9       196.4       230.0       271.5       305.0       339.0
Administration                            20.0        22.0       24.0        26.5         29.0       32.0        35.0
Income-Tax                                10.0        20.0       25.0        25.0         25.0       30.0        30.0
Redemption Deposits                       29.7        28.0       26.3        22.9         15.7        6.5          -
Balance                                   64.9       108.1      108.7       124.0        120.1      129.7       103.0
TOTAL                               1.681.8    2.041.3    2.365.6    2.713.7       3.222.0    3.663.8    4.239.3
1/  Source:  NCDC December 1983.                                                                                        O



INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (NCDC) III PROJECT
NCDC: Program Proiections and Funding 1983/84 to 1989/90 1/
Central Schemes                      1983-84       1984-85    1285-86   1986-87        1987-88       1988-89    1989-90
------------------------------------Rs M-------------------------------------
Budgetary Allocations                  412.5         341.7       340.0      380.0        400.0         430.0       430.0
International Aid                      285.0         477.0       527.7      590.0        770.0         910.0    1,230.0
Corporation Schemes J40.0                            520.0       670.0      780.0        880.0         990.0       990.0
TOTAL                            1.157.5       1.338.7    1.537.7   1.750.0        2.050.0       2.330.0    2.650.0
Funding of Programs
Loans from GOI:
Central Sector Scheme                412.5         341.7       340.0      380.0        400.0         430.0       430.0
International Aided Schemes         285.0          477.0       527.7      590.0        770.0         910.0    1,230.0
Corporation Schemes:
Market Borrowin3                     380.0         400.0       450.0      500.0        550.0         600.0       650.0
Internal accruals                     8O.0         120.0       220.0     280.0        330.0          390.0       340.0
TOTAL                            1,157.5        1.338.7    1.537.7   1.750.0        2.0500       2.330.0    2.650.0
Financed by GOI
Underdeveloped                          75.0          58.5        70.0       70.0         70.0          70.0        70.0
Sugar Factories/Spg.Mills              175.0         125.0       100.0      100.0        100.0         100.0       100.0
Assistance to PACS for
Farm Inputs                             -             -         30.0       50.0         60.0          80.0        80.0
Assistance to NAFED                      2.5           5.7          -          -            -             -           -
Margin Honey                            60.0         107.5        60.0       80.0         80.0          90.0        90.0
Spinning Hills (Weavers)               100.0          45.0        80.0       80.0         90.0          90.0        90.0
Program with Intern. Aid:
NCDC I (Storage)                      67.0          55.0          -          -            -             -           -
NCDC II (Storage)                    102.4         150.0       156.4      150.0           -             -           -
EEC (Storage)                         40.6          15.0          -          -            -             _           _
NCDC II (Cold Storage)                35.0          42.0        34.0         -            -             -           -
EEC (Soybean)                         40.0         115.0       137.3         -            -             -           -
NCDC III                                -          100.0       140.0      350.0        500.0         550.0       550.0
NCDC TV/EEC II, ODA and
any Other Source                      -             -         60.0       90.0        270.0         360.0       680.0
Corp. Sponsored Schemes                460.0         520.0       670.0      780.0        880.0         990.0       990.0
TOTAL                            1.157.5        1.338.7    1.537.7   1.750.0        2.050.0       2.330.0    2.650.0
1/  Source:  NCDC December 1983.
J   Corporation schemes are financed with NCDC's own funds.
-J



-72-                        ANNEX 8
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (NCDC) III PROJECT
Taraet Indicators and Monitorint  Tritter Levels
Trigger Level
(% of Appraisal
Item Financed               Indicator                        Proiection)
Rural Storage:
PACS Godovns     1) Annual Credit Disbursement              < 50%
2) Recoveries (Z of Demand) jj            < 80Z
3) Annual Turnover of
Goods Sold                             < 50%
SCMF Godowns     1) Annual Turnover                         < 60X
Agro-Processing  2) Operating Surplus
Units                 (Quarterly)                           < 70Z
j/ Demand for this purpose is defined as the aggregate of principal and
interest on loans fallen due during the year under consideration plus
overdues from previous years.



-73-ANE
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (NCDc) III PROJECT
Proiected Quarterly Disbursements
US$ M
IBRD/IDA
Fiscal Year and Quarter         During Quarter         Cumulative
FY85
Quarter 1
2                     1.0 jj                  1.0
3                    13.5                    14.5
4                     6.6                    21.1
FY86
Quarter 1                     11.0                   32.1
2                    13.3                    45.4
3                    13.2                    58.6
4                    15.4                    74.0
FY87
Quarter 1                     17.6                   91.6
2                    17.6                   109.2
3                    17.7                   126.9
4                    15.4                   172.3
FY88
Quarter 1                     15.4                  157.7
2                    13.0                   170.9
3                    13.0                   183.9
4                    10.0                   193.9
FY89
Quarter 1                      7.3                  201.2
2                     6.5                   207.7
3                     6.3                   214.0
4                     6.0                   220.0
jj  Retroactive Financing



-74                            ANNEX 10
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (NCDC) III PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
Cooperative Storage Project - NCDC, April 1983.
Soybean Development Programme, Feasibility-Cum-Project Report,
Rajasthan - NCDC, April 1983.
Soybean Development Programme, Feasibility-Cum-Project Report,
Madhya Pradesh - NCDC, April 1983.
Integrated Cotton and Seed Processing Projec..t, Feasibility-Cum-Project
Report - NCDC, April 1983.
B.  Implementation Volume - Selected Working Pay,:rs and Tables Prepared
by Bank Staff
Appendix
B.1 The Project Area.
B.2 Agricultural Services.
B.3 Cotton Production.
B.4  Soybean Production,Cooperative Development Service and Farm Budgets.
B.5 Soybean Seed Processing.
B.6 Agricultural Production, Input Use and Storage Requirement in
Rural Storage States.
B.7 Data on PACS and PMS.
B.8 State Cooperative Banks, Financial Projections and Recoveries.
B.9 Ginneries and Spinning Mills, Technical Data and Demand Projections
for Spinning Capacity.
3.10 Economic Analysis Data.
B.11 Cashflows for Project Facilities.
B.12 Detailed Cost Tables.
B.13 Summary Cost Tables.



-75-
RO
_z 21       U y, |_ 
76 -T ~ ~ ~ ~ I-
--- -------- - - --
----------------i
)W33~~~~~~I
W__I_14J                up



IBRD 18023
.- 70C    H                         C    A       50MARCH 1984
PJ APR DH                                    C H  I N  A
PAKISTAN                        -Yj1
-- MAR  //XW<-VA
.7' j4~EW DELHI                                       '-I-E    - ELHI
/    - ANDEREUSrrAR PRIADESH              P
,;    ~~  rAS  AN                                    tucIaGOIDSRA rPROJ(EC5
-                  -                                        8/MAR          ) (BANGLADESH
-  GI/JA RAT                    __    ,X                                                iS-
Gandbmogar         DHVA  IA DES                         ~~~~~r BE,NGALI
ORIISSA
~~~~~~~~\     aespricpin inJ                                                         0-lnCopnn
AfA HARAASHTRAP
X ,d      ~     ?Pan                      . .                                                   -
Poona~n
ANDHRA IrNADU
"  c-                 PM DISH  '~~~~~~AGRO-INDUSTRIAL PROJECT
NCDC M
VA~~~~~~~~~~ ~~PROJECT STATES
ANAA,A K[                                           Staies participating in Rural Storage
L                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Comnponent
E~staies participating inSoen
Bangola..   'ii   .n.r~~~1     States participating in Cotton Componient
r        .u  by                                            1Madras             NCDC Headquarters & Regional Offices
iv..  T                   /             /               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 State Capitals, Headquarters of
.v..g ..em. ass..   ~~~~~~~~~rr"     / ~~State Cooperative Banks and
-                     N                <7                                         State Land Development Banks
O,  100 g 2    300 odA                                     - A tI
PM or   ma. "two   w ~o              NA0LAN KA
F,~                                               8DW.m       /



IBRD 18024
. _ 70-                               CHA Z                                                             AA.C H MACHA19U4
_.}                        -     <  ~~~~~~~~~PRA DSH                                                       MAC IS
L4.S*mIa.>..3>\                         C   H    I  N    A
PA K IS TA N    1PJAR
MAEW DELHI                    AV
zi         g          '      "       <                   4         UT                  j~~~~~~~HUAN
.jr   -        LEUTAR PRADESL
91   PA JASZEAN  *2FLuckno.                                                     ASSAM
-., t fr)-'    \                       S        ~          r HA       B(BANGLADESH
GUJA RA T                                                               -.
e       N?                   MAADHYA PAADESH                                 N     A >  GA           .-
I   *!   1t    S                             C3              {j7-ea  ,, S                          b- I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-k ,.GE
=,(    g ORISSA
2v                                                                r__1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Oiuauio  20r
AEAHARASHIRA        P4           - .8:;
I           \                    /  .}                  -. /  - ), 
A  r a b   o a ,G H2<                                   dLeLbod*
i   h r c o { o n   \   5-JS  2'  c                      <                1~~~~~~ N  D I A
! SetANOA PRA DiSH   AGRO-INDUSTRIAL PROJECT
Sea  C              4                                             ~~~~~~NCDC M
fl cS  n   ., ~                               STATES PARTICIPATING IN
iGOi  LU                      S                      r RURAL STORAGE COMPONENT
K               cAIAA                                 States Participating in Rural Storage Conponent
y    Rural Storage to be Constructed for Primary
Cooperative Societies in Sizes from
50 m tons to 500 m tons
(one unit  50,000 mn tons capacity)
BangaloI  Rural Storage to be Constructed for
wnrwo_wo~ a_    IV                \                                 ras ;]    Marketing Federations in Sizes from
~~~~ ~~~~~~~  I ~~~~~~~~~1.000 in tons to 10.000 mn tons
w___e( /                                                      /one unit = 100,00  m tons capacity)
rn 0                    N                                                    *_ \   N,o  State Capi%els and Headquarters of State
wd go  D.'                                                                          Coaoerative Banks. State Land Development
.,_wow __                                  X      TAMhI                            Banks, and Marketing Federations
w_terbw    Moro                      RAZA  NADU                                   NCDC Headquarters and Regional Offices
W._d                    j         K                        r                 *   Agricultural Cooperative Staff Training    10
of MWf. 00 W WVInstitutes
'~                                 \                                    A>  g  ,6:%   ^   Center for Cooperative Trainers' Training
KIL E                                                           -'-  State Boundaries
o   1o  20D  3pD  4o   scI                                                --   International Boundaries
MIL20E.                 Trivdm   y                 sRI
MIL Es                                             LAN KAl
L       70o               -j80> 7                                                                                       90



-    Pyfliat ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~.6                                     6
-7 9    a             X /     IAGRO-INDUSTRIAL  F                                                                I'                      AGRO-INDUSTRIAL  PROJECT NCDC m
P   A   K   I  S  T  AN    /                   -                 N                           STATES PARTICIPATING  IN                                                           STATES PARTICIPATING  IN SOYBEAN  COMPONENT
I                                                                       >2'  k,b, O,,.,k.. C                                ow S.vh.\,,  \   Ch..............._ IL, I,a   .,.n7 ,b.- D   X  =     n I    ..- C-    , .-   -W ., I
7                               E.0,                                                                                                         U ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P  ,  ~
/ n- Ab A JS * Nble CeploW Di S ~~~~13                                                                                                                              [5.1,  CWPI
*   NCOC FI,.da..,,., ~ ~           ~            ~            [   P      I,              -       -1
-   ,        _Pr, I4p.,,dp,. _,,.
-            -p.~~~~~~~~~P-D
R.7
'1 ~ ~    ~     ~     ~      1
MA  P/A  RA   S/AIT/IA                                                                                                 l..A              IA 



IBRD 18046
__   70r                gb   ~      M-   HIMACHAN    lb.                                                  MARCH 19S4
f                        .~~~~~~~~1 AV PRDfSH 
P A K I S T A N                          /                  \.C H I N A
X gfA4e)4NA                             /
eNEW DELHI    C'                 A.
ii H/                    't,M .           4r BHUTAN
r~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~U  t rA R PPA DESH                                                   -              _
RAJASTHAN  *_                                                                                    ASSAM
g ./ ) tr 'f                                                           8/ HA R 
-BPI/ HA R       CBANGLADESH
GUJA RAT r              3    Li-
Gordohnrooor*                       MjAf 4DHYA  PRADE SH                            1            \
Calcutta0 
)  3yrbotmot.01C  H0 8        r         ORISSA
0                                                        Btoror A,W  > oBhub0 r    20
.         MNAARASHTRA  -                   
bEnY               )Y                                       A '           01 A
Hd H  rtod/                               INDIA
-*--d- 5-bod                AGRO-INDUSTRIAL PROJECT
ANDHRA PRADESEH                             NCDC [II
4 5                  ~                    STATES PAPTICIPATING IN
i                1   ChitolaLa2ourir  /10                     COTlON  COMPONENT
Ponjiim'   ! Soundoi                                           o Cton States
GOA)    dAnrn.wri
"i ,   Annige3                                    --  Provisionol Locations of Ginneries with Annual
A'AARWArAxAKA                                          Capacity of 21,000 Bales of Lint
Provisional Locations of Ginneries with Annual
Capacity of 32.000 Bales of Lint
Provisional Locations of Pressing Facilities with
i Bongh ,_;             -bAnnual Capocity of 32000 Boles of Lint
nW.WjW D~Pff  or                         MB0Mdras                                   Provisional Locotions of Soinning Mills with
rho W/No 80*1e                                       <                                25000 Spindles and Annual -Capacity of:
#W V* mB.nWe INI of                                                                   1900 m tons of Yarn
..m   d _ 0                                  jv AV VW-                            T 900 m tons of Yarn
.W                                          4_800 m tons of Yarn
CW.WE.    W-             I                          AM/I                            Provisional Locations of Cottonseed Oil
m me _va m -n*v.'r to                              NA.    Extraction Plants with 10Dm tons
ldTll  dXFid_                     KERA I           NADU                               Throughput per Day
10 dr IN "Jv W W                                                                      NCDC Heodquartefs and Regional Offices
0    State Capita;s
glI.OUETER2 -                         -   State Boundaries
o 0       2W                                  i                             -*-  International Boundaries
300     200      30         T                           SRI
MILES                                            sLANKA
7,                                                      So*         9:'



