Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                        -      ;
Report No. P-3833-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 210.2 MILLION
(US$220 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO INDIA
FOR THE
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (NCDC) III PROJECT
May 30, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of May 24, 1984)
US$1.00            Rs 11.089
Rs 1.00            US$0.0901
Rs 1 million   =  US$90,177
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were, except
as otherwise noted, made at the rate of US$1 to Rs 10.8.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CDS     -   Cooperative Development Services
CGC     -   Cotton Growers' Cooperative
DCCB    -   District Cooperative Central Bank
GOI     -   Government of India
GOS     -   State Governments
ICB     -   International Competitive Bidding
IDBI    -   Industrial Development Bank of India
LCB     -   Local Competitive Bidding
NCDC    -   National Cooperative Development Corporation
NTC     -   National Textile Corporation
OILFED  -   Madhya Pradesh State Cooperative Oilseed Growers' Federation
OSCS    -   Oilseed Growers' Cooperative Societies
PACS    -   Primary Agricultural Credit Societies
PCS     -   Primary Cooperative Societies
RAJFED  -   State Cooperative Marketing Federation in Rajasthan
RBI     -   Reserve Bank of India
SCB     -   State Cooperative Bank
SCMF    -   State Cooperative Marketing Federations
SCSMF   -   State Cooperative Spinning Mill Federations
SLDB    -   State Land Development Bank



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (NCDC) III PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:             National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC).
Amount:                  SDR 210.2 million (US$220 million equivalent).
Terms:                   Standard.
Onlending Terms:         Government of India (GOI) to NCDC:  Repayment over
15 years, including 3 years' grace, at an interest
rate of not less than 7% per annum, the standard
rate for GOI onlending to NCDC for projects taken
up with foreign assistance.
NCDC to State Cooperative Banks_(SCB) and State
Land Development Bank (SLDB): Repayment over 15
years, including 3 years' grace, at an interest
rate of not less than 8% per annum for rural
storage investments and not less than 9.5% per
annum for agro-processing investments.
SCB and SLDB to ultimate beneficiaries: Repayment
up to 15 years, including up to 3 years' grace, at
an interest rate of not less than 10% per annum
for rural storage investments and not less than
12.5% per annum for agro-processing investments.
GOI will bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project Description:    The proposed project is designed to support the
development of the Indian cooperative movement by
strengthening the capabilities of the National
Cooperative Development Corporation, through
expanding the scope of its activities and
extending its involvement into new areas in nine
participating States.  The project provides credit
for a rural storage component, involving the
construction of about 7,800 rural godowns in six
States; a soybean production and processing
component, involving the establishment of 800
Oilseed Growers' Cooperative Societies, together
with soybean seed processing plants and solvent
oil extraction plants in six States; a cotton
processing component, involving the establishment
of eleven cotton ginneries and five spinning mills
in five States; and an institution-building
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
component, involving the establishment of Staff
Training Institutes inI six States, and development
of a training program for staff of the rural
godowns, processing plants, and cooperative
agencies. The major risk in a project of this
scope would be poor implementation. However, NCDC
has cons:iderabLe experience and capable management
and has perforned satisfactorily in previous
IDA-financed projects, so this risk is considered
to be smatll. Technical risks are minor.
Estimated Cost: 1/
(US$ millions)
Item                           Local         Foreign         Total
Rural Storage                                 94              11            105
Soybean Production & Processing               9.l             8              99
Cotton Processing                            132             21             153
Institution-building                           9              1              10
Base Cost                                 326             41            367
Physical Contingencies                        22               4             26
Price Contingencies                           68               7             75
Total Project Cost                        416 ij          52            468 1/
1/ Including about US$40 million in taxes and duties.
Financing Plan:                                 _      (US$ millions)
Local         Foreign         Total
IDA                                       168             52            220
State Governments                          80              -             80
NCDC                                      146              -             146
Cooperative Societies                      22_             -             22
Total                                 416             52            468
Estimated Disbursements:



(US$ millions)
IDA FY                       FY85       FY86     FY87      FY88      FY89
Annual                       21.1       52.9      98.3     21.6      26.1
Cumulative                   21.1       74.0    172.3    193.9    220.0
,e            Rate of Return:    At least 28%
Appraisal Report:  No. 5035-IN dated May 30, 1984.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIAI[-)N
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO INDIA FOR THE
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (NCDC) III PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India in an amount equivalent to SDR 210.2 million
(US$220 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance the
National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) III Project, involving
the construction of rural cooperative storage godowns and soybean and
f              cotton processing plants in a total of nine participating States.  The
project also includes an institution-building component designed to train
staff for the project facilities and to strengthen the cooperative
development institutions.  The proceeds of the credit will be channelled
by the Government to NCDC for fifteen years, including three years' grace,
at an interest rate of not less than 7% per annum, the standard rate for
GOI onlending to NCDC for projects taken up with foreign assistance which
will, in turn, onlend the funds to participating state banks. The par-
ticipating banks will relend the proceeds to ultimate beneficiaries at a
rate of not less than 10% per annum for rural storage loans and not less
than 12.5% per annum for agro-processing loans. State Governments will
also contribute funds as equity. The foreign exchange risk for the
proposed credit will be borne by the Government of India.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      An economic report, "Situation and Prospects of the Indian
Economy - A Medium Term Perspective" (4962-IN, dated April 16, 1984), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on April 23, 1984. Country data
sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about
750 million (in mid-1984) and an annual per capita income of US$260. The
economy is dominated by agriculture which employs more than two-thirds of
the labor force. However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an
adequate livelihood to everyone engaged in agricultural activities, espe-
cially those who own little or no land. Growth of value-added in
agriculture -- 2.2% since 1950/51 -- has been slower than growth of
industrial value-added (5.3% per annum). As a result, there has been a
gradual decline in the share of agriculture in GDP (at factor cost) from
52% in 1950/51 to about 33% in 1981/82, while the share of industry rose
from 20% to around 26%. But industrialization has not been rapid enough
to absorb the growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic
transformation, with significantly higher productivity and income levels.
As a result economic growth has been slow over the past three decades,
averaging about 3.6% per annum since 1950/51.
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress, with per capita
income rising by about 1.4% per year in the period 1950 to 1980. Despite
the large population base and its relatively rapid growth, India has been
able to eliminate persistent dependence on foodgrain imports through



-2-
significant improvements in agricultural production. Savings and invest-
ment have increased markedly since 1950/51: the gross national savings
rate more than doubled from 10.8% of GD>P (at factor cost) to 22.7% in
1983/84, while the gross domestic investment rate rose from 12.5% of GDP
to 24.8% in 1983/84. Foreign savings (balance of payments deficit on
current account) have never financed a major portion of domestic
investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during the early 1960s.
Currently, foreign savings account for about 8% of investment. External
assistance has been low both as a percentage of GDP and in per capita
terms, never rising above 3% of GDP and averaging below 1% for the past
five years. Net use of foreign savings has never risen above 3% of GDP,
and presently stands at 2.1%.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1969/70 averaged only 2.2% per annum, while the volume
growth of imports over the same period was 4,3%. In the early to mid-
1970s, however, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly con-
stant during the 1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the Government
introduced various policy measures designed to stimulate exports. As a
result, the volume of India's exports grew on average about 7.3% per annum
for the 1970s as a whole, a performance which demonstrates that sustained
rapid growth is possible. While expanding world markets, particularly in
the nearby Middle East, contributed to this growth, liberalized access to
imported inputs and more effective export incentives played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was
buoyed by higher levels of investment and an expanding level of foodgrain
output. As a result, growth in real GDP and in agricultural and
industrial value-added substantially exceedecL the historical 30-year
trends (paragraph 3) averaging 5.3%, 3.3% and 8.1%, respectively, during
the 1975/76 to 1978/79 period. In 1979/80, however, this momentum was
broken when the worst drought in recent years, combined with a doubling of
international oil prices and domestic supply shortages, led to a sharp
fall in foodgrain production, a decline in GI)P, and the opening up of a
relatively large trade deficit. Severe inflationary pressures also
emerged after several years of virtual price stability. These setbacks
coincided with the preparation of the Sixth Five-Year Plan which laid down
a program of adjustment that aimed at improving the trade deficit, remov-
ing infrastructural bottlenecks and ensuring price stability with an
overall growth of the economy of 5.2% per annum.
Recent Trends
7.      Despite the effects of two severe droughts in 1979/80 and 1982/83,
India's economy in the early 1980s continued to grow at the faster pace of
the second half of the 1970s. Between the two droughts (from 1979/80 to
1982/83), GDP growth averaged almost 5% per annum, while between the two
recovery years (from 1980/81 to 1983/84), it was 4.5% per annum -- sub-
stantially higher than India's loing-tern growrth rate of 3.6%.  Continued
rapid economic growth has resulte-d from a development strategy which
includes higher investment levels and liberalized policies on imports,
industrial licensing, prices, and commercial borrowing. These policies,
by easing constraints on the supply of infrastructure and basic
commodities, were a determining factor in the improved performance of the



-3
economy and the industrial sector. This overall improvement in
performance, combined with a more restrictive monetary policy in 1981/82
and 1982/83, resulted in a sharp decline in the rate of inflation. The
growth rate of wholesale prices declined from over 18% in 1980/81 to only
2.6% in 1982/83, but rose to over 9% in 1983/84, mainly due to the effect
of the 1982/83 drought on food prices. Further improvements in the policy
environment will be required to maintain these higher levels of economic
growth and investment without putting undue pressure on the balance of
payments or reviving inflationary expectations.
8.      Economic growth in the early 1980s has not been steady, reflecting
the uneven rainfall during the period. In 1980/81 and 1981/82, the
economy substantially recovered from the 1979 drought, with real GDP
growing by 7.6% and 5.3%, respectively. While industrial output expanded
by 4% in 1980/81 and 8.6% in 1981/82, recovery was particularly robust in
agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise by more than 15%
and 5.5%, respectively. The supply of power, coal, and rail transport,
already improved in 1980/81, was further expanded in 1981/82, recording
growth rates of about 10%, 9.6% and 12.5%, respectively. This overall
improvement in the Indian economy was halted in 1982/83 by a severe
drought in mid-1982 which reduced agricultural production by 4%, brought
down the GDP growth rate to 1.8%, and put further strains on the already
difficult balance of payments and domestic resource situation. The timely
implementation of various economic policies relating to foodgrain imports,
procurement and distribution, and the allocation of power to irrigation
pumps mitigated the otherwise very distressing effects of the poor
monsoon. The economy recovered in 1983/84, led by a robust agricultural
sector - GDP grew by about 6.5% to 7% with agricultural production growth
in the 9%-10% range and industrial growth of 4.5%. The major factors
contributing to the good economic performance during 1983/84 were the
excellent monsoon, combined with adequate agricultural policies and
programs, and satisfactory performance of the coal and transport sectors.
The power sector, however, emerged again as a constraint on higher growth,
especially in industry.
9.      Agricultural production rebounded strongly in 1983/84 in response
to the monsoon, improved use of inputs and continued expansion of
irrigation. Overall foodgrain production rose by 10%-12% over the pre-
vious year, reaching a new record of 142-144 million tons, a substantial
increase over the previous peak of 133 million tons in 1981/82. Corrected
for weather variations, foodgrain production continues to grow at a trend
of 2.6% per annum--sufficient to maintain a broad balance between supply
and steadily increasing domestic demand.  Nonetheless, the balance remains
delicate, and the need for foodgrain imports to maintain consumer supplies
or adequate buffer stocks could arise from time to time. Thus, adequate
management of foodgrain stocks and programs to expand irrigation,
strengthen extension and encourage the efficient use of other agricultural
inputs continue to receive high priority.
10.     Basic infrastructure services had a mixed performance in 1983/84,
partially because of sluggish demand from industry during the first half
of the year but also due to a failure to maintain the productivity gains
of 1980-82. Electricity generation grew only by about 3.7% due to low
reservoir water levels during the first half of the year, delays in the
commissioning of new capacity, and a deterioration of capacity utilization



-4-
in thermal plants. As a result, power generation was about 11.5% below
requirements and constituted a major bottleneck in the economy. Key
industries which were adversely affected by power constraints included
steel, fertilizers, cement, and coal. To improve performance in the power
sector, the Government recently increased incentives for higher labor and
management productivity in therma.l plants. :Railway freight traffic,
measured in ton-kms, grew by onlyt 0.5% in 1983/84, reflecting sluggish
demand. Coal production increased by about 6.5% in 1983/84 reaching 139
million tons. When combined with. stocks already available this level of
production was sufficient to meet the relatively slow demand growth.
Infrastructural constraints would have emerged much more sharply had the
pace of industrial growth and demand been mo.re rapid. It is therefore
critically important that India maintain the pace of investment in these
key sectors, mobilize sufficient resources to do so, and implement
programs to enhance productivity.
II.     The Indian economy has reverted from a situation of resource
surplus in the late 1970s to an aggregate reSource deficit.  The gap
between gross investment and national savings increased from negligible
levels during the late 1970s to an average equivalent to 2.1% of GDP in
1980-84. India's gross national savings rate, which averaged 22.6% of GDP
in the last four years, is high by any standard, particularly considering
India's low income and the large proportion of its population below the
poverty line. The scope for a substantial inicrease in the savings rate is
therefore quite limited.  If India is to maintain investment at about 25%
of GDP, a major effort will be required to raise additional domestic
resources particularly in the public sector. Future increases in savings
will depend heavily upon the enhanced profitability of public sector
enterprises which would require better utilization of capacity, more
efficient operations and adequate pricing policies. This would also allow
a marginal decline in the use of foreign savings from the recent 2.1%-2.3%
of GDP to 1.5%-1.8%, to ensure a sustainable external debt service burden.
12.     India's external resource position has changed notably since the
late 1970s. The current account balance, which recorded surpluses from
1976/77 to 1978/79, reverted to deficits averaging US$3.5 billion and 2.1%
of GDP during 1980/81 to 1983/84. Several developments contributed to
these relatively larger current account deficits. First, the terms of
trade deteriorated sharply in 1979/80 due to the second round of oil price
increases and continued to move against India during the first three years
of the 1980s. Second, a more liberal import policy towards industrial
inputs was pursued.  Third, net invisibles declined as travel receipts
fell off, workers' remittances stagnated (reflecting slower development
activity in the Middle East), and payment of interest on higher levels of
foreign debt increased. Faced with severe irifrastructural constraints and
a deterioration in its balance of paymenats, I'ndia initiated an adjustment
program in 1980/81 designed to raise the growth rate from its historical
level of 3.6% to 5.2% while adjusting the country's external balance to
the adverse price developments in the World markets. The main elements of
this strategy are export promotioni, import substitution where economically
justifiable, implementation of a coherent energy policy designed to meet
the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth of oil imports,
and continued movement toward a more liberal import policy aimed at
providing producers with access to inpul-s for higher capacity utilization,
greater efficiency, improved technology and capacity expansion. The



-5-
program is being successfully implemented, and is leading to substantial
improvements.
13.     A positive development in India's balance of payments is the
reduction in the trade deficit from US$7.7 billion in 1980/81 to US$5.9
billion in 1983/84 despite unfavorable world market conditions and import
liberalization. Export volume growth and import substitution of oil and
petroleum products, metals and fertilizers more than offset the substan-
tial increase in "other" imports. These "other" imports consist mainly of
industrial imports and capital goods which historically have been in
chronic short supply and which are of critical importance to capacity
utilization, product quality, and plant modernization and expansion. A
major factor in the decline of the trade deficit was the lower net import
bill for petroleum, which dropped from US$6.7 billion in 1980/81 to US$3.4
billion in 1983/84 in response to a successful oil development program
that reduced import needs and allowed crude oil exports, which totalled
about US$1.5 billion in 1983/84. These structural changes in the balance
of payments are to a significant degree the result of India's development
and adjustment efforts over the past three years. It is expected that the
balance of payments will continue to be under strain for the next several
years, since the adjustment strategy will continue to require high levels
of imports.
14.     Even assuming a favorable export performance, India will need
external capital flows to augment its own resources for the foreseeable
future, given the low per capita income level in the country, the already
high savings rate, and the import requirement associated with improved
growth rates. Faced with a growing need for external capital inflows and
stagnation in the availability of concessional assistance, India decided
at the start of the Sixth Plan to increase borrowings from the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) and commercial banks to substantial
levels. In the period covering the fiscal years 1981/82 to 1983/84, India
drew SDR 3.9 billion from the Extended Fund Facility of the IMF. In
addition, India borrowed significant amounts on commercial terms from the
Euro-dollar market and increased the use of suppliers' and export credits.
In the period 1980-84, India contracted commercial loans totalling over
US$6,000 million and suppliers' credits of over US$1,000 million. The
bulk of this borrowing has been used for specific development projects in
the public and private sector (mostly for petroleum exploration and
development, steel, power, aluminum and shipping).  India's favorable debt
service position and the nature of its borrowings, for project-related
purposes instead of direct balance of payments support, enabled it to tap
commercial capital markets at favorable spreads.  This larger commercial
borrowing and transfer of funds under the arrangement with the IMF has
stemmed the use of foreign exchange reserves which had fallen to less than
four months of import coverage in 1981/82.
Development Prospects
15.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India has the
capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the
industrial sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it never-
theless is large in absolute terms and has a highly diversified structure,
capable of manufacturing a wide variety of consumer and capital goods.
Basic infrastructure -- irrigation, railways, telecommunications, power,



-6-
roads and ports -- is extensive compared to many countries, although there
is considerable need for additional capacity as well as improvement in the
utilization of existing capacity. India also has a wide range of institu-
tions capable of fostering development and is well-endowed with human
resources. Finally, India has an extensive natural resource base in terms
of land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores, but also
gas and oil). With good economic policies and reasonable access to for-
eign savings, India has the capability for managing these considerable
resources to accelerate its long-term growth.
16.     The Government is currently preparing the Seventh Plan which will
lay down the development strategy for 1985/86-1989/90. This strategy is
expected to continue the emphasis of the Sixith Plan on agriculture, energy
development, export promotion, domestic import substitution where economi-
cally justifiable and the removal of infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall
Sixth Plan performance has been encouraging, with aggregate real invest-
ment projected to be about 30% higher than in the period 1975-80--a
creditable performance indeed. The Sixth Plan expenditure targets,
however, will not be fulfilled as resource mobilization by the public
sector will fall short of the financing requirements of planned public
investment. Actual aggregate real investment: is projected to be about 7%
below the original target for the period 1980-85, private investment being
5% to 10% higher and public investment about 20% lower in real terms than
actually projected. In terms of meeting Plan expenditure targets, the
performance of the Central Government is considerably better than that of
the State Governments. The Central Government's Plan outlays are likely
to reach about 80% to 90% of the original Plan allocation in real terms,
while the States will probably achieve only about 50% of their targets.
Bottlenecks in key sectors such as power, transport and irrigation are
likely to persist as a consequence of real investment shortfalls relative
to original Plan allocations.
17.     Although Sixth Plan expenditure targets will not be met, India's
capital formation rates have increased from 22.6% in 1975-80 to 24.7% of
GDP in 1980-84. Recent higher capital formation rates are encouraging for
future income growth, but returns to investment have so far been rela-
tively low. Much of this phenomenon relates to India's stage of
development, in which a large and growing proportion of investment has
been needed to build up basic infrastructure services which have
inherently high capital-output ratios. However, there is scope to reduce
capital-output ratios through improvemelnts in efficiency. As discussed in
greater detail in our recent economic reports, performance in the basic
service sectors can be improved through better planning and management,
thus leading to higher productivity and capacity utilization throughout
the economy. At the same time, programs to expand domestic capacity are
vital. In the case of tradeable commodities like coal, steel and cement,
this is justified on the grounds of comparative advantage. For sectors
such as irrigation, power and transportation, expansion of planned
capacity in accordance with the requirements of the rest of the economy
will be vital for sustained growth.
18.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an anmbitious oil development
program backed by substantial financial commitment. Performance under the
program has been excellent with real investment and oil production levels
running well ahead of Plan Targets.  In 1981, and again in early 1983,



-7
resources for exploration and development were raised by successive pr_ _
increases for domestic crude and products.  While the gap between domess;.
consumption of petroleum and production remains large, India's dependence
on oil imports dropped from 63% of consumption in 1979/80 to about 41% in
1983/84 and is expected to decrease to about 33% of consumption by
1984/85. The rapidly expanding level of exploration activity, combined
with the possibilities for accelerated offtake from known fields, offers
much encouragement for India's longer-term energy prospects. At the same
time, the increases in domestic petroleum prices have helped encourage
to            conservation and slow demand growth.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge
on the extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and
external balance, while at the same time achieving more rapid growth than
in the past. This will require the continuation of the current develop-
ment strategy which assigns high priority to export promotion, public
finance discipline, improvement of economic efficiency, and investment in
infrastructure, supported by adequate flows of external borrowing and aid.
In the short term, a relatively large level of external borrowing, includ-
ing an increased emphasis on commercial borrowing, will be necessary to
cope with the balance of payments consequences of such a growth strategy.
However, an important element in providing India with the capacity to
adjust flexibly will be adequate flows of concessional assistance since
India is still a very poor country with a large rural sector and enormous
investment requirements for human development and basic infrastructure.
Although India is currently in a position to increase borrowing on commer-
cial terms from the very low levels of the past, there are, of course,
limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice growth objectives
rather than accept debt on unfavorable or unmanageable terms. The fact
that India has been able over the past decade to maintain a rate of growth
above the long term trend, despite the poor monsoons of 1979 and 1982,
suggests that a more open trade policy and expanded efforts to remove
constraints on the growth of productive capacity, supported by adequate
mobilization of both foreign and domestic savings, can sustain a rate of
growth closer to 5.0% per annum than to the long-run trend of 3.6% per
annum. If the rate of population growth can be brought to below 2.0% per
annum, a 5.0% growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend rate of
growth of per capita income of 1.4% per annum. Success in these efforts
would make a significant difference to the prospects of easing poverty in
India.
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the
need to accelerate India's development efforts. The 1981 Census indicated
there was no decline in the rate of population growth, which remained
about 2.2% per annum in the 1970s despite a measurable decline in fer-
tility rates. The population growth rate failed to decline in the past
decade due to a reduction in the infant mortality rate and an increase in
life expectancy, reflecting larger availability of food and health
services. While this is a welcome development, it implies a greater
strain on the economy and re-emphasizes the need for continuing efforts to
strengthen the health and family planning programs in a broad range of
activities and services. These efforts are given high priority in the
Sixth Plan, which aims at a rise in the proportion of protected couples in
the reproductive age group from its estimated 1979/80 level of about 23%
to over 35% by 1984/85. The Government is reviewing its population policy



-8-
for the Seventh Plan, with indications of a determination to retain the
emphasis on the implementation of family planning, health, education and
literacy programs aimed at reducing fertility rates.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic
and social policy. More than one-thircl of the world's poor live in India,
and more than 80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of
landless laborers and small farmers. About 51% of the rural population
and 40% of the urban population subsist below the poverty line.
Significant reductions in poverty will depend primarily on an acceleration
of economic growth, particularly in agriculture, combined with effective
implementation of poverty alleviation prograns.  India's poverty allevia-
tion strategy appropriately recognizes that production-oriented programs,
which aim at accelerating the overall pace oJ. economic growth, and poverty
alleviation programs, targetted at those least able to participate in the
general growth of the economy, can be mutually reinforcing rather than
substituting for each other. Major poverty programs operating on a
nationwide basis at present include: the Minimum Needs Program (MNP), the
Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP), and the National Rural
Employment Program (NREP). The IRDP and NRE]? are targeted programs aimed
at increasing the incomes of the poor rapidly, either through the transfer
of productive assets or direct employment. The MNP, aims at broadening
the provision of social infrastructure and basic services which enhance
the human capital of the poor and improve living standards. These
programs represent a vitally important commitment of the Government to
address the needs of the poorest. The scale of the poverty problem in
India, combined with the inherent difficulties in implementing poverty
programs in any country, imply the need for continued efforts to enhance
the effectiveness of these programns.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
'2.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 76 loans and 164 development
credits to India totalling US$5,1lB3 million and US$12,016 million (both
net of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,452 million
has been repaid, and US$5,723 million was still undisbursed as of
March 31, 1984. Bank Group disbursemenlts to India in the current fiscal
year through March 31, 1984 totalled US$1,072 million, representing an
increase of about 6 percent over the same period last year. Annex II
contains a summary statement of disbursements as of March 31, 1984.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 29 commitments in India totalling US$224
million, of which US$32 million has beeii repaid, US$56 million sold and
US$17 million cancelled, Of the balance of US$118 million, US$111 million
represents loans and US$7 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
disbursements as of March 31, 1984, is also included in Annex II (page
4).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent
with the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture,
energy and infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments
in irrigation, extension and on-farm development designed to increase
agricultural productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of
basic agricultural inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer,
marketing, storage, and seed projects. Major elements of the lending



-9-
program have also been directed at helping to meet the energy needs of the
economy while curbing the growth of oil imports, and to ease the
infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered economic growth in India,
particularly through power generation and distribution, and railways and
telecommunications projects. The Bank Group has also provided financing
for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises,
primarily in the private sector, through its support of development
finance institutions. Recognizing the importance of improving the ability
to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank
Group has supported nutrition and family planning programs, a rural roads
project, as well as water supply and sewerage and other urban infrastruc-
ture projects.
25.       This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and con-
sonant with Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan. The
continued active involvement of the Bank Group in agriculture, energy and
infrastructure development will appropriately contribute to India's
adjustment and growth prospects. Irrigation will need continuing support,
with emphasis on improved efficiency in water conveyance systems to ensure
reliable delivery to farmers' fields. In addition, major investments to
develop the large Narmada River basin will be vital to India's efforts to
increase agricultural production. Important complements to these efforts,
such as fertilizer production and distribution, agricultural credit and
extension, will continue to receive support. A continued program of
investments aimed at rapidly increasing the domestic supply of energy will
clearly be necessary if India is to curb the cost of oil imports and
alleviate the critical power shortages which constrain output in both the
agricultural and industrial sectors. Exploitation of oil and gas resour-
ces is a central element of this program, which should be supplemented by
investments in hydro and thermal power generation, and in the expansion of
the transmission and distribution networks. Industrial projects to
increase the domestic production of basic commodities, which have been in
short supply and which India has a comparative advantage in producing,
should also receive high priority. Finally, raising the efficiency and
levels of transportation infrastructure would mitigate a key constraint to
achieving higher levels of economic growth so that further support of the
railways and for ports development will be particularly appropriate.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme
of Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India
Consortium.  Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India
successfully adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-
1970s. However, India continues to require a substantial level of foreign
assistance both to offset the overall deterioration in the world trade
environment, and to sustain the relatively higher investment and growth
rates achieved during the first four years of the Sixth Plan. As in the
past, Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim to include
the financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital
goods because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital
goods industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be
small in most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-
priority sectors as agriculture and irrigation,
27.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible,
external capital requirements should be provided on concessional terms.



-10-
Accordingly, the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India in the past
was provided from IDA. However, IDA lending to India has declined from a
peak of US$1.5 billion in 1980 to below US$1 billion since that time,
mostly due to funding constraints related to IDA 6. Lower IDA 7
replenishment and uncertainties about IDA 8, coupled with increasing
claims for IDA funding from other countries, indicate that the amount of
IDA funds available to India is likely to conatinue declining, even in
nominal terms, and will remain small in. relation to India's needs for
external support. Thus, this requirement for additional assistance will
have to be met, in part, through larger Bank lending. Given its develop-
ment prospects and policies, India is judged credit-worthy for Bank lend-
ing to supplement IDA assistance. A continuation of efforts already
underway to achieve growth in productive capacity, trade expansion, higher
levels of savings, foodgrains self-sufficiency and a reduction in the rate
of population growth should result in continued economic growth and
improvement in the balance of payments. Despite recent setbacks, India's
external payments position is still marageable. The ratio of India's debt
service to the level of exports of goods and services and receipts of
current transfers was about 12.9% in 15183/84. Over the next several years
this ratio is projected to rise to around 20% and remain around that level
through 1995/96. As of March 31, 1984, outstanding loans to India held by
the Bank totalled US$3,884 million, of which US$2,021 million remain to be
disbursed, leaving a net amount outstarLding of US$1,863 million.
28.       Of the external assistaLnce received by India, the proportion
contributed by the Bank Group has grownr significantly. In 1969/70, the
Bank Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross
disbursements, and 12% of net disbursements as compared with 62%, 33% and
37%, respectively, in 1983/84. On March 31, 1984, India's outstanding and
disbursed external public debt was estiLmated to be about US$26.9 billion,
of which the Bank Group's share was US,$9.6 billion or 36% (IDA's US$7.8
billion and IBRD's US$1.8 billion).  In 1983/84, about 19.0% of India's
total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.
PART III - AGRICIJLTURE AND AGRO-INDUSTRIES
29.     Agriculture remains the main vehicle for GOI's efforts to achieve
food self-sufficiency, alleviate poverty, and increase employment
opportunities. GOI allocates a sizeable share of its outlays to invest-
ments in irrigation, research and extension, and the infrastructure for
input supplies, post-harvest operations and marketing. As a result of
these efforts, India's foodgrain production grew from 60 to 130 million
tons during the past three decades. GOI has more recently emphasized
diversification in the agricultural sector to exploit all opportunities
for raising farmers' incomes, stimulating exports and import substitution
and to develop the country's agro-industrial potential, in particular
oilseed and cotton processing.
30.     The cooperative sector plays a key role in these efforts.  It
provides an important channel through which farmers gain access to
agricultural inputs, services (e.g., agricultural credit) and to storage
and marketing facilities. The growth in agricultural crop production and
the more intensive use of inputs has placed a severe strain on storage
facilities in many parts of the country. A sizeable share of the harvest
is lost each year because of inadequate storage. Cooperative societies



have therefore given high priority to the construction of storage
facilities that can accommodate both agricultural crops and inputs. To
offer farmers an outlet for crops, such as soybeans, for which established
markets do not exist in many areas, and to increase employment oppor-
tunities in rural areas, cooperative societies, with GOI encouragement,
have more recently branched out into processing of agricultural
commodities.
Cotton Processing
31.     Although India has more area under cotton cultivation than any
other country, it is only the fourth largest producer. Low yields, and
the fact that its production consists mainly of short and medium staple
varieties, has placed its cotton industry at a comparative disadvantage,
vis-a-vis other major world producers. In response, GOI has stepped up
research efforts, which has recently led to the introduction of improved
varieties with a longer staple length, a better quality fiber and higher
yields.
32.     Cotton cultivation provides raw materials for several industries:
Cotton lint for the textile industry, cottonseeds for the seed crushing
industry, and linters for the cellulose and furniture industry. Prices to
the local producer reflect firstly the transport cost to ginneries, (the
first stage in the processing of cotton), and second, the quality premia
that ginneries receive for their lint. In order to increase prices to
farmers, cooperatives are making an effort to locate ginneries directly in
the cotton growing areas and to assure that these ginneries use up-to-date
technologies and processing equipment, which allows them to produce high
quality lint.
33.     Lint is still the dominant raw material of India's textile
industry, which accounts for 20% of manufacturing activity, 20% of exports
and provides employment for several million people. In recent years,
technical obsolescence of much of the installed capacity, poor quality raw
material, labor difficulties and an unfavorable policy environment (price
controls, investment licensing, etc.) have contributed to a gradual ero-
sion of its economic viability. To assist the industry, GOI has set up
the National Textile Corporation (NTC), which rehabilitates inefficient
units, and initiated a soft loan scheme under the auspices of the
Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI), and assists mill owners in
their modernization efforts. The cooperative sector, which moved into
cotton spinning during the mid-1960s, is complementing these efforts
through its State Cooperative Spinning Mill Federations (SCSMF). Together
with the All-India and State Federations of Cooperative Spinning Mills
they assist not only in the setting up of new mills but also provide
technical assistance to existing mills.
Oilseed Processing
34.     Until the mid 1970s, India  was a net exporter of oils as well as
oilseeds. This situation changed in the mid-1970s when domestic oilseed
production was unable to keep pace with the rising domestic demand for
edible oils. India now imports more than one million tons of edible oils
annually, even though the average per-capita consumption of fats and oils
remains among the lowest in the world.



-12-
35.     GOI responded to the slow growth of edible oil production with
incentive measures aimed at expanding domestic oilseed production and at
improving the efficiency of oil extraction. While not neglecting
groundnuts, India's most important edible oilseed crop, GOI's incentive
measures were increasingly directed at expanding production of non-
traditional oilseeds (e.g., soybeans, sunflower, safflower). Soybean
production, for example, has grown at an average rate of almost 40% since
the mid-1970s, By providing farmers with improved seeds, other agricul-
tural inputs and services (credits, storage, etc.), farmer-owned coopera-
tives complement GOI's diversification efforts.
36.     In addition to accelerating the growth of oilseed production, the
availability of edible oils can be greatly enhanced by improving the
overall efficiency of India's oilseed processing industry. The tradi-
tional village-based extraction process using bullock-powered mortar-and-
pestle mechanisms has been largely replaced by motor powered expeller
units. However, 75% of the oilseed harvest :is still processed in outdated
plants whose oil recovery rates are well below those of modern solvent
extraction plants. This results not only in a considerable loss of edible
oil, but yields also a low quality cake.
Previous Project Involvement
37.     The first Bank Group-supported NCDC operation in the sector--NCDC
I project, (Cr. 871-IN, December 4, 1978) provided credit for the con-
struction of rural storage facilities in the three States of Haryana,
Orissa and Uttar Pradesh. The NCDC II project (Cr. 1146-IN, April 17,
1981), extended this support into five more States, and introduced, in six
States, cooperative cold storage facilities. Implementation of both
projects is progressing satisfactorily and recovery rates for loans made
under these two projects is excellent.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.     The project was prepared by NCDC and appraised by a mission which
visited India in November/December 1983. A Staff Appraisal Report is
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations
were held in Washington in May 1984.  GOI and NCDC were represented by a
delegation with Mr. P. Singh of the Department of Economic Affairs as
coordinator. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives
39.     The proposed project is a cooperative credit project.  Its primary
objective is to support the continued development of the Indian coopera-
tive movement by strengthening the capabilities of the National
Cooperative Development Corporation - expanding the scope of its
activities. The proposed project is designed to (a) reduce grain losses
and promote development in rural areas through expansion and improvement
in storage and marketing of agricultural inputs and produce; (b) reduce
edible oil imports by expanding the processing of locally-produced
oilseeds; (c) increase the efficiency and quality of cooperatively run
cotton ginning and spinning mills, and (d) strengthen cooperatives



-13-
through improving the recruitment and training of cooperative managers at
all levels.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
40.     Each project component aims at improving the efficiency of a
certain cooperative activity. In each of these components, IDA has a
specific contribution to make. For rural storage, IDA will support GOI's
program for expanding storage capacity in remote rural areas where private
investors tend not to invest. In soybean production and processing, to
satisfy the needs for rising vegetable oil demand, IDA will actively
promote the use of improved technology and efficiently-sized facilities.
In cotton spinning and ginning, through IDA involvement, project invest-
ments will enhance product quality and the efficiency of operations by
promulgating improved ginning techniques and demonstrating the advantages
of higher quality lint, improved plant design, and more rational use of
labor in spinning operations.  The institution-building component will
support the necessary efforts towards improving the quality of cooperative
management in all activities with which the project would be involved.
Additionally, problems in India's textile sector will be addressed through
a dialogue between GOI and IDA on the appropriate steps to be taken to
improve sectoral performance.
Description of the Project
41.     The rural storage component will comprise the construction of some
7,800 storage facilities (godowns), varying in size between 50 and 10,000
tons, in Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh (UP)
and West Bengal, of which Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Karnataka are
States not covered under previous NCDC projects. These godowns will be
used for stocking and marketing of agricultural inputs (fertilizers,
seeds, and pesticides), agricultural produce (foodgrains, oilseeds, and
cash crops), and essential consumer goods. Together with agricultural
credit and extension, the storage and marketing facilities form the third
main element of an effective agricultural support system and will
strengthen GOI's food procurement and consumer goods distribution system.
42.     The soybean production and processing component involves the
establishment of about 800 Oilseed Growers' Cooperative Societies (OSCS)
in four project areas in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. In addition,
Cooperative Development Services (CDS), will be established under the
project, which will provide farmers with improved input packages for
soybean production, comprising seed, fertilizer and fungicides. Since it
is critical that processing facilities be installed in the soybean growing
areas as production is promoted, this component also involves the estab-
lishment of three seed processing plants equipped with climate-controlled
storage facilities, which will, together, produce about 10,500 tons of
seed per annum. In addition, four soybean solvent oil extraction plants
will also be established and will be designed to use modern oil processing
technology - each will process about 200 tons of soybean per day for 300
days per year. The soybean oil will be either refined for consumption as
a cooking oil, or hydrogenated and consumed in the form of vegetable ghee.
Initially, most of the high protein cake, the other major end product of
the oil extraction process, will be exported.



-14-
43.     The cotton processing component involves the establishment of
eleven cotton ginneries in Karnataka, Rajasthan, Haryana, Maharashtra and
UP with a total output of about 56,000 t:ons of lint per year. In addition
to the ginneries, a spinning mill producing 100% cotton yarn will be
established in each of these five States. Four cottonseed oil extraction
plants of 100 tons per day throughput will also be constructed in major
cotton-producing areas. Five of ithe eleven ginneries will be attached to
spinning mills, three to cottonseed oil extraction plants, and three will
be free-standing. IDA will be involved in the appraisal of these process-
ing facilities and will approve the location, capacity and technology
used, as necessary, during the appraisal of each facility.
44.     The institution-building component is designed to ensure that all
storage facilities and processing plants constructed under the project and
implementing agencies have technically qualified and experienced staff.
To this end, a training program for project participants at all levels is
included. For the rural storage component, -he program would improve the
quality of trainers, and provide study materials and physical facilities
for mandatory job-related training. Six training institutes, one for each
of the States participating in the rural storage component, will be con-
structed or upgraded and equipped to train managers of rural storage units
and other staff. Mobile training units will be deployed to complement the
State level training. For the agro-processing components, senior and
middle management staff of the State Cooperative Marketing Federations
(SCMF) and the Cooperative Development Services (CDS), and staff in all
processing plants, will be trained in appropriate technical or management
Institutes. About 23 senior stai.f wilL receive technical training abroad.
Local consultants will assist prDcessiing plant managers in the first phase
of plant operations in developing management information and cost account-
ing systems in the plants.
45.     While the textile industry has undergone many changes in recent
years, it still suffers from serious problemis, most notably a distorted
policy environment, high cost operations, low quality products, low labor
productivity, low lint quality, poor factory naintenance, and inadequate
management practices. Nevertheless, some mills function well even in this
difficult environment. The mills to be financed under the project will
incorporate a number of innovative practices that should greatly increase
their efficiency, and hence the profitability of their operations. Their
improved functioning will demonstrate to other mills in the States the
benefits of these improved operating practices. It is clear, however,
that a re-examination of existing policy in the sector should be under-
taken to develop a plan for gradual rationalization and policy reform. To
this end, understandings were reached that GOI will carry out, by June 30,
1986, a review of the Indian textile sector under an agreed terms of
reference.
Sectoral organization
46.     NCDC is an all-India public uandertaking established under the
National Cooperative Development Corporation Act, 1962. Its main objec-
tives are to promote and finance projects znd programs carried out by
agricultural and agro-industrial cooperative societies. The activities of
these cooperative societies span virtually the whole spectrum of agricul-
tural support services. Primary Cooperative Societies (PCS) are organized



-15-
around the production of specific crops, such as soybeans, or around the
processing of agriculture products, such as ginning and spinning millE.
In some activities, such as dairy farming and cotton spinning, cooperative
institutions have been established which operate nationwide to provide
technical services. Wholesale marketing services are provided by regional
Cooperative Marketing Societies and Federations.   Primary Agricultural
Credit Societies (PACS) provide farmers with short-term credit, distribute
inputs and consumer goods, and in some instances, have started to provide
marketing services for agricultural commodities. District Cooperative
Central banks provide PACS with medium- and short-term credit.  They, in
turn, are financed partly by State Cooperative Banks (SCB) and partly from
their own resources. NCDC channels funds to client cooperatives either
directly through the State Governments or through the SCB/SLDB's.
47.     Under the proposed project, the larger rural godowns (1,000 tons
to 10,000 tons) will be owned and operated by the State Marketing
Federations, and the smaller godowns (50 tons to 1,000 tons) will be owned
by the village level Primary Cooperative Societies. The soybean seed
processing and soybean oil extraction plants will be owned and operated as
independently-managed affiliates by the Madhya Pradesh State Cooperative
Oilseed Growers' Federation (OILFED) and by the State Cooperative
Marketing Federation (RAJFED) in Rajasthan. In Haryana the cotton
ginneries, spinning mills and oil extraction plants will be owned and
operated by the State Cooperative Marketing Federation (SCMF) as independ-
ent affiliates and, in the other four participating States, by Cotton
Growers' Cooperatives (CGC). NCDC will own, and each SCB/SLDB will
administer, the training institutes to be developed under the project.
The State Governments will also contribute equity to each facility con-
structed under the project.
Project Implementation
48.     Each rural storage godown and processing plant to be constructed
under the project will represent an independent sub-project for which a
sub-project appraisal report or feasibility study will be prepared by the
owning cooperative Society or Federation and submitted, together with a
loan application, to the appropriate State Cooperative Bank (SCB) or, in
the case of West Bengal, the State Land Development Bank (SLDB) for
appraisal and financing. NCDC would, in turn, refinance the SCB/SLDB for
the amount of the investment in each appraisal sub-project.  Furthermore,
almost all of the larger agro-processing sub-projects will be individually
reviewed by IDA prior to NCDC's making a commitment of funds.  State
Governments will provide their shares of the equity in project investments
out of pre-allocated budget funds, supplemented, if necessary, by addi-
tional borrowing from NCDC.
49.     NCDC will be the primary agency for coordinating project implemen-
tation activities in all nine participating States. The SCB and SLDB in
each State will function as NCDC's onlending channels to the Cooperative
Societies and will supervise sub-project implementation. In order to
participate in the project, however, such State Banks will be required to
demonstrate an annual recovery rate on loans received from NCDC of not
less than 75% against demand for the preceding cooperative financial



-16-
year 4/ In the case of the SLDB in West. Bengal which has had poor
recovery performance recently, it will be required to demonstrate the
following progressive minimum recovery rates: 50% by June 30, 1984; 55%
by June 30, 1985; 62% by June 30, 1986; 75% by June 30, 1987, and there-
after (Section 2.02(a) and Schedule 2 (1,2) to the Project Agreement).
Understandings have also been reached whereby the Cooperatives wishing to
participate in the project will be required to have achieved a minimum
repayment performance of 55% in the prior years with an exception that up
to 10% of the cooperatives may be eligible, after thorough review, if
their repayment performance has not yet reached 55% in the previous year.
50.     Cotton ginneries attached to spinning mills or oil extraction
plants will be constructed simultaneously. The two facilities will be
managerially distinct entities, with separate accounts and financing. The
ginneries will purchase seed cotton from CGC members and other farmers in
the area, and sell lint to attached spinning mills and in the open market.
The spinning mills will be designed to functioln more efficiently and
profitably than mills currently in operation., This requires improving
standards of equipment, plant design, manageaent systems and worker
deployment and training significantly above those now prevalent in the
industry. NCDC will develop technical and enlvironmental specifications,
and management and staffing guidelines, satisfactory to the Association,
and ensure that these specifications and guidelines will be followed
(Section 2.02(a), Schedule 2, paragraph 4 of Project Agreement).
51.     Technical advice on soybean cultivation in the project districts
will be provided by the State Extension Services. To coordinate the
various activities associated with soybean production, and to ensure
appropriate representation of the participating institutions, understand-
ings have been reached on key staffing appointments to the State
Coordinating Committees, State P:Lanning Committees and Regional Planning
Committees and on the adequate supply of high-quality breeder and founda-
tion seed under the project.
52.     Training will be coordinated at the national level by a Manpower
Planning and Training Committee chaired by the Managing Director of NCDC
and NCDC's Regional Directors, or Regional Training Coordinators appointed
by SCB/SLDB, will administer the program at the State level.
Proiect Cost and Financing
53.     The total cost of the project, incluiding contingencies but exclud-
ing about US$40 million in taxes and duties, is estimated at about US$428
million equivalent, of which about US$52 mi:Llion (12%) represents the
estimated foreign exchange costs. The principal cost components, exclud-
ing physical and price contingencies but including taxes and duties are:
rural storage US$105 million; soybean production and processing,
US$99 million; cotton processing, US$153 million; and institution
1/ The "financial year" covers the period from July 1 to June 30,
actuial recovery rates have consistent]Ly exceeded 90% under earlier
projects, although the eligibility criteria under these projects was set
at 65%.



-17-
building, US$10 million. The project cost estimates are based on actual
construction costs for similar installations (rural godowns and oil
extraction facilities) and past experience (institution building), updated
to April 1984 levels. Price contingencies, amounting to about 20% of base
cost, are based on expected inflation rates, for local costs, of 7.3% for
FY85, 8% for FY86, 7.5% for FY87; and 6% for FY88 and FY89; and, for
foreign costs, 7.3% for FY85, 6.5% for FY86, and 6% thereafter. Physical
contingencies were estimated separately for each project component and
total some 7% of base costs.
54.     The proposed IDA credit of US$220 million would finance all of the
US$52 million of the foreign exchange costs and about US$168 million of
the local costs, and would cover about 51% of the total project cost, net
of taxes and duties.  The balance of the funds required, aggregating about
US$248 million equivalent, is expected to be provided by State Governments
(US$80 million), NCDC's internally-generated funds (US$146 million), and
cooperative societies (US$22 million).
55.     NCDC's contribution to project costs will be financed from its own
resources and from market borrowings and will not be less than 25% of the
costs of the rural storage ginneries and spinning mill facilities nor less
than 20% of the costs of the oil extraction and seed processing facilities
(Section 2.03, Project Agreement). Equity participation by the State
Governments in rural storage, ginneries and spinning mills will be 45% of
investment costs, and, in seed processing and oil extraction plants, 35%
of investment costs (Section 2.02(b), Project Agreement). Slightly less
than half of this equity participation will be from budgetary allocations,
the remainder being provided in the form of long-term loans to the State
Governments from NCDC. Equity participation by the owner/operator
cooperative societies will be 5% of investment costs for godowns and
plants although, for the processing plants, the participation will be
increased to 15% within 15 years of plant commissioning through the
repurchase, by the cooperatives, of the State Government's equity in the
sub-project (Section 3(b), Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement).
56.     About US$11.5 million of the credit proceeds will be made avail-
able by GOI to NCDC as a grant for institution building and training
purposes. The balance will be onlent by GOI to NCDC at an interest rate
of not less than 7% per annum. 7% is GOI's current rate for financing
projects of this type, and represents a lower limit below which GOI cannot
on-lend the proceeds of the credit. The subsequent on-lending rates,
shown in the table below, are expressed as a margin over the "base" lend-
ing rate from GOI to NCDC as follows:



-18--
Margin       Current   Reference in project
over" Base"   Rate           legal documents
(i) from GOI to NCDC                                     Section 3.01(b)
("base" rate)                  --       7.0 %       Development Credit
Agreement
(ii) from NCDC to Intermediary
Banks (SCBs, SLDB)
(a) storage                   +1.0%      8.0%        Section 2.02(c) of
(b) processing                +2.5%      9.5%       Project Agreement
(iii) from SCBs/SLDB to
Cooperatives
(a) storage                   +3.0%    1.0.0%        Section 5 of
(b) processing                +5.5%    1.2.5%        Schedule 2 to the
Project Agreement
The rates under (iii) above are the same as the prevailing rates for
on-farm investments by small and marginal farmers in the case of rural
storage facilities and for similar investments in backward areas from
industrial lenders, in the case of agro-processing facilities.
Procurement and Disbursement
57.     Procurement arrangements for the project are summarized in
Annex IV attached hereto. About 7,000 civi:L works contracts for the rural
godowns and 30 civil works contracts for the processing plants will be
small, widely dispersed over the participating States, and implemented
over a period of about four years, making packaging of such contents
extremely difficult. Contracts for these c:ivil works valued at about
US$190 million would be of little interest to international contractors
and will be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) under
procedures acceptable to IDA.  All IDA-financed contracts costing US$1
million or more for machinery and plant equipment to be awarded under ICB
procedures will be subject to prior review by IDA and this review would
cover the major part of the total value of such contracts.
58.     The proceeds of the credit will be disbursed over a five-year
period (FY85-89) against 85% of the total amount of loans made by NCDC to
the participating State banks (SCB/SLI)B), 50% of the construction cost of
the training centers; 50% of the cost of domestic training and of
incremental staff expenditures for CDS), 100% of the cost of training
fellowships, and 100% of the ex--factory cost for teaching and office
equipment and vehicles.  All disbursements will be made against certified
statements of expenditure submit-ted by NCDC. Documents in support of
reimbursement claims will be made available to IDA for inspection during
project supervision. Preparatory engineering and design work for project
implementation began after project appraisal and, in support of these
efforts, IDA financing is proposed for eligible expenditures incurred on
the project after January 1, 1984 but prior to credit signing, up to a



-i9-
limit of US$1 million (Schedule 1, para 4 of Development Credit
Agreement). The credit is expected to be fully disbursed by December 31,
1988 and the Closing Date is June 30, 1989.
Project Justification and Risks
59.     The project supports a number of cooperative activities in rural
areas and would thereby substantially improve both the type and quality of
services that cooperatives provide and the efficiency of the cooperative
system.  Economic rates of return (ERR) for the different project com-
ponents vary from 28% to around 50%. The weighted average ERR for the
project is 28%. In addition to direct economic benefits, project invest-
ments in cotton processing would significantly improve product quality and
the efficiency of operations by promulgating improved ginnery techniques
and demonstrating the advantages of higher quality lint, improved plant
design, and more rational use of labor in spinning operations. The
soybean component would develop the infrastructure for oilseed production
and processing, provide greater integration of processing operations, and
promote improved technology in soybean oil extraction. The project
provides a major investment in training cooperative staff at all levels.
The program would enhance NCDC's capabilities in this area and would
substantially improve the quality and penetration of cooperative training
services.
60.     NCDC has considerable accumulated experience and capable
management, and has performed adequately in previous IDA projects and
other programs financed by international donors. Therefore, the risk of
poor implementation is assessed to be small. In all project components,
technical risks are minor, since facilities to be installed are well
within the bounds of known technologies. Cost increases exceeding
appraisal estimates for civil works could cause difficulties, but major
instabilities in building materials markets are not expected.
Uncertainties in agricultural production could affect raw materials supply
for processing plants to be constructed under the project. However, as
currently projected, both raw cotton and soybean production in the project
areas would be more than sufficient by a wide margin. The financial
returns of the soybean and cotton processing units would be subject to the
risks inherent in all agro-processing activities--such as short-term input
and output price fluctuations. However, the units would be provided with
adequate permanent long-term and short-term working capital and sound
management to weather periodic difficulties, should they arise.
Sensitivity analysis on the various project components indicated that
benefits could drop by more than 10% for all components before their ERR
would fall under the 12% opportunity cost of capital level. On the other
hand, operating costs could increase by more than 12% or investment costs
by more than 100% before the ERR would fall below the 12% level.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and NCDC,
and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



-20-
62.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between India and
NCDC has been made an additional condition of credit effectiveness
(Section 5.01 of the Development Credit Agreement).
63.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
May 30, 1984



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
INDIA                    - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT               LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
19601       197/     ESTIMATE/          ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
AREA (THDSMAND SQ. IK)
TOTAL                                3287.6       3287.6      3287.6
AGRICULTURAL                         1760.7       1780.5      1811.3
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                      70.0        100.0        260.0               276.7                      1028.6
ENERGY CONStmHfION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL FUIVALENT)        114.0        165.0       210.0                398.4                       792.8
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  434850.0    547569.0    690183.0
r                        URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)-         18.0         19.8         23.7                21.5                        32.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                              1001.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                1838.3
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                2140
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         132.3       166.6        205.3                161.7                      260.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND              247.0       307.5        372.7               363.1                      1696.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (Z)
0-14 YRS                            40.9        42.7         39.7                 36.6                       39.4
15-64 YRS                            54.5         54.2        57.2                 59.2                       57.2
65 AND ABOVE                          4.6         3.1          3.0                 4.2                          3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                 1.6          2.3         2.1                  1.9                        2.3
URBAN                                 2.5          3.3         3.7                  4.0                        3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)           43.7         40.0        35.4                 29.3                       31.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)           21.8         16.7        13.3                 10.9                         9.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 2.9          2.7          2.4                 2.0                         2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)            64.0      3782.0       6826.0
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..         12.0        23.0                 48.1                       46.6
FOOD ANRD NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                          98.0        102.0       107.0                111.4                      125.2
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (Z OF REQUIREMENTS)         96.0        90.0         87.0                 98.1                      114.2
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             54.0        50.0         47.0                 56.7                       57.9
OF WlICH iNIM4AL AND PULSE          17.0         15.0        13.0/c               13.9                       14.i
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE            26.2         20.7         17.0                12.2                         7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)          43.2         48.1         52.2                59.6                        60.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)         165.0       139.0        121.2                 96.6                       68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                  ,.         17.0        33.0/d               32.9                        37.1
URBAN                                  ..         60.0        83.07?               70.8                       54.8
RURAL                                              6.0        20.07d               22.2                       26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ,.         16.0         20.0/e              18.1                        41.4
URBAN                                  ..         85.0        87.0/e               72.7                       47.5
RURAL                                  ..          1.0         2.d7e                4.7                       33.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             4850.0      4890.0       3640.0/f            3506.0                      7771.9
POP. PER NURSING PERSON             10980.0/g    8300.0       5380.07?            4797.9                      2462.6
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              2180.0       1650.0      1310.0/d             1100.6                     1047.2
URBAN                                  ..           ..       370.o7&              298.4                      651.1
RURAL                                  ..           ..     10410.07              5941.6                     2591.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..           ..                  ..                        27.0
HOOS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 5.2          5.6         5.2/e
URBAN                                 5.2          5.6         4.87'e
RURAL                                 5.2          5.6          5.37e.
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                 2.6          2.8                               ''
URBAN                                 2.6          2.8
RURAL                                 2.6          2.8
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
_- - -- - -- - - - - - --__ - --__ - -- -_ - - - --_ - - - - - - -- - - - - -- - -- - --_-_- --__ - - - - --_- - - -- -- - - - - - - --_  _  _   _ _   _       _       _   _ _   __ _ -_ __   _ _- _- _- _ ___ _- __ _- _- - _-- _- _ _-_ _-_ - -_ -_ _ -_ _ -_ -_ -_ _ -_ -__ -



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA                    - SOCIAL INDECATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT               LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960-/-b     1970L-  ESTIMAT'r/b         ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                      61.0         73.0         76.0/f              96.1                       101.2
MALE                      80.0         90.0         90.07f             107.8                        106.0
FEMALE                    40.0         56.0         61.07f              82.9                         97.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                     20.0         26.0         28.0/f               30.2                        44.9
MALE                      30.0         36.0         37.07f              37.3                         50.0
FEMALE                    10.0         15.0         18.0/f              22.2                        44.6
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)              2.8          1.0          0.7/e               2.3                         18.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              46.0         41.0         43.0/f               34.4                        32.7
SECONDARY                            16.0         21.0            ,                 18.4                        23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                 27.8         33.4        36.0                 53.5                         72.9
CONSUMPT ION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP              0.6          1.1          1.3/f               1.6                          9.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             4.9         21.5        44.4                 96.8                       113.7
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                0.0          0.0          1.7                 9.9                         50.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCLLATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                10.6         16.2         19.7                16.4                        54.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA          3.2          4.1          3.7/e               3.6                          3.4
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)          185951.0    219194.0    271179.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     30.7         32.5         31.8                 33.3                        33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                74.0          74.0         69.3                69.0                         50.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   11.0         11.0         13.2                 15.8                        19.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 42.8        40.0          39.3                42.5                         38.6
MALE                                  57.0         52.4         51.9                54.4                         50.7
FEMALE                               27.3          26.9         25.9                29.8                         26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.1          1.1          1. ..0                                           1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             26.7         26.3/h       22.2/e               16.5                        22.2
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             51.7        48.9/ht       49.4,7-             43.5                        48.0
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               4.1          6.77W        7.07'               6.9                          6.4
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS              13.6         17.27h       16.27W,             17.5                         15.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCCME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..       132.0                133.9                       194.5
RURAL                                   .,          .,        114.0                111.6                       155.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..           ..                   ..                      178.0
RURAL                                   ..           ..           .                   ..                       164.8
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN                                   ..           .          40.3                43.8                         24.4
RURAL                                   ..           ..        50.7                 51.7                        41.1
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate' between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; Id 1976; /e 1975; /f 1978; Ij 1962; /h 1964-65.
May 1983



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DFrf110 itOS OF SOCIAL iNttlCAfilS
Ituet'lOtruh fi  dune see dest  fre   ...ce  generally jldged the sou  -ufhnnttn   sdrt                  ,S   colat   etoe   Oe  hymytth   taohost
roururbhi  beusso  he look o              trlc   "eIntir   n  cocet  'Ird hydifferentcnuetri   incl rlngfo  de..' The data .ra,  -nhetljes,usflt
sohjnu   corey  excpt  or  hIgh lcoa' Ig-fprer'Aop ehurn  'Kiddie J.-c North Africa and! toddle forInron   uuu   f  togrsnenlo
Tote I   ine   ofc   nt   epfrglan   rsad hd               ed  aea;tr,                               hscin    ou-redienaa adoc  shol  f  n -rclnf Snotj.I
1970 and tAll date.                                                                            fo-ltinti -f  nurin  Parso- Feoein rde'd~ hy uosher of   sura
1910PE  CAndT Otto) dato                                                                             -1ednll per tbiusia  Aed ~- nal orh- o, sad  caa           uosit  (ttl,
SO60, l9ll, snd  Sf1 dat.                                                                           ho   estoeoyico.cta.ars    pa-odluf rn.lt                        eltyratde
hEIfSt COlSUMfTIlN PIER CAPOPA -Adoi  paettosese   tcsnrotn-clfetn   o   eenelpsufdh   r.hrsnu   Ibt hy a .Asfins
pris-e  enarpy (calen  ligts,                                                                                                           "trlo,ttrl'snd  rc-   olo  stnct oe,ndie   t.    hlt offer Sr-patient acr-dsnluo  a
PPULAIONIy  ANDr VITAL STTSIOtoiladfs llal  are iniod                                                                                       nIp orAte t tal.
uTuon  ronee;loldhi   ndll   oe                                                                  tooetn  o.eacl  Ih yn'cecrneshol    lcl,oh_,ad  ea
eneohstlnu rnoononruns                                                  - 0 htronbcld rooslans of a froop uf irA inldoalt ale alsee I felon tosetetsd by kl   -b_  f  l
PouainI   en  00-Cretppoolepoe  lnoaehsdn   th                                                   rlentl   ass       onro  l.0rap0 dFntb   oledI
1c960uuseonh   153a nud out961ned  Poellr  an  lou U ncte   neuel  tnuffltIrlNoGn
rate.  peiatio  pa toaersforuned.l fyrnscneueo  h                                   nygcohno    ie               e  room-etal  -ea,adcrlseeense
lonau asoelg  Iifo eytooncyan berclnrfu        ant11-h    re-td'  ru                   fprosrecd   oalehe,adeeloreeonanoe
raieItn    OnE., and ..o.eir lIfe as -efonc   -iti l-lora   70da  ig, eurlo   .be oe   o  rd   n-seetscnnt   o
peaes.  ma pnosseoeyu for frenll lop race olto haunthreni lands- ocoArropled9 yenta.tl -l dd J
eaol5dril   ntrllparrip1   eon   ae    dra   olyata   oCntilf   prolo   oi  a        oa,ohn   u   oe 
orsete   rrfreoo.fo Sronteish ma   stedoeo   hs  nn-one  oaRulIloeef   lorru   nIo n   ooutsrretg
reaennrtoofnotalt  se  orilt ' sadtlo  polctnoporuln                           o  tte,  efan  ad  ont  eat n..ys....uty
itetfoere epetstIO-1t5statinsep  eynOacoc thae iecgrob-
atnecthe brth  are i  equ lltfh   oc   un,adat   Oo  g                             yCfi
cosat    hsI   rlnd    nbunrlnilnprnatAdleeepflld etfto
AelIett,eeparetttsnntnioarpndoolndt,ou                                            rosrno4o-tno,nocudanieGretnaisaeere-i
rer  gnaatnnofenonPe lnceilal  eatic   Te  ta ltop-erolsono  oI- uonatth  yr ' loay. eo.a   utnoaf    o--olrot
popoanlo  sie 011 h  nedhed                                                           heeb-       thn      oal  oeed  nse-Cennde  ahemd srufarJ
PotIn.kn  enicotoul lea  - Csyad  atb  obe  onaAicitn.an                                    iotalr  u-udd
yu.teo   6  Srpoa(uret0-Oidu 1Y-14 ..            unt...   ouc0hin-sne---.troercrcl   notli,o  ota                                         nun  nn     oat   tead
lqolrco  ti, 1970,   -do 19AI  dan-                                                       p-oy dl-tnrbr-atIn  --rtey   n   ooooc-ffltodet   e lti
free   196 1erustu  roe   1951h,ltf-f   nd1  -t                                                 ruodntlola
Cene 1pm la   (cu.to.sud  -  eruu  lIs  i chscu   nenod-f Id
yea  onoltt;  lOhi  191, sd19117~  fate.                            l-OtSO.......
Ceda -et  Nn   Run uh--o) -  _,co  dota   croocdo _ld-terres .,Ye fat  po    t -ooso  youltl                                             - Pas_grtot  osreeene
"uulclc   iOta, 6 1 171 9ad0Ot  tne.tuouene  los- htuh   asn;tcoe   arlne.naatn
Inssalptlrtn   NtnAergomto-o   uoOfr--enneti  er  n                                                 i itr  -ouiron
In  tosl  rputoio   rntd  f  h  ereeere  resn  ae-peifr                             aiotrelsr   (e t-ro.n   rpooto  -                 5 ole , tpo  o -trtornfr  aI
fentliy  rtes  oouly tee-oerdorege e,lh.t 1910,-- 190   n                              earnon   anclpbi   e  roodofcplto;rru                                   n
I'10   Ftcnsorurrnnnotootreond7n rar o19                                                                                                             tlictrinnfndt
fsmlprldnningp-              -            1 etr,ono(noede-hncntoneo    arCOnNaS                          attefr;dofrrct   renaIONlceyrhulnss
pregnan.             T-t IfRorejlPes  cu _                                                                   hesl_ruo_etn-nOsrenrofrbnlrot
helr  lede-eno(uret  fstee  ao)- rnatg n-orlideoe  pcl"yrOhcenAynnsfn;et-eo  c  rnnO   ttt_ot
Y.....tdhaie    n   1-O   ur)  h   ,   rtttotoeocuo                                           croocr   c  t   or-cc    rlttro    (-  ea00  nfet
aIr nderlrddr.aococueeuorr troop.                                   )r~~~~~~~~ocdyyftfrft.fl~~~~tocreco.orc   o,olatronr- tco,nclroeuroin~t~'g 
Fnodo  rtop                                                                                                            aloroo rtootoIo.~,dlbdeae   ooo
Inroo  rodPrdonn  rn   aIt  (99-Uhi  -cltofye   ayn.                                               r         1rnailco  ocdch-oooltrt   (oocctd-o
enooalrrcdottooorfellfnofrosuodirlso.~~~                                           ~~~~~~ etctoerfdearee  nrcalcfr-penr  nonforlso-se
far  ad  s  n  alndr  eu  hsl.  Cnndilacneepesay  ees  o.g       lom   ttot   ttndnc  yn  urut  a Ott-taedorIh-pdr-0
date.                                                                                ootye FlFlIrTi-  . 
enpnts,adchne  toe9ot    ottoplo    5ctr  annua  fo d, ocA,tnun9e                                                ll,l      odlt   aa
quatiiesosd  n fndprrnetu, ul oses  n   ioeIhtlr.                         eslorrtcrI   Pedl  leoytote  s  anonngeof  etl oFeluns
aeofaaenaeeutlote   b   orherinop5uolgfdlned  fr  ons                     Arialor        aent 1- oocfotetnfretp f-et7,huttg  n
-nlipadhae p        aootruornetttseeon.hd   ont,fltn   ofe.ooeo  oa   ao   ure   Ot   00stlf   ae
Pa  ctlanppp  fernin(rss  c  Or  -eceucrctn  of  ur cap_te                                   1910 o     96d lOtI dens.     ,d_
neffuyS  o  fndre  Ap.Se  spp~   r  on  i dfiedenotre                         frt rlatuntrna(rtoonI    tta,  al,  tAttat-rror pFtoPo
toecentufeo_doutfrnl olsedb  Oflnotn  n   loun                                                   htl-tttaeoIucea   otl  el,an-                        esi   eb,efro
TnIrrWorldFond  oe 9e     0 lOlIS .d1   o 19800  ae.nnoocIernetalti                                                   .10o  rufla.o  rto  IS uA                l 69adtoet
dons.                                                                                 Itrd.et-9 enSoOuorcIdu
ceoseicetaaudeind fom  lfe i5hlrs; 1960,     1 1970 en  198 d data  Elfooaeheldu.Thl                                               -;di,'
ecrut o  fo   raer  ee oen  ofnoctaton)-  tee-   orhan, ad roa-                          tattonl   dcet   Itro    aanolnnfn                          -d 6r5eee  lotd
Chilnd       nl ul  0  errn  hno  ef thi   aprfm    eeonea.I  en-                                  p ,NCO sEnuO  Ontn   fhcore    ee   evlI   alo   seten
to.o -nLrnp  -eoeadnyd0   ao   lhoroneo   rno  rhot                                    lutinottf fopuIton   ooAalo  ?oeep__cct' leer  Ipertt -- oche
hecue   Icroe'.  rode  rsteanla  rres  ouc 0 iny d thntet19  Ooo                       ndttl-eeeto   orlto   ohredrraler n,onit
48unebr   feehceodd   o   euc   pn       lprutn upr   fPt
the doy te fercheng tIe fasily a usteonoede.T CROUI
erosoSmn  Uernlle rn   fpnoah    - eu,  rs, sodE
Pua-nne  ofl- peeyt  (tonal, eban, and  runll  eed   hpecoen
disyrnolst   . eare   --re  of  tennsctotn   criuiou                                                                                                           Mlerod-ye
nay.n-    d   h   ultitoddaeu    tho   lhottelet,o                                                                                      rnscadfco    oaOnee
he N   ncea nbrsc-ae  h d osrob-LLyyoonurtaoedptfcneio-rlntdadienet  ot  lylte
petriceendelutue  nunaian.ot.toplOf



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENI DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1981 US$260 a!
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1982/83 b/                                               ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, Constant Prices) c/
1955/56-1959/60  1960/61-1964/65  1965/66-1969/70  1970/71-1974/75  1975/76-1979/8L
US$ Bln.    X
GDP at Market Prices                 170.74   100.0                      3.7                3.6               3.7                2.9               4.1
Gross Domestic Investment             41.99    24.6
Gross National Saving                 38.12    22.3
Current Account Balance             -  3.87   - 2.3
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1981
Value added (at factor cost)         Labor Force i/       V.A. Per Worker
us$ Bln.                 %           Mil.        %        US$    % of National Average
Agriculture                           51.7                  35.1         172.7      70.6       299        50
Industry                              35.2                  23.9          31.6      12.9     1114        185
Services                              60.6                  41.0          40.3      16.5     1504        249
Total/Average                        147.5                 100.0         244.6    100.0    - 603         100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government  e/                                Central Government
Rs. Bln.             % of GDP                     Rs. Bln.               of GDP
1982/83     1982/83    1978/79-1982/83            1982T783    1982/83    1978/79-1982/83
Current Receipts                       333.34       20.3            19.5                 175.61        10.7           10.5
Current Expenditures                   340.09       20.7            19.0                 188.59        11.5           10.8
Current Surplus/Deficit               -  6.75      - 0.4             0.5                - 12.98       - 0.8          - 0.4
Capital Expenditures f/                131.28        8.0             8.1                  95.13         5.8            5.7
External Assistance (net) d/            19.30        1.2             1.0
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES              1970/71  1975/76  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  February 1983  February 1984
(Rs Billion outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                  109.8    224.8    329.1    401.1    472.3    555.5    624.9    723.8            711.7           845.7
Bank Credit to Government (net)         54.6    106.3    137.3    159.3    200.1    257.2    309.1    352.4            353.5           406.6
Bank Credit to Commercial Sector        64.6    156.2    212.2    255.3    310.1    363.5    430.5    504.5            487.7           576.4
(Percentage or Index Number s)                              Apr-Feb 1982/83  Apr-Feb 1983/84
Money and Quasi Money as a %
of GDP                                27.3     30.3      36.7      41,1     44.1      43.6      42.0     44.0
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 - 100)                      100.0    173.0    185.8    185,8    217.6    257.3    281.4    288.6           288.1               314.8
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                    7.7      -1.1      5.2       -        17.1     18.,2      9.4      2.6          2.3                 9.3
Bank Credit to Government (net)         15.0      22.7     16.3      16,0      25.6     28.5      20.2     14.0         21.0 j/             18.9 h/
Bank Credit to Commercial Sector        19.4      22.7     12.6      20.2      21.5     17.2      18.4     17.2         15.5 g/             17.9 hj
a/  The per capita GNP estimate is at market prices, using World Bank Atlas methodology, base period 1979-1981.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
b/ Quick Estimates, Central.Statistical Organization.
c/ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation betfore first year and one observation after last year of
listed period.
d/ World Bank estimates of net disbursement  of concessional aid and IBRD.
e/  Transfers between Centre and States have been netted out.
f/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
/  Percentage change from end-March 1982 to end-February 1983.
h/  Percentage change froti end-March 1983 to end-February 1984.
i/  Total Labor Force and percentage breakdown from 1981 Census.  Excludes data for Assam,



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS'                       1980/81   1981/82   1982/83)/ 1983/841/             MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1979/80-1982/83) a/
(US$ Mln.)                                                                                                                     U5$ }lln.      %
Exports of Goods _/                         8,504      8,519    &a001        8,466             Engineering Goods r/               980        12
Imports of Goods _1/                      -16,204   -15,500   -14,249   -14,412                Tea                                455         6
Trade Balance                             - 7,700   - 6,981   - 6,248   - 5,946                Gems                               779         9
NFS (net)                                   1,365        974        940        856             Clothing                           573         7
Leather and Leather Products    480           6
Resource Balance                          - 6,335   - 6,007   - 5,308        5,090             Jute Manufactures                  333         4
Iron Ore                          380         5
Interest Income (net) k/                      600        286   -   415   -   648               Cotton Textiles                    328         4
Net Transfers 1/                            2,771      2,318      1,849      1,790             Sugar                               86         1
Others                          3,849        46
Balance on Current Account                - 2,964   - 3,403   - 3,874   - 3,948
Official Loans & Grants                                                                        Total                            8,243       100
Gross Diabursements                         2,651      2,570      3,086      3,441             EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31, 1983
r           Amortization                               -   700   -   674   -   701   -   783
US$ billion
Transaction with IMF  (net)                 1,035        690      1,980      1.295             Outstanding and Disbursed                     19.6
All Other Items o/                        -   367   - 1,581          12        531             Undisbursed                                   11.1
Outstanding including Djndisbursed           30.7
Increase in Reserves (-)                      345      2,398   -   503   -   536
Gross Reserves (end year) p/                6,859      4,461      4,964      5,500             DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1982/83 1/  n/         10.1 per cent
Net Reserves (end year) m/                  6,532      3,497      2,088      1,449
IBRD/IDA LENDING, MARCH 31, 1984 J/
Fuel and Related Materials
U3S$ million
Imports (Petroleum) q/                      6,672      5,590      4,613      3,395                                                    tBED      IDA
Outstanding and Disbursed              1,826      7,924
Undisbursed                            2,081      4,331
Outstanding including Undisbursed   3,907    12,255
RATE OF EXCRANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971            US$1.00 - Rs 7.50
Rs 1.00 - US$0.13333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972        US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                       Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-March 1983                  US$1.00 - Rs 10.0501
Rs 1.00 - US$0.0997
Spot Rate end-March 1984                  US$1.00 - Rs 10.7181
Rs 1.00 - US$0.0933
,r Estimated
k/ Figures given cover all investment income (net). Major payments are interest on foreign loans and charges paid to IMF, and major receipts is
interest earAed on foreign assets.
1/  Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance which is included within official loans and grants, and
non-resident deposits which are included within all other items.
m/  Exclude net use of IMF credit.
n/  Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of total current receipts.
o/ Includes exchange rate adjustments to the valuation of reserves and financing of imbalances in rupee trade.
p/ Excluding gold.
Net of crude petroleum exports.
r/  Including iron and steel.






ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1984)
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                         Bank         IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
49 Loans/                                              1,766.15         -
85 Credits fully disbursed                                 -        4,858.4            -
482-IN    1974      Karnataka Dairy                       -           30.0          10.28
521-IN    1975      Rajasthan Dairy                       -           27.7           4.78
598-IN    1976      Fertilizer Industry                   -          105.0           0.21
604-IN    1976      Power Transmission IV                 -          150.0           0.13
610-IN    1976      Integrated Cotton Development         -           18.0           0.95
1251-IN    1976      Andhra Pradesh Irrigation           145.0          -            37.55
1273-IN    1976      National Seeds I                     25.0          -            14.29
1335-IN    1977      Bombay Urban Transport               25.0          -             2.84
680-IN    1977      Kerala Agric. Development             -           30.0          10.19
682-IN    1977      Orissa Agric. Development             -           20.0           1.86
685-IN    1977      Singrauli Thermal Power               -          150.0           2.82
690-IN    1977      West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research                -           12.0          8.92
1394-IN    1977      Gujarat Fisheries                    14.0          -             4.08
712-IN    1977      M.P. Agric. Development               -           10.0           0.29
720-IN    1977      Periyar Vaigai Irrigation             -           23.0           4.00
728-IN    1977      Assam Agricultural Development        -            8.0           3.38
736-IN    1978      Maharashtra Irrigation                -           70.0           1.91
747-IN    1978      Second Foodgrain Storage              -          107.0          56.87
756-IN    1978      Calcutta Urban Development II         -           87.0           1.88
761-IN    1978      Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                           -           8.0           5.22
1511-IN    1978      IDBI Joint/Public Sector             25.0          -             1.97
1549-IN    1978      Third Trombay Thermal Power         105.0          -             4.20
788-IN    1978      Karnataka Irrigation                  -          117.6          45.64
793-IN    1978      Korba Thermal Power                   -          200.0          33.59
806-IN    1978      Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture            -           14.0          10.76
808-IN    1978      Gujarat Irrigation                    -           85.0           3.99
815-IN    1978      Andhra Pradesh Fisheries              -           17.5           9.51
816-IN    1978      National Seeds II                     -           16.0           6.74
1592-IN    1978      Telecommunications VII              120.0          -            20.61
824-IN    1978      National Dairy                        -          150.0          60.67
842-IN    1979      Bombay Water Supply II                -          196.0         148.04
844-IN    1979      Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                       -         190.0          34.79
848-IN    1979      Punjab Water Supply 6 Sewerage        -           38.0           6.88
855-IN    1979      National Agricultural Research        -           27.0          15.87
862-IN    1979      Composite Agricultural Extension    -             25.0           4.82
871-IN    1979      National Cooperative Development
Corporation                         -          30.0           1.76
1648-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power             50.0          -            50.00



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                   (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                         Bank          IDA 1/     Undisbursed  /
874-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power               -          200.0           18.95
889-IN    1979      Punjab Irrigation                      -          129.0           48.83
899-IN    1979      Maharashtra Water Supply,              -           48.0           12.19
911-IN    1979      Rural Electrification Corp. II         -          175.0           16.16
925-IN    1979      Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry          -           23.0            5.42
954-IN    1980      Maharashtra Irrigation II              -          210.0           58.97
961-IN    1980      Gujarat Community Forestry             -           37.0           10.82
963-IN    1980      Inland Fisheries                       -           20.0           16.86
981-IN    1980      Population II                          -           46.0           30.84
1003-IN    1980      Tamil Nadu Nutrition                   -           32.0           21.19
1011-IN    1980      Gujarat Irrigation II                  -          175.0          111.93
1012-IN    1980      Cashewnut                              -           22.0           16.98
1027-IN    1980      Singrauli Thermal II                   -          300.0          172.64
1028-IN    1980      Kerala Agricultural Extension          -           10.0            8.08
1033-IN    1980      Calcutta Urban Transport               -           56.0           21.32
1034-IN    1980      Karnataka Sericulture                  -           54.0           35.56
1046-IN    1980      Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage   -              80.0           57.17
1843-IN    1980      Industry DFC XIII                    100.0          -              7.71
1887-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                 25.0          -             25.00
1053-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                  -          225.0          118.94
1897-IN    1981      Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                    30.0          -            22.73
1925-IN    1981      Bombay High Offshore Development  400.0             -              2.92
1072-IN    1981      Bihar Rural Roads                      --          35.0           17.11
1078-IN    1981      Mahanadi Barrages                      --          83.0           51.69
1082-IN    1981      Madras Urban Development II             -          42.0           20.91
1108-IN    1981      M.P. Medium Irrigation                 -          140.0           99.94
1112-IN    1981      Telecommunications VIII                -          314.0          111.50
1116-IN    1981      Karnataka Tank Irrigation              -           54.0           41.97
1125-IN    1981      Hazira Fertilizer Project              -          400.0          165.74
1135-IN    1981      Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.          -            23.0          15.75
1137-IN    1981      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.           -            28.0          19.09
1138-IN    1981      M.P. Agricultural Ext. II              -            37.0          30.42
1146-IN    1981      National Cooperative
Development Corp. II                 -          125.0          80.24
1172-IN    1982      Korba Thermal Power Project II         -          400.0          297.60
1177-IN    1982      Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation        -           220.0         175.64
2050-IN    1982      Tamil Nadu Newsprint                 100.0           -            28.41
1178-IN    1982      West Bengal Social Forestry            -            29.0          22.42
1185-IN    1982      Kanpur Urban Development               -            25.0          18.67
2051-IN    1982      ICICI XIV                            150.0           -            81.49
2076-IN    1982      Ramagundam Thermal Power II          300.0           -           300.00
2095-IN    1982      ARDC IV                              190.0           -             5.43
1219-IN    1982      Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Ext.    -                6.0           5.05
2123-IN    1982      Refineries Rationalization           200.0           -           123.52
2165-IN    1982      Rural Electrification III            304.5           -           290.68
2186-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                     20.3          -            20.00
1269-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                     -            60.0          34.69
1280-IN    1983      Gujarat Water Supply                                72.0          66.53
1286-IN    1983      Jammu/Kashmir and



Page e of 
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                         Bank         IDA 1/     Undisbursed 3]
Haryana Social Forestry             -           33.0         27.65
1288-IN    1983      Chambal Madhya Pradesh                -            -
Irrigation II                       -          31.0          22.87
1289-IN    1983      Subernarekha Irrigation               -          127.0         117.32
2205-IN    1983      Krishna-Godavari Exploration        165.5          -           148.22
2210-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                    200.0          -          197.04
1299-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                      -          200.0        192.83
2241-IN    1983      South Bassein Gas Development       222.3          -           133.71
1319-IN    1983      Haryana Irrigation II                 -          150.0         129.18
1332-IN    1983      U.P. Public Tubewells II              -          101.0          96.62
1356-IN    1983      Upper Indravati Hydro Power           -          170.0         158.07
2278-IN    1983      Upper Indravati Hydro Power         156.4          -           156.01
1369-IN    1983      Calcutta Urban Development III        -          147.0         145.05
1383-IN    1983      Maharashtra Water Utilization         -           32.0          31.13
2308-IN    1983      Maharashtra Water Utilization        22.7          -            22.64
2283-IN    1983      Central Power Transmission          250.7          -           250.07
2295-IN    1983      Himalayan Watershed Management       46.2          -            46.08
2329-IN    1983      Madhya Pradesh Urban                 24.1          -            24.04
1397-IN    1984      Orissa Irrigation II                  -          105.0          97.97
1424-IN    1984      Rainfed Areas Watershed Dev.          -           31.0          31.0
1426-IN    1984      Population III                        -           70.0          70.0
1432-IN    1984      Karnataka Social Forestry             -           27.0          27.0
1454-IN    1984      Tamil Nadu Water Supply*              -           36.5          36.5
Total                                    5,183.2    12,015.7
of which has been repaid               1.298,8        153.5
Total now outstanding                    3,884.4    11,862.2
Amount Sold                     133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8          -            -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3/        3,884.4    11,862.2
Total undisbursed (excluding *)          2,021.25    3,701.25
1/  IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
2/ Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived from cumulative
disbursements converted to their US dollar equivalents at the SDR/US dollar
exchange rate in effect on March 31, 1984.
)) Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1984)
Amount (US$ million)
Fiscal
Year                     Company                       Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.             1.5        -        1.5
1959            Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltid.             0.8         -        0.8
1960            Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4         -        1.4
1961            K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2         -        0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.          0.6        0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.           0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79      Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.          11.8        1.3      13.1
1964            Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.              1.0        0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                1.1        0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                 8.6        2.9      11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.             15.1        3.8      18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                        6.6         -        6.6
1978            Housing Development Finance
Corporation                            4.0        1.2       5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.        7.5        1.2       8.7
1981             Coromandel Fertilizers limited        15.9                 15.9
1981            Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0            -       38.0
1981            Mahindra, Mahindra Limited             15.0         -       15.0
1981             Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.            2.9        0.3       3.2
1981             Nagarjuna Signode Limited              2.3         -        2.3
1981             Nagarjuna Steels Limited                1.5       0.2       1.7
1982            Ashok Leyland Limited                  28.0         -       28.0
1982             The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.             18.8         -       18.8
1982             Bharat Forge Company Ltd.             15.8         -       15.8
1982             The Indian Rayon Corp. L,td.           8.3         -        8.3
1984             The Owalior Rayon Silk Manu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.        4.3         -       4.3
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS         211.8       12.1    223.9
Less:   Sold                          53.0        3.4      56.4
Repaid                        32.0        -       32.0
Cancelled                     16.0        1.4     17.4
Now Held                     110.8       7.3    118.1
Undisbursed                   81.2         -      81.2



ANNEX III
INDIA
AGRO-INDUSTRIAL (NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION III) PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:          Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Borrower to prepare the proiect
About four years.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
National Cooperative Development Corporation.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of
the first mission to consider the project
The project was formally presented to the Bank in August
1983; a preparation mission visited India in February
1983.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
November 10, 1983.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
May 1984.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
September, 1984.
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) State Bank recovery rates (para 49);
(b) Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
GOI and NCDC is a condition of credit effectiveness
(para 62).



ANNEX IV
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (NCDC) III PROJECT
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$M)
(US$ Millions)
Procur(ement Method a/
-------------------------  ~~~~~~            Total
Project Element                         ICB        LCB        Other b/   N.A. c/    Cost
Civil Works                              -        190.8          -          -          190.8
-        (89.7)         -          -          (89.7)
Turnkey and Other Contracts for    95.4            17.9 d/    6.0 e/         -         119.3
Agro-Processing Facilities             (44.9)      (8.4)       (2.8)         -         (56.1)
Teaching and Office Equipment            -          3.2 fI    0.8            -           4.0
-         (1.5)      (0.4)         -           (1.9)
Training, Fellowships, Incremental
Staff Expenditure,Permanent and         -           -           -       153.9         153.9
Working Capital                         -           -           -       (72.3)        (72.3)
95.4      211.9         6.8      153.9         468.0
(44.9)     (99.6)       (3.2)     (72.3)       (220.0)
a!  The figures include physical and price contingencies.  Figures in parentheses
are the respective amounts financed by the IDA Credit.
b/ Solicitation of at least three price quotations.
c/  Not applicable.
d/  Contracts of US$20,000 to US$500,OOC.
e/  Contracts of less than US$20,000, tc be liet after obtaining at least three
quotations.
ff Contracts exceeding US$20,000.
Note: (1) Figures in parentheses indicate amounts financed by IDA.
(2) Amounts include taxes and dut:ies.



