Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3t411-EC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$40.6 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR A
SECOND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
November 15, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Ecuador devalued the sucre by 32 percent on May 13, 1982. In addi-
tion to the current official exchange rate of SI. 33 = US$1, there is a free
market rate applicable to the tourist trade and some capital movements. The
(   free market rate at end-October 1982 was fluctuating around US$1 = S/. 59.
Currency Unit: Sucre (SI.)
Calendar 1981                October 31, 1982
US$1      =  S/. 25                =  S/. 33
S/. 1     =  US$0.04              =  US$0.03
S/. 1,000 =  US$40.00             =  US$30.30
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BNF       -  Banco Nacional de Fomento
(National Development Bank)
CENAPIA   -  Centro Nacional de Promocion de la Pequena Industria
y Artesania
(National Center for Small Industry and Artisan Promotion)
CFN       -  Corporacion Financiera Nacional
(National Finance Corporation, a State-owned development
finance company)
COFIEC    -  Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo S.A., Compania Financiera
(Ecuadorian Development Finance Company, the country's
largest private development finance company)
FOPINAR   -  Fondo para Pequena Industria y Artesania
(CFN's Small-Scale Enterprise Loan Discount Facility)
MICEI     -  Ministerio de Industrias, Comercio e Integracion
(Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Integration)
PFI       -  Participating Financial Intermediaries
SSE       -  Small Scale Enterprise
IDB       -  Inter-American Development Bank
USAID     -  United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ECUADOR
SECOND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Ecuador
Beneficiaries:       Corporacion Financiera Nacional (CFN) and eligible banks
and development finance companies
Amount:              US$40.6 million equivalent including a capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:               Repayable over 17 years on a fixed amortization schedule,
including 4 years of grace, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:    The Central Bank, as fiscal agent, would onlend the
proposed loan in sucres to CFN, the executing agency, on
the same term as the Bank loan would bear, but at an
interest rate of 12 percent p.a. The loan proceeds,
blended with Government contributions to CFN, would be
onlent to participating financial intermediaries at 13
percent interest per annum, except that the relending
rate to financial intermediaries for subloans to enter-
prises with assets below US$22,000 would be 9 percent per
annum. The maturities of subloans provided by CFN to
financial intermediaries would vary according to the
individual subprojects to be financed, but would not
exceed 10 years, including 3 years of grace. The
Government would assume the foreign exchange risk for the
loan as well as any difference between the 12 percent
onlending interest rate to CFN and the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.
Project
Description          The proposed loan would continue Bank support to the
and Risks:           Government of Ecuador's efforts to develop further the
dynamic small scale enterprise (SSE) sector which, in
turn, would help generate employment, improve income
distribution, and promote regional development. In order
to achieve these objectives, a line of credit totalling
US$55.4 million would be made available to the SSE
sector. CFN would also continue to manage a program of
technical assistance to SSEs, and would receive technical
assistance in order to improve its financial information
systems. About 1,200 subloans averaging US$45,000 are
expected to be made to individual SSEs with fixed assets,
excluding land and buildings, of no more than US$350,000
equivalent. Investments partially financed by these
subloans are expected to create about 6,000 new jobs.
Given the satisfactory performance under the first SSE
credit project, no special administrative risks are
foreseen. However, there is a risk that demand for
investment credit may slacken somewhat due to low growth
of the economy. Should this happen, the proposed loan
may take longer than expected to disburse.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:                                        Local   Foreign   Total
(US$ million)…
Investment Projects                43.6      39.8      83.4
Technical Assistance to CFN         0.0       0.2       0.2
Total Project Costs 1/             43.6      40.0      83.6
Front-end Fee                        -        0.6       0.6
Total Financing Required           43.6      40.6      84.2
Financing Plan:
Bank                                 -       40.6      40.6
Central Government                 10.0        -       10.0
Financial Intermediaries            5.6        -        5.6
SSE Beneficiaries                  28.0        -       28.0
Total                              43.6      40.6      84.2
Estimated
Disbursements:
1983    1984    1985    1986
US$ millions by Bank Fiscal Year
Annual               9.6    15.2       9.8     6.0
Cumulative           9.6    24.8    34.6    40.6
Rate of Return:      n.a.
Staff Appraisal
Report:              Report No. 3941-EC dated November 5, 1982
1/ The tax content of the project would be negligible.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR FOR A
SECOND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Ecuador for the equivalent of US$40.6 million to help
finance a second small scale enterprise credit project. The loan would be
repayable over 17 years on a fixed amortization basis, including four years
of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The Central Bank would
onlend the proceeds of the loan in sucres to the Corporacion Financiera
Nacional (CFN) on the same term as the Bank loan would bear but at an
interest rate of 12 percent p.a. The Government would assume, without charge
to CFN: (i) the foreign exchange risk on the loan; (ii) any difference which
might occur between the 12 percent onlending interest rate to CFN and the
Bank's standard variable rate; and (iii) the front-end fee payable to the
Bank. CFN would blend the loan proceeds with a Government capital
contribution and relend these project funds to eligible banks and development
finance companies at 13 percent interest except for subloans to the smallest
enterprises, for which the relending rate to be paid by the financial
intermediaries would be 9 percent. Participating intermediaries would onlend
project funds at interest rates of 17 to 19 percent, except for the smallest
enterprises, for which the interest rate would be 15 percent. The terms
offered to participating intermediaries and which they, in turn, would offer
ultimate beneficiaries would be up to 10 years, with up to three years of
grace, depending on the type of subproject to be financed.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Background
2.        The most recent economic report on Ecuador, Report No. 3723-EC
entitled "Ecuador: Economic Development Issues" was distributed to the
Executive Directors on December 17, 1981. The subsequent paragraphs reflect
not only the findings contained in that report but also those of Bank
missions which visited Ecuador in February and March 1982 to analyze issues
affecting the industrial sector and the public investment program. Annex I
provides the main social and economic indicators.
3.        Ecuador entered the seventies as one of the least developed Latin
American countries. The discovery and subsequent exploitation of petroleum
in the Amazon region, however, initiated a major boom in 1972. From 1972
to 1980, real GDP grew at an average annual rate of 7.6 percent and per
capita GDP rose from US$320 to US$1,270, a level which places Ecuador amongst
the Bank's middle-income borrowers. Although the average per capita income
rose rapidly, many Ecuadorians still live in poverty and Ecuador's social
indicators lag behind those of other countries with similar levels of per
capita income.
4.        The rate of population growth--3.4 percent p.a.--is straining the
ability of the Government to alleviate poverty through the provision of
social services. It is also adding an estimated 100,000 job seekers to the



-2-
economy annually; while open urban unemployment is estimated at only 6.5 per-
cent, underemployment is estimated to be around 25-30 percent. In spite of
this rapid population growth, Ecuador does not have an aggressive
Government-sponsored family planning program. Some birth control information
and devices are, however, disseminated quietly by public agencies and by
privately backed outlets.
5.        Recent economic growth has benefited mainly the urban middle and
rural upper classes. While a sizeable middle class has emerged, about 40
percent of the urban and 65 percent of the rural population live in absolute
poverty. Two of the reasons for Ecuador's skewed income distribution are
highly concentrated ownership of productive resources and unequal access to
public services. For example, 60 percent of the country's farmers derive
their livelihood from only 11 percent of the arable land. Their farms are
small--less than 5 hectares--and tend to be of the poorest quality. Low
levels of education, primitive cultivation techniques, scarce use of tech-
nical inputs and limited access to credit and to commercial marketing
channels contribute to low farm productivity and incomes. Thus, farms over
10 hectares produce from 1.3 to 2 times more per hectare than smaller farms,
and the income of many small farmers barely exceeds subsistence levels.
6.        During the seventies, only about a quarter of total public invest-
ment was channeled into rural areas, where 56 percent of the total population
and most of the country's poorest live. Primary school coverage has been
expanding significantly, but illiteracy is still nearly 40 percent in rural
areas versus, six percent in towns. Indians, who constitute about one-third
of the population, live primarily in the rural areas, especially in the
mountains. While Indians speak their own languages and have their own
cultural patterns and value systems, the Spanish language and Western culture
predominate in the country's cities and towns and in the public schools as
well as in local administration and businesses.
7.        In order to improve living conditions for the poor, the Government
is pursuing a development policy with a strong social component. A strategy
of seeking rapid agricultural growth is now complemented by an emphasis on
integrated rural development. Real public outlays for agriculture increased
by over 20 percent in 1980 and public services for the rural sector have been
drawn together under a rural development secretariat. Agricultural price
controls are also under revision and farmgate prices of several items (sugar,
wheat, milk) have already been raised. These and related measures are
intended to provide better production incentives and the basis for more
effective programs in the rural sector in the years ahead.
The Petroleum Sector
8.        Ecuador became a net exporter of petroleum in 1972.  In 1981 oil
accounted for 58 percent of export earnings, 48 percent of Government
revenues, and 12 percent of Ecuador's GDP. Nevertheless, since exploration
efforts practically ceased between 1973 and 1979, production in 1981 was
about equal to the approximately 200,000 bpd produced in 1973. Petroleum
exports declined during the latter part of the seventies as domestic consump-
tion rose rapidly, stimulated by low domestic prices and high rates of GDP
growth. At the present pace, Ecuador could become a net importer' of
petroleum products in the late 1980s.



-3-
9.        The Government is giving priority to increased conservation,
exploration, and secondary recovery. In an effort to renew interest by
foreign oil companies in Ecuador, Congress recently enacted a new hydro-
carbons law and the Government is preparing new draft exploration and produc-
tion contracts. In 1981 it also began to allocate about US$80 million per
year to CEPE, the national oil company, for exploration and secondary
recovery. The Government expects the secondary recovery program to increase
the country's production by 12 percent in 1983.
Recent Events
10.       To curb the growth of domestic demand for petroleum derivatives,
the Government tripled domestic gasoline prices and doubled the prices of
other petroleum product-s in February 1981. In October 1982, it doubled
gasoline prices again. However, on average, the domestic price of petroleum
derivatives is still only about 60 percent of the international price.
These pricing actc%ns anl other recent conservation measures--doublLng import
taxes on energy-inefficient vehicles, for example--should help to reduce the
growth of domestic demand of petroleum products. Moreover, the Government is
pushing a hydropower generation program in order to lessen the burning of
costly petroleum derivatives in a power system which is currently three-
fourths thermal. These combined measures will result in greater energy
conservation domestically and free more oil for export.
11.       Since 1978 the rate of economic growth has been slowing down,
averaging about 4.5 percent in 1979-1981. Sagging private investment because
of political uncertainties (elections in 1979, a border conflict with Peru
and the death of the President, in an airplane crash, in 1981), stagnating
petroleum output and, lately, declining international prices of Ecuador's
main exports account for the slowdown of economic growth.
12.       The exchange rate appreciated around 60 percent in real terms
between 1970 and 1981. Partly because of this, real exports of goods
remained practically unchanged during the period. Export earnings increased
mainly because world prices for Ecuador's exports, especially oil, went up.
In order to create stronger export incentives and slow down the increase in
less essential imports, the Government devalued the sucre by about 32 percent
in May 1982, thus partially offsetting the real appreciation of the sucre.
This action is an important first step in stimulating non-oil exports (thus
diversifying the economy) and in reducing the incentives for activities which
are overly dependent on imports.
13.       Because of favorable terms of trade, Ecuador's trade balance was
positive in all but one year during the 1972-1981 period. The current
account, on the other hand, showed a deficit from 1975 to 1981 owing to high
interest, insurance and transport payments. In 1981, the decline in the
prices of oil, cocoa, and coffee, and the steep rise in interest rates in the
international capital markets brought the current account deficit to an
estimated 8.1 percent of GDP. Short-term capital outflows resulting from a
border incident with Peru, the death of President Roldos, and a rising spread
between domestic and foreign interest rates contributed to drawing down
international reserves in 1981. By the end of the year, net international
reserves of the Central Bank stood at about US$560 million, equivalent to
about 1.7 months of imports, versus 2.9 months at end-1980. This trend has
continued and reserves were down to 1.4 months as of June 30, 1982.



14.       Recent fiscal policies have often been expansionary.  After the
public sector deficit reached 8.5 percent of GDP in 1977, the Government
imposed budgetary restraints on public current and capital expenditures.
These restraints, together with a doubling of world petroleum prices which
resulted in higher revenues for the fisc, helped to bring the deficit down to
2.0 percent of GDP in 1979. In 1980, however, the newly installed Congress
approved a budget which increased central Government expenditures by over 30
percent in real terms, raising the public sector deficit to an estimated 4.3
percent of GDP. These expansionary policies were continued in 1981; the
public sector deficit for that year is estimated to have been equivalent to
about 6 percent of GDP. For 1982, the public sector deficit is estimated to
be about 6 percent of GDP.
15.       Public external debt outstanding nearly tripled between 1977 and
1981, in large measure because the public sector deficits were financed
through external borrowing. Moreover, as most of the newly contracted debt
was provided by commercial sources, terms and maturities as well as grace
periods hardened. Consequently, Ecuador's public debt-service ratio
increased from 9.9 percent of exports in 1976 to an estimated 30 percent in
1981. An Ecuadorian delegation met with Ecuador's chief creditors in New
York the second week of October 1982 to explore the possibility of refinanc-
ing Ecuador's external debt, and an IMF mission visited the country in
October/November to study a possible IMF operation for the country.
Outlook
16.       The present civilian Administration, which inherited a host of
economic problems from the prior military regime, is committed to pursuing
economic development by fostering a climate favorable to private investment
and improving the living conditions of the lower income segments of the popu-
lation. To this end, it has taken a number of important and politically dif-
ficult corrective measures: the most important of these were the substantial
increases in the prices of petroleum products (para. 10). The Government has
also taken steps to bring other prices more in line with market conditions.
In mid-1980 it raised the price of several agricultural products; in 1981 and
again in 1982 it increased interest rates, and lowered export duties on raw
cocoa and coffee to encourage their production; in May 1982, it devalued the
sucre; and in October 1982, it ended wheat subsidies. These are important
steps in the right direction and should encourage conservation of scarce
resources, exports, agricultural production, and domestic savings.
17.       These measures are all the more important since Ecuador is likely
to face a shortage of foreign exchange in the next few years, on account of
soft export prices, especially for oil. In addition, Ecuador, like many
other developing countries, will face greater difficulty than in the past in
mobilizing financing for its development effort from commercial sources. In
light of these factors, in 1982, the economy is expected to experience
virtually no growth, and the outlook is similar for 1983-84 as the economy
adjusts to the new environment. Depending on world conditions, if the
Government continues taking measures aimed at further petroleum conservation
and expansion of production, vigorously promotes other exports, and restrains
domestic demand in an orderly manner, growth could resume by the mid-1980s
and could average some 4 percent annually. Ecuador would, therefore, remain
creditworthy for Bank lending.



- 5 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR
18.       Bank Group operations in Ecuador date back to 1954 when a loan was
made for a first highway project. Altogether, the Bank and IDA have extended
31 loans and six credits to Ecuador totalling US$687.6 million net of cancel-
lations.  As of September 30, 1982, US$307.9 million of this amount had been
disbursed. The IFC has approved eight loans in Ecuador. Two were for a
large textile company and one each benefited a sugar mill, a cement company,
a mining enterprise, a pulp and paper firm (later cancelled), a palm oil
plant and a leasing company. The IFC has also purchased capital shares in
COFIEC, a private development finance company. As of September 30, 1982,
commitments for these operations amounted to US$48.1 million, of which IFC
held US$35.3 million.
19.       Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits
and IFC opera+-i-.ns is -F Seotember 30, 1982, as well as notes on the execu-
tion of ongoing projects. Execution of Bank Group financed projects has
often been hampered by weaknesses in Ecuador's implementation capacity,
reflecting the insufficiency of the country's public sector managerial and
technical resources--a constraint that is still a serious obstacle to
Ecuador's economic and social development. In recent years, the Government
and Bank staff have worked together to step up disbursement of Bank loans.
As a result, disbursements rose from US$16 million in FY78 to an annual
average of about US$34 million in FY79-80. In FY81, disbursements increased
by nearly 35 percent to US$45.7 million and disbursements during FY82
totalled a record US$47 million. Ecuador's disbursement rate in recent years
has been roughly in line with the average for Latin American countries.
20.       Bank and IDA lending in Ecuador was originally concentrated in
transport and power, where there were--and still are--substantial bottlenecks
to be overcome. To date, approximately 25 percent of Bank Group lending has
been for transport. Seven of the nine loans and credits extended for trans-
port were to improve the country's road network and two to help finance the
expansion of the port of Guayaquil. Lending for power accounts for 17 per-
cent of total Bank lending to Ecuador. The first three power operations
aimed at improving generation and distribution facilities in Quito while the
FY82 power transmission loan would help expand the national power transmis-
sion grid. The first livestock development loan, approved in FY67, marked
the beginning of a diversification in the Bank Group's lending program away
from infrastructure. Since then, the Bank Group has made nine other loans
and credits for agriculture and fisheries, five DFC loans and one loan for
small-scale enterprise credit to support industrial development, a credit and
two loans for education and training, one loan for water supply, two for
urban development and two technical assistance loans. Bank Group support for
technical assistance activities and involvement in the directly productive
and social sectors now accounts for about 58 percent of total Bank and IDA
lending.
21.       Turning to the future, Bank operations will continue to assist in
(i) the creation of a physical and social infrastructure base capable of
fostering development; (ii) the expansion of productive capacity in crucial
sectors; (iii) the strengthening of agencies to implement projects effec-
tively; and (iv) the improvement of living conditions for the urban and rural



poor. Bank lending will emphasize the design and adoption of adequate sector
policies, as well as the generation of exports and employment. In addition
to the small-scale enterprise project recommended in this report, the Bank is
preparing a power project and a petroleum operation. The small-scale
enterprise credit operation would increase production and improve employment
prospects for the population, while the power and petroleum projects would
lead to savings in fuels and greater availability of petroleum for export.
In addition to Bank lending, the IFC is analyzing several possible
operations, principally in agribusiness.
22.       Substantial development financing has also been provided to Ecuador
by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the U.S. Agency for
International Development (USAID) and, to a lesser extent, by other bilateral
sources. IDB has been the single largest lender to Ecuador. Approved loans
from IDB to the country as of December 31, 1981 totalled about US$863 million
equivalent. Past IDB lending has been concentrated in the power, agri-
culture, health/sanitation and transport fields. Most of IDB's loans to the
country have come from the Fund for Special Operations and normally carry 2
percent interest, a 10-year grace period and repayment terms of up to 40
years. It is likely that IDB will remain Ecuador's major development lender
in the immediate future with power, agriculture and socially-oriented proj-
ects continuing to account for a large share of its lending program. USAID,
which had lent Ecuador US$103.6 million equivalent through 1972, made no new
commitments to the country between 1973 and 1979. In 1980, however, USAID
renewed its operations in Ecuador, providing about US$36 million in new
loans, guarantees and grants since then. Its program concentrates on urban
and rural development.
23.       As of December 31, 1981, the public and publicly-guaranteed medium-
and long-term external debt of Ecuador totaled about US$5 billion, of which
US$865 million was undisbursed. Of the former sum, the Bank group was owed
about 10 percent; the IDB about 12 percent and USAID 2 percent. Through
1985, the Bank's share of Ecuador's outstanding and disbursed public foreign
debt is expected to remain below 10 percent, and the Bank's share of total
public foreign debt service is projected to remain between 4 and 5 percent.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
General Characteristics
24.       Ecuador's industrial growth was high during the 1970's, stimulated
by the oil boom and a favorable investment climate. Manufacturing value-
added grew an average 10 percent p.a. and industry's share of GDP, excluding
the petroleum refining sector, expanded from 16.2 percent to 18.5 percent (in
constant prices) during the 1972-80 period. Its share of exports more than
doubled, rising from eight percent to 21 percent between 1970 and 1980, owing
largely to the substitution of processed cocoa for raw cocoa. Industrial
employment grew more slowly than the sector's contribution to GDP during the
1970s, adding around 90,000 jobs; the sector currently employs about 350,000
workers, or about 13 percent of the total labor force.



25.       Within the industrial sector, a small modern segment of predomi-
nantly large- and medium-scale import-substituting industries accounts for
about 72 percent of industrial value added and co-exists with a traditional
manufacturing sector of numerous, mostly smaller firms meeting local consumer
demand. About 70 percent of industries are concentrated in two urban areas:
Guayaquil, the country's largest city and main port, and Quito, Ecuador's
capital. Medium- and large-scale industries--which predominate in the food,
basic metals and minerals subsectors--import nearly half of their inputs.
Small-scale industries are more concentrated in clothing, furniture, foot-
wear, small metal products and final chemical products. These fields
generally require smaller investments per firm, less sophisticated technology
and greater use of domestic resources.
Institutional Framework
26.       Within the Government, responsibility for stimulating industrial
development is shared by the Economic Front (a cabinet-level council
comprised of officials in charge of economic policy), the Ministry of
Industry, Commerce and Integration (MICEI) and the State-owned National
Finance Corporation (CFN). The first two establish the sector's policies and
development strategy. CFN, the country's largest development finance
company, provides financing for industrial sector activities and has recently
been particularly active in supporting small-scale enterprise development. A
number of private sector associations represent the country's industries.
These include the Chambers of Agriculture, Commerce and Industry of the Costa
and the Sierra and the small-scale industrialist associations located in
every province and coordinated by a national federation headquartered in
Quito.
27.       CFN, the oldest and largest development finance company and
Ecuador's only public financiera, has been a beneficiary under all five
Bank-financed DFC projects in the country. CFN's total assets as of end-1981
amounted to US$372 million and its equity stood at close to US$100 million.
It is the largest single source of term credit for the industrial sector.
CFN's performance under the Bank projects has been satisfactory and it has a
well established reputation as one of Ecuador's most efficient public sector
agencies. For the past several years, CFN's net income has been relatively
low. In 1979 it actually suffered a net operating loss stemming, in part,
from its over-exposure to deficit-ridden Government-sponsored companies. Due
to reforms introduced in connection with the Bank-financed fourth and fifth
development banking projects (Loans 1731-EC and 2096-EC of FY79 and FY82,
respectively), CFN's financial performance improved, and by 1981 CFN showed a
small profit. CFN has recently expanded its profitable letter of credit,
guarantee and repeater operations so as to strengthen its financial situation
still further.
28.       Provision of credit and technical assistance to SSEs by CFN has
been handled through FOPINAR, a small scale enterprise loan discount facility
established within CFN in 1980 under the first Bank loan for SSE develop-
ment (Loan 1879-EC). CFN, through FOPINAR, acts as a second-tier financial
institution which rediscounts subloans made to SSEs by the 23 financial
intermediaries currently participating in CFN's SSE program. Since its
inception, FOPINAR has operated profitably and efficiently with its own
staff, which currently numbers six full-time professionals. FOPINAR's



resources presently amount to about US$30 million. Over the period 1982-86
FOPINAR's financial results are projected to be highly satisfactory, with a
rising net income, part of which is expected to be earmarked to cofinance
technical assistance programs for SSEs which are developed and coordinated by
FOPINAR's staff, often in conjunction with local SSE associations (para. 50).
29.       Areas requiring improvement within CFN are its accounting, finan-
cial management and financial information systems. As a result of weaknesses
in these areas, CFN's resource management, cash flow planning and operating
cost controls are deficient. Actions to strengthen CFN's information system,
which were initiated under the fifth development banking project, would be
broadened to include a program to revise CFN's accounting and financial
management systems under the technical assistance component of the proposed
loan (para. 49). These actions are expected to substantially strengthen CFN's
overall financial management and performance.
Industrial Policy
30.       The Government has stimulated industrial development through fiscal
investment incentives, provision of credit, tariff protection and, to a
lesser extent, through an export promotion program. To encourage industry to
invest in less developed parts of the country, fiscal incentives are higher
for firms located outside the two main urban areas (Quito and Guayaquil).
Government policies have stimulated industrial growth, modernization and
diversification, but the incentives have also generated capital- and import-
intensive forms of production and the emergence of oligopolistic structures,
mainly in import-substituting industries. To correct this, and to change to
a strategy of export promotion, the current Government has begun to modify
industrial incentives so as to promote the generation of employment and value
added, linkages with the rest of the economy, and foreign exchange earnings
or savings. Furthermore, general economic actions--including devaluation of
the sucre and two increases in interest rate ceilings--have taken place in
the past 18 months and will serve to promote exports and to change relative
factor prices to favor labor use to a greater extent. During 1982, the
Bank's dialogue with the Government concerning industrial policy has been
deepened, resulting from the findings of an industrial sector mission which
visited Ecuador early in the year. Moreover, under the fifth development
banking project, the Government is in process of initiating a study of
industrial incentives with a view to adopting policy changes to improve the
efficiency of the industrial sector and increase the relative price of
capital. In accordance with this latter objective, and consistent with Bank
advice, in mid-October 1982 the Administration proposed to Congress a bill to
reduce import duty exemptions on capital goods.
Small Scale Enterprises
31.       There are an estimated 35,000 to 40,000 small scale industrial and
artisan enterprises in Ecuador employing about 250,000 persons. SSE firms
generate about 70 percent of total industrial employment and about one-third
of industrial value-added. SSEs are generally more labor-intensive. The
average capital investment per job in the past in small industries has been
about US$12,900, compared to US$62,000 in larger firms. Annual output per
employee in firms with fewer than 7 employees grew by 5.4 percent per annum
during the period 1970-78, compared to 3.0 percent for larger firms.



- 9 -
32.       Smaller firms are also less concentrated around Quito and
Guayaquil: 40 percent of SSEs are in other provinces. New firms registering
as small industries with MICEI are even more decentralized, with over half
located outside the area of the two large cities. SSEs make greater use of
local resources and tend to produce final consumer products. Only in a few
cases do small firms now manufacture inputs for general industry.
Government Support to Small Scale Enterprises
33.       Promotion of small scale enterprises ranks high in the Government's
stated industrial strategy. Fiscal incentives offered to SSEs include:
(i) duty-free imports of capital goods and intermediate inputs not produced
domestically; (ii) exemption from numerous small taxes and registration fees;
and (iii) income tax exemptions for reinvested profits. However, the actual
use of the available incentives is limited. Only 1,650 firms (fewer than
five percent of SSEs) are currently registered with MICEI to benefit from the
incentives granted by the small-scale industry law, in part because SSEs
directly import very little and have only minor tax liabilities.
34.       The Government's current five-year national development plan
(1980-84) projects an average industrial sector growth of about 9.7 percent
per annum and calls for the generation of about 73,000 new manufacturing jobs
over the plan period. While these projections have proven to be overly
optimistic--particularly with respect to employment generation given the
limitation of financial resources and of skilled and semi-skilled labor--
small enterprises can make an important contribution to employment, income
distribution and regional development goals if credit and technical
constraints are overcome (paras. 39 and 41).
The Financial System and SSE Financing
35.       Ecuador's financial system includes 29 commercial banks, the
State-owned National Development Bank (BNF), two specialized public sector
banking institutions--the National Housing Bank and the Ecuadorian Develop-
ment Bank (BEDE)--a cooperative bank, 11 savings and loan institutions, 12
development finance companies and 55 specialized institutions, mostly insur-
ance companies and foreign exchange houses. Banks and finance companies lend
to industry, agriculture and commerce. The housing sector is mainly financed
by the housing bank, savings and loan institutions, commercial banks and the
National Social Security Fund.
36.       To complement the operations of the private banking sector and
promote specific programs in agriculture, tourism, small industry and fish-
ing, the Government has traditionally used two main public sector financial
institutions: the Central Bank and BNF. In the Central Bank, a Financial
Funds Mechanism was established in 1973. The law governing this "window"
requires that private banks hold at least 20 percent of their portfolio as
lending to priority sectors, including credit to SSEs. Above this quota,
banks can rediscount their operations in these priority sectors at interest
rates ranging from 6 to 8 percent (depending on the sector) with the Central



- 10 -
Bank. In 1980, the financial funds mechanism accounted for about 24 percent
of total short-term agricultural and industrial credit extended through the
banking system. BNF has channelled credit to agriculture, livestock, and
small industry for eighteen years. In 1980, it provided close to 7 percent
of formal credit nationwide. With 72 offices and agencies around the
country, BNF is an important source of credit, especially for agriculture and
SSEs in rural areas.
37.       As a result of Bank efforts in connection with development banking
projects, Ecuador's interest rate structure has been improved in recent years
through several increases in interest rates. The maximum effective interest
rate for term lending is 19 percent p.a. (for loans of over eight years), and
about 90 percent of total formal leniding now takes place at normal commercial
rates in excess of 15 percent. Some concessional short-term credit is
granted through the Central Bank's Financial Funds Mechanism to small farmers
and SSEs at effective rates of 10-12 percent and for export promotion at
10 percent.  Since inflation has recently been running at about 15-16 percent
annually, average interest rates are positive in real terms.
38.       Interest rates on savings range from 12 to 14 percent in Ecuador.
These rates, coupled with the various lending rates mentioned above, result
in spreads ranging from one to six percentage points, depending on the source
of funds and use and maturity of the lending operation. The current struc-
ture of interest rates and commissions represents a considerable improvement
on the past and should encourage financial intermediaries to increase their
deposit accounts and reduce their dependence upon Central Bank rediscounting
operations as their source of funds. It will also encourage lending to
SSEs. In the context of the Bank's fifth development banking project (Loan
No. 2096-Ec approved in FY82) the Government is planning to review, and
revise, if necessary, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, the interest rate
structure applicable to term lending. The first of these reviews will take
place in early 1983.
39.       The most serious constraint traditionally faced by small-scale
industries and artisans has been the lack of adequate and timely credit,espe-
cially at longer terms. In a survey of SSEs in Pichincha Province (where
Quito is located), about 74 percent of SSEs reported having access to some
form of credit, but only 12 percent obtained term credit. Moreover, because
of the small amounts of credit available, the firms surveyed had debt-equity
ratios of as low as 0.5 to 1. SSEs further noted difficulties in providing
institutional lenders with the required documentation and guarantees.
Finally, because smaller borrowers routinely do not offer banks the possibil-
ity of profitable complementary operations--such as letters of credit and
guarantees--they are usually less preferred clients. However, this is begin-
ning to change as the more competitive commercial banks and development
finance companies, some of which were participants in the Bank's first SSE
loan to Ecuador, are actively seeking SSE borrowers. No financial institu-
tion exists exclusively for SSE lending.
40.       Most of the credit received by Ecuador's SSEs is provided by finan-
cial institutions. A national survey in 1978 showed that, before the first
Bank SSE project, the financial sector had outstanding US$114 million in
credit to SSEs, 85 percent of which was short term. Commercial banks
provided 67 percent of this credit, largely in response to Central Bank's
portfolio requirements (para.36); the BNF and development finance companies
extended another 25 and 8 percent, respectively. Although data on all credit



- 11 -
available to SSEs for 1980 is not available, credit to SSEs monitored by the
Central Bank grew 34 percent per year between 1978 and 1980. In addition,
SSEs received some credit from suppliers and informal sources, e.g., family
members and money lenders. Most credit still finances only working capital.
Technical Assistance to SSEs
41.       While the Government and private sector industrial associations
have provided a wide variety of technical assistance and services to SSEs,
such efforts are scattered and generally uncoordinated. CENAPIA (the
National Center for Small Industry and Artisan Promotion), an agency of
MICEI, seeks to promote small industry and artisan development through
seminars, technical assistance and explanation of Government incentives.
CENAPIA's seminars in management, marketing and accounting, and in-plant
assistance in production techniques and project preparation are directed at
obvious SSE,weaknesses. Nevertheless, with only 26 professionals spread over
8 regional offices, the agency is unable to keep up with current requests.
MICEI has added a division to coordinate technical assistance to industry,
including a UNIDO program in production techniques for specific industrial
sub-sectors (wood, food processing, clothing). Provincial SSE associations
have provided assistance to members in preparation of applications for regis-
tration with MICEI. Finally, CFN, in the context of the Bank's first SSE
loan, has begun to develop its own technical assistance program within
FOPINAR. The program's aim is, inter alia, to bring together the diverse
sources of technical expertise so that coordinated technical assistance
programs can be developed at local levels.
Past Bank Lending and Strategy
42.       The proposed loan represents the second Bank operation for the
development of SSEs on a national level. The Bank has also extended five
development banking loans to Ecuador totalling US$153.6 million, net of can-
cellations. The DFC loans have been primarily onlent to CFN and COFIEC
(Ecuador's largest private finance company) and, more recently, to the
country's smaller, newer private finance companies.
43.       The first Bank loan for small scale enterprise credit (Loan
1879-EC) totalled US$20 million and was approved in June 1980. A special
fund, FOPINAR, was set up in CFN to manage the credit and technical assis-
tance to be provided through financial intermediaries to the SSE sector
(para. 28) Project resources were fully committed by early September 1982,
with 587 subloans having been approved in the 18 months of project activity.
Actual commitment and disbursement rates under the project have been about
twice those estimated at the time of project appraisal. As of January 1982,
over one third of the loans granted had been directed to firms with less than
US$50,000 in fixed assets (excluding land and buildings), and the average
size subloan under the project was US$58,000 for expansion projects and
US$80,000 for new projects. The economic rate of return was estimated for 32
subloans and their average ERR was 39 percent. Food and clothing enterprises
accounted for 38 percent of the total subborrowers, a factor of particular
importance since these are important users of local raw materials. The
average cost per job generated to date has been US$12,900. About 60 percent
of the subloans to date have been to enterprises outside of the Quito and
Guayaquil areas.



- 12 -
44.       The first, second, and third development banking projects (financed
respectively with the help of Loan 721-EC approved on December 15, 1970, Loan
930-EC approved on June 26, 1973 and Loan 1359-EC approved on December 28,
1976) are completed. The fourth loan (1731-EC), signed December 17, 1979, is
fully committed and 92 percent disbursed. The fifth loan (2096-EC) was
signed April 22, 1982 and is in its start-up phase. A Bank Project
Performance Audit Report has been issued in connection with the first two DFC
projects and concludes that both loans were successful in advancing financial
policy reform, increasing long-term financing to industry and in helping to
build CFN and COFIEC into strong and mature institutions with improved sub-
project appraisal and supervision capabilities. Moreover, the report's
recommendations regarding the need to foster increased mobilization of term
domestic resources have been reflected in increased interest rates (para.37)
and in the provisions in the fourth and fifth operations, which link the
drawing down of loan resources to the ability of the participating DFCs to
mobilize term resources through the issuance of bonds and certificates of
deposit.
45.       In line with Government objectives, Bank strategy for the manufac-
turing sector is to support employment-intensive and export-generating indus-
tries, as well as those making greater use of local resources. Lending to
firms outside of Ecuador's two major cities, Quito and Guayaquil, continues
to be stressed. The project recommended in this report is designed to
further these objectives. Moreover, Bank strategy includes continuation of
the economic and sector dialogue aimed at eliminating undesirable subsidies
to capital and reducing excessive protection of industry. At the
Government's request, the Bank sent a mission in early 1982 to study
strategies for reducing overall effective protection in the industrial
sector, and is financing a study of industrial sector incentives as part of
the fifth development banking project (para. 30).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
46.       The project was identified by the Bank in July 1981 and was
prepared by CFN with the help of Bank staff. It was appraised in March 1982
and the appraisal mission's report (No. 3941-EC dated November 5, 1982 and
entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Second Small Scale Enterprise Credit
Project") is being distributed separately. Annex III contains a
Supplementary Project Data Sheet. Negotiations of the loan took place in
Washington between September 7-9, 1982 and the Ecuadorian Delegation was
headed by Mr. Juan Villacis, Director of FOPINAR.  Subsequent comments on the
loan were received in Quito in October 1982.
Project Objectives
47.       The proposed loan would continue Bank support to SSE development in
Ecuador on a national scale. More specifically, it would increase availabil-
ity of term financing for SSEs and strengthen the financial system's capacity
to promote, appraise and supervise SSE lending. It would also promote the
delivery of technical assistance services to the SSE subsector and strengthen
CFN by improving its computerized accounting and financial management
system. By encouraging the growth of the dynamic SSE subsector, the project
would help generate employment, increase the use of local resources, and
promote regional development outside Ecuador's two major urban areas.



- 13 -
Project Description
48.       The proposed project would have two components.  The first--
equivalent to about 99 percent of project costs--would consist of new invest-
ments by SSEs expected to amount to about US$83.4 million. About US$55.4
million of this amount would be lent to participating SSEs, from funds
originating from the proposed Bank loan (US$39.8 million), Government
contributions to CFN (US$10 million), and financial intermediaries (US$5.6
million). SSE beneficiaries themselves would provide the balance of invest-
ment costs (US$28 million). Beneficiaries would be private sector enter-
prises with fixed assets, excluding land and buildings, of less than
US$350,000 equivalent, which corresponds to firms normally having no more
than 25-30 employees. Most firms of this size had little or no access to
term financing until the Bank's first SSE loan. About 1,200 subloans averag-
ing US$45,000 are expected to be made, contributing to the generation of
about 6,000 jobs.
49.       The second component would be a technical assistance program for
CFN to improve its overall financial management (para. 29). The proposed
project would provide US$240,000 (of which CFN would finance approximately
US$40,000 in local costs) to finance costs of consultants to install account-
ing and financial systems and computer programs, and selected training for
CFN staff. About 18 man-months of consultant services would be provided
through the project at an average total foreign cost of about US$11,000 per
man-month. Draft terms of reference for the consultants as well as the
consultants selected and their conditions of employment, would be satisfac-
tory to the Bank (Sections 2.02 and 2.03 of the draft Project Agreement).
50.       An important complement to the project would be that CFN, through
FOPINAR, would continue to execute a technical assistance program, on a grant
basis, for SSEs, including those applying for subloans under the project.
FOPINAR would, for example, help SSEs to prepare sub-loan applications for
investment projects to be financed under the proposed loan. This technical
assistance would be financed exclusively from FOPINAR's earnings, and is
expected to cost about US$130,000 equivalent per annum. It would complement
the technical assistance already being provided to the SSE sector by CENAPIA
and other agencies (para. 41).
Project Execution
51.       Institutional arrangements for the first SSE loan have proven
satisfactory and would be continued. CFN would continue to operate FOPINAR
and would continue to maintain separate accounts for it, which would be
reviewed annually by the Bank (Section 3.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
Moreover, until such time as a new system of cost accounting is installed in
CFN (para. 49), CFN would furnish to the Bank for its review and comment
FOPINAR's annual budget by no later than November 30 of the preceding year
(Section 2.12 of the draft Project Agreement). In order to introduce
operational changes appropriate to FOPINAR's more mature level of institu-
tional development, under the proposed project CFN would update both its SSE
policy statement and its operating regulations. Draft revisions in these
documents were agreed with the Bank at negotiations, and their approval by
CFN's Board of Directors would take place by no later than December 31, 1982



- 14 -
(Section 2.01(b)(iv) of the draft Project Agreement). In addition, during
negotiations agreement was reached with the Bank concerning CFN's staffing
for SSE operations, particularly for branch offices where some selective
strengthening of staff has been undertaken.
52.       Ecuador's Central Bank would act as the Government's fiscal agent
under the proposed loan. As a condition of loan effectiveness, it would sign
a fiscal agency agreement satisfactory to the Bank with the Government,
spelling out its duties and responsibilities under the project (Sections 3.01
(c) and 6.01 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The Central Bank would onlend
the loan's proceeds in sucres to CFN at the same term as the proposed loan
but at an interest rate of 12 percent p.a. (Section 3.02 (a) of the draft
Loan Agreement). CFN would maintain a specific project account for FOPINAR
in the Central Bank. The Government would make a capital contribution of
US$10 million equivalent to CFN for FOPINAR's use in three installments
(Section 3.01 (d) of the draft Loan Agreement). Half of this amount (US$5
million equivalent) would be deposited as a condition of loan effectiveness
(Section 6.01 (c) of the draft Loan Agreement). The second and third
contributions of US$2.5 million equivalent each would be made no later than
six months and twelve months, respectively, following loan effectiveness
(Section 3.01(d)(B) and (C) of the draft Loan Agreement). Each of the last
two contributions would be a condition for disbursing, respectively, more
than US$20 million and more than US$30 million of the proposed loan (Section
2.03(d) of the draft Loan Agreement).
53.       The Central Bank would, for a fee of one-eighth of one percent,
serve as disbursement and collection agent for FOPINAR. On the basis of
documented requests from FOPINAR, the Central Bank would rediscount approved
subloans submitted by participating financial intermediaries. FOPINAR would,
however, be responsible for managing the loan and project and for promoting
and supervising SSE lending. The Central Bank and CFN would enter into a
subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, detailing disbursement
and collection procedures as well as responsibilities for management of
FOPINAR resources. Signature of this agreement would be a condition of
effectiveness (Sections 3.02(a) and 6.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
54.       FOPINAR would, in cooperation with the Central Bank, channel
project resources through participating financial intermediaries to SSE bene-
ficiaries in accordance with policies and procedures acceptable to the Bank
(see para. 51). Any bank or financial institution legally established and
operating in Ecuador would be eligible to participate. CFN would enter into
a participation agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with each financial
intermediary and each such agreement would be a condition of disbursement of
loan proceeds to that intermediary (Section 2.03(b)(iv) of the draft Loan
Agreement). The profits from its SSE operations would finance the adminis-
trative costs of FOPINAR, grants for SSE technical assistance (para. 50), and
increases in capital for future lending, after payments of interest and
amortization to the Central Bank under the proposed project.
55.       The chief of FOPINAR's operating unit would be responsible for
managing its day-to-day operations and would report to CFN's Manager of Loan
Operations. A well qualified FOPINAR chief has managed the program since its
inception and is expected to continue. Any future head of FOPINAR would have
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank (Section 2.01(b) of



- 15 -
the draft Project Agreement). FOPINAR staff includes five persons in addi-
tion to the chief at Quito headquarters and six part-time staff in branch
offices. CFN has also trained the staff of interested intermediaries in the
preparation, evaluation and supervision of SSE subprojects, and would
continue to offer such training periodically.
Cost and Financing
56.       Exclusive of the capitalized front-end fee, the total cost of the
project is estimated to be US$83.6 million equivalent, of which the estimated
foreign exchange component would come to US$40 million, or 48 percent of the
total cost. Since few of the investment items included under the project are
taxed, the tax content of the project would be negligible. The proposed Bank
loan of US$40.6 million would cover the project's full foreign exchange
component, plus the capitalized front-end fee of US$600,000. The Government
would finance US$10 million (or 12 percent) of the total project cost in the
form of capital contributions to CFN. Reflecting experience under the first
SSE loan, participating financial intermediaries (PFI) and beneficiaries are
expected to contribute at least an additional US$5.6 million (7 percent of
total cost) and US$28 million (33 percent of total cost), respectively, to
complete the financing package. Since the Bank's first SSE loan was
virtually fully committed by end-August 1982 and in view of the lack of
alternative long-term resources in Ecuador, to maintain continuity of the SSE
credit program, financing of up to US$4 million (equal to about 10 percent of
the loan amount), retroactive to September 1, 1982, would be provided for
under the proposed loan (Section 2.03(b)(i) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Loan Features
57.       Eligible sub-borrowers would be private sector enterprises having
fixed assets (excluding land and buildings) of no more than US$350,000.
Firms this size normally employ 25-30 persons or less and have little access
to term financing from the banking system outside of the program operated by
FOPINAR. Subloans (that is, loans made by financial intermediaries to SSEs
under the project) would be for: (i) permanent working capital; (ii) the
purchase and installation of fixed assets; (iii) the construction and/or
expansion of industrial and commercial facilities; and (iv) professional
services related to the preparation or execution of sub-projects. While a
variety of SSEs would be eligible for financing under the project, it is
expected that, as is occurring under the first Bank-financed SSE operation,
nearly two-thirds of credit would benefit food, beverage, metal and wood
processors as well as the textile, apparel and shoe industries. The maximum
amount of funds from the first or proposed second Bank-financed SSE projects
which could be onlent to a single firm would be US$300,000. This maximum
exposure would be reviewed from time to time by CFN and the Bank and would,
if necessary, be revised (Section 2.03(b)(iv)(B) of the draft Loan
Agreement). While subloans would likely vary widely in amount, the average
subloan size is expected to be around US$45,000. About US$3 million of total
FOPINAR lending is expected to be used by enterprises with assets of
US$22,000 or less. As is current practice, in allocating loan proceeds,
FOPINAR would give priority to sub-projects which would generate employment,
increase the use of domestic natural resources, generate exports or effi-
ciently substitute for imports, and further regional decentralization of
industries.



- 16 -
58.       Financial intermediaries, in cooperation with sub-borrowers, would
be responsible for preparing subprojects. All subproject appraisals would be
reviewed by FOPINAR staff and those calling for subloans above US$150,000
would require prior CFN approval. This free limit for participating finan-
cial intermediaries would be adjusted from time to time as appropriate to
reflect their subloan appraisal capabilities (Section 2.06(a) of the draft
Project Agreement). FOPINAR's review of subprojects below its internal free
limit would be ex post. An economic rate of return calculation would be
prepared by FOPINAR for all subprojects receiving subloans of US$200,000 or
more (Section 2.06(e) of the draft Project Agreement). In keeping with
FOPINAR's established procedures, only subprojects with economic rates of
return in excess of 15 percent would be considered for financing under the
project. Based upon FOPINAR's satisfactory performance under the first SSE
project, the free limit would initially be set at the maximum subloan size
(US$300,000) to eliminate the requirement that FOPINAR present subloans to
the Bank for prior approval. However, the level of the free limit would be
reviewed from time to time by the Bank during supervision and could be
adjusted as appropriate (Section 2.03(c) of the Loan Agreement). Finally,
subject to review by the Bank and CFN no later than 18 months after loan
signature, no single financial intermediary could commit more than US$15.0
million in project funds (Section 2.06(c) of the draft Project Agreement).
This would promote broad geographic and institutional dispersion of subloans
and limit CFN's exposure to any single PFI.
Relending Terms
59.       The proposed Bank loan would be made to the Republic of Ecuador at
the standard variable rate. It would be repayable over 17 years on a fixed
amortization basis, with 4 years of grace. Loan proceeds destined for
onlending to SSEs and technical assistance to CFN would be onlent in sucres
to CFN at the same term as the Bank loan and at an interest rate of 12 per-
cent p.a. The Government would assume, without charge to CFN, (i) the
foreign exchange risk on the loan; (ii) any difference which might occur
between the 12 percent onlending interest rate to CFN and the Bank's standard
variable rate; and (iii) the front-end fee payable to the Bank. The Central
Bank would act as fiscal agent for the Government. FOPINAR would onlend
blended resources (consisting of the Government's capital contribution and
the proceeds from the proposed loan) to participating intermediaries at
different rates, depending on the asset size of the borrowing enterprise.
Thirteen percent would be charged to financial intermediaries in the case of
subloans to most SSEs. However, to encourage lending to the smallest SSEs, 9
percent interest per annum would be charged to financial intermediaries for
subloans to firms with fixed assets (excluding land and buildings) of less
than US$22,000 (Schedule of the draft Project Agreement). FOPINAR would
rediscount up to 90 percent of subloans and the financial intermediary would
finance the balance. Subloans, in turn, would not exceed 75 percent of sub-
project costs for new firms nor 85 percent of subproject costs in the case of
expansions (Section 2.06(b) of the draft Project Agreement). It is expected
that FOPINAR would receive an average interest rate of about 12.6 percent on
its onlending, allowing it a satisfactory gross margin of 3 percent over the
9.6 percent financial cost of its blended resources. The interest rates to
be charged by the Borrower to CFN, by CFN to the PFIs and by the PFIs to SSE
beneficiaries, would all be reviewed from time to time by the Borrower, the
Bank, and CFN, and amended as necessary to reflect prevailing financial and



- 17 -
economic circumstances (Section 3.02 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement and
Section 2.07(c) of the draft Project Agreement).
60.       The average effective interest rate to be charged SSEs would be
about 17.5 percent. Consistent with other credit lines available in Ecuador,
subloans to larger SSEs would bear 17, 18 or 19 percent interest (including
commissions of 2 percent) for terms of 2 to 5 years, over 5 to 8, and over
8 years, respectively. Subloans to SSEs with assets of less than US$22,000
would bear interest of 15 percent p.a. regardless of their terms (Schedule of
the draft Project Agreement). These rates would allow participating inter-
mediaries a financial spread of 6 percent in the case of lending to the
smallest enterprises, and of 4 to 6 percent for other SSE lending. Financial
spreads would be higher than those proposed under the regular DFC operations,
reflecting the higher risks and administrative costs associated with SSE
lending. However, spreads would be in line with those of other SSE lending
operations elsewhere, both in Latin America and other regions of the world.
Subloan maturities would be up to 10 years, with up to three years of grace,
depending upon the type of investment. As under the first project, maturi-
ties are expected to average 5 to 6 years.
61.       Since inflation has recently been running at 15-16 percent p.a.,
the 17.5 percent average interest rate to be charged to ultimate benefi-
ciaries under the proposed project would be positive in real terms. More-
over, since the legal agreements for the proposed loan provide for periodic
review and adjustment of interest rates during project implementation (para.
59), interest rates to final beneficiaries are expected to be maintained at
positive levels throughout the project life.
Disbursement and Procurement
62.       Disbursements under the loan are expected to take place over a
three-year period running from early 1983 into the first half of 1986. The
closing date for disbursements would be June 30, 1986 and the terminal date
for submission of subloan proposals to the Bank by FOPINAR would be December
31, 1985. The Bank would reimburse 85 percent of FOPINAR's discounts to
finance sub-projects on the basis of statements of expenditures prepared by
CFN and submitted by the Central Bank. The amount so disbursed would be
approximately equivalent to the foreign exchange content of the project.
Supporting documentation would be retained in Ecuador for inspection during
Bank supervision missions. Because of the substantial time involved in the
Bank's disbursement process, under the first loan FOPINAR has suffered sub-
stantial costs and delays and has been forced to operate its discounting on a
less-than-regular basis. In order to sustain project cash flow in the face
of reimbursement lags and the tight liquidity conditions now prevalent in
Ecuador, as a condition of loan effectiveness a special account would be
established within the Central Bank into which the Bank would disburse an
advance of up to US$3.2 million equivalent for use as a working fund. This
account would be replenished with the proposed loan's disbursements. This
amount has been derived from an analysis of FOPINAR's projected cash flow.
The special account would be operated on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank (Sections 2.02(b) to (g) and 6.01(d) of the draft Loan Agreement).
63.       Procurement would be in accordance with normal commercial practices
for DFC projects, with SSEs procuring most items directly after canvassing
local sources of supply. Since it would be costly for most SSEs to obtain



- 18 -
quotations from several suppliers in the case of small orders, which are
expected to average US$9,000 and to comprise the majority of the expected
4,000 procurement operations, offers would generally be solicited only for
individually large purchases. Local consulting firms prequalified by FOPINAR
would be eligible to provide the consulting services to be financed under
project subloans. Consulting services for technical assistance to CFN under
the project would be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Partici-
pating financial intermediaries and CFN would advise the SSEs to insure that
their procurement decisions were appropriate. Reimbursement of sub-project
expenditures made up to 180 days prior to receipt by the Bank of reimburse-
ment requests would be permitted, to allow the Borrower to group a number of
small subloan documents into a single application to the Bank.
Project Benefits and Risks
64.       The proposed project is expected to make a significant contribution
to the growth of SSEs by providing the capital needed to increase output
through about 1,200 sub-projects. The proposed loan would make a significant
contribution to expected growth of the SSE subsector by supplying about 15-20
percent of the subsector's expected requirements for term credit over the
three-year project commitment period. Given the labor-intensive nature of
the industries likely to receive the major share of project resources (wood,
food, textiles, metal products), it is expected that about 6,000 new jobs
would be created through the project at an average cost per job in 1981
prices of US$12,600, compared to a national average of US$62,000 per job for
larger firms. The project would also continue important institution building
(i) in FOPINAR, by strengthening staff and procedures in regional offices;
and (ii) in CFN, by strengthening its capacity to manage its financial
resources. In summary, the proposed project is expected to make a signifi-
cant contribution to the growth and rational development of the SSE sector
and, ultimately, to the employment, income distribution and regional develop-
ment goals of the Government.
65.       In view of the very satisfactory experience with implementation of
the first project, there are no special administrative risks foreseen in
connection with this follow-on project. However, should demand for invest-
ment credit slacken due to the expected low growth of the economy, the
proposed loan may take longer than expected to be disbursed.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Ecuador and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and CFN, and the Report of
the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
67.       The draft Agreements conform to the normal pattern for small
enterprise credit loans. The main features of the draft Loan and Project
Agreements are referred to in the text of this report and are listed in
Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness would be:
(i) the making, by the Government, of a US$5 million equivalent capital
contribution to CFN for the use of FOPINAR; (ii) the signing of a fiscal



- 19 -
agency agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, between the Central Bank and the
Government; (iii) the signing of a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to
the Bank, between the Central Bank and CFN; and (iv) the opening of a
special account in the Central Bank. The making of two Government contribu-
tions to CFN, for FOPINAR's use, of US$2.5 million equivalent each by no
later than six months and twelve months, respectively, following loan effec-
tiveness would be conditions for disbursing more than US$20 million and more
than US$30 million of the proposed loan, respectively. A special condition
of disbursement of loan funds to each participating intermediary would be the
signature of a satisfactory participation agreement between CFN and that
intermediary.
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
November 15, 1982
Washington, D.C.



- 20 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                             Page  1  of  5
ECUADOR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ECUADOR                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
KREA (THOUSAND SQ. XM.)                                            - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             283.6                                  MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       51.8               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN              EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                                410.0    1270.0                     1902.0                    2323.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       196.3        302.9      640.0                   1259.9                     2107.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  4422.0         5958.0    8021.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 34.4           39.5       44.6                     65.7                       47.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          13.6
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            27.5
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2085
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         15.6         21.0      27.4                      35.2                       83.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       93.7        122.7      150.3                     92.5                      155.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           44.4         45.3      44.5                      39.7                       31.1
15-64 YRS.                           52.0         50.8      52.1                      56.1                       61.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.6          3.8        3.5                      4.2                        7.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.9          3.0/c      3.0                      2.4                        1.6
URBAN                                4.9          4.4        4.2                      3.8                        3.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       46.6         43.2       40.1                     31.4                       23.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       16.6         13.0        9.8                      8.4                        9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.4          3.2        2.9                       2.1                        1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..          9.0       32.35d
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..        6.3/e.
FOOD AND NUTIRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
FER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           104.0        101.0      96.0                     110.0                      116.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     84.0         87.0      90.1/f                   108.4                      125.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            49.5         50.3       49.4/,                    66.0                      92.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         25.5         25.8       24.6/f                   34.0                       35.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       28.1         15.5        8.1                       5.6                        9.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    50.7           55.9       61.2                      64.2                      67.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            140.0        107.3       81.6                     64.2                       65.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  *         34.0       42.0/f                   65.6
URBAN                                  ..        76.0       84.0/f                   78.9
RURAL                                  ..         7.0       13.0/f                   43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         22.4       32.3/f                    59.3
URBAN                                 ..           ..       60.0/f                   75.3
RURAL                                 ..           .        13.0/f                    30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            2670.3       2864.4    1570.2/f                  1617.3                     1105.4
POPULATION PER NLRSING PERSON       2361.2/j    1605.5          .                     1063.5                     634.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                              532.5        424.8      507.0/e                  477.4                      286.8
URHAN                              304.7/j      302.4         ..                    679.8                      192.0
RURAL                                 ..       4516.3         ..                   1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BEo             ..         19.3         ..                      27.3                       20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.1Lg        5.2        5.3/e
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                2-5'
URBAN                                2.1
RURAL                                2.B/g         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               32.3'S         *-       41.2/h
URBAN                               7B.5/g         ..       84.3i                                                  .
RURAL                                8.N7j         ..       11.6/F



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
ECUADOR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ECUADOR                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA9ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)  -
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN             EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  83.0         97.0     107.0                     104.3                     102.9
MALE                  87.0        105.0     109.0                     106.4                      107.1
FEMALE                79.0         89.0     105.0                     103.3                       99.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  12.0        26.0       49.0                      41.3                      60.2
MALE                  13.0         28.0      50.0                      40.4                       66.4
FEMALE                10.0         24.0      48.0                      41.8                       54.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY) 29.0            11.0      11.2/e                    33.7                       31.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             38.8         38.2      34.9/f                    29.9                      25.8
SECONDARY                           11.3         13.8      16.3/?                    16.7                      22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         67.5/g       68.0      81.0                      79.1                       75.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.1          4.5       7.4/e                    42.8                       51.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          38.4       285.3      336.8                     270.5                     157.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.5         25.2      51.4                     107.7                     123.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   51.1         42.0      51.4                      63.7                      112.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            4.0       5.6/h                     2.7                        4.0
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1445.8       1917.8    2563.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    16.3         19.1      21.2                      24.4                       36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               57.4         50.9      51.6                      31.3                       38.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  19.4        22.2       17.1                      23.9                      25.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 32.7         32.2       32.0                     33.6                       44.5
MALE                                  55.0         52.1      50.3                      50.4                       56.3
FEMALE                                10.6         12.3      13.6                      16.8                       32.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5          1.5        1.5                       1.3                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHiOLDS      ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     470.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     320.0                     184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     553.0                     518.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     428.0                     371.1                      406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      40.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..      65.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Intercensal growth rate is 3.21 (1962-74); /d 1976; /e 1975; /f 1977; /g 1962; /h 1974.
May, 1982



- 22 -                                                                   ANNEX I
QorIM%j%s!#  rso. oznto                                                              Page    3   of 5
Ocet      hhag   tar  dta ar. drawI, Pr.-mAr. . pW.nrlly Jodsmd 'h. meet auhrtmi.04rm, a   It oh."l  alio be n-te  that they Any not eana
nato       -iop-eArLIe  baaa.a  o  Lit le. o    -    =datigd dinlt ittten   end .....t Pi.-ed hrOt   on  outtme  ooi.ot                   h.at  Ome,   Th. dat  br-,noe
the.i..,  ..IfulCA deIrtieArne   f  gicd     Ii-ee. toed., .ad 1hlhetm.riae  -tara. fler. 8diftfcrin-   b .t...ee                    A.n Ceoni.o
The r.Warm.  aro.pa are (I) the a... ecee-try group of teu .toolet leontry and (2) a  -eutro  scoop atth somewha4t,hln., .an.r.fe   nce., eta.  t. -- omtry X-ep
of mha  b.lt~ c   n... try (atep   f.e   ''fISh Ie.C.A   all  6aer     1."tro  on1, ,'5Ld41. moe-    Are  AtrOos and fdd 0. ta.W"  I. onao 0.eao     a   ton
IActI-C'tolurl  ffoii.).             the r.f.r-e. stoo  data theA ........aa    pltinvgtd ..                  )ee      Amn, foremh Indtmet-  ari  mao_  n-n ohe
ea, iot p of the  -eatrtain LA 4re-p h.. data far that oniMCamer.  SLinhce              -C         the .e,ao   00  Osaogai  1.ndi-an.. depnnae  -f Ormon- leI,
an   aomofr,A C-Loti   Role  A. eearetan   Ln r.LAmitg  -oara.. of 000 ledloa-o  to  ne.            r   Thee, avrge. are only oeiLH lnOaacn Sn  caIll   I
one ILItto AmC "ati   embns the  -ectry .84                   Ifmar .  .Oc90.
AOIA (tha...a.d 05!. aoaIoner "                                                                                          eca  te  -no . anton  10 a- al-?a -t.a1onl
otl Totale1   fo  area  -orIIa S lcend area aod Iland eater.s  1975 data..aa,aanrl   OIr   nesnreel0.rse ..t fvmpeaal0Idm
Aarfaol totl - getiot.e of cgrteln rel  ...a -ed ta.p....roly orpraan   raato .o publia   M  pri-te  dena-a  ova  pe LeOIAaOePtoad
far P   oCAPIA  n.etors,seran   ice  traao  L    ttl ; 1979 daa                                      ao  ata    eer.Wmia    r   t.S1Imhoe                           h.HnneI   ea  .
t""' "'" ..I Iont I-tllho-. pIe.  or t.  t. f,jI                      hby  ni".tana --maa. taaiemet    raenopocy U    .ao
tOP Pl  ZAPtT  CISC)- GNP Per .ePon. eantiac   at .i.r...t meempnao    8.%il  a.oe                              ha nl.ko-a.  tot   optla   eie,inld   io
aulammd on ma. ooooermicn  tnod  ma Worl    eALI--la   (1978.40 batOm); 1960,           anIL     Ca vne.nt   atnnl  eteftrd by A pnnY.mn.                         ' Ye
E90N!        9t   Oe                                                                                  adOi.iOat nre Cov0., tc.) ehict aite,i-ain    aan
,faey CONSUMPTION P!t CAPITA -  eeaoal  --ooPnw iobi  -onOo   o              yr (,val                 a Oca  pur P-a d. Aneon   oryd raIm  In  C    9.o  n  pl  em           aaia.
aeto.                                                                             Omomoloa aer ivetino  tee -  veal neOsn vaeda-dolove toyr i              Ianarar
mo    aaiaaOute   ncano000   ..
POP7.810  8090 V...ITAL- 9707Q .   .... iC0
eant.  co doir        Y 19 .0 197,h.med 19   dAta                                                 ene houe.hold  rer etacoetival poHOUSIeG
)i~liuY6iciiiIirl00     - Ceree  p opnlam io  prjeOn   ae-aeon18                                of nLorePAP  pmr noes In all oro,an   ua  ooooa   oean.               oa
If   ..tio   paoet        0 ocentle   rae   aerm   cof ohea lof  l. ahco-..n.coymo prte
P    ia 1c...pr.a..      m   irhilOtmO . PAeorr'    arayinchic                                  Ooeroe h        na a   c.r...velcla  hold                    antn,Pad ro.. 
tane, e            bVosl  lif   msp.taeyeI_ liOegh  7 .0        . neac.d Ahe  1ore-            Cinaaaa    lignoe,eve   iv biotn   qa ter1                              ....
fertiliy  materieg to   oo.. leei aed  am. fIlily pleLo   p..foe..n.e
flat aeuetrn  ie thee oaeigncd 000 of tho~~.1tho    aoaeeIoo   ofit areity.                        WCOCIO
Oh. oirnhnatm  is  qoai to  ba Omattrame, or  aiCthtteera.IraL'rIllya al008a  te7nan  1.0.  .tp                                                    ..aeam   of P. pae
eme  Atota,    O              Am eine   e          7t                                                                                 .........a     ltet  rlaneneoac    euotoaI,nalyIoodcailrnagdSI
on CoieftLb nlo   tLfvtrpeemoenrle, once&. psach deaa1nncetealam    o.10 ro   m   ioa   reo ua   in   o
.trt-tle..l...                                                                                        . .o...qooo            .0;.t  ee   cOpve   nuevucyuca.
Aemt.  o, etac hL. mrL. Ieee- Cweds   ev   o   goumrlln                                         arelnftor at Impen into.- of   h.nonarIo, trot.                             P.
nlA 1       ....197   an   99  aa                                                         Pcltma.  ctme Lrer,  n   conmy     nalsu.nmmtidi
Pulioirrrb0000 .   therneintl -  d.hat  000.  orointeofaeony-                          C0hl
popult.on  19C   190   n  10   4a                                                                nlIYn ellc
Inode 7.th Lenaleer ehoeavdl   000000natte  or th,it .and   adtdo a                  aoc   neua  (cen cno.eon            ..... nn   ulnneaaraC Amoro
pouainc    90   90   a   90   aa                                                                nontei   eea  puoli               -dn aoeaoo.cf npu,Loeoo               ....u....
Cr0.8Oacroootio  Pa L-unerta raled  ofh.Y daugueroanose oii  phee1 It..                    I ove    eevn   nconnt   n   nyaeomaege tcno   ai
yen  orsl peredan te npio  10  he   epnnanaa pomot  as-epe  coa fr-  stmecooa)nb; lto  (t ocentyca.  Cnmvo -nec...ti..n.
nP   o    oe;Oulafo-eraeac    oisc   90   90   o   90                                               oeaoraOcac    Lntg
I. An ... for   I.Slloten   enic  piarin  o  eore                                       . a .ar    in...  ..   a  osle
IOv  natirzmon  e   diy    fi  opomaPse   fu    ls0.0
latinnai 196rs9 70, ir  cc  .iba   1041-6501190,A0P.                19. tp    ,odae.             oalLon F_onaa  atoaoj   annolyene    cen.Ii.O
quaetltiea uad in fooe pro Aeain  n   oa.    distribotioc    Oncdre                       an Colnur  (ap.rt Lh- lbr  oo   it fme.....               an  ooit
Oln00   ear -n- dron    rpreJraltaprtoe  hodyf  l~y..R HI. t.at                                    odcRn -n-rea.                                      "P. oe   oerot;cntunoe   .eaon
hoosetod.Sle.R;16-6. 17  ad177de.                                                                 1000,19P.,ed 1900 OaiO
neG    upl  e  ed  e    ar    e  oplyo   oo-0detad0   000.a-ooiiyeacor   eocde.eil.nt.                                                               n   aal ..Pfcoe
Iur-iefral   oetieedoiet   S  30   roinfo    im.prrhheofnnl,elarielIpplaOtofalaesr96anl
hio;   ceof6Ire   f  aa   rte   ytdy.r.0ae.o....ad.90   90  ad18   or.Ta    r  bodo   LOepn  0Iptv    oa
pua   neco flha   1  ee   Oel   e  eei  ettn.Teoote-aelc  ogaee   ennor   daa  ooaio.ed  ag0.Aeed
Lrdo arHoe a'        toeo   5de    feao    rti   n   3oa.o                                        a   ammt.eafa    oinleoee
Lo  snoo  1-4ya1           ocide    Inti   eceop  fres   d-InAlott01-                              0prat  lhe L0 N-enenet,__ore  20 poce t   n    ooc-0  yna
Illea danpecld  pc10  nar.W. 196.  97  en100dot,                                                   f-OutOOd.
atOD hinnn; 1900,TI    19000(4   nt.odao                                                                           A       ... mrpet... y  . -roa cn idenl gcooC  ton.
eae    upy  icuo   retdonao   eae0  unraay                         u   nonaia .eoidto  ae-t0d  noneen vCH                                 di.ci (IS .tr_ tone  -,ntvO
naeacaehtfn  toend   esoo.Cyc.,  a   ocar    Ie   o                                         oadllec    oenyocemlgI0 doIOc  roeae   ecnt
00 Apcn Oaen , io  =podsioptoan teetCapaan  f aheOar  infonchoe ch
IctenYyoq.i-o.,It  _acL f.d -non,  Fod naI)  eoO   ymCratdmoc
Pncnaao    huronvieppltlate. fAmnn  diP.,o ton  lclod
an   80-mao    retnnt.ytno -Plnh.     0 d0 or L nit ytnia  tedtio
Ian ~~                           ~I!, In"                                           LAn---Y,lhetion 
rcoltin detPhe  biy ?A Poiiato  cne  byvoe   00 , ..-cIoo  p,in-                                                                tanaa00   oIalct   0  o
10000- qualfie                                                                                                       ---  edoa  e901atltnnce   bed.fac b-a oooalyac  9000 nrc _ini.c   denare
neI_ie  prO'he  yoo   -  nolto    ineIdad b  nabrofy pad.tiaioOp-                                                  t    L1960
fil. ad 0 emedfedateoreAmaaiee.tnur...proOna.nu...ae
ouretet auoOl iecioa.97  nc.                                                                   60  170..  i8OA--



- 23 -
ANNEX I
-         Page 4 of 5
ECUADOR - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:      8,357 (mId-1980, thousands)
GNP Per Capita:  US$1270 (1980)
Amount           Average Annual Increase ()            Share of GDP at Market Prices (X)
(million US$        (at constant 1975 prices)                    (at current prices)
at current prices)    --        ----------               ---------       ------…-----
Indicator                                      1981 a/        1960-70     1970-75    1975-81     1960        1970        1975 a/     1981 a/
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Groan Domestic Product                          13426.5            5.8        11.1        6.0       100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0
Agriculture                                    1560.4            4.0         5.4        2.0        33.3        27.6        17.9        11.6
Industry and Mining                            5087.8            7.3        20.7        5.8        19.3        23.0        33.9        37.9
Services                                       6272.8            6.3         8.0        7.4        47.4        49.4        43.6        46.7
Consumption                                     10257.0            5.0         9.8        6.9        84.6        82.0        79.8        76.4
Gross Investment                                 3426.0           18.7        12.2        6.7        14.0        22.5        26.7        25.6
Exports of Goods and NFS                         2941.7            2.7        15.8        1.1        17.2        14.9        26.2        21.9
Imports of Goods and NFS                         3198.2           10.9        12.6        5.4        15.7        19.4        32.7        23.8
Gross National Savings                           2361.1            n.a.        n.a.      -6.8        12.9        16.2        19.4        17.6
compositlon of Merchandise Trade (Z)
(at current prices)
1977     1978        1979        1980        1981
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS                                                          100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0       100.0
Primary                                                                       79.9      73.7        74.1       75.8        78.6
Crude Petroleum                                                                       40.0        49.2       55.0        61.4
Others                                                                      31.0      33.7        24.9       20.8        17.2
Manufactures                                                                  20.0      26.2        25.9       24.2        21.4
Petroleum Derivatives                                                        0.8       6.1         6.8        7.6         6.5
Processed Cocoa                                                             13.0      13.5         9.5        9.1         4.2
Fish and Seafood                                                             1.4       1.6         1.3        3.6         3.9
Others                                                                       4.8       5.0         8.3        5.9         6.8
MERCHANDISE IMPORTS                                                          100.0    100.0        100.0      100.0       100.0
Consumer Goods                                                              11.2      13.3        8.9        10.8         9.3
Intermediate Goods                                                          43.7      36.8       47.8        49.1        44.0
Capital Goods                                                               42.8      47.7       48.0        39.8        46.3
Others                                                                       2.3       2.2        0.3         0.3         0.4
PRICES AND TERMS OF TRADE
GDP Deflator (1975-100)                                                    129.9    143.2       168.0       193.1       218.6
Exchange Rate (sucres per dollar)                                           25        25         25          25          25
Export Price Indem (1975-100)                                              135.4    136.0        190.2      231.5       231.6
Import Price Inden (1975-100)                                              116.3    124.3        139.1      160.3       174.5
Termas of Trade Index (1975-100)                                           116.4    109.4        136.7      144.4       132.7
As Z GDP
(at current prices)
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                           1975        1980
Current Revenue                                                                        22.9        28.7
Current Expenditure                                                                    18.9        26.5
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                              4.0         2.2
Capital Expenditure                                                                     7.4         6.5
Foreign Financing                                                                       4.9         5.4
1960-70   1970-75     1975-80    1981-86
OTHER INDICATORS
GDP Growth Rate (X)                                                           5.8      11.1         6.1        3.1
GDP per capita Growth Rte (X)                                                 2.4       7.5         2.6       -0.4
Eaergy consumption growth rate (Z)                                            -         -          11.7        3.0
ICOR                                                                          0.7       2.7         4.3        8.6
Marginal Savings Rate                                                        -0.4      -0.4        -0.2        0.3
Import Elasticity                                                             1.9       1.3         0.7        0.3
a/ Components expressed at factor cost and do not add up because they exclude indirect taxes.
LCID
10/21/82



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
ECUADOR - BALANCE OF PAYtENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
______________________________________________________
(million USS at current prices)
Population:       8,357 (mid-1980, thousands)
GNP Per Capita:  US$1270 (1980)
A C T U A L                       ESTIMATED                 P R O J E C T E D
1977       1978         1979        1980       1981       98        1983          1984         1985         1986
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Ner Rxports of Goods & Services                            -659.1    -742.2        -646.9       -616.1   -1116.0   -804.8    -297.1          -318.1        -469.1       -664.3
Exports of Goods 5 Services                              1628.2    1740.4         2499.3      2936.0    2983.1   3035.7    3390.4          3734.1        3988.0       4322.3
Imports of Goods 6 Services                              2287.3    2482.6        3146.2      3552.1    4099.1   3840.5    3687.5           4052.2       4457.1        4986.6
Net Transfers                                                 36.2       40.9         29.8        40.0       25.0      50.0       56.0         63.0          70.0         74.0
Current Account Balance                                    -622.9    -701.3        -617.1       -576.1   -1091.0   -754.8    -241.1          -255.1        -399.1       -590.3
Direct Private Investment                                    34.5        48.6         66.0        80.0       50.0    100.0       140.0        180.0         240.0        280.0
MLT Loans (net)                                             758.3      648.8         383.5       717.8      761.8    231.9       100.9         199.0        304.2        223.5
Official a/                                                 --         --            --          --         -       111.1      175.2        224.3         248.0        236.4
Private  a!                                                 --         --            -           --         --      120.8      -74.3        -25.3          56.2        -12.9
Other Capital                                               -33.6       35.5         195.2         4.8      -14.5    -80.0        30.0         80.0          80.0        100.0
Change in Official Reserves (-=increase)                   -136.3      -31.6         -27.6     -226.5       293.7    502.9       -29.8       -203.9       -225.1         -13.2
International Official Reserves                             570.8      602.4         630.0       856.5      562.9      60.0       69.8        293.7         518.8        532.0
Official Reserves (year-end) as months of imports              3.0        2.9          2.4         2.9        1.7       0.2        0.3           0.9          1.4          1.3
b/
A C T U A L
1977       1978         1979        1980          1981
GROSS DISBURSEMENTS
Gross Disbursements of MLT Loans                            890.9      819.2        1118.8       983.8       1259.7
Concessional                                               30.9       20.7          25.2        14.7         28.5
Bilateral                                                12.0        8.8          7.3          3.7          1.5
IDA                                                       4.8        0.8          0.2          -            0.5
Other Multilateral                                       16.1       11.1          17.7        11.0         26.5
Non-concessional                                          860.0      798.5        1093.6       969.1       1231.4
Official Export credits                                  24.6       49.0          12.3        14.2        173.0
IBRD                                                      7.7       22.2         30.9         34.0         54.1
Other Multilateral                                        9.9        8.0         28.6         46.3         47.1
Other                                                   817.8      719.3       1021.8        874.6        957.0
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt Outstanding and Disbursed                             1659.6    2308.4         2691.8      3344.2       4146.3
Official                                                  394.7      486.3         568.2       656.8        896.2
IBRD                                                     43.6       60.4         85.2        109.4        151.3
IDA                                                      35.7       36.4         36.5         36.3         36.5
Other Official                                          315.4      389.6        446.5        511.1        708.4
Other                                                    1264.9    1822.1         2129.6      2687.4       3250.1
Undisbursed Debt                                            645.8      673.0         860.5      1025.0        865.0
DEST SERVICE
Total Debt Service Payments                                 228.7       299.5        490.6 c/   562.7         915.8
Interest                                                   96.1      129.      1   211.0       286.5        463.1
Amortization                                              132.6      170.4         279.6 c/   276.5         432.7
Debt Service as Z of Exports                                  14.0       17.2         19.6 c/    19.2          30.7
BANK GROUP EXPOSURE (Z)
IBRD DOD/total DOD                                             2.6        2.6          3.2         3.3           3.6
IBRLD disbursenents/total gross disbursements                  0.9        2.7          2.8         3.5           4.3
IBRD debt service/total debt service                           4.2        3.3          1.3         3.3           2.5
IDA  DOD/total DOD                                             2.2        1.4          1.         1.1          0.9
IDA  disbursements/total gross disbursements                   0.5        0.1          0.0         -            0.0
IDA  debt service/total debt service                          0.1         0.1          0.0         0.1          0.1
a/ A double dash stands for "not available."
b/ 1980-1981, official figures.  1977-1979, coverage adjusted by staff for purposes of comparison.
c/ Excludes prepayment of US$456.2 million.                                                                                                                  LCID
10/21/82



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1982)
---US$ million---
Amount
Loan or                                                     (less cancellations)
Credit   Fiscal
Number    Year        Borrower         Purpose             Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
15 loans and 6 credits fully disbursed                   182.3   37.6        -
1157     1975         Ecuador          Education            4.0     -       2.4
1229     1976         Ecuador          Seeds                3.0     -       0.3
1230     1976         Ecuador          Technical
Assistance         4.0     -       2.9
1429     1977         Ecuador          Highways            17.5     -       7.0
1459     1977         Ecuador          Agriculture         15.5     -       9.6
S006     1978         Ecuador          Technical
Assistance        11.0     -       5.4
1644     1978         Ecuador          Rural Development 18.0       -      17.2
1731     1979         Ecuador          DFC                 40.0     -       3.1
1776     1980         Ecuador          Guayaquil Urban
Development       31.0      -     28.7
1879     1980         Ecuador          Small Scale Enter-
prise Credit      20.0     -       3.0
1882     1980         Ecuador          Highways            55.0     -      51.4
1991     1981         Ecuador          Rural Development 20.0       -      20.0
2044     1982         Ecuador          Rural Development 17.0       -      17.0
2045     1982         National Power  Power Trans-
.Company          mission          100.0      -    100.0
2096     1982         Ecuador          DFC                 60.0     -      60.0
2135 1/  1982         Ecuador          Housing            35.7      -      35.7
2171 1/  1982         Ecuador          Education           16.0     -      16.0
Total                                         650.0   37.6   379.7
of which has been repaid                     95.7    1.1
Total now outstanding                         554.3   36.5
Amount sold                        3.1
of which has been repaid         2.9          0.2     -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                554.1   36.5
Total undisbursed                             379.7     -    379.7
1/   Approved but not yet signed.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS  (as of September 30, 1982)
Type of    (amount in US$ million)
Fiscal Year                                      Business   Loan    Equity    Total
1966 & 1972      La Internacional, S.A.          Textiles    3.7        0.2       3.9
1969, 1973,      Compania Financiera
1975 & 1977      Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo
S.A. (COFIEC)                   DFC          -        0.5        0.5
1976             Sociedad Agricola e Industrial
San Carlos, S.A.               Sugar Mill  5.0         -         5.0
1978             Cemento Nacional (CEM)          Cement      12.0       1.1       13.1
1980             Adamas Andina, S.A. 1/          Pulp and
Paper      3.3       1.0        4.3
1981             Compania Minera Toachi, S.A.  Mining         1.0       0.3        1.3
1981             Palmoriente 2/                  Palm Oil    9.0        1.8       10.8
1982             Ecualease 2/                    Leasing      9.0       0.2        9.2
Total gross commitments                     43.0       5.1       48.1
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                      11.1       1.7       12.8
Total commitments now held by IFC           31.9       3.4       35.3
Total undisbursed                           19.0       2.1       21.1
1/   Cancelled by letter of April 26, 1982.
2/   Approved but not yet signed.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C.   STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION Ab Or SEPIEMHBER 30, 1982  1/
Loan 1157-EC - Vocational Training Project; US$4.0 million Loan of September 3,
1975; Effective Date: November 24, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
After initial delays, project implementation has accelerated.
Construction of the training centers has been completed. Bidding for equipment
purchase is now underway and contracts are expected to be signed shortly. The
centers are expected to be functioning by the end of this calendar year. The
present Government has shown strong support for this project, naming a dynamic
director and providing needed additional funds.
Loan 1229-EC - Seeds Project; US$3 million Loan of May 24, 1976; Effective
date: October 20, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Project execution has accelerated during the past year and it appears
probable that the project can be completed by the amended Closing Date, June 30,
1983. The implementing institutions (Project Unit, Department of Seed
Certification, National Seeds Council and the Seeds Company, EMSemillas) are
staffed and in operation. Because of the earlier delays, EMSemillas is not yet
operating at full capacity and thus is unable to amortize its portion of the
loan. However, procurement of works and equipment is now underway for the major
facilities and the National Development Bank is providing interim financial
support. Staff training has also accelerated in recent months.
Loan 1230-EC -  Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 million Loan of May 24,
1976; Effective Date: October 20, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
This project financed preparation of the Bank's first rural development
project in Tungurahua Province. More than half of the loan resources will
support hydrological studies for the Guayas River Basin, on the basis of which
topographic and prefeasibility studies can be done for agricultural development
in the region. After several years delay, aerial photography for the Guayas
study is nearing completion and related mapping work is underway. The Bank is
considering a final one-year extension in the Closing Date.
1/       These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Loan 1231-EC - Fourth Highway Project; US$10.5 million Loan of May 24, 1976;
Effective Date: October 13, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
All civil works and technical assistance elements under the project
have been completed. The technical assistance programs have had positive
effects on highway planning, engineering and maintenance. Progress is being
made in land transport planning. Disbursements are nearly completed and the
Project Completion Report is in preparation.
Loan 1429-EC - Fifth Highway Project; US$17.5 million Loan of September 22,
1977; Effective Date: January 10 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983
Construction of the Duran-Boliche road, which represents about 60
percent of total project costs, is about two years behind schedule and has
experienced cost increases because of design changes. Construction of the
Puerto Ila-Doblones road is also two years behind schedule because of soil and
weather difficulties. The lateral feeder roads to this road have been
contracted and should be completed during 1982. The study of regional secondary
and feeder roads in three provinces was completed satisfactorily and served as
the basis for the Sixth Highway Project. An extension of the Closing Date may
be required to permit completion of civil works.
Loan 1459-EC - Agricultural Credit I Project; US$15.5 million Loan of
November 3, 1977; Effective Date: June 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The loan continues a program of credit for livestock development
financed under three previous loans and credits, but has been broadened to cover
crop farms, small rural industries and local consulting services. In addition,
there are applied research and technical assistance components. Eleven banks
and financieras are participating in lending operations. Eighty percent of the
lending program has been committed for on-farm development, but disbursements
have moved more slowly because the investment plans extend over three years
generally. Also, local counterpart funds have not always been allocated on
time.  An extension of the Closing Date may be required.
Loan S-006-EC - Second Technical Assistance Project; US$11.0 million Loan of
November 3, 1977; Effective Date: March 1, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
After very slow execution during the first three years, the project is
now moving much faster and about US$2.7 million have been disbursed in the last
six months. A study of the structure, financing, and hiring practices for the
local consulting industry was recently financed under the project, and this
could have considerable positive impact on the implementation of preinvestment
work in Ecuador.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Loan 1644-EC - Tungurahua Rural Development Project; US$18 million Loan of
May 11, 1979; Effective Date: September 28, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
This integrated rural development project is progressing slowly after
about a year's delay in signing of subsidiary agreements between the Central
Bank and participating agencies.   The project unit has been working with
farmers and community groups for the past year, and infrastructure components
are entering the procurement stage.
Loan 1731-EC - Fourth Development Banking Project; US$40 million Loan of
December 17, 1979; Effective Date: September 23, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
This project, a follow-up to earlier successful loans, is disbursing
quickly as participating DFCs had a backlog of industrial subprojects under
review. It was almost fully committed within four months of the effectiveness
date and is now about 90 percent disbursed.
Loan 1776-EC - Guayaquil Urban Development Project; US$31 million Loan of
May 9, 1980; Effective Date: October 31, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The National Housing Bank (BEV) has nearly completed a small area of
low-cost housing and its program of home improvement loans is going well.
However, provision of urban services by the Municipality of Guayaquil has been
delayed by institutional problems and land tenure complications in existing
low-income areas. Moreover, the credit and technical assistance components for
artisan-type enterprises is not functioning due to institutional problems. The
project may have to be restructured if the existing problems are not resolved
within the next six months.
Loan 1879-EC - Small Scale Enterprise Credit Project; US$20 million Loan of
October 31, 1980; Effective Date: April 1, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
This is the Bank's first small scale enterprise credit project in
Ecuador. Although the project became effective only in April, 1981, the pace of
subloan disbursement and completion of institutional development aspects of the
loan were carried out substantially ahead of schedule and the loan is fully
committed. About 23 private banks and financieras are involved in term lending
to small enterprises through this project. A follow-up project is recommended
in this report.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan 1882-EC - Sixth Highway Project; US$55 million Loan of October 31, 1980;
Effective Date: May 14, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The Feeder Roads Project Unit was established in January 1981 and
agreements with the three participating provinces have been signed. Political
and administrative difficulties have, however, delayed initiation of most
components. These difficulties are being resolved and contracting of civil
works for the first year is now underway, and technical assistance for road
maintenance and transport planning has started.
Loan 1991-EC - Puerto Ila-Chone Rural Development Project; US$20 million Loan
of November 24, 1981; Effective Date: January 26, 1983;
Closing Date: June 30, 1988
Effectiveness conditions are being met. The Project Unit is being
staffed and land titling efforts are underway.
Loan 2044-EC - Esmeraldas Rural Develoment Project; US$17 million Loan of
November 24, 1981; Effective Date: January 26, 1983;
Closing Date: December 31, 1988
Effectiveness conditions are being met and the Project Unit is being
staffed.
Loan 2045-EC - Power Transmission Project; US$100 million Loan of December 4,
1981; Effective Date: August 4, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
Effectiveness conditions have been met, but effectiveness is being
withheld by the Bank pending the Borrower's compliance with tariff covenants.
Loan 2096-EC - Fifth Development Banking Project; US$60 million Loan of
April 22, 1982; Effective Date: October 5, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
Actions to fulfill conditions of disbursement are under way.
Loan 2135-EC - National Low-Income Housing Project; US$35.7 million Loan of
May 4, 1982; Effective Date:            ; Closing Date:
This loan is expected to be signed before the end of 1982.
Loan 2171-EC - Second Vocational Training Project; US$16.0 million Loan of
June 3, 1982; Effective Date:           ; Closing Date:
This loan is expected to be signed before the end of 1982.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ECUADOR
SEC@ND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by Country to prepare project: 8 months
(b) Project prepared by: CFN with assistance from Bank staff
(c) First presentation to the Bank: July 1981
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: March 1982
(e) Completion of Negotiations: October 1982
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness: March 1983
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) By December 31, 1982, CFN would update its SSE policy statement,
and operating procedures for FOPINAR in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 51). CFN would keep separate accounts for FOPINAR
and would, until its new financial management systems are
installed, furnish FOPINAR's annual budget to the Bank for its
review (para. 51). Any changes of FOPINAR's senior manager would
have to be acceptable to the Bank (para. 55);
(b) The Government and Central Bank would enter into a fiscal agency
agreement satisfactory to the Bank (condition of loan effective-
ness). The Government would also make a US$10 million equivalent
capital contribution to CFN for FOPINAR's use in three
installments.  Contribution of the first US$5.0 million equivalent
would be a condition of loan effectiveness. The second and third
contributions of US$2.5 million equivalent each would be made no
r                     later than six months and twelve months, respectively, after the
date of loan effectiveness. Each of the last two contributions
would be a condition for disbursing, respectively, more than US$20
million and more than US$30 million of the proposed loan
(para. 52);



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) The Central Bank and CFN would enter into a subsidiary loan
agreement satisfactory to the Bank (condition of loan effective-
ness) (para. 53);
(d) CFN and each financial intermediary would enter into a partici-
pation agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, as a condition of
disbursement of loan proceeds to that financial intermediary
(para. 54); and
(e) All subprojects would be reviewed by FOPINAR staff and those
receiving subloans above US$150,000 would require prior FOPINAR
approval. This limit would be adjusted from time to time as
needed. An economic rate of return would be calculated by FOPINAR
for subprojects requiring subloans of US$200,000 or more. This
limit would be reviewed from time to time by the Bank and CFN and
adjusted if necessary. Subject to review no later than 18 months
after loan signature, no single financial intermediary could commit
more than US$15.0 million in project funds (para. 58). The maximum
cumulative amount in project funds originating from the first
and/or proposed second Bank-financed SSE Projects which could be
onlent to a single SSE would be US$300,000 (para. 57);
(f) The Government would open a special account in CFN's name in the
Central Bank as a condition of loan effectiveness. The Bank would
then advance into this account the equivalent of US$3.2 million in
loan resources to form a working fund for FOPINAR and thereafter
replenish the account over the life of this project (para. 62).



I B R D 14305
81                                    so.                                    79                          MAY  1979:
&,wCOLOMBIA
ECUADOR                                                                         Valdez          San Lorenzo
The Sierra (Elevations based an600m. contours)                                          3                   0
EsmerlAdas' '    -                             \
Paved roads                                           -'
Gravel roads -
s   -----Earth roads
,          |   | Railroads
d9    Ports
Rosa Z6rat                                          Atuntaqu
4+     Airports                                                          at
Rivers
International boundory                                 .Punr <f Quito -,C                                       oyom ba
QUITO
El                    Santa Domingo                 a     u
Machachi
Bahia de Car6quez \
h o     n~~hoe            /1     (     /-
\      S~~Calceta                                     
Manta4o    ogoc)ris                                %    ''                                 Latocungo
M          oAerAont;ueeaPjii                                                                    ledt
M       toIi ioy                            )                El Corazon
This map has been prepared by the                        n a Ana                                                 Ambcto
World Bank's staff exclusively for
theconvenience of the readers of                    Sucre        Blzar|                                                       Pelileo
thee report to which it is attached.BOeilo1
The denominations used and the                 iijspa V_
boundaries shown on this map                                                                                                            MerA
do not imply, en the part of theVnesPelve                                                            -
World sank and its affiliates, any                                             inces   ueblovieio
judgment on the legal status of                                                                     Z         Oran
any torritory or any endorsement                 \                                                                     Riobambo
or acceptance of such boundaries.
Ba ahoyo             T        Miguel    Cajobambo
\      # Daule          )                  \      [      25sG~~~~~~~~~~~uamnote
2                       t                           \           2  /           Chillane5    CS~~~~~~~~~~  ilgr
[       -]   ~~~~~Salnas                         GUr                                                        / TAINaajt
'OrD'o                         ~~~~~Macas
Y                           y                    : "'($'/>  \  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SQcta
0     20    40    60  S0    100                                                                                           Mo3sorandez
KILOMETERS                                                                                          PGute
Cuenca            vuolaceo
_   _    SO      jlfiofivmS5        =        i)Zatoze  )  \~~~~~~       GraL Plaza 
3- ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ 18.                                                      IT  lebs/T~j



