Document of              g. 4 r
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3941-EC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ECUADOR
SECOND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
November 5, 1982
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Sucre (S/)
Calendar 1981      May 30, 1982
US$1 =        S/25               S/33
S/.1 =      US$ 0.04           US$ 0.03
S/.l,000 =      US$40.00           US$30.30
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
LIST OF ACRONYMS
BEDE     -  Banco Ecuatoriano de Desarrollo -  (Ecuadorian Development Bank)
BNF      -  Banco Nacional de Fomento - (National Development Bank)
CBE      -  Banco Central del Ecuador - (Central Bank of Ecuador)
CBS      -  Commercial Banks
CENAPIA  -  Centro Nacional de Promocion de la Pequena Industria y Artesania
(National Center for Small Industry and Artisan Promotion)
CENDES   -  Centro de Desarrollo Industrial del Ecuador - (Center for
Industrial Development)
CFN      -  Corporacion Financiera Nacional - (National Finance Corporation)
DFC      -  Private Development Finance Company
FCPI     -  Federacion de Camaras de la Pequena Industria - (Federation of
Small Industry Associations)
FOPINAR  -  Fondo Para Pequena Industria y Artesania - (CFN's Small Scale
Enterprise Loan Discount Facility)
JM       -  Junta Monetaria del Ecuador - (Monetary Council of Ecuador)
MICEI    - Ministerio de Industrias, Comercio e Integracion - (Ministry of
Industry, Commerce and Integration)
MFF      -  Mecanismo de Fondos Financieros - (Financial Funds Mechanism)
PFI      -  Participating Financial Intermediary
SSE      -  Small Scale Enterprise
TA       -  Technical Assistance
TCC      -  Technical Cooperation Committee



ECUADOR                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.  THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ................... ....... . 1...........
A.  The Economic Setting ............................... .. ..      ... .    1
B.  Manufacturing and the Small Scale Enterprise Sector ........    2
Growth and Structure of Manufacturing ........ ..............    2
Small Scale Enterprise and Sector Development ............ ..    2
Location of Manufacturing ......    .......................... .        3
W.age Rates ..............................................................    4
Financing ..................................................            4
Industrial Policy .......... ......................................     5
Government Support of SSE ......................... ............... .   5
Industrial Policy Outlook ......... o ............ ........ .    5
Technical Assistance to Small Scale Enterprise .......o ......    7
C.  Outlook and Prospects for SSE ..........* ..................            9
II.  THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM ............. o.. ........................ ... . .    9
Backgroundt..o..o.........................................................    9
A.  Resource Mobilization and Allocation .................... ...   10
CBE's Role in Credit Allocation...........................    10
B.  Structure of the Financial System.......O*.................            11
Central Bank of Ecuador (CBE) ........................ ........   11
The Private Banking System. ..        ...........    . ......    ....o... .   12
Commercial Banks ........ o .......................... ........................   12
Private Financieras (DFCs) .........         ......... ........        13
National Development Bank (BNF) .............* ............    13
Corporacion Financiera Nacional (CFN) .......................   14
Financial Condition             .      .      ... ......... ....... .   15
Organization ...o.o...                ......................... ........ .* .........   16
Outlook for CFN .......                  .. ............... .. .   16
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Ecuador in March/April 1982. The mission comprised Messrs. M. Stoller,
H. Jones and Ms. S. El Baroudy of the Industrial Development and Finance
Division 1, LAC Regional Office.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
C.  Interest Rate Policy .... ..............                                     17
Interest Rate Structure ................................... .   17
D.  Financing of Industry ......................... .... .. ... ..  20
Financing of SSE ......... .............           ..............  ... .. .   20
II.  THE PROJECT. .................. *     ......................................   22
A.  Institutional Structure and Project Objectives .........-...    22
Background ....         .. ........ .................. ..... .   22
Commitment and Disbursement ............ ........... o.......   22
Project Objectives .........  .           ..................... ... .   25
B.  Fondo de Fomento Para la Pequena Industria y Artesania
(FOPINAR) ...................................... ........................   26
Establishment, Organization and Management                  .   .......   26
Disbursement and Collection ..........*...... .....................    27
Policies and Operating Regulations.... ..                  ...........    28
Policies .......................... *--..................................   28
Operating Regulations.- .......                         . . .   .. .    28
Subprojects to be Financed. ..            .      . .. ............ .    28
Terms and Limits of Financing .......o ..... o .....      .......    ...    28
Subproject Appraisal and Supervision.o... ..........                        30
Training ............ ...... 30
Interest Rates ........... ...............0.4-....... .................... 31
Financial Position- ...... ...o..o...oo......................................   32
C.  Financial Intermediaries ......                     ..........................o.    33
D.  Technical Assistance ..........                    .......   ............. .    34
IV.  THE PROPOSED LOAN.N......... o. .o.o. . .. .    37
A.  Project Costs and Financing Plan ....ts n........Fn......ngn....    37
B.  Proposed Loan..........                       ............................ .....    38
Amount and Terms.                        .... .....  38
Relending Terms and Conditions ............................                 39
Technical Assistance to CFN...............................    39
Procurement ...............................      ............... .........    39
Commitment and Disbursemento  ................. ............                40
Working Fundo ...................... ..4............... ............ 0.0 ......    40
Accounting, Auditing and Reports....... .... ......... .. 41
Audit of the Special Account..........................o.... ..    41
C.  Project Benefits and Risks .........................oo    41
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                           ..                        43



LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX I
Table  1  -  Manufacturing Value Added 1972-1981
Table  2  -  List of Measures Taken on March 4, 1982 by
Junta Monetaria
ANNEX 2
Table  1  -  Financial Assets of Bank and Non-Bank
Financial Intermediaries
Table  2  -  Assets and Portfolio of Financial Institutions -
1978-1980
Table  3  -  Distribution of Credit by Sector, 1980
Table  4  -  Sources of Total Credit
Table  5  -  Credit Through Financial Funds Mechanism (MFF)
Table  6  -  Credit to SSE through Financial Funds Mechanism (MFF
Table  7  -  CFN:  Categories of Operations (Mecanismos)
Table  8  -  CFN:  Comparative Balance Sheets as of
December 31, 1981
Table  9  -  CFN:  Income Statements
Table 10  -  CFN:  Comparative Financial Operating Ratios
for the Years 1979, 1980 and 1981
Table 11  -  CFN:  Analysis of 1981 Operating Results
Table 12  -  CFN:  Forecast Income Statements
Table 13  -  CFN:  Forecast of Balance Sheets as of
December 31
ANNEX 3
Table  1  -  FOPINAR Operations:  Participating Financial
Intermediaries
Table  2  -  FOPINAR Operations:  Geographic Location of Projects
as of December 31, 1981
Table  3  -  Distribution of Loans by Size of Enterprise -
April 1981 - January 1982
Table  4  -  Distribution of Jobs Created and Cost Per Job by
Size of Enterprise - April 1981 - January 1982
Table  5  -  Estimated New Jobs Created in Expansion and
Total Projects - April 1981 - January 1982
Table  6  -  Estimated Jobs Created in New Firms Established
Table  7  -  FOPINAR:  Financial Projections, Main Assumptions
Table  8  -  FOPINAR:  Forecast Balance Sheets
Table  9  -  FOPINAR:  Forecast Income Statement
Table 10  -  FOPINAR:  Statement of Estimated Sources and
Uses of Funds
Table 11  -  FOPINAR:  Forecast of Financial Rations
Table 12  -  FOPINAR:  Forecast of Operating Ratios
ANNEX 4
Table  I  -  Commitments and Disbursements
Table  2  -  SSE Fund:  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
for the Proposed Loan



ANNEX 5
Draft Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance Services
to the Corporaci6n Financiera Nacional
ANNEX 6
FOPINAR Organizational Chart
ANNEX 7
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP



1. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A. The Economic Setting 1/
1.01      The Ecuadorian economy has changed since 1960 from a predominantly
agricultural society in which about 70% of the population lived in rural
areas to a society in which about one-half of the estimated 8.4 million cur-
rent population live in urban centers. A high percentage of urban growth has
occured in the coastal regions 2/ where the hard pressed small farmers mi-
grated from the sierra in search of job opportunities.  The traditional mar-
ket centers of Ambato, Riobamba and Tulcan in the sierra have been growing at
slower rates along with slower growth in economic opportunities.
1.02      The transformation of the economy from 1972 to 1980 was fueled by
a 7.6% p.a. growth in real GDP. Under the stimulus of the growing petroleum
exports and, to a lesser extent, industrial sector growth, per capita income
rose from US$320 to US$1,270. Ecuador underwent a major transformation that
dramatically improved the quality of life for many of its inhabitants.
Nevertheless, owing to the low levels from which it started only a decade ago
at the beginning of the oil boom and the extreme degree of poverty of the
indigenous population in the isolated mountain villages, social conditions
are not as good as in other countries with similar levels of per capita
income.
1.03      While Ecuador's oil induced boom has been coming to a close, econo-
mic growth in 1979-81 still averaged 4.5% p.a. despite the widespread drought
which adversely affected agriculture and the political uncertainty which dis-
couraged investment. Growth prospects in the medium term are modest since a
short-term stabilization program is required and the Government has begun to
take austerity actions. Once this program is in place, future growth could
accelerate if constraints on rational agricultural and industrial sector
growth are removed and incentives to use resources more efficiently are
introduced. Ecuador's strategy for rapid growth through import substitution
was supported by its now declining petroleum resources. Petroleum revenues
were also used to finance food imports for its growing urban population but
1/   This section is based in large part on the Ecuador Economic Development
Issues Report N° 3723-EC, December 14, 1981.
2/   With prospects for substantially higher wages to be found in the
industrial, service and commercial sectors, population growth in the
coastal plains cities of Guayaquil, Machala, Manta, Esmeraldas and
Portoviejo has been 5.5% compared with the national population growth
rate of 3.4% p.a. The first SSE project (Loan 1879-EC) has been
particularly successful in promoting new and expansion projects in the
Manta/Portoviejo area.



- 2 -
at the expense of domestic agriculture which stagnated.  Since 1972,
agricultural output increased by only 2.2% p.a. while population grew at
3.4%.
B. Manufacturing and Small Scale Enterprise Sector
Growth and Structure of Manufacturing
1.04       In line with overall economic expansion, industrial growth was high
during the 1970s and has accelerated in recent years. Manufacturing value
added growth averaged almost 10% p.a. in real terms and was substantially
above GDP growth after 1975 (Annex I, Table 1). Virtually all subsectors
participated in this expansion which was stimulated by the growth of incomes,
a favorable investment climate and, to a certain extent the emergence of the
Andean Common Market. Manufacturer's share in GDP rose from 16.2% to 18.5%
during 1972-80 (in constant sucres). About 350,000 workers are employed in
the manufacturing sector which accounts for about 13% of the total working
population. Of the estimated 9,000 to 10,000 new jobs created in manufacture
each year during the 1970's about two-thirds were in small scale and artisan
enterprise in which employment grew at 4.6% and 3.8% p.a. during 1972-79
exceeding the 3.5% p.a. growth rate for total working population. The
continued growth of relatively labor intensive small scale and artisan
enterprise could potentially increase manufactures' share of working popula-
tion.
1.05      Despite its rapid growth, the structure of manufacturing remains at
a relatively early stage of development. Activities such as food processing,
textiles and wood processing still accounted for about 72% of manufacturing
value added in 1981 (Annex 1, Table 1). The share of consumer goods
industries in manufacturing value added declined during 1972-78 whereas that
of products associated with housing, construction activity and intermediate
and capital goods expanded. Industrial exports have grown rapidly from less
than US$20.0 million in 1970, to about US$290 million in 1980, when they
accounted for 10% of gross manufacturing output and 21% of exports.
Two-thirds of the increase in industrial exports was due to the substitution
of processed cocoa for raw cocoa exports and to the expansion of exports of
fish and wood products in line with Ecuador's resource advantages. Among new
manufactured goods, electrical appliances achieved important increases. In
the short run, there are good prospects for the growth of exports of fish,and
shrimp. In the longer term for Ecuador to achieve growth in export of
non-traditional manufactured product would, inter alia, require the (i)
changing of incentives which tend to favor import substitution, (ii)
developing of skills in export marketing and establishing sales
representation and export promotion facilities, (iii) relieving the shortage
of skilled engineers, technicians and product designers needed to produce
exportable merchandise, and (iv) establishing export product standards and
quality control.
Small Scale Enterprise and Sector Development
1.06      Definition.  In the proposed project, Small Scale Enterprise (SSE)
would be defined as firms with assets of less than S/12.0 million (US$350,000



- 3 -
equivalent, excluding land and buildings) 3/ engaged in manufacturing and
related service and commercial activities and fishery and forestry projects.
Small scale tourism projects located outside of the Quito and Guayaquil areas
would also be included in the program. Statistical data in Ecuador are not
available for firms classified by asset size; therefore, most of the informa-
tion used in this report refers to 'small scale industries and artisan work-
shops' as defined in the annual survey of manufacturing (firms employing less
than 7 persons) or to 'registered small scale industry' as defined under the
industrial incentive laws. 4/
1.07       Between 1950 and 1970, Ecuador's manufacturing sector underwent a
rapid change from being artisan workshop-based to being organized into so
called "formal  factories subject to industrial regulations and periodic cen-
sus reporting. Since 1970 formal firms have continued their rapid growth.
The output of workshops which had slowed in the late 1960's and early 1970's
has resumed its growth, albeit more slowly than other firms. By 1978 the
share of total output from artisan workshops was only 20% but they provided
70% of the 340,000 jobs in the manufacturing sector. The portion of the for-
mal firms which are small scale industrial firms, having from seven to twenty
workers, has grown fastest in output, employment generated, and productivi-
ty. Growth among the largest formal firms has been slow.
1.08       Compared with about 100,000 artisan workshops, the 1,700 formal
factories employ an average of 50 persons each. 5/ Only 11 factories in
1978 had more than 500 employees--five of them in food processing, three in
metal products machinery, two in textiles and one in cement. Two hundred
firms had more than 100 employees and accounted for 60 percent of the gross
value of output, 67 percent of value added and 74 percent of new investment
in the formal sector in 1977. Because of its small size, the highly protect-
ed local market for many of the technologically more complex manufactured
products is controlled by two or three large enterprises. A 1970 survey
indicated that in most industries, except for textiles, up to three firms
controlled 50-95 percent of the domestic market. This situation had not
substantially changed by 1980. Until the inception of the Bank's program
which made term credit available to SSE through the private banking system,
the larger industrial groups (which have direct links, common directors and
major share-holdings with banks and financial institutions), large agricul-
tural enterprises, the wholesale and retail trade and the media, received
almost all of the available term credit.
1.09       Location of Manufacturing.  Formal manufacturing industry is con-
centrated in the provinces around Guayaquil (Guayas) and Quito (Pichincha).
3/   Only one project which approximated maximum firm size was presented for
financing, under Loan 1879-EC.
4/   It appears that official statistics on the composition of manufacturing
firms and the structure of employment understate by a wide margin the
number of production units employing more than 7 workers since there are
about 2,500 firms in the Federation of Small Industries, which represent
only a portion of total SSE.
5/   Small scale industry is legally defined in Ecuador as firms with up to
S/5.0 million in fixed assets excluding land and buildings. The
Minister of Industry Commerce and Integration has a task force studying
SSE incentives and they are currently considering changing his limit.



Guayas accounted for the major share of food, paper and chemical industries
while Pichincha provided the bulk of employment and value added in textiles,
wood products, metal products, machinery and equipment. These locational re-
lationships have not changed greatly since 1967 and indicate that government
incentives to decentralize have so far had quite limited effect. However,
about 60% of the new projects financed with Loan 1879-EC resources 6/ and
the employment they generated were located in the rural provinces (para
3.04).
1.10      Wage Rates.  One of the main goals of the Government's Development
Plan for 1980-84 is to maintain or increase the purchasing power of the mini-
mum wage. In line with this policy, in 1980 the Government doubled the mini-
mum wage for larger industry and increased it by 50% for small industrial
firm (firms with fixed assets of up to S/5.0 million excluding land and buil-
ding). This followed an increase of 33% in 1979 which came after several
years of inflation which had eroded purchasing power significantly. 7/ The
real wages of workers earning the minimum wage had declined between 1976 and
1979 to the level of 1971. While wage increases for smaller firms are less
than for larger firms, SSE are more labor intensive and during 1976-79 had a
higher proportion of labor costs (47%) to total output than did the larger
firms (23%). SSE have a number of possible responses to higher wage rates
(para 1.25). Although increased wage rates are likely to lead in the longer
term to greater use of capital, in the short run enforcement of the new wage
rate schedule is expected to be gradual in the smaller towns and cities and
more "occasional" workers will probably be hired because they do not receive
full wage benefits. Moreover, increased wage rates are expected to foster
efforts to maintain the higher rates of growth in labor productivity among
SSE, which occurred in the 1970's. During 1970-78 productivity per worker
grew 45% (5.4% p.a.) in small scale industry. Of course, to some extent in-
creased wages will be translated into price increases.
1.11       Financing.  One of the most serious problems faced by small scale
industry and artisans has traditionally been the lack of adequate credit,
especially long-term financing. Given the overall scarcity of credit in
Ecuador, small scale firms continue to be at a disadvantage compared with
larger firms which are less risky and provide commercial banks with profi-
table collateral business (e.g. letters of credit, guarantees and other ser-
vices). Of the almost 900 firms included in the recent national survey of
SSE, only 59% had received short-term credit during 1979 whereas 70% had re-
sorted to some form of self-financing to meet credit needs. This relatively
low access to credit is reflected by the survey which reports that the debt
to equity ratio of SSE was a low 0.5 to 1 (compared with 1.7 to 1 for medium
and large manufacturing firms). Only 12% of the total credit received by the
SSE involved in the national survey was long-term, and most of it went to
relatively large firms 8/. (Paras 2.33-2.34 describe in detail current
financing to SSE).
6/   The first Bank SSE loan to Ecuador was for US$20 million with US$10
million (equivalent) local contribution.
7/   A bill before Congress would raise the minimum wage by about 30% which
would partly compensate for the erosion in purchasing power which has
taken place since the last adjustment in the minimum wage in 1980.
8/   This credit was highly concentrated in textiles, garments and metal
products, and only 14 of the 22 sectors received any term credit.



-5-
Industrial Policy 9/
1.12      Ecuador has, along with many other developing countries, opted for
an industrialization model based upon import substitution, which offers
strong protection for domestic sales and disincentives for exports. In
support of its industrial policy, the consumer goods industry is often highly
protected, whereas imports of capital and intermediate goods are not. Adding
to the tendency toward development of an excessively capital intensive and
domestic sales oriented sector have been the relatively low, and at times
even negative interest rates, an overvalued exchange rate and low tariffs and
tariff exemptions for capital goods imports.
1.13      Government Support of SSE.  Incentives under the Small Scale Indus-
try Promotion Law, which is structured to conform with overall industrial po-
licy, include: (i) duty-free imports of capital goods and intermediate in-
puts not produced domestically, (ii) exemption from numerous small 'nuisance'
taxes, (iii) tax exemption on reinvested profits. Despite the apparent bene-
fits available, it appears that only a very small portion of SSE apply for
the available incentives, as only 1,650 SSE are registered with the Ministry
of Industry, Commerce and Integration (MICEI) under benefit laws, and SSE re-
ceive only a very low percentage (about 2%) of total fiscal benefits. In
that context, the Government has attempted to support SSE growth through in-
creasing the supply of available term credit and developing and leasing in-
dustrial parks for SSE as a direct way to facilitate their access to guaran-
teed energy sources, water, transport facilities and improved technical
assistance services.
1.14      Nominal tariff protection for most small scale industry products is
relatively high (in the 50-70% range) and, in addition, import duty reduc-
tions or exemptions on inputs tend to make effective protection even higher.
The combination of duties, surcharges and taxes purports to give some local
products effective protection of 200% and more.  Yet, local prices for many
consumer goods have proven to be less out of line with international (speci-
fically US) prices than the levels of tariff protection would suggest.  In
November 1980, retail prices for several important traditional SSE manufac-
ture categories--footwear, clothing, plastic housewares, certain cosmetics
and pharmaceuticals were found to be comparable (at the then official ex-
change rate) to those for similar items in the US. 10/ A number of factors
have helped to prevent local manufacturing or assembly plants from exploiting
their protected position, notably competition from traditional non-tradable
goods producers and substantial volumes of illegal imports.
1.15      Industrial Policy Outlook.  At the start of the 1980's, Ecuador's
new Government began to examine the means to modify past tendencies toward
capital and import intensive industrial development which had been fostered
9/   This section is based largely on the work of the Bank mission that
visited Ecuador in March 1982 at the request of the Minister of Finance
to help that country in its effort to change its industrial development
policy. A copy of its detailed report and recommendations of May 15,
1982 Program for a Change of Economic Model is available in the project
file.
10/ Sears, Roebuck & Co. and East Coast drug stores, excluding local sales
tax.



-6-
by traditional industrial incentive laws. The Government's decision to give
high priority to accelerate the development of more labor intensive and com-
petitive SSE under the first SSE credit project was a step in the direction
of modifying these tendencies. The Bank, in conjunction with its Fourth and
Fifth DFC loans, its SSE project preparation activity and its ongoing econo-
mic policy dialogue, had encouraged the Government to: (i) modify policies to
increase domestic resource mobilization (and reduce subsidies to capital),
(ii) revise industrial incentives to reduce protection and make it more uni-
form, 1I/ (iii) promote export expansion and diversification, (iv) promote
employment generation, (v) encourage the use of Ecuador's natural resources
rather than imported inputs, and (vi) expand technical assistance and educa-
tion facilities toward improving the quality and design of Ecuador's indus-
trial products.
1.16      Although the Bank originally expected that action to correct dis-
tortions through policy reform would be gradual, some changes have in fact
occurred more quickly. Progress since January 1980 has been impressive.
Through two successive interest rate reforms, the Government has taken steps
to encourage the flow of domestic resources on reasonable terms to the indus-
trial sector. Commercial banking and term lending rates now vary from 15% to
19% (plus fees and taxes), all positive in real terms (inflation has been
running at about 15 percent p.a.). Passive interest rates were also
increased to 12% for ordinary savings deposits and up to 14% for Certificate
of Deposit depending on terms, while bonds and similar instruments can carry
rates of 16% to 17% (paras 2.26-2.29).
1.17      On March 4, 1982, the country's monetary authorities adopted the
first -- and most important -- in a series of measures designed to increase
exports and to reduce incentives to capital-intensive, import-substitution
industries, namely a devaluation of the sucre from S/25:US$1 to S/30:US$1 for
all exports except petroleum and a similar 15 to 20 percent devaluation
applied to imports. (See Annex 1 Table 2 for details of the full range of
actions taken and policy directions promoted). The Government had earlier
provided CFN's export promotion fund (a discount line) with a capital contri-
bution of US$20 million equivalent.
1.18       In response to a request by the Government for advice on industrial
policy, the Bank sent a mission to Ecuador in early March 1982 to give it
guidance on how to revise tariffs and the industrial development laws to make
them consistent with the new more liberalized economic policy which the
Government aspired to adopt. The ground rules for the Bank's work were left
open and the exchange rate measures already taken on March 4th were viewed as
alterable. In that context the Bank mission made a series of recommendations
relating to changes in development and tariff laws which included inter alia:
(i) elimination of exonerations on tariffs on capital goods and inputs rai-
sing the lowest tariff rates to 20% while reducing highest rates to 80%, (ii)
extension of the export tax credit (CAT) to non-traditional exports, (iii)
elimination of the existing distortions between relative prices of imports,
unification of exchange rates at S/30 for "essential" imports which had a
favored rate of S/28.2, and (iv) finally, establishment of fiscal incentives
11/ In conjunction with the Fifth DFC Loan, the Government is undertaking a
comprehensive study of effective protection of industry, with a view of
improving the sector's efficiency.



to the industrial sector based upon industrial employment which would be
designed to partially counter the distortionary effects of high minimum
wages. The Bank's preliminary views were well received by the Government who
initiated an intensive review of Bank recommendations.
1.19      On May 13, 1982, the sucre was devalued to S/33 to US$1 on an
across-the-board basis, in line with Bank recommendations. At the same time
monetary authorities outlined a proposed four point program to change
Ecuador's economic development model which included recommendations to: (i)
expand agro-industrial production and exports, (ii) stabilize the public
sector budget by decreasing expenditures and raising income sources, inclu-
ding those which would be derived from expanded investments in the petroleum
sector, (iii) revise the import tariff structure, reduce non-productive
incentives and make Ecuadorian industry competitive; and (iv) seek to develop
the capital market and to take steps needed to increase term deposits in the
banking system. The President of the Republic of Ecuador fully adopted the
proposed new economic program and has requested that the Minister of Finance
take the steps necessary to coordinate the drafting of regulations and laws
necessary for its implementation. 12/
1.20      In view of SSE's scant dependence on government incentive programs,
the competitive environment in which they operate, and the fact that SSE in
Ecuador mainly developed in a range of appropriate activities, 13/ the
growth and development of the SSE sector would not be significantly negative-
ly affected and in fact might benefit from the package of trade liberaliza-
tion proposals offered by the Bank and advanced by the government. Based
upon the data accumulated to date on the economic efficiency of SSE opera-
tions and the information provided by SSE on their growth constraints, it is
clear that SSE sector growth is primarily constrained by such factors as lack
of credit, limited and isolated markets, limited technological options and
often inadequate entrepreneurial skills. 14/ All of these would be
addressed over time by the proposed SSE project. (See paras 3.04-3.07 on the
initial employment, size structure and regional distribution impacts of the
first SSE credit project).
Technical Assistance to Small Scale Enterprises
1.21      While the Government and private sector industrial associations
provide a wide variety of technical assistance (TA) services to help improve
12/ Proposed were changes in legislation to provide for new industrial and
agro-industrial incentive laws (to promote and expand exports) and
provisions for export oriented trading companies. A copy of the
resolution is available in the project file (Annex 6).
13/ Which concentrate around textiles 21%, food products 18% and small metal
parts and products 17.5%.
14/ A study was made of the projected economic rates of return (ERR) for a
20% sample of the projects financed under Loan 1879-EC as of December
1981. ERR's were calculated for 32 projects over S/3.2 million in
size. The average ERR was 39% with the averages by sub-sector ranging
from 31.2% for the non-metallic sector to 46.1% for furniture sub-sector
projects. Overall no major bias appeared to exist in favor of any class
of project and both urban and rural projects shared higher and lower
scores.



- 8 -
SSE opportunities, efforts are thin, scattered and generally uncoordi-
nated.15/ The main organizations reaching SSE are the provincial small scale
industrialist associations which are coordinated by a Federation
headquartered in Quito, and the National Center for Promotion of Small
Industry and Artisans (CENAPIA) established in 1975 as a dependency of the
Ministry of Industry Commerce and Integration, (MICEI) to support firms
registered under the SSE and artisan incentive laws. CENAPIA has branch
operations in 8 cities.
1.22      The SSE associations are private institutions supported by member-
ship dues but have official status. Membership in an association is obliga-
tory for SSE wishing to register for incentive law benefits or to obtain SSE
credits through BNF. The provincial associations have mainly focused on pro-
viding assistance to SSE in the preparation of applications for registration
with the MICEI and in dealing with Government ministries. Provincial offices
are lightly staffed and have varying capacities to expand services to their
membership. With the exception of one or two cities, already identified,
they are logical centers around which SSE training and self-help initiatives
could be organized and partially financed under FOPINAR's TA program (paras.
3.36-3.40).
1.23      CENAPIA's objectives are to promote the development and expansion
of SSE, encourage geographic diversification and foster the creation of new
industrial centers in less developed regions of the country. To achieve its
objectives, CENAPIA provides seminars and courses to improve production, mar-
keting, accounting and management capability, preparation of industrial fea-
sibility studies and assistance to SSE in preparation of credit and incentive
program applications. In addition, CENAPIA provides support to the artisan
program funded by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), appraises agro-
industrial projects under the Bank Agricultural Credit Loan (1459-EC) and is
expected to play an important role in the credit component of the Bank's
Guayaquil Urban Project. CENAPIA is clearly over-committed since all of
these activities are being attempted with a total staff of about 50, of which
only 26 are professionals. CENAPIA's small staff is spread over its head-
quarters in Quito and seven regional offices, a number of which are poorly
staffed to meet all but the most routine tasks.
1.24      In the absence of formal technical assistance services in the pro-
vincial cities, efforts have been made by FOPINAR, the small scale enterprise
fund established in the Corporacion Financiera Nacional under Bank Loan
1879-EC, to inventory prospective sources of professional assistance and to
seek their cooperation in locally sponsored technical assistance programs.
This task was accomplished during 1981. In that connection, the private com-
mercial banking community, local technical sales representatives and raw
materials vendors have been identified as important, heretofore underutilized
sources for local TA programs. Also, identified in each region is a techni-
cal institute with some qualified staff and one or more local private techni-
cal consultants. On the basis of the work done to date in identifying sour-
ces of technical expertise, which in the past had not been involved in local
15/ A consultants report: Small Scale Industries, Technical Assistance,
November, 1981; Institute of Research for Management Science, RVB/Delft,
examines in detail the status of assistance available to SSE and is in
the Project File.



- 9 -
TA operations, FOPINAR regional branch offices have become points of coordi-
nation and program formulation for technical assistance activity planned for
1982 and beyond and described in paras. 3.36-3.39.
C. Outlook and Prospects for Small Scale Enterprises
1.25      Development of the small enterprise sector will be subject to con-
tradictory forces over the next several years. With higher minimum wages, a
higher portion of investment would be allocated to machinery and, in the
short run, less would be devoted to working capital, inventory and other in-
puts which lead more directly to expanded output. Yet a trend toward greater
use of machinery is not inconsistent with improved product quality and pro-
ductivity and expanded exports. Rising minimum wages could also cut deeper
into profit margins of the relatively labor intensive small firms. Both
small and large firms have adjusted to changes in factor-price ratios
through: (i) increased mechanization; (ii) reduced use of full-time em-
ployees; and (iii) increased use of part-time and so-called non-regular em-
ployees.
1.26       Stagnation or a downturn of total demand arising from a shortage of
foreign exchange is likely to affect SSE's level of output less than that of
the rest of industry. The main reason for this is that SSEs in Ecuador rely
almost entirely on domestically produced inputs. As such they are expected
under shortages of foreign exchange, to capture a larger share of domestic
demand by substituting for imports and for the output of alternative domestic
industry which has higher import content. In the medium-term SSE growth
could be accelerated if: (i) the new Government's socially oriented programs
achieve some income redistribution in favor of the urban and rural lower
middle class; (ii) the differential minimum wage rates in favor of SSE
improves their competitive position vis-a-vis the larger firms; (iii) the
Government continues its efforts to solve the infrastructure problems faced
by smaller rural based enterprises; and (iv) the improved overall product
quality and competitiveness permit a penetration in external markets.
II.  The Financial System
Background
2.01      During the 1975-1980 oil boom, total financial assets in the econo-
my grew at an average of 27.4% p.a. compared with an average growth of GDP of
21.4% in current values (Annex 2 Table 1). By 1980 the ratio of financial
assets to GDP was 40% compared with 32% in 1975, reflecting a degree of fi-
nancial deepening in the economy.
2.02       During 1975 to 1980 current public sector revenues grew from 22.9%
to 28.7% of GDP reflecting principally increases in petroleum revenues. At
the same time total public sector expenditures increased from 26.3% to 33% of
GDP. The public sector deficit, which averaged about 4.7% from 1975 to 1978,
reached 8.5% of GDP in 1977. In order to finance the deficit, the Government
has resorted to foreign borrowing in excess of the amounts required and used



- 10 -
the remainder to increase lending to the domestic financial system. 16/ As
a result, the Government was, during the period, a net provider of funds for
the private sector.
A. Resource Mobilization and Allocation
2.03       The growth of net government deposits, 52.3% p.a., largely resul-
ting from oil revenues, was a major factor in the growth in financial assets
as were the growth of other liabilities and the equity of financial institu-
tions. These increases were spurred by the attractive return on investment
in financial institutions, especially in banks and some financieras, vis-a-
vis other financial instruments. Financieras experienced the most dramatic
gains in capital, with an average growth rate of 56% p.a. during 1975-1980,
while that for banks was 32.9% p.a. The money supply grew during the period
at roughly the same rate as nominal GDP while the growth rate of savings and
time deposits (19.6%) was lower than the growth in nominal GDP probably re-
flecting the more attractive returns from real estate and shares of financial
institutions. The growth of financial assets in Ecuador from 1975 to 1980 is
shown in Annex 2, table 1.
2.04       CBE's Role in Credit Allocation.  The Central Bank of Ecuador (CBE)
is a major source of credit, channelling about half of the total credit in
the system either directly or through private banks, the National Development
Bank (BNF) and other financial institutions. CBE's predominant role in the
operation of the financial system is due in part to the large share of finan-
cial assets under its control, around 41% in 1980, (Annex 2, table 2). About
20% of these assets are net government deposits and most of the balance comes
from the financial sector largely in the form of required reserves. In 1980,
CBE made S/ 44,550 million of credit available, some S/ 24,234 million (54%)
in direct operations to the public and private sectors and some SI 20,317
(46%) principally through rediscount operations with financial institutions.
CBE resources were channeled to: industry 37%, agriculture 18%, commmerce
34%, and other sectors 10% in 1980 (Annex 2, table 3). The increasingly pre-
dominant role of CBE as a source of total national credit (increasing from
31% to 50% during 1970-1980) is evidenced by the rapid expansion of CBE's re-
discount and credit operations, from S/ 3,181 million to S/ 44,550 million
during 1970-1980 or at an average annual growth rate of over 30% (Annex 2,
Table 4).
2.05       Responding to the needs of agriculture and SSE and to insure some
continuity in term credit supply to these sectors, private banks are required
to use 20% to 25% of their own resources for these sectors before gaining
access to the CBE's Financial Fund Mechanism rediscount facility. In 1980
CBE rediscounted S/5,330 million through its MFF rediscount operation, (Annex
2, table 5). 17/ However, the total credit granted to SSE combining the com-
mercial bank's minimum allocation of 20 to 25% plus CBE's discount of commer-
cial banks MFF loans over the statutory amount was S/10,117. In 1981 CBE re-
discounted through MFF a total of S/6,320 million of which 21% were used for
SSE, representing only 8% of the total credit allocated to mainly medium and
larger industry by CBE through its range of discount facilities.
16/ Foreign official indebtedness grew rapidly during 1977-81 and the
debt service ratio climbed from 14% to 30.7% of exports in the period.
17/  In 1979 MFF rediscounts equalled only S/3,920 million.



- 11 -
B. Structure of the Financial System
2.06      The financial system in Ecuador is comprised of the Junta Moneta-
ria (JM), (the monetary council) which sets monetary and financial policy,
the   Central Bank of Ecuador (CBE), 29 commercial banks, the National Devel-
opment Bank (BNF) and two specialized public sector banking institutions, the
National Housing Bank and the Ecuadorian Development Bank (BEDE). The latter
channels resources to selected public sector projects and to municipalities.
In addition, the system has 11 savings and loans associations (asociaciones
mutualistas), a cooperative bank, 12 development   finance companies, of
which the publicly owned Corporacion Financiera Nacional (CFN) is the lar-
gest, and 55 specialized financial institutions, mostly insurance companies
and foreign exchange houses.  The CBE, BNF, CFN,   commercial banks (CBs) and
financieras (DFCs) channel funds to small scale industry and artisans. While
financial institutions have concentrated almost half of their offices, bran-
ches and agencies in the Guayas and Pichincha provinces, a substantial net-
work of commercial banks and BNF branches and agencies have, in recent years,
been opened in towns and larger villages around the country. Moreover, re-
gional commercial banks are becoming more aggressive and are expanding on a
national scale.
2.07      Banking, until recently a restricted, traditional, and non-competi-
tive activity, is currently undergoing change and several modern and aggres-
sive commercial banks have emerged to compete for shares of the market(para
2.13). Price competition is substantially inhibited by the structure of
fixed interest rates, commissions and fees established by the monetary autho-
rities. However, substantial non-price competition exists for available de-
posits, consumer lending and credit card operations as well   as traditional
commercial lending. Several major banks (e.g., Banco del Pacifico, Banco
Popular, Filanbanco and the Banco de Pichincha) have been aggressively see-
king to expand short-term lending operations to SSE in keeping with the JM
requirements that commercial banks maintain a fixed percentage of their port-
folios in loans to the productive sectors and to support their expanding
branch banking activities. Several banks have become active in term lending
to SSE under the Bank's first SSE project (para. 3.34).
2.08      Central Bank of Ecuador (CBE).  The CBE was established in 1927 as
the Government's fiscal and financial agent with responsibility for implemen-
ting monetary and financial policies formulated by the JM. 18/ The main po-
licy instruments regularly used by the CBE are: (i) bank reserve require-
18/  Charged with formulating the monetary policies of the country, determi-
ning levels of interest rate, CBE credit, minimum reserve requirements,
import deposits and a variety of other factors affecting the balance
sheets of financial intermediaries. The Monetary Council of Ecuador is
composed of 11 members, consisting of a Chairman appointed by the Pres-
ident of the Republic, Ministers of Finance, Agriculture, Industry, Com-
merce and Integration and Natural Resources and Energy, a representative
of the National Development Council, and representatives of Sierra and
Coast Chambers of Industry and Commerce, commercial banks, the General
Manager of CBE and the Superintendent of Banks.



- 12 -
ments which are currently 26% of demand deposits (10% for Mutual Savings
Associations); (ii) the periodic setting of ceilings on bank credit   opera-
tions; (iii) the operation of rediscount credit lines; (iv) open marketopera-
tions (CBE securities including foreign-currency denominated bonds now ac-
count for about 50% of total stock exchange transactions); (v) prior import
deposits; and (vi) official intervention in the foreign exchange market.
2.09      The Private Banking System.  This sector accounted for about 67%
of the banking systems portfolio in 1980 and a similar share of the credit
granted that year (Annex 2, tables 1 and 2). Private banks' loans, which
have an average maturity of 11.3 months, reflect the short term nature of
most lending. Banks have the most diversified range of operations among the
financial intermediaries. In 1980 private banks provided 86% of commercial
credit, 54% of industrial credit, 43% of agricultural credit and 67% of other
credit. The commercial sector absorbed around 45% of private bank credit in
1980 and industry about 27%; the remaining fourth went to agriculture and
other purposes, including construction and consumer finance (Annex 2,
Table 6). Since 1975, bank portfolios have grown at a high 31% p.a., roughly
paralleling credit extension by all financial institutions. The growth of
bank lending has been made possible by the increase in demand deposits and by
credits from CBE. Ecuadorian banks predominate, only 4 of the 29 private
banks being foreign bank subsidiaries.
2.10      Commercial Banks form the core of Ecuador's financial system.  As
of December 31, 1980, with assets of about S/74,415 million, they held al-
most 81% of the private financial system's total resources, 59% of the finan-
cial systems assets (Annex 2, table 2) and accounted for 66% of both total
private bank credit and total loans to SSE. 19/ In 1978 commercial banks
lent S/9,364 million to industry with the average loan size a low S/ 305,000
(US$12,183 equivalent) reflecting the relatively small size of most   Ecua-
dorian enterprises (paras 1.07-1.08). The term structure of loans made by
the commercial banks in 1980 is shown in Table 2.1. Some 90% are short
termoperations (under a year), with 4% from one to five years and about 5%
over five years.
Table 2.1: Commercial Banking System - Terms of Credit Granted in 1980
No. of                 Value in
Operations       %     S/ millions  %
Up to 90 days                         81,355      29.75    15,040    25.88
from 91 to 180 days                  167,681      61.31    32,368    55.71
from 181 days to 1 year               16,200       5.92      5,015     8.63
more than a year to five years         6,619       2.42      2,566     4.42
more than 5 years                      1,640        .60      3,114      5.36
Total                       273,495    100.00    58,103   100.00
19/  The structure of the credit system is changing as financieras have re-
duced commercial banks' share of the credit market by about 10 percent-
age points since 1970.



- 13 -
2.11      Several large traditional banks, the largest and most important of
which are the Banco del Pichincha, Banco de Guayaquil and Banco de Descuento,
had for years dominated Ecuador's banking activities. In the past five
years, reflecting the monetary authorities' efforts to expand the financial
sector, new entrants, and more aggressive competition for deposits and cli-
ents, have been challenging the dominance of the older established banks.
Moreover, the commercial banking system has altered from its traditional mold
giving it a broader base, an enlarged clientele and improved geographic
coverage. Perhaps most important has been the substantial growth of smaller
banks, whose share of domestic lending has increased and whose participation
in the SSE project has been important with regard to geographic dispersion of
the project.
2.12      Private Financieras.  The growth in number and size of private fi-
nancieras has been most dramatic. 20/ Until recently there were only four
financieras. Currently there are 12 financieras mainly concentrated in the
two largest cities: Quito has six, Guayaquil four, and there is one finan-
ciera in the main provinces of Cuenca and Manabi. There are also branch of-
fices of the financieras, three of which are located in Guayaquil and one
each in Manta and Machala. With total assets of S/16,724 million at the end
of 1980, they accounted for 10% of the total financial systems assets (Annex
2, Table 2). Private financieras' assets increased by more than 50% between
1979 and 1980. Their lending portfolios increased by about 56% while only
having 10% of total financial assets. They met 39% of the industrial sec-
tor's credit needs in 1980, while private banks accounted for 54%. Indus-
trial financing accounted for two thirds of the financieras' credit opera-
tions in 1980, with agriculture accounting for a further 15% (Annex 2,
Table 3).
2.13      The majority of financiera loans were for working capital which
carry short term maturities. Concentration on short term lending was fos-
tered by the relatively low interest rate structure coupled withthe scarcity,
and relatively high cost of term resources.  Financieras   have also focused
upon expansion of letter of credit and guarantee operations where commissions
and fees are sufficient for profitable operations. Under the first Bank SSE
project, financieras have engaged in medium and long term financing opera-
tions using the loan resources made available through CFN. As of February
28, 1982, 8 private financieras had participated in the program, using S/256
million or 63% of the resources used in 91 operations with an average matur-
ity of about 6.5 years. Under the proposed loan, financieras are expected to
expand their long term lending to SSE.
2.14      National Development Bank (BNF).  With assets of about S/ 25,343
million as of December 31, 1980, BNF is the largest bank in Ecuador, accoun-
ting for about 7% of total credit (about S/ 6,094 million in 1980), and is
the major source of credit for agriculture and for SSE. Founded in 1964 and
wholly Government-owned, BNF's total loan portfolio was S/ 14,064 million at
the end of 1981. In 1981 through its network of 72 offices, branches and
20/ Since 1971 the Bank has made five loans to Ecuador for DFC projects
using financieras as intermediaries for a total of US$15.4 million.
Under the Fifth Bank Loan (US$60 million) signed in April 1982, ten
financieras would be eligible to participate.



- 14 -
agencies, BNF extended 9,635 million in credit to agriculture and livestock
and 1,925 million in mainly short-term credit to SSE which accounted for
about 69% and 14%, respectively of its lending. Reflecting its mainly agri-
cultural lending orientation, poor administration and collection procedures,
the quality of BNF's loan portfolio is poor and arrears amount to a reported
19% of total portfolio in 1980. 21/ Actual arrears, however, are reported to
be closer to 30% of portfolio as a substantial volume of development accounts
are annually refinanced.
2.15      BNF's General Manager has been attacking problems of administration
and financial management, and aims, over the course of the next several
years, to improve the quality and efficiency of its lending and loan recovery
operations. BNF's main financial problems remain its limited capacity to ex-
pand its resource base and to reduce its high rate of arrears. In the recent
past BNF depended on CBE's rediscount operations which provided BNF with 35%
of its total resources and most of its profitable operations and on the
Government's capital contributions which were S/1,262 million in 1977-78.
2.16      Given its substantial network of branches, (53 agencies and bran-
ches in the rural provinces) and contact with small industry and artisans, it
had been expected that BNF would be a major channel for Bank resources under
the first loan. 22/ While BNF's loan approval procedures were slow in the
past, BNF's management recently reported that loan processing and review
operations had been simplified as a direct result of which during the first
quarter of 1982 BNF submitted 80 subprojects from rural provinces. By June
30, 1982, BFN had approved 224 SSE credits. On this basis it is anticipated
that BNF would account for about one third of SSE loans and use about 15% of
SSE funds during 1982-84. Most of its lending operations originate in its
rural branch offices.
2.17      Corporacion Financiera Nacional (CFN).  Established in 1960, CFN is
the oldest and largest financiera in Ecuador and the major provider of
medium- and long-term credit for the industrial sector. CFN is wholly owned
by the Government and its nine-member Board contains seven ministers of state
and two private sector representatives. Although its policies and operations
must be in accordance with the development plans of the Government, CFN is
relatively autonomous in its day-to-day operations. At the end of 1981 CFN's
assets totaled S/9.3 billion, with equity of S/2.4 billion. CFN's loan port-
folio was S/6.5 billion (of which some S/366 million was FOPINAR's SSE opera-
tions) and its investments in industrial and agroindustrial domestic enter-
prises were valued at S/1.8 billion after reserves for potential losses. As
of December 31, 1981 CFN had outstanding guarantees of S/950 million of which
some S/905 million were foreign currency obligations. Since 1972, CFN has
been increasing its principally short-term export financing to producers and
distributors. The characteristics of the various operations in which CFN is
engaged are shown in Annex 2 Table 7.
21/ Annual report of Superintendency of Banks.
22/ During 1976-79 BNF granted on average about 4,600 new loans p.a. to
SSE averaging S/107,500 per loan of which about 15% were medium and
long term.



- 15 -
2.18      Financial Condition.  For the past few years, CFN's net income has
been low in relation to both its assets and capital and it has expanded its
operations very slowly in support of its growing responsibilities as the
country's major industrial term lending institution. Its loans, investments
and guarantees have grown at 13% a year since 1977 or virtually zero in real
terms. Some 29% of asset expansion since 1977 was financed by expanding its
short term credit with the Central Bank (mostly in 1981), some 38% by addi-
tional foreign borrowing and 30% by capital contributions from Government.
After earning S/50.8 million in 1978, CFN incurred an operating loss of
S/65.1 million in 1979, roughly broke even in 1980 and earned S/35.9 million
in 1981. The large operating loss in 1979 and the relatively poor operating
results of subsequent years are due to five main causes. Firstly, a signifi-
cant share of CFN's assets are in equity investments in domestic enterprises
earning a low rate of return. Secondly, a large share of CFN borrowings are
Eurodollar loans bearing very high rates of interest. Thirdly, despite
sharply higher interest costs, CFN continued to charge interest rates on its
operations which were below the legal maxima. Fourthly, because of the dif-
ficult economic situation through which Ecuador was passing, CFN was forced
to make large provisions for losses against both its loan and investment
portfolios. Finally, until recently, CFN management took few steps to expand
potentially profitable letter of credit, guarantee and repeater loan opera-
tions of its banking business. CFN's financial statements for the years 1978
through 1981 are given in Annex 2 Tables 8-9.
2.19      CFN now appears to be through the worst of this bad period.  The
General Manager who was appointed in September of 1979 23/ took a number of
steps to protect and strengthen CFN's financial position and improve its
financial results, including: (i) charging maximum interest rates on all
operations; (ii) limiting investments in equity shares; (iii) reducing CFN's
Eurodollar obligations; (iv) expanding guarantees of its customers' long-term
foreign loans instead of making direct loans which would have had to be fi-
nanced with very expensive Eurodollar borrowings; and (v) expanding the use
of its relatively low cost credit lines with the Central Bank to finance its
term industrial credit operations and its short-term export credits. At the
same time, CFN made very large write-offs and provisions against its loan and
investment portfolios so that despite continuing weakness in the condition of
the industrial sector further significant provisions are unlikely.
2.20      During preparation of the Fourth Development Banking Project the
two major threats to CFN's financial condition which were identified were the
exposure to foreign exchange risks on its external borrowings and its invest-
ments in large, unprofitable public sector enterprises (AZTRA and Selva
Alegre). The Government agreed to reimburse CFN for foreign exchange losses
arising from past, but not new, foreign borrowing and CFN has not since bor-
rowed from foreign sources where it must bear the foreign exchange risk. In
the Fifth Development Banking Project, the Government agreed to provide CFN
with US$20 million equivalent to enable it to make adequate provision against
its investments in AZTRA and Selva Alegre and also agreed to limit CFN's
financial exposure to a single firm to 10% of its equity except when ade-
quately protected from the additional risk by a mechanism satisfactory to the
23/ CFN's General Manager (GM) resigned in April 1982, and a new General
Manager with substantial experience as a commercial banker was appointed
in early July 1982.



- 16 -
Bank. The Fifth Development Banking Project also provided funds to help
carry out a study of possible means to minimize CFN's (and other financie-
ras') exchange risk problems.
2.21      Organization.  CFN's organization is highly structured with many
levels of authority and excessive compartmentalization of responsibilities.
It has some 346 staff of which 154 are professionals. This appears to be ex-
cessive in a corporation with major investments in some 50 companies and
loans to about 300 industrial enterprises apart from its banking type opera-
tions with SSE, export credits, letter of credit operations, etc. which re-
quire mainly a small clerical staff. The highly structured organization also
slows the flow of information important for rapid and effective decision ma-
king. CFN is in the process of acquiring new computer equipment to replace
its relatively obsolescent data processing equipment which is no longer ade-
quate for its needs. During appraisal the Bank assisted CFN to prepare terms
of reference for consulting services to review its organizational structure,
policies, functions and responsibilities and to make recommendations to im-
prove them and to assist CFN in defining and introducing appropriate manage-
ment information systems (MIS) with the new computer equipment it is acqui-
ring. (The terms of reference are attached Annex 5). US$100,000 to finance
the consultants services to install new MIS were included in the Fifth
Development Banking Project and they should be sufficient to finance the
first phase of the study. Funds for the second phase, estimated to cost
US$200,000 have been included in this loan. CFN plans to retain consultants
for this assignment by November/December 1982. Their assignment is expected
to take about 18 months, and the contract for their services would have to be
acceptable to the Bank.
2.22      Outlook for CFN.  CFN has recently received a S/500 million capital
contribution from the Government to expand its FOPEX (export credit) opera-
tions. It proposes not only to increases its short-term pre- and post ship-
ment financing but also to make term credits for financing the establishment
and expansion of firms with an export orientation. CFN has two lines of cre-
dit with the Central Bank, one to finance industrial credits (the line is
equal to 60% of CFN's paid up capital) and one to finance FOPEX operations
(this line is equal to 60% of CFN's paid up capital plus reserves). Full use
of these credit lines, the use of DFC V resources, the first and the proposed
second SSE loan and some limited domestic borrowing will enable CFN to expand
its lending in the next few years provided it continues to restrict its
equity investments. Applying the recently approved new lending rates for its
operations, CFN should be able to improve its operating results and
strengthen its financial position in this period. Forecasts of CFN's
financial results were made by Bank staff on the basis of a prospective
lending program supplied by CFN, assuming full use of the Central Bank's
credit lines. These assumptions may be somewhat optimistic but they indicate
what is possible if CFN aggressively promotes its lending operations,
improves its financial management and especially limits its investments as a
percentage of total capital. Alternative forecasts were made assuming lower
commitments to reflect reduced demand, slower repayment rates for loans,
higher bad debt provisions and a lower use of low cost Central Bank credit
lines. Even with these much more conservative assumptions, CFN should be
able to continue to operate profitably (except for a small loss in 1982) and
service its debts.



- 17 -
2.23       An analysis of 1981 financial results which are summarized in the
attached tables demonstrates that while CFN's loan portfolio earned 2.2%
(after provisions) on average assets applied, its investment portfolio lost
5.8% on average assets, after provisions. CFN cannot expect to operate on a
profitable basis if it continues to finance low yielding equity investments
with high cost resources. To ensure that CFN continues to progress in redu-
cing the weight of its investment loss, a condition of DFC V was that CFN
adopt as part of its financial policy a restriction on its equity invest-
ments.
C. Interest Rate Policy
2.24       Interest Rate Structure:  Traditionally, interest rates have con-
sisted of schedules of fixed interest rates supplemented by commissions.
Basic rates are periodically established by the monetary authorities (para
2.08) and vary with the nature of the operation, maturity, and by credit pro-
gram and financial institution. In recent years inflation has from time to
time outpaced interest rates and in connection with the DFC loans the Bank
has played an important role in persuading monetary authorities to adjust
interest rates. 24/ Fixed interest rates which are not subject to variation
in response to the availability of loanable funds had from time to time in
the period 1980-81 resulted in credit rationing and has tended to discourage
investors from holding debt instruments.
2.25       On January 8, 1982 the Monetary Council passed new regulations
which increased short term lending rates to 15% (plus fees) from 12% (plus
fees) and longer term effective interest rates were increased up to 4
points. Interest rates to final borrowers are, with the exception of the CBE
Financial Fund Mechanism and loans to small farmers, now at or above the
current 15% p.a. rate of inflation (Table 2.2).
2.26       Saving rates were increased even more sharply as short term deposit
rates were increased 3 to 4 points from 8% to 12% on savings accounts and 10%
to 13% on term deposits of more than 180 days (Table 2.2). Rates on CD's
were increased 3 points and deposits of up to 360 days bear 14% compounded
semi-annually. These saving rates represent a major step toward a rational
interest rate structure. Bonds issued by financial intermediaries may now
bear rates of 15% to 16% depending upon maturity but continue to be discoun-
ted to yield the 18% or more demanded by the market for maturities of 3 to 5
years. Given the 4 points higher interest rates for short term saving depo--
sits of 4 points (from 8% to 12%) and the increase in basic lending rate from
12% to 15%, commercial banks will be operating on narrower financial spreads
though provision has been made to provide slightly higher spreads on term
deposits when matched against term loans.
2.27       The Central Bank rediscount rates are generally up very sharply for
commercial banks and financieras, reducing their operating margins from 4 to
24/ Under DFC III commissions were first added to the traditional fixed
12% interest rate. At the urging of the Bank under DFC IV in March
1981 further adjustments were made and the basic term interest rate
was raised to 15% plus commission depending upon term to allow for the
then 13%-14% p.a. inflation rate.



- 18 -
Table 2.2
ECUADOR: SECOND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
Banks and Financieras
A. Lending Rates & Saving Rates
(Percentages)
I.  Lending                                            Before January 1982        Current
1. General Operations
-up to 360 days                                         12                  15
- from 361 to 540 days                                  13                  15
- from 541 days to two years                            14                  15
- more than 2 years up to 3                             14 b/               17.5 a/
- more than 3 years up to 4                             14-                 18.0 i A
-more than 4 years up to 5                            15, 16                18.5a
- over 5 years                                                              19.0 a'
2. Occasional Overdrafts                                     8                 n.a.
Contracted overdrafts                                   12                  i5
3. Livestock Credit (222EC)
a.  up to S/625,000                                      9                  12
b.  more than Sf625,000                                 12                  15
4. Financial Funds Mechanism
a. with internal resources
- agriculture                                        9                  10
- others                                             9                  12
b. with external resources
- loans 518L, 032, 033, 034                          9                  t2
- loan 1459-EC
1.  small agriculture, livestock
and agro-industry                           11                  12
2.  agriculture, livestock and
agro-industry                               14                  15
5, FOPEX                                                     6                  toa
6. Guarantees                                               4                    4a
7. Bankers Acceptances                                      4                   4 a
8. Additional Interest on Arrears                            3                   4
B.  Interest Rates on Deposits
II. Borrowing
1. Savings Deposits                                          8                  12
2. Long-term Deposits
a.  from more than 30 days to 180 days                   9                  12
b.  more than 180 days                                  10                  13
3. Bonds                                                   15                  16 + 1
(more than 5 years)
4. Certificates of deposits
a.  270 to 360 days                                     10                  13
b.  more than 360 days                                  11                  14
5. Savings & Loans Associations
a.  savings                                              9                  13
b.  up to 180 days                                      10                  13
c.  more than 180 days                                  II                  14
d.  guaranty deposits                                    5                   6
a/ Includes a  Z% commissLon.
h/ Includes commissions of 2% for up to 5 yrs., 3% for up to 3 yrs., and 4% for loans of
more than 8 yrs.
n.a. - in process of amendment from 12%.



- 19 -                                           Table 2.3
ECUADOR: SECOND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
Central Bank Rediscount Rates
Agriculture       Small Industry                             Other
Institution                   Type of Loan          Livestock & Fishing       & Artisan    Industry   Commerce   Sectors
Old         New     Old       New    Old  New  Old  New  Old  New
Private Banks                 Rediscount Advances           6           12      6        12      7    12   10    14    -       -
Private Banks outside
Quito & Guayaquil                "                        4           10      4        10      5    10   10    14    -       -
BNF                                ..                       3           8       4         8      -     -   10    14    3       6
BNF outside Quito &
Guayaquil                                                 2           7       3         7      -     -   10    14    3       5
II                                                   1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/
CFN                                                         -           -       -         -      7    12    2      4-   -      -
Private Financieras                "                        8          12       8        12      8    12    -      -    -      -
All Intermediaries            Bankers Acceptances           7          12        7       12      7    12    9    12    8    12
All Intermediaries            Export Credits                -           -       -         -      -     -    4      8    -      -
Central Government            Loans to Public Sector        -           -       -         -      -     -    -      -    3      6
Official Entities             Loans to Public Sector        -           -       -         -      -     -                 5     6
All Intermediaries            Financial Funds Mechanism
with internal resources    3             6        3         8     -      -    -      -    3      8
witn external re6ourceas    -            -        -         -     -      -    -      -    -      -
Loans 518L, 032, 033, 034
Loans 222-ic up to
S/ 625,000          4           8        -         -      -     -    -      -    -      -
above S| 625,000           7          12        -        -      -      -    -      -    -      -
Loans 1459-EC up to 5 yrsl;)          12        7         8    10    12
more than 5 years  9           12        6         8      9    12.
All Intermediaries            Emergency Credits
to cover negative reserves                                                               12    15
other                                                                                     7    12
All Intermediaries            Marginal Rural Development 9              8       -         -      -     -    -      -    -      -
All Intermediaries            Development Bonds             -          -        -         -      -     -    -      -    4      4
1/ FOPEX



- 20 -
6 points to 3 points under ordinary operations for agriculture and industry
discount operations and to only 1 point for commerce. This clearly would
offer strong incentives for commercial banks to switch from this current high
percentage of lending to commercial enterprise (Annex 2, Table 4) to "produc-
tive" sector lending.
2.28       With regard to discounts and operations under the Financial Funds
Mechanism, final lending rates to small farmers and SSE would continue at
the current subsidized rates of 10% and 12% respectively, though the 6 point
spreads heretofor available to banks were reduced by 3 and 4 points as CBE
discounts under the M.F.F. have been increased (Table 2.3). Among the lowest
discount rates available is CBE's export credit line (FOPEX). It is current-
ly available to CFN, which operates the export credit program on behalf of
the CBE, at 4% and to participating intermediaries at 10%. The net effect of
the Central Bank's new rediscount price policy will be to encourage banks to
maintain their profitability by increasing their deposit accounts and redu-
cing their relative dependence upon CBE rediscount operations.
D. Financing of Industry
2.29       Between 1970 and 1980 credit to industry has grown from 18% to 32%
of total credit, in line with the pace of expansion of the industrial sector
(para 1.04). In 1980 total credit to industry reached S/ 28,538 million,
most of which was supplied by private banks (54%) and private financieras
(39%) and the balance was provided mainly by CFN and BNF (Annex 2, table 3).
In 1980, CBE provided SI 16,661 million or 58% of the resources committed by
financial intermediaries to finance the industrial sector. However, most of
industrial financing has been short term. The private banks had less than
10% of their credit in medium or long term operations and financieras term
credit is also very limited due to the lack   of long-term resources.  While
BNF and CFN provided resources to industry mostly on a medium or long term
basis, their combined share in industrial sector credit in 1980 was only 6%
(Annex 2, table 3).
2.30       Financing of SSE.  A national survey in 1978 showed that total cre-
dit received by small scale industry and artisans amounted to SI 2,855 mil-
lion (US$114 million equivalent) of which commercial banks provided 67%, BNF
25% and private financieras 8%. About 85% of this credit was short term.
Only one-half of the SSE credits granted were made by commercial banks under
the monetary regulations which provide that 20% to 25% of commercial bank
loans be made to the productive sectors (para 2.19), confirming that in the
Ecuadorian environment commercial banks have been seeking SSE clients. CBE
credit to SSE through the Financial Funds Mechanism has grown from S/176 mil-
lion in 1973 to S/ 1,005 million in 1980 (Annex 2, table 6). Total credit
provided by CBE and the banks 25/ together has grown from S/354 million to
S/2,540 million during this period (an annual average rate of 83%), which
indicates that the MFF has contributed to the expansion of credit supplied by
the intermediaries to SSE.
25/ Including financieras which provide for almost 10% of MFF lending to
SSE in 1980.



- 21 -
Table 2.4: Sources and Terms of Credit to Small Scale Industry
in Pichincha
(Thousands of S/)
Sources of                                    Terms of Credit a/               % of
Financing          No of                                             Total   Total
SSI             Loans    %       Short      Medium      Long    Credit  Credit
Commercial banks   214    49.2   165,538  1,035,585   25,072   295,195   48.5
BNF                  69    15.9       5,630     20,088   34,042    59,765    9.8
Financieras          32      7.4    17,892      38,155   10,070    66,117   10.9
Family (etc.)        19      4.4      6,239         445    4,000    10,648    1.8
Informal lenders    13       3.0     6,059        2,350      -        8,407    1.4
Suppliers Credit    88    20.2   157,834        10,100       -      167,934   27.6
Total          435   100.0   360,190  1,174,723   73,184   608,097  100.0
Source:  A.N.D.E., Study of Small Scale Industry in Pichincha 1979.
a/ Short-term loans average 6 months, medium-term 25 months and long-term 60
months.
2.31      The results of a survey of 555 small scale industrial firms in the
Quito area in 1979 provides further interesting insights into the sources and
types of credit available to SSE (Table 2.4). Funds were obtained mainly
through commercial banks (49%), BNF (16%) and financieras (7%). Suppliers'
credits proved also to be important to SSE, accounting for 20% of loans and
almost 28% of the total amount of credit, almost all of which was short
term. Family lending amounted to 4%, while credit involving money lenders
accounted for only 3% of total credit at interest rates reported to have
averaged 38.5%. Interest rates charged by commercial banks and other formal
sources of credit ranged between 9% under a BNF program, and 12% for short
term commercial banks credit (currently 12% and 15%, respectively). Long-
term credit available through BNF and commercial banks was only 12% of the
total. FOPINAR, which was established within CFN in early 1981 became ano-
ther source of financing for SSE. In about 12 months of operation, FOPINAR
committed US$20 million equivalent to rediscount SSE term credits reflecting
the high demand and the unavailability of other sources of long term finan-
cing for SSE.
2.32      Total industrial investment in Ecuador in 1982-83 is estimated to
be US$1,300 million of which 60% is expected to be financed with financial
credits. SSEs have had in the past access to about 17.5% of total industrial
credit. However, for the reasons discussed in para. 1.26, this share is
expected to increase to about 20%. On this basis, credit requirements of SSE
are expected to be about US$156 million during 1982-83, or US$ 78 million per
annum. The recent changes in the economy, including the drying-up of sucre
credit lines, the lack of access to foreign exchange and the expected
difficulty to obtain foreign loans will further reduce SSE access to credit.
The proposed loan will make a significant contribution towards the projected
SSE credit demand by providing about US$40 million or about 17% of the
expected demand over the three-year commitment period of the project.



- 22 -
III. THE PROJECT
A.  Institutional Structure and Project Objectives
Background
3.01       The first Bank loan amounting to US$20 million to the Government of
Ecuador (Loan 1879-EC) to establish a fund for small scale enterprise
(FOPINAR) within the Corporacion Financiera Nacional (CFN) to finance small
scale enterprise and artisan (SSE) projects was approved on June 16,
1980. 1/ The loan was complimented by a US$10 million (equivalent) contri-
bution to the fund, of which US$6 million was provided by the government and
US$4 million by CFN as it recuperated its existing portfolio of loans to
small enterprise. FOPINAR operates as a second tier financial institution
which discounts 90% of subloans made to SSE by the 24 private and one public
financial intermediaries participating in the program. The Central Bank of
Ecuador (CBE) serves as the Government's fiscal agent and as financial agent
for the project (para 3.15).
Commitment and Disbursement
3.02       Since effectiveness, FOPINAR's resources have been committed and
disbursed at twice the pace anticipated. As of August 31, 1982 the Bank had
approved 516 FOPINAR subloan applications amounting to US$19.7 million
equivalent and FOPINAR had disbursed more than US$26.0 million, recently at
the rate of about US$2 million per month. In the likely event that FOPINAR's
past rate of commitments continues during the third quarter of 1982, SSE
project resources could be fully committed by September and disbursed by
October 1982. 2/ Overall, the two tier SSE credit system through FOPINAR has
proved itself to be an efficient mechanism for financing SSE projects and
assisting the Government in reaching its development goals for small scale
enterprise. The institutional arrangements initiated under the first loan
would be continued under the proposed Second Small Scale Enterprise Credit
Project.
3.03       The more rapid than anticipated project progress is in substantial
measure due to the active participation of a large number of financial insti-
tutions in the project (Annex 3 Table 1). At the initiation of the first SSE
loan FOPINAR took steps to ensure that the majority of private financial
intermediaries in Ecuador would participate in the program by actively
promoting the project, training financial intermediary staff in project
appraisal techniques and maintaining a rapid and efficient discount process.
!/ Since 1971 the Bank has made five loans to finance large scale
industrial projects. The proceeds of these loans total US$154 million
and were channeled mainly through two financieras (CFN and COFIEC).
Under the first four loans the average project size financed was equal
to $4.7 million and only 13 of the loans granted were for less than
US$250,000 equivalent.
2/ During appraisal of 1879-EC it was estimated that loan resources would
be fully committed by December 1983, about 36 months after loan
effectiveness.



- 23 -
3.04      An analysis of 220 subloans financed under the first SSE project
shows high benefits in terms of economic rate of return (para 1.20), well
balanced regional growth, the use of domestic resources and employment crea-
tion (Annex 3, Table 2). The regional distribution of FOPINAR projects
reflects the efforts made during project preparation to encourage the parti-
cipation of regional financial institutions by establishing FOPINAR branch
operations in five outlying provinces and providing them with adequate pro-
fessional staff and commitment authority. More than 60% of the subprojects
financed by FOPINAR are located in the more rural provinces. Only 24% of
subprojects are located in Quito and 14% in Guayaquil. 3/ During the first
quarter of 1982 the pace of project approval in the regions had increased and
75% of the subprojects financed by FOPINAR in 1982 were initiated in the
outlying provinces. FOPINAR's plans for expanding the commitment authority
of branch staff and selectively strengthening its weaker branch operations
agreed to during negotiations should ensure that the project's objective for
regional decentralization will continue to be achieved.
3.05       Of the 220 loans granted by FOPINAR as of February 28, 1982, 37%
had been made to the smallest SSE (those with assets of less than US$40,000).
Two thirds of these smaller firms were classified as artisan/micro-enterpri-
ses with assets of less than US$25,000 (equivalent). SSE with assets of less
than US$150,000 (excluding land and building) received an additional 37% of
the loans (Annex 3, Table 3). Thus, loan operations were heavily concentra-
ted amongst the smallest firms. The average size firm participating in the
project reported assets,excluding land and buildings, of about US$185,000
including their FOPINAR financed investments. FOPINAR financed 66 new SSE's
(30% of the total) of which more than 60% are located in areas outside Quito
or Guayaquil. Overall, the data show the positive results obtained by: (i)
FOPINAR's policy of concentration of promotional effort in support of rural
based small lending operations, and (ii) the provision, under the loan, of
adequate financial spreads to participating financial intermediaries for
assuming the risks associated with of loans to SSE (para 3.28).
3.06       The SSE projects financed under Loan 1879-EC (as of February 28,
1982) were concentrated in 4 major industrial groupings which accounted for
72% of the 220 projects financed as of that date. The 54 textile, clothing
and leather products projects accounted for 25% of total. Food and beverage
manufacture and metals, small machinery and equipment each accounted for
about 18.5% of total. Wood and furniture manufacture accounted for 10.5% of
total. Reflecting the high concentration of new projects in the rural pro-
vinces 30.3% of such projects were for food processing (only 13% of expansion
projects were in that sector). Projects in the traditional textile and clo-
thing manufacture sectors accounted for almost one-third of expansion and
only 10.6% of new projects. Given the high proportion of food, textile and
clothing and wood and furniture sector projects financed, SSE tended to
mainly use local resources rather than imported raw materials (Table 3.01
below) in their production processes.
3/ Based upon a review of 516 subprojects as of July 31, 1982. This effort
to expand regional decentralization is especially impressive when
compared with the fact that about 70% of all industrial firms are
located in Guayaquil and Quito.



- 24 -
Table 3.01 ECUADOR - SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
Reported Intention to use Domestic Raw Materials
Percentage use                Expansion                  New
of Domestic                   Projects               Projects
Raw Materials                    (%)                     (%)
O to  25                       18                      18
25 to  80                        5                       7
50 to  80                       11                       2
80 to 100                        8                       7
100                              58                      66
Total                        100                     100
Source: FOPINAR, Analysis of 182 SSE project applications.
Almost 60% of the SSE projects sampled reported that 100% of the raw mate-
rials used in production were of domestic origin while only 25% expected to
use less than 50% of domestic raw materials in their production processes.
Investments in tools, machinery and equipment accounted for 61% of total
investments made by SSE. Investments in structures and civil works and in
permanent working capital each accounted for slightly more than 19% of the
total while 1% of investment was for technical assistance. The estimated
foreign exchange component of subprojects is 50% which is in line with the
appraisal estimate.
3.07       An estimated 1,727 new jobs were generated by the first 220 FOPINAR
projects. The average cost per job created (Annex 3, Table 4) was US$12,900
compared with the current US$62,000 average required per industrial sector
job created in Ecuador. 4/ Under the fourth DFC loan the average cost per
industrial job created in 1978-80 was US$42,000. Cost per job created varied
by type of enterprise and type of project (Annex 3, Tables 5 and 6). In
general, new projects had a lower average cost per job (US$11,000). Costs
per job created for expansion projects were more variable and higher because
at least 25% of such projects were not designed to create new jobs, but,
according to the project documents: (i) existing jobs would be saved; (ii)
higher wages would be paid to existing employees; or (iii) productivity would
be increased and product quality improved, all of which provide direct
benefits to the economy. While no attempts were made to measure secondary
effects of SSE projects on the economy, the close linkages to the
4/ The estimated cost per job created among SSE in 1978 was US$8,660 which
in 1981 values is equal to about US$12,500, in line with investment
costs per job created under Loan 1879-EC.



- 25 -
agriculture, natural resources and service sectors indicate the strong
likelihood of favorable secondary income and employment effects. 5/
3.08      The average cost per job for the smallest enterprises i.e., with
fixed assets of up to US$25,000 was about US$6,200 or one-half of the average
cost per job created, and about one-third the US$20,000 cost per job created
for the largest SSE's i.e. with average fixed assets equal to US$250,000
(Annex 3 Table 4). In general, the larger firms are in food processing, pot-
tery and glass manufacture, refactory materials, cement block and construc-
tion materials which use larger, more expensive equipment while the smallest
enterprises are in the clothing, wood and leather sectors. The economic rate
of return was estimated for 32 subprojects requiring subloans in excess of
S/3.2 million each. The average ERR per project was 39% and variation in ERR
among sectors was not large reflecting the labor intensive nature of SSE
operations, their high use of local resources and absence of dependence upon
the industrial incentive system. In line with the objective of creating jobs
at reasonable costs, FOPINAR would continue to encourage financial institu-
tions to promote investments by the smallest scale enterprises (para.3.28).
3.09      As a result of a substantial increase in the number of micro-enter-
prise projects submitted by BNF and an increase in the number of smaller sub-
projects financed by private commercial banks, during the first three months
of 1982 there have been important changes in the size and type of enterprise
participating in the project. During the first six months of operations
FOPINAR's average discount was about US$90,000. By the first quarter of 1982
the size of the average discount had declined to US$70,000. As of August
1982, the average size discount for the 516 SSE projects financed was about
US$45,000, which is slightly lower than the appraisal estimate, reflecting
the sharply increasing number of loans to the smaller enterprises.
Project Objectives
3.10       The proposed Second SSE Credit Project would support Ecuador's in-
dustrial development policy, help promote and maintain efficient growth ot
industrial output and assist in strengthening CFN financial and FOPINAR ins-
titutional structure by:
(i) Relieving the scarcity of term financing to SSE on reasonable
terms through a network of geographically dispersed private
financial institutions.
(ii) Financing the establishment of 200 to 350 new small scale en-
terprises and the expansion or modernization of 700 to 900
existing firms over the life of the project.
5/ Based upon a number of FOPINAR and Bank supervision visits to SSE's
under Loan 1879-EC, a general consensus has emerged that there is a high
degree of under-reporting of employment generated under SSE projects in
rural provinces, where labor laws, social security benefit regulations
and minimum wage laws are harder to enforce. Visits to a small number
of firms showed that under-reporting of employment in subprojects has
varied from 10% to 500%. Under the second SSE project FOPINAR plans to
undertake a study of the actual employment effects and the financial
results of SSE projects to better understand the differences between
project expectations and results.



- 26 -
(iii) Creating an estimated 5,000 to 7,000 new jobs and directly
contributing to raising the productivity levels of existing
jobs.
(iv) Contributing to the economic growth and employment creation
in smaller provincial cities where an estimated 55% to 60% of
new enterprises financed under the project would be located.
(v) Contributing to the expanded use of domestic raw materials
since a high percentage of the inputs used by SSE are expected
to be of domestic origin.
(vi) Improving CFN's overall capability to function as Ecuador's
main development finance institution, strengthening its
capacity to manage its financial resources, and broaden its
base of needed services to industry.
(vii) Improving FOPINAR's institutional capacity to (a) operate a
regionally decentralized SSE loan promotion, discount and
supervision facility, (b) assist PFI improve project
preparation, appraisal and supervision techniques, and (c)
mobilize community resources in provincial areas for the more
rapid promotion of new SSE project initiatives.
B. Fondo de Fomento para la Pequena Industria y Artesania (FOPINAR)
(Small Scale Enterprise Development Fund)
Establishment, Organization and Management
3.11      Under the First Small Scale Enterprise Credit Project, FOPINAR was
established within the Corporacion Financiera Nacional (CFN) as a permanent
second tier financial institution with its own staff, financial resources and
separate accounts. Since CFN had been authorized under its Organic Laws of
1962 to discount loans made by financial intermediaries to small industry,
the establishment of FOPINAR required no changes in CFN's charter and was
accomplished in May 1980 by CFN's Board of Directors adopting of a Statement
of Policies and a Statement of Operating Procedures for FOPINAR both of which
had been agreed to by the Bank.
3.12      FOPINAR was established in CFN's Quito headquarters, as a special
fund within the Development Department 6/ with its own staff, financial
structure, policy statement and operating regulations. FOPINAR's competent
director is supported by an adequate staff of 5 professionals (three
economists, an industrial analyst and an industrial engineer) who are respon-
sible for: (i) promotion of discount operations and supervision activity in
the Quito area, (ii) review of all SSE subloans above FOPINAR's internal free
limit (currently US$150,000 equivalent), (iii) training of the professional
staff of participating financial intermediaries (PFI) in project appraisal
6/ The Departamento de Desarrollo (CFN's lending department) also operates
special export credit facilities (FOPEX) and the Industrial Loan
Department which has been a major user of Bank funds under DFC loans to
Ecuador.



- 27 -
methods, (iv) establishing branch operating procedures and training SSE pro-
ject staff, and (v) maintaining overall financial and program information
systems. In addition FOPINAR headquarter staff assists the branches to orga-
nize local technical assistance programs coordinating these with national
technical assistance activities. During negotiations it was confirmed that
all accounting, computer service, resource management and general
housekeeping functions would continue to be performed for FOPINAR by CFN.
3.13      To ensure that FOPINAR can continue to operate efficiently in the
face of expanded demand for SSE subloans, CFN has agreed to modify FOPINAR's
organizational structure (Annex 6) by creating: (i) a project unit which
would assume responsibility for subloan review and appraisal activity, econo-
mic analysis, data management and the training of PFI staff; and (ii) a unit
under a senior industrial engineer which would assume responsibility for
FOPINAR subproject supervision activities, including training of field
staff. This unit would also be responsible for planning FOPINAR technical
assistance activities and for coordinating these with other agencies. The
result of such changes should be to free FOPINAR's director to deal with
financial intermediaries and government agencies on the issues affecting the
overall project efficiency, and to visit branch operations with greater fre-
quency to maintain and increase the quality and effectiveness of FOPINAR's
field operations.
3.14      Because of the swifter than anticipated growth in lending and the
higher than anticipated percentage of rural based SSE operations, the Bank
recommended that CFN management consider the need for modification of
FOPINAR's operating procedures and staffing arrangements, to ensure that
regional office discount operations were efficient and that adequate super-
vision was provided for. CFN took the initial step of staffing each regional
office 7/ with a qualified professional responsible for SSE project opera-
tions. During negotiations, branch office free limits, staffing and adequate
branch field supervision procedures were discussed and agreed to (para.
5.01).
Disbursement and Collection
3.15      The Central Bank of Ecuador (CBE) had been serving as fiscal agent
for the Government and as financial agent for the first SSE Project for a fee
of 1/8% of FOPINAR disbursements. The CBE has established within its Opera-
tions Department an adequate capability to execute FOPINAR discount and col-
lection operations and has agreed to continue to serve as fiscal and finan-
cial agent for the proposed SSE project on the same basis as for the first
project. During negotiations this agreement was confirmed (para 5.01) and
the execution of a satisfactory financial agency agreement between the CBE
and CFN would be a condition of loan effectiveness (para 5.02).
3.16      To facilitate the financial agency operation of the CBE, CFN esta-
blished and maintains a Project Account within the CBE into which are depo-
sited CBE's withdrawals from the Bank's loan account, the Government's coun-
terpart payments and the collections of principal and interest on FOPINAR's
loans to financial intermediaries. This account, which is under the control
of CFN's financial department, is used as the channel for repayment to the
7/ CFN regional offices are located in Guayaquil, Ambato, Cuenca, Machala
and Manta.



-28 -
Bank of principal and interest due under the Loan Agreement as well as the
ordinary day to day financial requirements of the SSE fund.
Policies and Operating Regulations
3.17      Policies.  FOPINAR's policy statement establishes broad program ob-
jectives and provides the basic framework for achieving such objectives in-
cluding, inter alia: (i) FOPINAR's financial structure and criteria for
financial operations, (ii) the types of enterprise which FOPINAR can finance,
(iii) the types of services which FOPINAR can perform, (iv) criteria for ac-
cepting financial intermediary participation in the program; and (v) person-
nel and staff development objectives. FOPINAR's policy statement was found
to be generally sound, but it could benefit from some improvement in its
organization and the clarification of several guidelines. An updated and
revised policy statement was reviewed in draft during appraisal and final
agreement on the statement was reached during negotiations. CFN agreed that
the amendments to the statement of policy satisfactory to the Bank would be
approved by its Board of Directors by December 31, 1982.
3.18      Operating Regulations.  A Statement of Operating Regulations and
Procedures was prepared by CFN, agreed to by the Bank and adopted by CFN's
Board in 1981. These regulations provide guidance to FOPINAR staff in their
day-to-day operations and establish in detail the procedures which PFI would
follow in their FOPINAR operations. Based upon the experience to date and
the changes that would be required to support an expanded FOPINAR, modifica-
tion and additions to the operating regulations were discussed and agreed to
during appraisal. A draft revised Statement of Operating Regulations was
reviewed and agreed to during negotiations and CFN provided assurances that
the operating regulations satisfactory to the Bank would be approved by CFN's
General Manager by December 31, 1982.
3.19      Subprojects to be Financed.  As under the first project FOPINAR
would continue to focus on the promotion and financing of investment projects
of small and micro-enterprise involved in manufacture, agro-industry, fores-
try, fishery, fish processing, and related services. Small tourism projects
outside of the two major cities would also be financed. Projects eligible
for financing would involve the creation, expansion or modernization of the
productive capacity of the enterprise. In its allocation of scarce resources
and in line with its revised statement of policies FOPINAR would principally
finance projects which increase the utilization of local natural resources,
generate new jobs and efficiently create wage goods for local markets or sub-
stitutes for imports. Special efforts would be made to promote financing of
projects with high employment components. In that connection FOPINAR could,
in accordance with its policies and operating regulations, finance: (i) the
purchase of fixed assets including machinery and equipment and their instal-
lation costs, (ii) buildings, storage and handling facilities and civil
works, (iii) the related permanent working capital needs of subprojects, and
(iv) technical assistance services required for project preparation or imple-
mentation.
Terms and Limits of Financing
3.20      Existing Firms having fixed assets, excluding land and buildings,
of less than S/12.0 million (US$350,000 equivalent) at the time of subloan



- 29 -
approval, 8/ or new firms to be established with fixed assets (excluding
land and buildings) not exceeding that amount would be eligible for finan-
cing. This criterion corresponds approximately to firms of up to 25-30
employees and includes most firms which, outside of the SSE Project, have in
the past had little or no access to term credit. FOPINAR's maximum financing
for any one investment subproject and enterprise would be limited to
US$300,000. Both limits would be reviewed from time to time and revised by
the Bank in agreement with CFN. FOPINAR would not approve financing for com--
panies which it judged to have reasonable access to alternative local or
foreign sources of financing on adequate terms.
3.21      About US$3 million of the resources committed by FOPINAR under the
project would be for micro-enterprises with assets of less than S/700,000.
To continue to ensure that a significant part of project resources benefit
the smaller enterprises, given the higher risks associated with such lending,
FOPINAR would: (i) reduce further the complexity of applications for dis-
count of the smaller SSE and provide financial intermediaries with a higher
spread as an additional financial inducement and to cover the higher risks
and costs of lending to the smallest SSE (para. 3.28), (ii) provide smaller
rural based SSE with technical assistance in the preparation of project docu-
ments in conjunction with PFI, (iii) expand promotion programs among PFI
branch offices in smaller towns and cities.
3.22      FOPINAR would ensure that PFI continue to establish appropriate
maturities and grace periods for each subloan. In line with the experience
gained under the first project, maturities would average about five and one
half years with one year of grace. The proposed maximum duration for any one
loan would continue to be 10 years with not more than 3 years of grace.
Normally, FOPINAR would not approve subloans to firms able to repay their
debt in less than twenty-four months, since banks would be expected to
finance such loans from their ordinary resources or from the Central Bank's
short-term loan rediscount facility (the MFF).
3.23      FOPINAR would participate jointly with the financial intermediary
and the final borrower in the financing of subprojects. FOPINAR would dis-
count up to 90% of subloans for approved subprojects and the financial inter-
mediary would finance the balance. The subloans would not exceed 75% of pro-
ject costs for new firms or 85% of total project costs for expansion pro-
jects. 9/ In view of the expected high volume of SSE lending and the
large number, varied nature, and small size of subloans (para. 3.04 and
3.05), the Bank would reimburse FOPINAR for a standard percentage (85%) of
its disbursements for individual subloans which based upon the financial par-
ticipation of the PFI experienced under the first SSE project, would repre-
sent the estimated foreign exchange costs--about 50% of adjusted total sub-
project cost. With respect to technical assistance subloans, which accounted
for 1% of loans granted under 1879-EC, up to 90% of costs would be financed
by FOPINAR with the financial intermediary and borrower contributing equally
to cover the balance.
8/ But in no event would a firm qualify if its total liabilities plus
paid-in capital exceeded twice the maximum fixed asset size.
9/ During the first project the maximum was rarely achieved except for
BNF's financing of artisan subprojects.



-    -
Subproject Appraisal and Supervision
3.24      Subprojects financed by FOPINAR have varied in complexity and size,
ranging from very small artisan subprojects requiring total investments of
several thousand dollars, to small size industrial subprojects typically in-
volving investments of several hundred thousand dollars. 10/ Thus, in line
with the general appraisal guidelines, the depth and sophistication of sub-
project appraisal and review were varied to fit the size and nature of sub-
projects. Financial intermediaries, in cooperation with subborrowers, are
responsible for preparing subproject appraisals. FOPINAR regularly reviews
these appraisals and approves financing for those which are judged to be
technically sound, financially viable and economically efficient. Standard-
ized applications for discount and appraisal reports are required for sub-
loans over FOPINAR's internal free limit (currently US$150,000). 11/ To re-
duce the time and cost involved in the administration of smaller SSE pro-
jects, with the prior approval of FOPINAR, financial intermediaries are per-
mitted to submit applications for discount of subloans that are supported by
a subproject appraisal which uses the financial intermediary's own project
and credit appraisal format. This system has worked well. Individual finan-
cial intermediaries have adapted to the Bank approved procedures for subpro-
ject review and the overall quality of project preparation and analysis has
been adequate. 12/
3.25      In accordance with the requirements of the Participation Agree-
ments, PFI are responsible for making periodic supervision visits to SSE and
for maintaining records adequate to indicate the progress of subprojects.
These requirements are in line with private commercial banking practices in
Ecuador and with the procedures followed by private and public financieras.
Compliance with project supervision requirements has in general been adequate
and FOPINAR engineers in Manta and Ambato are generally present at financial
intermediary supervision visits to offer technical advice and assistance. A
pilot program for maintaining project progress files within FOPINAR was ini-
tiated in the Manta branch office and the effectiveness of that system as an
aid to focusing technical assistance programs will be evaluated during 1983.
To simplify Bank project supervision the Bank requested that FOPINAR in con-
junction with PFI develop a standard supervision report format that would be
used by the PFI and become a part of subproject files. During negotiations
new supervision review procedures prepared by FOPINAR were discussed and
approved as part of FOPINAR's revised operating regulations (para 3.18).
Training
3.26      Under the first SSE project FOPINAR agreed to train the staff of
PFI in techniques of project appraisal and supervision. It prepared training
manuals and materials acceptable to the Bank which it has used during the
course of the training seminars held. FOPINAR has placed high priority on
the periodic retraining of its own staff as well as the staff members of PFI
10/ Under 1879-EC, 70% of the first 220 subprojects were for expansion and
30% for new projects. This relationship is likely to continue to
prevail.
11/ As of June 30, 1982 FOPINAR had completed ERR calculations for 55
subprojects.
12/ Data on all projects are collected for FOPINAR's subproject data system.



- 31 -
in project appraisal techniques, in light of the high turnover among emplo-
yees of financial intermediaries. Based upon its adequate record to date in
the administration of such programs no additional assurances would be requi-
red with regard to this aspect of FOPINAR's operations. The Bank and FOPINAR
have agreed that its present periodic training programs would be adequate to
maintain effective levels of PFI professional appraisal effort during
1983-84.
Interest Rates
3.27       Subloans financed by FOPINAR would be denominated in Sucres.
Interest rates and fees charged by PFI are subject to: (i) the limits esta-
blished by the Monetary Board, 13/ (ii) the need to provide financial inter-
mediaries and FOPINAR with appropriate financial spreads, (iii) the need to
harmonize lending rates under the proposed SSE Project with other competing
lending lines and (iv) the provision of an interest rate structure which
would be positive in real terms. In line with these principles CFN increased
interest rates on February 18, 1982 to final beneficiaries under Loan 1879-EC
from 14%, 15% and 16% respectively to 16% for loans of 2 to 5 years, 17% for
loans of 5 to 8 years and 18% for loans of 8 years and longer. These rates
would be modified during the second SSE project to reflect the new lending
limits established by monetary authorities and the higher costs of Bank
funds. Loans to micro-enterprises would be raised from 12% to 15% p.a. and
interest rates to other SSE would be set at 17%, 18% and 19% for loans of 2
to 5, 5 to 8 and 8 to 10 years respectively.
3.28       FOPINAR's current discount rate for PFI subloans to SSE of 12%
would be raised to 13% under the proposed second credit project which would
continue to allow adequate but not excessive gross financial spreads of 4, 5
and 6 points to the PFI depending on subloan terms. Loans to micro-enter-
prise would be discounted at 9% to yield financial intermediaries a 6 point
financial spread to compensate for the higher costs associated with this len--
ding. FOPINAR would be expected to receive an average discount rate of about
12.6% on its operations based upon the use of about US$47 million for SSE and
US$3 million of its resources for micro-enterprise loans. This would allow
an adequate margin over its estimated 9.6% blended cost of resources 14/ to
cover administrative and other costs as well as contribute to technical
assistance.
3.29       Given that inflation has recently been running at 15-16 percent
p.a., the 17.5 percent average interest rate to be charged to the ultimate
beneficiaries would imply a positive rate in real terms. Nevertheless,
interest rates and spreads would be reviewed from time to time and modified
as necessary by agreement between the Bank, CFN and the monetary authorities
to ensure that project objectives are met and to reflect changing financial
market conditions and inflationary trends.
3.30       On the basis of demand projections by the main financial
intermediaries participating in the program it is estimated that over the
commitment period of the loan FOPINAR pipeline would contain between
13/ Regulation 1,170-82 promulgated on January 7, 1982.
__ Assumes a US$40 million Bank loan at 12% total cost and US$10.0 million
in additional capital contribution to FOPINAR.



- 32 -
900 to 1,350 subprojects with a total investment cost of about US$84 million
requiring financing of about US$50 million (62.5% of total subproject cost)
US$39.8 million of which would be financed by the proposed loan and US$10
million equivalent from the Government's contribution. Participating
financial intermediaries would provide financing of about US$6 million and
final beneficiaries the balance of US$28 million equal to about one third of
subproject cost. The average subloan size would be an estimated US$45,000
reflecting a projected continuation of the trend toward smaller size projects
(para 3.09). Based upon a continuation of the banking system's conservative
approach to project financing, the projected average debt to equity ratio for
SSE would be 1.27 to 1 with .95 for new and 1.56 for expansion projects. As
a result of a conservative balance sheet approach to project financing,
financial intermediaries accept both signatures and equipment as part of the
not excessively rigid guarantee requirements.
Table 3.2 - FOPINAR Projected Subproject Pipeline
Total Investment                        Fopinar Financing
Investment
Subsectors               Percentage      Categories               Percentage
Food products                 18         Machinery & Equipment         60
Textiles & wearing                       Building Civil Works          18
apparel                    12          Working Capital              20
Leather & products             9         Technical Assistance           2
Wood & wood products           5
Chemical products             10
Non-metalic minerals           5
Metal, machinery &
electrical products        25
Transport equipment            5
Miscellaneous                 11
Total                  100.0                                    100.0
Financial Position
3.31      In accordance with the Loan Agreement CFN has established separate
accounts for FOPINAR (para 4.09). The balance sheet which reflects FOPINAR's
initial 10 months of operation ending on December 31, 1981 shows a rapidly
growing loan portfolio amounting to S/332 million. (Annex 3, Tables 7-12).
Because the PFI assume the full credit risk FOPINAR's portfolio has minimum
possibilities of arrears. FOPINAR's collections on accounts due from inter-
mediaries are made automatically by the CBE in its capacity as project finan-
cial agent (para 3.01). FOPINAR's total debt amounted to S/170 million at
the end of 1981 and consisted mainly of the Bank loan for the first SSE Pro-
ject. FOPINAR's capital of S/216 million (US$8.64 million) was provided by



- 33 -
the Government and CFN under the first SSE loan. 15/ In its first 10 months
of operations FOPINAR realized a small profit of 7/416,000, after covering
all direct and indirect expenses.
3.32      FOPINAR's loan portfolio is forecast to increase substantially.  It
is anticipated that about 25% of the loans and 6% of the loan portfolio will
be to micro-enterprise. During 1982-86 the principal projected sources of
funds (Annex 3, Table 10) would be: (i) The proposed Bank loan of US$40
million (S/1,320 million equivalent); (ii) FOPINAR's portfolio recoveries and
net revenues amounting to about S/2,150 million; (iii) Government capital
contributions of S/330 million. Short term borrowing amounting up to S/300
million would be required to meet FOPINAR's resource gap from September 1982
through early 1983 when the second SSE project would become effective.
FOPINAR's projected outstanding loan balance from the Bank (US$54.8 million)
as of December 31, 1986 would represent 68% of FOPINAR total resources, while
FOPINAR's capital and reserves would equal about 30% of total resources
(Annex 3 Table 8).
3.33      Based upon FOPINAR's projected financial results for the period
1982-86 its net income would average about S/59.0 million p.a. (Annex 3,
Table 9). From its net income FOPINAR would provide for the S/4.4 million
p.a. which on average would be required to finance its technical assistance
operations (paras 3.36 and 3.37). FOPINAR has since its inception been
efficiently operated. In its first year of operations, FOPINAR's expenses
were about 1.5% of average total assets. It is expected that as lending
volume expands, operating expenses will equal only 0.7% of 1986 average
assets. Net earnings on average assets applied are forecast to equal a
satisfactory 2.4% in 1982 and 3.7% in 1986. Given the low debt to equity
ratio of 2.1 to 1, projected earnings on equity would also be very satisfac-
tory at 12.4% in 1986. Overall, FOPINAR's projected results would be highly
satisfactory indicating sound financial growth based upon reasonable finan-
cial spreads, low operating costs and an essentially risk free portfolio.
Should the demand for project funds be below expected levels, it would take
FOPINAR somewhat longer to achieve the above results. Nevertheless, its
financial position would continue to be satisfactory.
C. Financial Intermediaries
3.34      Although the most active 10 of the 23 PFI account for 80% of the
credits, participation is fairly well distributed amongst the PFI (Annex 3,
Table 1). Eight private financieras, led by Financiera MANABI, accounted for
about one-half of the subprojects. Fourteen participating commercial banks
accounted for about one-third of the operations, and the National Development
Bank (BNF) which could be the largest user of funds in 1982 and there-
after 16/ accounted for the balance. Particularly noteworthy is the fact
that the regional branch offices of commercial banks have financed the majo-
rity of commercial bank projects.
15/ The balance of US$1.56 million equivalent due from CFN is in CFN's old
SSE loan portfolio which reverts to FOPINAR as the portfolio becomes due
and collectable.
16/ As of June 30, 1982 BNF had presented a total of 224 subloans to FOPINAR
for discount.



- 34 -
3.35      To help ensure a wide distribution in use of project funds no
intermediary would initially be able to use more than US$15 million of Bank
funds under the second loan. This limit would be reviewed within 18 months
of effectiveness. As was the case under the first project all commercial
banks and financieras in good standing with the Superintendent of Banks and
the Monetary authorities would be eligible to participate in the FOPINAR pro-
gram. Actual participation in the project would continue to be limited to an
eligible institution which met the requirements established under the parti-
cipation agreements including: (i) the establishment of a specific center of
organizational responsibility for managing FOPINAR program participation;
(ii) the development of professional capability to assist SSE prepare pro-
jects, to appraise subloan applications and adequately supervise SSE pro-
jects. During negotiations the Bank and CFN reached agreement on the amend-
ments to the Participation Agreement to be signed by PFI and CFNsatisfactory
to the Bank. It would be a condition of disbursement to PFI to sign the
amended participation agreement.
D. Technical Assistance
3.36      FOPINAR, in conjuction with the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and
Integration (MICEI) and the Federation of Chambers of Small Industry (FCPI)
has allocated resources toward meeting SSE technical assistance (TA) needs in
accordance with plans envisaged under the first SSE project. An amount equal
to US$500,000 is provisionally budgeted for FOPINAR's TA activities during
1982-85 and an assistance program for these years is already being implemen-
ted. As a result of its first TA program, initiated during 1981 with Bank
assistance, FOPINAR made substantial progress toward resolving the paramount
problem of how and where to apply its limited technical assistance
resources.17/ Specifically FOPINAR advanced its understanding of: (i) SSE
training needs as prerequisites to preparation of project and subloan
documents and to improve their overall performance in production and
marketing; (ii) the strengths and technical weaknesses of the public and
private sector agencies which provide technical assistance; (iii) the types
of appropriate technology skills and information available from national and
regional technology centers and the steps that SSE would take to acquire such
information; (iv) the availability of technical assistance skills in each of
the provincial cities in which FOPINAR has active PFI and loan programs.
3.37      To achieve coordination in areas affecting technical assistance^a
Technical Cooperation Committee (TCC) was established with a representative
of MICEI, the President of the Federation of Chambers of Small Industry and
the director of FOPINAR. 18/ The TCC has to date not proven to be a strong
source of project ideas nor has it advanced coordination at regional levels
among public and private agencies. The TCC has, however, helped to increase
7/ A Bank/RVB Delft mission examined in detail the availability of
technical assistance (TA) resources, the nature of ongoing TA programs
and obtained the views of SSE, financial intermediaries, local machinery
and supply vendors, etc. with regard to TA requirements in eight
provincial centers.
18/ CENAPIA serves as the technical and program adviser to the TCC and had
the initial responsibility of proposing a TA program.



- 35. -
cooperation among the public sector agencies involved in TA and would conti-
nue to serve in this limited role during the second SSE project. In the
absence of other leadership FOPINAR has expanded its own capability to plan
for and program TA and has obtained the services of a qualified industrial
engineer/economist with a strong background in programming and promoting
regional industrial sector development.
3.38       Based upon Bank/FOPINAR research findings concerning SSE technical
assistance (TA) needs, a pilot three tier program was agreed upon. At the
first most generalized level of TA activity a program to help SSE improve
their overall entrepreneurial skills (accounting, finance, management and
marketing) was designed and initiated (para 3.39). At the second level of TA
activity a program to raise production standards, technical content and qual-
ity of basic industrial processes (welding, metal and wood finishing, dyeing
and painting, etc.) was developed and expert technical staff obtained. At
the third level a TA program to help specific industrial groups improve out-
put, markets and sales was designed on a pilot three city, three subsector
basis and local sources of financial and technical support have been identi-
fied.
3.39       During 1981-82 FOPINAR initiated training programs in accounting,
finance and project preparation for SSE. For purposes of this program appro-
priate text books and case material were developed. CENAPIA (the national
SSE technical assistance agency) adequately conducted these training courses
in six cities. CENAPIA will be funded by FOPINAR to continue to develop and
conduct basic entrepreneurial training courses during 1983-1984.
3.40      With assistance from local polytechnical colleges, missions and
SECAP (the national technical training center) FOPINAR has developed a pro-
gram of basic courses in key industrial processes. During 1983-84 a number
of experts in metal and wood working technology and in industrial quality
control will conduct courses in Ecuador's five key industrial cities. These
courses are intended to teach SSEs located in seven cities how to improve
quality of metal work and welding and how to do simple machine repair, elec-
trical work and other routine maintenance tasks.
3.41       At the third level of program activity, pilot programs to review
the prospects for expanded leather goods and metal mechanics manufacturing
and food processing is being undertaken in the cities using mainly local
resources and technical skills. The proposed programs would involve SSE
associations, PFI, polytechnical colleges, CENAPIA, and local vendors of
machinery and raw materials. Should the prospects for the expansion of the
leather goods, metal manufacture and food subsectors appear to be positive,
then a TA program would be initiated during 1983-84 to aid participating SSEs
address the product design, production, quality and marketing constraints
which traditionally restrict SSE sales. Based upon the experience gained in
the initial two city programs, additional programs would be designed for
other areas.
3.42       In addition to the major TA initiatives proposed above (paras
3.38-3.40) FOPINAR would continue to provide assistance to financial interme-
diaries and their client SSE in the preparation of project and loan applica-
tions. Moreover, individual SSE could obtain subloans under the project for
direct contracting of private technical assistance services. Although the



- 36 -
financing of engineering and consultant services is expected to continue to
account for only a small portion of credit demand, the mechanism would permit
SSE to finance technological and management improvements affecting producti-
vity. Loan resources would also be used by SSE to finance services provided
by the technology information center recently opened in Guayaquil by the
Ecuadorian Center for Industrial Development (CENDES). This facility with
linkage to a number of appropriate technology data systems worldwide has an
adequate capability to assist SSE in the selection of equipment, the setting
of production standards, and to enhance their understanding of markets and
sales requirements. The center's fee structure is reasonable, and its ser-
vices to sub-borrowers could be financed under the SSE project (para 3.19).
To ensure the broadest possible use of its facilities FOPINAR has taken steps
to advise PFI about the existence of the center, the services offered and the
advantage to SSE of obtaining such services.



- 37 -
IV.  THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. Project Cost and Financing Plan
4.01      Based on the anticipated demand for resources to finance new and
expansion projects initiated by SSE during the next several years (para 3.30)
and on FOPINAR's capacity to channel term resources and provide assistance
and supervision required, the estimated total cost of the proposed project,
including a technical assistance component is US$83.6 million equivalent.
Overall, the Bank expects to finance an average of about 50% of total
investment costs of subprojects which would be equal to the foreign exchange
component of the project19/ and the foreign component of the technical.
assistance program, as well as the capitalized front end fee on the Bank
loan. The financial intermediaries would finance at least 7% of subproject
investment costs, beneficiaries would finance an average of about 30% (at
least 15% in the case of expansion and 25% in the case of new projects) and
FOPINAR would finance an estimated 12.4% of total subproject costs based upon
their use of Government counterpart for SSE and micro-enterprise lending.
Table 4.1 below shows the expected total project cost and financing plan of
the proposed project.
Table 4.1 - SSE Project Cost and Financing Plan
(in US$ million equivalent)
Foreign   Local   Total  Percentage
Costs    Costs   Costs   of Total
Project Costs
SSE Investment                            39.8      43.6      83.4
Technical Assistance (To CFN)                .2       a/        .2
Total Project                        40.0      43.6     83.6
Front End Fee                                .6       -         .6
Total Financing Required             40.6      43.6      84.2
Source of Financing
IBRD                                      40.6        -       40.6     48.2
Government                                   -      10.0      10.0      11.9
Financial Intermediaries (minimum)           -       5.6       5.6       6.7
Beneficiaries (average)                      -      28.0      28.0      33.3
CFN                                                   a/
Total Financing Required             40.6      43.6      84.2    100.0
a/  Less than US$50,000 equivalent in local cost financing.
19/ Based on our analysis of the investment requirements of subprojects
financed under the first SSE credit project.



- 38 -
B. Proposed Loan
Amount and Terms
4.02       The proposed Bank loan of US$40.6 million equivalent would provide
US$39.8 million for lending, US$200,000 for financing technical assistance to
CFN (para 2.21) and US$600,000 for financing the estimated capitalized front
end fee. The Government, through BCE, with whom it would sign a fiscal agen-
cy contract, would onlend the loan proceeds to CFN in sucres on the same
terms and at an initial fixed interest rate of 12% p.a. on the outstanding
balance of the loan. CFN would make the proceeds of the loan available to
FOPINAR, its small scale enterprise fund, to be channelled to SSE through
financial intermediaires that meet FOPINAR's conditions for participation
(para 3.35). The foreign exchange risks and the interest rate risks of the
proposed project would be borne by the Government without charge. Subject to
review not later than 18 months after loan signing no single financial inter-
mediary could commit more than US$15 million in resources from the proceeds
of the proposed loan. Interest rates to final borrowers would initially be
fixed at 17%, 18% and 19% for loans of 2 to 5, 5 to 8 and over 8 years
respectively except for loans to micro-enterprises which would borrow at
15%. Discount rates to PFI would initially be 13% for all SSE credits except
micro-enterprise loans where discounts would be 9% (paras 3.27-3.28). Con-
sistent with the Bank's flexible interest rate policy, the Government onlen-
ding rate to CFN, CFN's subloan discount rate and PFI subloan interest rates
to SSE borrowers would all be subject to review and modifications by the
Government and CFN with Bank approval.
4.03       As under the first project, because the expected large number of
subloans would make a composite amortization schedule impractical, the loan
would be repaid in equal installments over a fixed 17 year term, including 4
years of grace. Any surplus of repayment for subloans over repayments due to
the Bank, would be used by FOPINAR for lending to SSE in accordance with its
Statement of Policies and its Operating Regulations as approved by the Bank
(para 5.01). The Government would make available US$10 million equivalent in
contributions to FOPINAR through CFN to support the local currency component
of its operations and to increase its capital base. Of this amount US$7.1
million equivalent would be used to finance the local currency component of
FOPINAR discounts and the balance of US$2.9 million equivalent would be used
to help further strengthen FOPINAR's capital base. The US$10 million
equivalent contribution would be provided in three installments, the first-of
US$5.0 million equivalent to be a condition of loan effectiveness, the second
installment of US$2.5 million six months thereafter and the final installment
of US$2.5 million by 12 months after loan effectiveness. To assure that the
Government's contribution would be made in accordance with the agreed upon
schedule, the Bank would not authorize withdrawals from the loan account
above US$20 million if the second installment had not been made and above
US$30 million if the final installment had not been deposited in FOPINAR's
project account.
4.04       In order to maintain continuity of the existing small scale enter-
prise credit program which was fully committed in September 1982, retroactive
financing of up to US$4.0 million (equal to 10% of the loan amount), would be
provided for under the loan. This was based on evidence presented by FOPINAR



- 39 -
during loan negotiations to the effect that (i) there exists a substantial
pipeline of eligible subprojects, and (ii) bridge financing in the amount of
S/300 million is available through the Central Bank for a period of six
months to initially finance the projects which the Bank would agree to
finance retroactively.
4.05      Relending Terms and Conditions.  Subloans approved by FOPINAR for
submission to the Bank under the project would be made in accordance with
FOPINAR's Statement of Policy and Operating Regulations (para 3.19). All
subproject appraisals submitted by the financial intermediaries would be re-
viewed by FOPINAR, which would calculate economic rates of return for all
subprojects requiring financing of US$200,000 or more. Based upon FOPINAR's
satisfactory performance under the first project, the free limit for the
second SSE project, although subject to periodic review, would be raised to
eliminate the requirement that FOPINAR present subloans to the Bank for prior
approval. 20/ It is expected that under its internal free limit of
US$200,000, FOPINAR would make about 50 ERR calculations covering about 25%
of loan amount. During the loan supervision activity, the Bank would, on an
ex-post basis, review a selected number of projects. The appropriateness of
FOPINAR's free limit level would be reviewed from time to time in light of
the quality of its appraisal activity.
4.06      Technical Assistance to CFN.  The technical assistance component of
the project would finance the second stage of a two phase assistance project
for strengthening CFN's data processing accounting and budgeting system and
installing a management information system. Under the fifth DFC project
US$100,000 is provided to undertake the first phase of the program. Under
the proposed project an additional US$200,000 would be included to finance
the second stage of the program which would result in the development and
installation of accounting systems and financial programs on CFN's newly ac-
quired computer and the training of CFN's staff in its use. The technical
assistance program, including the first phase, would be carried out in accor-
dance with terms of reference and a timetable acceptable to the Bank. Draft
terms of reference for the assistance are shown in Annex 4. The study should
begin in the second half of 1982 and require some 18 person/months of profes-
sional services.
4.07      Procurement.  The loan funds would finance the foreign exchange
costs of mainly locally procured and, limited quantities of, directly impor-
ted equipment, materials and services up to the maximum subloan of
US$300,000.  The financial intermediaries and FOPINAR would satisfy them-'
selves that procurement items were suitable for the respective investment
projects and reasonably priced and that the beneficiaries had canvassed the
main available sources of supply and were purchasing from advantageous sour-
ces. Items would be procured in accordance with normal commercial practices
for IDF-type projects. Since it may be difficult or relatively costly to ob-
tain several quotations from suppliers in the case of the small orders, which
would on average equal about US$9,000 (equivalent), that are expected to com-
prise the majority of the (approximately) 4,000 procurement operations, the
20/ CFN's free limit under DFC V is currently US$2 million. Under the first
SSE project, the free limit was US$250,000 (equivalent). A subloan un-
der the proposed project means a loan made or proposed to be made by a
PFI partially financed out of the proceeds of FOPINAR loan.



- 40 -
solicitations of offers would be expected mostly for the few relatively large
procurement contracts on the order of US$150,000 (equivalent). Consulting
services for CFN's Bank financed technical assistance program would be pro-
cured in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants".
Small loans to finance consulting services under the SSE project would be
open to local professional consulting firms prequalified by FOPINAR and in
accordance with terms of reference subject to their review.
4.08      Commitment and  Disbursement.  The final date for the submission of
subloan proposals for Bank authorization or approval, would be December 31,
1985 and the closing date June 30, 1986 (Annex 4, Table 1-2). The estimated
disbursement schedule for this project does not conform to the composite dis-
bursement schedule for DFC projects in LAC but reflects the more rapid pace
of disbursements experienced under Loan 1879-EC. The Bank would reimburse
FOPINAR for 85% of payments made against approved subloans, on the basis of
statements of expenditures, submitted by FOPINAR to the Central Bank, for
withdrawals from the Special Account. The supporting documentation for these
expenditures would not be submitted to the Bank but would be retained with
FOPINAR and the participating financial intermediaries for inspection during
Bank supervision missions. Because the substantial time involved in the
Bank's three step process, (determination of eligibility for withdrawal by
the Projects Division, authorization by the Disbursements Division and trans-
fer of funds by the Cashier's), which must precede borrower receipt of the
proceeds of the loan account, results in an average of 60 days from applica-
tion for approval to CBE's receipt of notice of availability of funds, FOPI-
NAR has suffered substantial costs and delays despite the availability of
government counterpart funds. 21/ These delays have resulted in stop and go
discounting operations and uncertainty among PFI as to the future prospects
for the program. To compensate for the unavoidable three-step procedure's
delays, the Bank would agree to provide for a Working Fund equal to approxi-
mately sixty days of average anticipated Bank disbursements.
4.09      Working Fund.  A Special Account would, as a condition of effec-
tiveness, be opened in the Central Bank of Ecuador in the name of CFN, which
would provide for immediate replenishment of the Bank's share of project ex-
penditures (para. 5.01). The amount available in the Special Account would
represent the Bank's initial deposit of US$3.2 million equivalent, which is
the estimated two months Bank share of expenditures. Payments from the Spe-
cial Account would be made against withdrawal applications prepared and sub-
mitted by FOPINAR. The applications would be forwarded to the Bank by the
Central Bank of Ecuador for review and replenishment of the Special Account.
The initial deposit of US$3.2 million equivalent would be made against a
withdrawal application under Procedure III, accompanied by evidence that the
Special Account had been established. The Central Bank would forward monthly
Statements of Account which reflect transactions in the Special Account and
would forward to the Bank, not later than four months after the end of each
fiscal year, an audit report on the operations of the Special Account. This
report would be separate from the audit report required from FOPINAR (para.
4.12). Recovery by the Bank of the initial deposit to the Special Account
would be effected by reducing the disbursement percentage when the undis-
bursed balance of the loan reaches twice the amount of the advance made into
21/ Based upon FOPINAR's experience during 1981-1982.



- 41 -
the Special Account. It is anticipated that by 1984/85 FOPINAR could meet
its full cash flow requirements out of its ordinary operations (e.g. buildup
of reserves and loan recuperations (Annex 3, Table 10)).
4.10      The CBE has agreed to continue to serve as fiscal agent for the
government and as financial agent for the project for a fee of 1/8%. As fi-
nancial agent, its main operational responsibility would be to continue to
maintain a project account for the SSE operation and to serve as the redis-
count and collection facility for FOPINAR crediting and debiting the finan-
cial accounts of participating financial intermediaries upon receipt of ap-
propriate documentation from FOPINAR.
Accounting, Auditing and Reports
4.11      CFN would continue to maintain separate accounts for FOPINAR as es-
tablished for the first project, in accordance with accounting principles
consistently applied and in a form satisfactory to the Bank. A condition of
this loan would be that as part of its annual audit, CFN's external auditors
will carry out an audit of FOPINAR's accounts including the statements of ex-
penditure on which loan disbursement would be based. Under the first project
CFN's external auditor prepared a report on the financial condition of FOPI-
NAR in accordance with the guidelines prescribed under the Bank Guidelines to
Auditors of Financial Institutions. The auditors reported however, that
CFN's assignment of indirect costs to FOPINAR was not based on a consistent
method of cost accounting. CFN's accounting system will not provide the cost
data required to adequately determine FOPINAR's operating income until CFN
completes a restructuring of its accounting and management information sys-
tem. It is anticipated that CFN would install a new accounting and data
management system by 1984. Until such time, the allocation of FOPINAR's in-
direct costs must be estimated. It will be a covenant of the loan that, un-
til a new costing system is functioning acceptably, CFN will submit FOPINAR's
annual budget, including indirect costs, to the Bank for its reviews and com-
ments.
4.12      Audit of the Special Account.  The Special Account would be audited
annually by the Superintendent of Banks and the relevant audit report would
be submitted to the Bank not later than four months after the close of the
Government's fiscal year. The scope of each annual audit should be suffi-
cient to enable the auditors to certify that the accounting system and inter-
nal controls are adequate and that there has been compliance with financial
and auditing covenants of the related Loan Agreement and the accuracy of the
records of all Special Account related transactions. The auditor would state
in his report whether or not his examination was made in accordance with
generally accepted auditing standards. Further, to the extent necessary, the
auditor would suport his report with such analytical schedules and notes as
would adequately reflect the opening and closing balances as well as move-
ments of funds within the Special Account covering the period under review.
C. Project Benefits and Risks
4.13      The proposed project would help fill a gap in the financing of
efficient SSE projects in Ecuador at a time when the financial system lacks



- 42 -
long term resources to cover the investment needs for SSE which generally
stand last in the credit line and are often squeezed out of the term credit
market. On the basis of the experience with the first SSE loan the proposed
project is expected to finance some 900 to 1,250 investment subprojects in-
volving total investment costs of about US$80 million for a wide range of
projects which on balance use mainly domestic raw and semi processed
materials in their production process. Because SSEs operate mainly outside
of the incentive system in the competitive local market environments and
based on the experience under the first SSE project the ERR of individual
subprojects is likely to exceed 30%.
4.14      The subprojects to be financed by FOPINAR are expected to continue
to have substantial direct employment impact, generating a total of about
6,000 new jobs, at an average investment cost of about US$12,600 in 1981 pri-
ces. Because of the significant linkage between the SSE financed under the
project and the production of domestic raw materials, the indirect employment
impact is also expected to be significant. The impact of the project is ex-
pected to be geographically dispersed with a high percentage of projects con-
centrated in the agricultural areas of Manabi to the South and Tungurahua to
the north and in the artisan production centers of Cuenca, Ibarra and
Tulcan. It is anticipated that only 40% of the projects financed would be in
the industrial centers of Pichincha and Guayas.
4.15      A principal benefit from this project could stem from the pilot
technical assistance programs which FOPINAR would plan and coordinate. The
program would assist a group of SSE to improve their product quality, design
and marketing efficiency with the objective of helping them to produce and
sell expanded product lines in broader domestic and potentially in external
markets. A further benefit of the project would be the opportunities which
it would afford the Bank for continuing a dialogue with the government on re-
source mobilization, interest rate and domestic industrial policy issues
which affect the macro-economic environment in which SSE function.
4.16      Risks.  No special project implementation risks appear to exist
given the current satisfactory state of CFN and FOPINAR management. Should
FOPINAR management change there would be minor risks, at least initially, of
higher than anticipated Bank supervision costs. Depending on the structural
implications of the recent economic developments in the country, demand for
project resources could be adversely affected, posing a risk for a slower use
of project resources. However, demand was projected, assuming no growth over
historical levels, thereby reducing this risk. In addition, in view of tight
liquidity situation of the banking system (para 2.32) demand for FOPINAR
resources should remain strong.



- 43 -
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During loan negotiations, agreements were obtained and under-
standing reached on the following:
(i)  With the Government of Ecuador on:
(a) the provision of US$10 million equivalent in counterpart to
complement resources of the Bank loan and CFN's existing
FOPINAR resources (para 4.01 and 4.03);
(b) assuming the foreign exchange risks between the currencies of
disbursement and the Sucre (para 4.02) and the interest rate
risks between the Bank's standard variable interest rate and
the fixed 12% onlending rate (para. 4.02); and
(c) the fee to be charged by CBE and the mechanism for disburse-
ment and collection on behalf of FOPINAR (para 3.15).
(ii)  With the Government and CFN:
(a) the terms and conditions of the proposed loan including the
review thereof (Chapter IV-B), the procedure for making avai-
lable the proceeds of the loan to CFN (paras 3.15-3.16),
interest rates on subloans and review thereof (paras
3.27-3.29), free limits (para 4.05), and commitment and
disbursements (para 4.08);
(b) making available to FOPINAR US$40.0 million equivalent of the
proceeds of the Bank loan and to CFN the proceeds of the
technical assistance portion of the loan component of the loan
(para 4.02); and
(c) provide for retroactive financing of up to 10% of loan amount
(para. 4.04) and establish a working fund within the CBE to
FOPINAR with a US$3.2 million equivalent special operating
account (para. 4.09).
(iii) With CFN, on:
(a) FOPINAR's revised organizational structure and operating poli-
cy (para 3.17) and operating regulations (para 3.18); CFN's
provision of housekeeping services to FOPINAR (para 3.12);
amended participation agreements (para 3.35) maximum limit on
Bank funds used by any PFI (para 3.35) and agreement on an
operating budget for FOPINAR (para 4.11);
(b) improved staffing and expanded commitment authority for
branch office operations (para 3.04 and 3.14); and
(c) initiation of the first phase and agreement on the time table
of the second phase of a technical assistance program to im-
prove CFN's financial management, accounting systems, and com-
puter information (para 4.06 and 4.11).



- 44 -
5.02      Conditions of Loan Effectiveness are that:
(a) CFN's SSE fund (FOPINAR) receives US$5 million as permanent
resources (para 4.03);
(b) the Government and CBE enter into fiscal agency contract and
CBE and CFN enter into a subsidiary loan agreement both satis-
factory to the Bank (para 3.15).
(c) CBE open a special account for the deposit of a working fund
(para. 4.09).
5.03      Condition for disbursement by the Bank of the loan beyond $20 mil-
lion and beyond $30 million would be the Government's scheduled payments of
its capital contribution to FOPINAR by six months and twelve months after
effectiveness respectively (para 4.03).
5.04      Condition of disbursement by FOPINAR to a participating financial
intermediary would be the signature of a satisfactory participation agreement
between CFN, on behalf of FOPINAR, and such intermediary (para 3.35).
Recommendations
5.05      With the above agreements, the proposed project would constitute a
suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$40.6 million to the Republic of Ecuador
on the terms and conditions shown in Chapter IV.



ECUADOR: SECOND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
Manufacturing Value Added 1972-1981
1972      1973       1974       1975       1976       1977       1978        1979       1980       1981
S/million at current prices
Total                                8,763    10,828    14,292    17,209    22,926    29,784    34,729    44,433    49,382    56,624
Food, Beverages & Tobacco            4,203      4,988      6,551       7,682     10,730    13,000    17,601    22,020    23,678    26,843
Textiles & Clothing                  1,816      2,216       2,838      3,749      4,654      6,362      6,758       7,845      8,670     10,297
Wood & Wood Products                    478        615        953      1,030      1,307      1,637       1,804      2,425      2,929      3,768
Paper & Printing                       504         589        767      1,050      1,399      1,490      1,568       2,282      2,752      3,356
Non-Metallic Minerals and
Base Metals                          839      1,029      1,485       1,769      2,198      3,029      3,604      5,318       5,898      6,323
Metro Products, Machinery
Transport Equipment & others         279        523         724        815      1,197      1,066      1,309         962      1,203      1,465
Chemicals & Products (excluding
petroleum refining)                  664        868        974       1,114      1,441      1,901      2,085      2,663       3,215      3,880
Other                                     -          -          -          -          -           -          -        918      1,037      1,192
As Percentages                                                                         X
Total                                   100.0      100.0       0l..0     100.0      100.0      100.0       100..      100.0      100.0       100.0
Food, Beverages                          48.0       46.1       45.8       44.6       46.8       47.9        50.7       49.5       48.0        47.7
Textiles & Clothing                      20.7       20.5       19.9       21.8       20.3       21.4        19.5       17.7        17.6       18.1
Wood & Wood Products                      5.5        5.7        6.7        6.0        5.7         5.5        5.2        5.5         5.9        6.7
Paper & Printing                          5.8        5.4        5.4        6.1        6.1         5.0        4.5        5.1         5.6        5.9
Non-Metallic Minerals and
Base Metals                            9.6         9.5       10.4       10.3        9.6       10.2        10.3       12.0       11.9        11.1
Metal Products, Machinery
Transport Equipment & others            3.2        4.8.       5.1        4.7        5.2        3.6         3.8        2.2        2.4         2.6
Chemicals & Products (excluding
petroleum refining)                    7.6         8.0        6.8        6.5        6.3        6.4         6.0        6.0        6.5         6.9
Other                                     -          -          -          -          -           -          -          -           2.1        2.1
Manufacturing as % of GDP                18.7       17.4       15.4       15.9        17.2       18.3       18.3       18.8        17.4       16.9
GDP                                 46,859    62,229    92,763   107,740   132,913   166,376   191,345   235,900   284,198   335,660
Source:  Banco Central del Ecuador Input/Output Analysis.                                                                                                  M
m >Z



- 46 -                            ANNEX 1
Table 2
ECUADOR: SECOND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
List of Measures Taken on March 4, 1982 by Junta Monetaria
1. "Official Rate" still S/25.0.
2. Imports that have already arrived and exports that have already left
receive the S/25 rate.
3. Exporters (except oil) would get the free rate in the Central Bank
S/30.00 (for 100% of foreign exchange earnings).
4. FOPEX capital increased by S/500 million to expand exports financing.
5. Imports of goods under authority of Decree 1740 of November 22, 1971:
(a) imports for petroleum at official rate;
(b) 40% of value of imports of List 1 at official rate S/25.03.
60% of value of imports of List 1 at free CBE rate S130.3  28.2 Average
(c) 100% of List 2 imports at S/30.3 (up from S/25.0).
6. All services imports at S/30.3.
7. All service exports, "productive" capital imports, and foreign
investment capital at S/30.
8. Tariffs, CAT, and export taxes are calculated on the basis of S|25.
9. Prior deposit is eliminated for imports financed for more than 270
days._/
10. Certain imports must be financed at least partially.l/
11. Revision of tariffs - Recommended for further action by Minfinanzas and
Frente Economico:
(a) make industry more competitive;
(b) reduce incentives for contraband;
(c) selective reductions.
12. Revision of the CAT - Recommended. 2/
1/ Designed to encourage private sector to increase foreign borrowing and
sell the proceeds to BCE to increase BCE's reserves.
2/ Minfinanzas reduced the "additional" CAT of 5, 6, 7% to 0% and of 8, 9,
10% to 5%, making the maximum 20%.



ECUADOR: SECOND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
Financial Assets of 8assk end Nap-Sank Financial Intermediaries
B.alane at Eno    erid)
(Millions of Sucres)
Average grovth
rate pe  year
1975        b            1976         *.           1977        °b           1978         7            1979         /             1980          %         75-80
MI    Money (Currency in Circulation and Demand Depo-its)                   15,539      45.6          21,463       45.1        26,368      42.4          29,025      40.5          34,997      39.2           44,790       39.2          25.6
Qoani-MNney (Savings and Time Deposits)                                6.639      19.7          8,646        13.2        10,272      16.5         11.708       16.3         13.852       15.6          16 407        14.4          19.6
M2 - MI plus Quasi-Money                                                    22,238       65.3         30109        63.2        36,640       59.0         40,733      56.9          48_849      55.1           61_197       53.6          22.4
Prior ICport Deposits                                                          850       2.5           2,451        5.1         2,385        3.8          2,035        2.9          2,572       2.9            3,086         2.7         29.1
Banker's Acceptances                                                           -          -              -          -              285       0.5            110       0.2              85       0.1              251        0.2           -
Stabili.ation Bondo                                                            328        1.0            436        1.0         1,297        2.1          1,310        1.8          1,370       1.5            1,439         1.0         34.4
Mortgage Bondo                                                               3,341        9.8          4,058        8.5         4,636        7.5          5,339        7.5          6,318        7.1           8,772         7.7         21.3
Development Bnods                                                              -          -              -          -              -         -               -         -              -         -                -           _ 
Bonds                                                                          934        2.7          1,355        2.8         1,484        2.4          1,557        2.2          1.817       2.0            2,101         1.8         17.6
Total Debt Sec-rities                                                        4,603       13.5          5,849       12.3          7,702      12,4          8,316       11.6          9,590      10.8           12,610        11.0         22.3
Private Capital and Reserves                                                 2,479        7.3          3,939        7.0         3.857        6.2          5,682        7.9          7_092       8.0           11_935        10.4         36.9
Other Liabilities                                                            2,611        7.7          4,562        9.6          7,681      12.4          8,719       12.2         11,253      12.7           14_845        13.0         41.6
Financial Savings (Net) except Government Deposits                          32,790       96.3         46,310       97.3         58,265      93.8         65,505       91.4                     89.5          103,676        90.8         26.9
Government and Public Institutions Deposits (Net) BCE                        1,275        3.7          1,306        2,7          3,851       6.2          6,125        8.6          9320        1 105         10450          9.0         52.3
Total Financial Savings                                                     34,065    100.0           47 616    -1000          62 ,116    100.0         7IL630    100.0           83i676     100.           1   126       kIO 0
BCE's Financial Savings                                                     14,379        -           21,979        -          28,285        -           33,345        -           41,106       -             51,115         -           28.9
Percentage of Financial Savings directly controlled by BCE                      -       42.2             -         46.2            -        45.5             -        46.6             -       46.4               -         44.8
GDP                                                                         107.7                     132.9                    162.4                     189.0                     231.7                     284.4                        21.4



ECUADOR: SECOND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
Assets and Portfolio of Financial Institutions - 1978-1980
(S/ Millions)
A S S E TS                              Lending Portfolio
Institution                                1978         1979         1980                1978         1979        1980
Monetary Sector
National Development Bank              14,607       15,539       18,242               9,680       10,788      12,098
Private Banks                          58,913      74,415        98,919              22,880      28,964       41,960
BEDE                                     -          6,129         9,736                 -          3,799       5,354
Sub-total                            73,520      96,083       126,897              32,560      43,551       59,412
Other Financial Institutions
CFN                                     6,656       7,802         8,030               4,521       5,138        5,324
Private Financieras                     7,928       11,097       16,724               1,537       2,132        3,319
Housing Bank                            6,514        7,984        9,825               3,143        3,862       4,215
Savings & Loans Association             5,290       6,137         7,103               3,191       3,916        4,297
Sub-total                            26,387      33,020        41,682              12,392      15,048       17,155
Total                                99,907     129,103       168,579              44,952      58,599       76,567
CBE                                    43,201      54,092        68,664              18,268      24,054       30,844
Source: Superintendency of Banks and CBE.
(D X
F- 



ECUADOR: SECOND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
Distribution of Credit by Sector, 1980
(S/ Millions)
AGRICULTURE
COMMERCE             INDUSTRY             & LIVESTOCK             OTHERS                TOTAL
Institution/Sector                  Institution           Institution           Institution           Institution            Institution
share in             share in              share in              share in               share in
Amount   sector %   Amount   sector %   Amount   sector %   Amount   sector %   Amount    total
Monetary Sector
National Devel. Bank           551        2          821        3       4,663       34            59        1       6,094          7
Private Banks               26,190       86       15,464       54       5,839       43       10,610       67       58,103        66
BEDF                           348        1          122        1          488       4        1.640       10        2,598          3
Subtotal                   27,089       89      16,407       58       10,990       81       12,309       78       66,795        76
Other Financial Instit.
CFN                          1,770        6          887        3         -                     -                   2,657         3
Private Financieras          1,206        4       11,229       39       2,557       19        2,072       13       17,064         19
Housing Bank                   -                     -                    -                     535        3          535          1
Mutual Associations            -                     -                    -                     809        5          809          1
Co-operative Banks             234        1           16        0           72       0           96        1          418          0
Subtotal                    3,210       11      12,132       42        2,629       19        3,512       22       21,483        24
Total                      30,299      100      28,539      100       13,619      100       15,821      100       88,278       100
Central Bank                15,289               16,661                 8,150                 4,451                44,551
Source:  Superintendency of Banks and CBE
0 >4



ECUAJOR: SECOND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
Sources oftQotal Credit
(S/. millions)
Institution                                   1970        1971        1972        1973         1974        1975        1976        1977         1978        1979        1980
Monetary Sector 1/
National Development Bank                  677         763         808       1,508       3,641       4,000       4,579        4,734       4,332        5,059       6,094
Private Banks                           8,054        9,079      10,542      12,888      15,668      19,088      23,981       29,513      32,881      42,358       58,103
BEDE 2/                                    -           -           -           -           -            -           -           -           -          1,264       2,598
Sub-total                            8,731       9,842      11,350       14,396      19,309      23,088      28,560      34,247       3',213      48,681      66,795
Other Financial Institutes
CFN                                        617         403         498         515       1,405       1,198       2,320        2,202       2,400       2,866        2,657
Private Financieras                        359         444         633         831       1,305       1,439       2,435        5,074       7,947      11,007       17,065
Housing Bank                                11          19          99          70         145          387         368         904       1,148          979         535         1
Savings & Loans Associations                42          93         179         209         323         463          585         744         902        1,076         809         1
Cooperative Banks                           23          41          49          60          56           72          86         150         172          220         417
Sub-total                            1.052       1,000        1,458       1,685       3,234       3,559       5.794       9,074        12.569    16,148       21,483
T 0 T A L                            9,783      10,842      12,808       16,081      22,543      26,647      34,354      43,321        49,782    64,829       88,278
Central Bank 3/                         3,181        2,762       3,092       3,096       6,190      10,029      13,081       16,600       23,852    32,124        44,551
1/ Excluding Central Bank.
2/ BEDE started its credit operations in 1979.
3/ Central Bank Credit channelled through above institutions and direct credit to the public and private sector.
J6 ,B



-51-
ANNEX 2
Table 5
ECUADOR: SECOND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
Credit Through Financial Funds Mechanism (MFF)
(S/ Millions)
£nstitution                                  1978        1979        1980
CBE Discounts to:
National Development Bank               1,392       1,826       2,328
Private Banks                             996       1,482       2,144
Private Financieras                       559         612         858
Total Discounted by CBE               2,947       3,920      5,330
of which % to SSE                    (17)        (15)        (19)
Private Banks own Resources 1/        3,263       4,378      4,787
Total Credit MFF                      6,210       8,298      10,117
of which % to SSE                    (23)        (23)       (25)
1/  Private banks provide 20%-25% (Domestic-Foreign banks) of
their total portfolio with their own resources.  After reaching
these percentages, banks can discount operations in BCE.
Source: CBE.



ECUADOR: SECOND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
Credit to SSE Through Financial Funds Mechanism (MFF)
(S/ Millions)
Institution                                      1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980   Annual
Growth Rate %
National Development Bank                          100     174      261     168      180     193      289    19.4
Private Banks
Central Bank discounts                           76      147     203      166     274      311      508    37.3
Own Resources -                                 178      278     480      700     903   1,300   1,535    43.2
Private Financieras                                -        -        15      35      57      102      208    93
Total Discounted By BCE for SSE                   176      322     479      369     511      607   1,005    33.7
Total Credit MPV to SSF                           05IL      0n    9.59   1,069   1,414   1,907   2,540   -AR,9
1/ Private Banks provide 20%-25% (Domestic Foreign banks) of their total portfolio with their
own resources. After reachingthese percentages banks can rediscount operations in BCE.
Source: CBE
H M
(Dk
aM



- 53 -                                                    ANNEX 2
Table 7
ECUADOR: SECOND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
Corporacion Financiera Nacional
Categories of Operations (Mecanismos)
Financing Terms
Category                   Purpose                     Financing Limits                  Term           Interest      Commirsion
1.  Industrial loans       To finance CIF value of       100% of expansion of existing    Up to 2 years           15.0             2-/
machinery and equipment,    firms; 60% of investments in          2  to 3 years        15.5            2
installation costs,           new firms (50% for tourism          3  to 4 years        16.0            2
buildings (excluding          projects).                          4  to 5 years        16.5            2
land) and net working                                             over  5 years        17.0            2
capital.
2.  Export Credit          Credits for market            80% of FOB value of export          up to 360 days        8.0            -
(Fondo de Promocion  studies, production             financed (80% of CIF value
de Exportaciones -   promotion, publicity            if Ecuadorian transport
FOPEX)                and foreign expositions,    used).
preshipment credit, post
shipment finance,
combined pre- and post-
export finance.
3.  Reciprocal Credit    Post shipment financing         For loans up to one year            up to 1 year         10.25
Agreement - Cor-       for the term extended         FOPEX with finance 50% and          operations of more
poracion Andina de   by the exporter for             CAF 50% of FOB value of               than a year
Fomento and FOPEX    non-tradiational exports    exports; for loans up to                  first year          7.0
within the Andean Group.    5 years, FOPEX will finance             threter            1.5
100% during first year and            thereafter        13.5
CAF 100% in succeeding years.
For long term operations
terms will be set by agree-
ment between CAF and FOPEX.
4.  Guarantees             Guarantees of supplier's    100% of amount of obligation          up to 1 year           -             2.5
credits or loans from         outstanding.                        I  to 3 years          -             3.0
financial enterprises                                             3  to 5 years          -             3.5
obtained abroad to finance                                        over 5 years           -             4.0
fixed assets or working
capital.
5.  Documentary lines    To finance import of raw    Lines of credit may be for              CFN will charge fees for commissions,
of credit             materials, supplies, spare  one operation or revolving             issuance and revisions of credit documents,
parts and accessories.        lines.                              collections and reimbursements in accordance
with rates approved by the Monetary Board.
6.  Participation in       Promotion of specific         Direct puirchase of capital
the capital of        projects and direct            stock in new or existing                                NONE
Priority              participation in the           national or multinational
Companies             capital of private and         companies.
mixed companies.
7.  Underwriting          Acquisition of fixed           Granting of guarantees to           Variable rates according to terms and nature
assets and working            industrial corporations in          of securities underwritten.
capital.                      issuing medium and long
term securities.
8.  Loans to small         Acquisition of fixed          80% of project cost (90% for                          Term
scale industry and   assets (except land)            expansions) loan limits 7.5         Organization 2/ Years    Interest3/ Commission3/
for artisans.         and new working capital        million sucres.                     Microempresa-  2 to 10        12             -
(Fondo de la          for companies with                                                 Small scale
Pequena Industria    fixed assets (excluding                                              enterprise       2 to  5      14            2
y Artesania -         land and buildings) up                                                               5 to  8      15            2
FOPINAR)              to 8.75 million sucres.                                                              8 to lO     16             2
Interest &
9.  Financial Funds        Acquisition of fixed          Loans of up to 5 million sucres                        Terms                Commission
(for small scale      assets and working             for fixed assets and 4 million   Fixed assets - up to 7 years                 12%
industry for agro-   capital for agroin-             for working capital for agro-    Wing capita - up to  2 years                  12%
industry and          dustrial firms with            industry and 5 million in total  Working capital - up to 2 years               12%
tourism)              fixed assets (excluding        for tourism.
land and buildings) up
to 5 million sucres and
for tourism up to 2.5
million sucres.
1/ Plus a commitment fee of 1% on undisbursed balances on all operations over 2 years.
2/ A microempresa with fixed assets (excluding land and buildings) up to 625,000 sucres.
51 These are financial charges to ultimate beneficiaries, CFN discounts these operations at
6% for microempresas and 12% for SSE.



- 54 -
ANNEX 2
Table 8
ECUADOR: SECOND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
Corporacion Financiera Nacional Comparative Balance Sheets
as of December 31, 1981
(aillions of Sucres)
Assets                                         1977         1978         1979        1980            1981
Cash in Banks                                       197.8        302.9        451.6        210.6           216.2
Securities                                           65.2         70.8         53.0        33.1             75.6
Accounts Receivable & Other
Current Assets                                    123.1        178.2        273.2       323.7            262.6
Letters of Credit and
Acceptances                                       373.9        370.8        279.8        161.7           316.7
Equity Investments                                1,174.1      1,364.6      1,650.7    1,840.4           2,027.4
Provisions
Protection                                      (17.7)       (35.9)       (84.0)    (112.0)          (125.2)
Valuation                                      (159.7)      (274.8)      (227.8)    (144.8)          (120.5)
Equity Investments (Net)                            996.7      1,053.9      1,338.9   1I583.6            1,777.7
Loans                                             3,771.1      4,480.5      j,098.6    5,431.9           6,209.6
(Provisions)                                       (34.5)       (41.9)       (50.7)      (87.6)           (95.9)
Loans (Net)                                       3,736.6      4,438.6      5,047.9    5,344.3           6,173.7
of which maturing within 1 year                (1,220.4)    (1,565.8)    (1,779.3)  (2,163.4)        '(2,283.4)
Fixed Assets                                         69.4         81.7        125.5       200.7            287.2
Other Assets                                        106.1        155.0        229.4       169.5            199.9
Guarantees                                          586.1        499.8        494.4       865.9            950.2
Total Assets and Guarantees..                     6,254.9      7,151.7      8,293.7    8,893.1          10,259.8
Liabilities, Equity and Guarantees
Banks                                               853.6      1,206.6      1,094.3    1,130.9           2,007.0
Short-term Liabilities                              315.3        233.7        265.9       287.0            278.6
Letter of Credit and
Acceptances                                       222.6        370.8        279.8       161.7            316.7
Bonds (with repurchase guarantee)                   768.6        628.4        692.7       649.9            541.2
Long-term Debt                                    2,240.6      3,048.4      3,701.7    3,874.4           3,746.2
Domestic                                          (55.2)       (55.2)      (224.1)    (521.8)           (375.0)
Foreign                                        (1,870.1)   (2,993.2)   (3,477.6)  (3,352.6)           (3,371.2)
of which, Bank                                 (228.8)      (393.6)      (510.7)    (471.3)           (768.4)
Of which, maturing within one year               (315.3)      (334.6)      (486.7)    (623.4)           (786.0)
Guarantees                                          586.1        499.8        494.4       865.9            950.2
Equity                                            1,209.5      1,164.0      1,764.8    1,923.3           2,419.9
Total Liabilities, Equity and Guarantees          6,254.9      7,151.7      8,293.7    8,893.1          10,259.8
4/19/82



ECUADOR: SECOND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PBOJECT
Corporacion Financiera Nacional
Income Statements
(millions of sucres)
1978         1979           1980            1981
Revenues
Interest and commissions                      484.7          608.3         671.7          711.9
Dividends                                      63.7           38.2          60.2           81.9                     1
Other income from investments                   4.1            3.9           2.5            2.5                       
Recovery of foreign exchange
losses from Government                        -             -             15.6            -
Other income                                   32.7           13.5          12.1           12.0
585.2         663.9          762.1         808.3
Expenses
Interest and commissions                      346.3         495.2          515.4          527.1
Administrative expenses                       138.0          151.3         158.9          189.9
Depreciation                                    6.8            6.9            5.6           6.0
Amortization of investment projects            14.1           18.6           4.5            2.1
Provision against loans                        11.0            8.9          47.5           21.8
Provision against investments                  18.2           48.1          28.0           25.3
534.4         729.0          759.9         772.2
Profit (loss) for the period                       50.8         (65.1)           2.2          35.9                        X
4/19/82



- 56 -                         ANNEX 2
Table 10
ECUADOR: SECOND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
Corporacion Financiera Nacional
Comparative Financial Operating Ratios
for the Years 1979, 1980 and 1981
(millions of sucres)
1979           1980          1981
Average loans, short term securities,
guarantees, letters of credit, etc.
(net)                                      5,135         5,460           5,998
Average equity investment portfolio
(net)                                      1,196         1,461           1,681
Average short and long term borrowings        5,511          5,793           6,219
Returns on average loans, short
term securities, guarantees,
letters of credit, etc.                    12.1           12.5            12.0
Return on average equity investments           3.5             4.3             5.1
Return on average loans etc. and
average equity investments                 10.5           10.8             10.5
Average cost of borrowings                     9.0             8.9             8.5
Financial spread                               1.5             1.9             2.0
Administrative costs as a percentage
of loans, etc. and equity
investments                                 2.5            2.4              2.5
Provisions against loans and
investments as a percentage of
loans, etc. and equity investments          1.2            1.2              0.6



- 57 -
ANNEX 2
Table 11
ECUADOR: SECOND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
Corporacion Financiera Nacional
Analysis of 1981 Operating Results
(Percent)
Loans    Investments   Total
Return on average loans or investments                   12.0          5.1        10.5
Average cost of resources invested1/                      6.9          6.9         6.9
Financial spread                                          5.1         (1.8)        3.6
Administrative costs as a percentage
of amounts invested                                    2.5          2.5         2.5
Net return before provisions                              2.6         (4.3)        1.1
Provisions against loans and investments                  0.4          1.5         0.6
Net Income                                                2.2         (5.8)        0.5
Return on share of equity invested in each2/              8.4        (20.4)        1.7
1/ The financial costs of borrowings and capital stock are allocated on the
basis of average amounts of loans and investments (78% loans, 22%
investments).
2/ Proportional to average amounts of loans and investments.



ANNEX 2
- 58 -                         Table 12
ECUADOR: SECOND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
Corporacion Financiera Nacional
Forecast Income Statements
(millions of sucres)
1982      1983      1984      1985    1986
Revenues
Interest and commissions                     1,018     1,391     1,687      1,882     2,141
Dividends                                       60        63         66        69        72
Other                                           25        29         32        36        36
1,103     1,483     1,785     1,987      2,249
Expenses
Interest and commissions                       670       825       924        930       995
Administrative expenses                        228       261        287       316       348
Depreciation                                    14        18         23        22        21
Other expenses                                   8         9         10        11        12
Provisions against loans and investments        69        16         53        49        50
989     1,130     1,297      1,328     1,425
Operating income                               114       353       489        659       824
Provision for technical assistance               3         3         4          4         4
Net Income                                     111       350        485       655       820
Operating Ratios (Figures in percent of average assets)
Interest income                              9.545    10.363    11.000    11.534    11.964
Investment income                            .565       .466       .427      .420      .400
10.109    10,829    11.427    11.954    12.363
Interest expense                             6.281     6.150     6.020      5.698     5.553
Financial margin                             3.828     4.679     5.407      6.256     6.811
Other income                                  .235      .213       .209      .217      .198
Loan loss reserve                             .644      .122       .344      .298      .281
Administrative and other expenses            2.351     2.143     2.087      2.139     2.128
Gross income                                 1.068     2.627     3.184      4.037     4.600
Technical assistance                          .028      .025       .023      .024      .023
Net Income                                   1.040     2.602     3.161      4.013     4.577
Average Assets                              10,659    13,429    15,342    16,322    17,903
Interest coverage                            1.166     1.423      1.525     1.704     1.824
Debt service ratio                           2.018     2.019     1.775      2.014     2.210
Debt/equity                                  2.587     2.359     2.054      1.799     1.725
Long-term debt/equity                        2.044     1.854      1.581     1.319     1.266



- 59 -
ANNEX 2
Table 13
ECUADOR: SECOND SHALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
Corporacion Financiera Nacional
Forecast of Balance Sheets as of December 31
(millions of sucres)
1981      1982       1983      1984       1985      1986
Assets
Cash and securities                  292        474     2,580      1,648       835      1,166
Loan - gross                       6,270      8,558       903    10,865    12,484    14,161
Less reserve                          96        165        181       234        282       333
Loans net                          6,174      8,393     8,922    10,631    12,202    13,828
Investments                        1,978      2,035     2,135      2,235     2,335      2,435
Other receivables                    579        749       749        879     1,019      1,169
Fixed assets (net)                   287        357       465        441       419        398
Total Assets                     9,309    12,008    14,851    15,834    16,810    18,996
Liabilities and Equity
Current liabilities                  678        778       878        978      1,078     1,178
Short-term borrowings                793      1,700     2,100      2,300     2,700      3,000
Long-term borrowings               5,419      6,399     7,713      7,691     7,412      8,278
Total Liabilities                6,890      8,877    10,691    10,969    11,190    12,457
Paid-up capital                    2,488      3,088     3,768      3,988     4,088      4,188
Reserves and retained earnings       -68         43        392       877      1,532     2,352
Total Capital                    2,420      3,131     4,160      4,865     5,620      6,539
Total Liabilities and Capital      9,309    12,008    14,851    15,834    16,810    18,996



- 60 -                               ANNEX 3
Table 1
ECUADOR: SECOND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
FOPINAR Operations: Participating Financial Intermediaries
(31 December 1981)
(S/millions)
Financial Intermediary                  Amount of Credit Granted   Number of Operations
Commercial Banks
Banco del Pacifico*                               40.6                       14
Banco de Prestamos*                                9.5                         9
Banco de Guayaquil*                               13.5                        8
Banco Popular                                     13.6                        6
Banco del Austro*                                  7.5                        5
Banco de Descuento                                 5.6                        3
Banco Continental                                  4.2                        3
Banco de La Produccion                            12.7                        3
Banco Industria y Comercial                        7.5                        2
Banco del Tungurahua*                              4.0                        1
Banco de Machala*                                  3.5                        1
Banco del Azuay*                                    .9                        1
Banco de Cooperativas*                             2.8                        1
Banco de Credito e Hipotecario*                     .1                        1
Private Financieras
FIMASA*                                           90.0                       37
FINANSA                                           30.7                       11
FIDASA                                            11.7                       11
FINAN Guayaquil                                   54.4                       10
FINANSUR*                                         30.0                        9
FINIBER                                           17.6                        8
FINANDES                                          15.0                        4
AMERFIN                                            6.2                        1
-Banco Nacional de Fomento*                        22.7                       33
Total                                      405.0                       182
* Regional PFI and branch office operations.
Source: FOPINAR



ANNEX 3
- 61 -                          Table 2
ECUADOR: SECOND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
FOPINAR Operations: Geographic Location of Projects
(as of December 31. 1981)
Number of  Percentage of       Loans       Percentage
Province           Operations    Operations    Discounted  of Discounts
(S/millions)
MANABI                  31            17.2           62.1          18.4
IMBABURA               19            10.4            11.0           3.2
AZUAY                   18             9.9           18.1           5.3
TUNGURAHUA             13              7.1           17.1           5.1
EL ORO                   6             3.3           12.5           3.7
MORONA/SANTIAGO          2             1.0            2.7             .8
LOS RIOS                 2             1.0            5.2           1.5
CARCHI                  1               .5             .3            .1
NAPO                     1              .5             .1            -
COTOPAXI                1               .5             .8            .2
ESMERALDAS              1               .5            2.2            .7
95            52.0          132.0          39.1
Pichincha              51             28.2          112.6          33.3
Guayas                 36             19.8           93.3          27.6
87            48.0          205.9          60.9
Total               182           100.0           337.9         100.0
Source: FOPINAR



ANNEX 3
- 62 -                           Table 3
ECUADOR: SECOND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
Distribution of Loans By Size of Enterprise
April 1981 - January 1982
Percentage    Percentage
Number of        of            of
Asset Size of Enterprise                  Loans    Loans Granted  Loan Funds
(US$)
up to  25,000                         50           22.7           6.2
25,000 to  50,000                         32           14.5           5.9
50,000 to 150,000                         82           37.3          38.3
150,000 to 250,000                         32           14.5          25.7
250,000 to 350,000                         24           10.9          23.8
Total                                 220         100.0         100.0
Source: FOPINAR



- 63 -                           ANNEX 3
Table 4
ECUADOR: SECOND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
Distribution of Jobs Created and Cost Per Job By Size of Enterprise
April 1981 - January 1982
Percentage      Cost Per
Number of   Number of          of          Job Created
Asset Size of Enterprise      Loans    Created Jobs  Jobs Created  (S/thousands)
(US$)
up to  25,000             50            190           11.0           6,160
25,000 to  50,000              32           165            9.6            8,210
50,000 to 150,000              82           635           36.8          12,940
150,000 to 250,000              32           465           26.9           13,000
250,000 to 350,000              24           272           15.8           20,130
Total                     220         1,727           100.0          12,890
Source: FOPINAR



ANNEX 3
- 64 -                                              Table 5
ECUADOR: SECOND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated New Jobs Created in Expansion and Total Projects
April 1981 - January 1982
Number of      Total         FOPINAR    Employment    Cost Per
Projects  Investmentsi'    Loan         Generation        Job
(S/millions)  (S/millions)                (S/thousands)
311  Food manufacturing                                         11          36.1            20.8           71           508.4
312  Food manufacturing (nec), animal food                        7         10.2             7.2           26           392.3
313  Beverage                                                     2           3.1            2.9           16           193.8
321  Textiles                                                    23         44.6            31.1          110           405.5
322  Wearing apparel, except footwear                            22         33.7            17.1          132           255.3
323  Leather and products, except footwear                        2          3.9             1.7            8           487.5
331  Wood and products, except furniture                         6           3.1             2.9           15           206.7
332  Furniture and fixtures                                     12          24.1            13.0           83           290.4
341  Paper and products                                           2         10.9             7.7            6         1,816.6
342  Printing and publishing                                      2            .9             .8            4           225.0
351  Industrial chemicals                                        3          24.4           11.0            19        1,284.2
352  Other chemical products                                      2          9.3             8.0           13           715.4
355  Rubber products                                             3           5.2             3.7            9           577.7
356  Plastic products (nec)                                       7         31.4            16.7           51           615.7
361  Pottery, etc.                                                1          3.3             2.3            5           660.0
362  Glass and products                                          1           9.3             3.4            5         1,860.0
369  Other non-metallic mineral products                         8          12.2             7.9           19           642.1
371  Iron and Steel                                              2          14.8             8.8           14         1,057.1
381  Fabricated metal products                                  17          30.9            23.3           83           372.3
382  Non-electric machinery                                      5           6.1             4.0           22           184.9
383  Electrical equipment                                         3         16.5           17.9            31           532.2
384  Transport equipment                                         3           4.5             2.3            5           900.0
385  Misc., manufacture                                          1             .5             .4            1           500.0
631  Restaurants and tourist facilities                          3           1.8             1.5           11           163.6
632  Hotels                                                      6          16.3           11.8            23           708.7
Total Expansion Project                              154      S/357.1         S/223.3          782             _
Average Expansion Projects                                   2.30           1.45         5.1         S/456.7
Total New and Expansion Projects                     220         667.8        S/358.4        1,727               -
Average Total Projects                                     S/3.0             1.6          7.9         S/386.7
1/    Adjusted to reflect actual project investments of paid in capital.
Source: FOPINAR



- 65 -                                             ANNEX 3
Table 6
ECUADOR: SECOND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Jobs Created in New Firms Established
April 1981 - January 1982
Number of      Total         FOPINAR      Employment       Cost per
Projects  Investment.i/      Loan        Generation         Job
(S/millions)  (S/millions)                 (S/thousands)
311  Food manufacturing                               12          53.9           17.9          143             375.
312  Food manufacturing (nec), animal feeds            6          34.9           10.8           57             612.
313  Beverages                                         2           8.2            1.2            15            547.
321  Textiles                                          3          22.2           12.8           56             396.
322  Wearing apparel, except footwear                  -             -              -             -
323  Leather and products, except footwear             2           2.8            1.9            34             82.
324  Leather footwear                                  2           9.4            5.7           36             261.
331  Wood & products, except furniture                 1            .8              .5            6            133.
332  Furniture and fixtures                            4          18.0            7.0           54             333.
341  Paper and products                                1           7.6            5.6            20            380.
342  Printing and publishing                           3          17.2            6.8            47            366.
351  Industrial chemicals                              2          10.5            3.6            23            456.
352  Other chemical products                           2           9.7            6.4            38            255.
356  Plastic products (nec)                            2          12.8            7.8            31            413.
361  Pottery, etc.                                     1           1.8              .7            4            450.
362  Glass and products 
369  Other non-metallic mineral products               6          12.3            5.8           49             251.
371  Iron and steel 
381  Fabricated metal products                         7          24.1            7.1            77            313.
382  Non-electric machinery                            1          10.7            5.4          108              99.
383  Electrical equipment                              1           4.3            3.4           15             287.
384  Transport equipment                               3          19.1           11.6            79            242.
385  Misc. manufacture                                 -             -               -                           -
631  Restaurant and tourist facilities                 -             -              -             -              -
632  Hotels                                            4          26.2           10.6           43             609.
720  Communications                                    1           3.6            2.3           10           -_
Total                                         66       S/310.7        S/135.1           945
Average                                      -         S/4.7          S/2.0            14.3        S/329.
1/ Adjusted to reflect actual project investments of paid-in-capital instead of authorized capital.
Source: FOPINAR



- 66 -
ANNEX 3
Table 7
ECUADOR: SECOND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
FOPINAR:  Financial Projections, Main Assumptions
Disbursements
All disbursements are made over a period of two years with 90% during
the first and 10% in the second year.
Loan Terms
Average of 5 years with one year of grace.
Discount Rates and Proportion of Loans at Each Rate
There are two discount categories:
a. Regular discount rate of 12% - 94% of lending activity
b. Micro enterprise discount rate of 6% - 6% of lending activity
Resources
Borrowing: US$40 million (S/1,200 million) at 12% for 17 years
including 4 years grace
Capital Increase: US$10 million equivalent of which US$6 million
available in 1983 and US$4 million in 1984
Interest Rate on short-term borrowing: 12% (average)
Interest Earned on cash and securities: 10% (average)
FOPINAR Expenses
a.  Salaries:  In 1982 are S/3,600 million (US$120 thousand) and
increase by 20% p.a.
b. Administrative Expenses: In 1982 are S/3,600 million (US$120
thousand) and increase by 20% p.a.
c. Technical Assistance: Contribution to TA are deducted from
operating net income: US$100,000 in 1982,
US$110,000 in 1983, US$120,000 in 1984,
US$130,000 in 1985 and US$140,000 in 1986.



- 67 -                         ANNEX 3
TaDle 8
ECUADOR: SECOND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
FOPINAR: Forecast Balance Sheets
(millions or Sucres)
Actual 1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
Assets
Cash and Securities                46           35      48       67       81      90
Loans                              332        955   1,532   1,996   2,252   2,356
Other Receivables                    7           7        7       7        7        7
Fixed Assets (Net)                   2           2       1        1        1        1
Total Assets                    386         999   1,588   2,071   2,341   2,454
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabilities                  9           9       9        9        9        9
Short-term Borrowings                0         193       1        0        0      39
Long-term Borrowings               161        565   1,140   1,457   1,665   1,669
Total Liabilities               170         768   1,150   1,466   1,675   1,717
Paid-up Capital                   216         216      396      516      516     516
Reserves & Retained Earnings         0          15      42       89      150     220
Total Capital                   216         231      439      605     666      736
Total Liabilities and Capital        386         999   1,588   2,071   2,341   2,454
Source: Bank estimates.



- 68 -
ANNEX 3
Table 9
ECUADOR: SECOND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
FOPINAR: Forecast Income Statement
kmillions or Sucres)
1982     1983      1984      1985     1986
Revenues
Interest - Loans                             64.2    130.5    193.4    238.9    264.9
Interest - Others                             4.2      4.3       5.9       7.6       8.8
Total Revenue                              68.4    134.8    199.3    246.5    273.7
Expenses
Interest - Long-term Borrowing               29.9     81.1    134.9    167.5    181.7
Interest - Short-term Borrowing              11.6      11.6      0.0       0.0       2.4
Commissions                                   1.5       2.3      3.4       1.2       0.2
Total Financial Expenses                   43.0     95.0    138.3    168.7    184.3
Gross Spread                               25.4     39.8      61.0      77.8     88.4
Administrative and
Other Expenses                            7.2      8.6      10.4      12.4     15.0
Depereciation                               0.3      0.3       0.3       0.2      0.2
Total Operating Expenses                    7.5      8.9      10.7      12.6      14.2
Operating Income                           17.9     30.9      50.3      65.2     74.2
Provision for Technical Assistance          3.0      3.3       3.6       3.9      4.2
Net Income                                 14.9     27.6      46.7      61.3      70.0
Source: Bank estimates.



- 69 -
ANNEX 3
Table 10
ECUADOR: SECOND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
FOPINAR: Statement of Estimated Sources and Uses of Funds
(millions of Sucres)
1982      1983       1984       1985       1986
Opening Cash Balance
(From Previous Period)                 46         35         48        67         81
Additions in Period
Income from Operations                 15         28         47         61        70
Depreciation                            o          0          0          0         0
Loan Repayments                          9        98        319        558        790
Short-term Borrowing                  193          1          0          0        39
Long-term Borrowing                   404        575        336        247         42
Capital Increase                        0        180        120          0         0
Subtotal                            621        881        822       866        942
Subtraction in Period
Loan Disbursements                    631        675        783        813       894
Increase in Fixed Assets                0          0          0          0         0
Repayment:  Short-term Borrowing         0       193          1          0          0
Repayment:  Long-term Borrowina         0          0         19         39        39
Subtotal                            632        869        803       852        933
Closing Cash Balance                      35        48         67         81         90
Source: Bank estimates.



-70 -                           ANNEX 3
Table 11
ECUADOR: SECOND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
FOPINAR: Forecast of Financial Ratios
(Data in Percentage of Average Assets)
1982     1983      1984      1985     1986
Average Assets (SI millions)             693    1,294    1,830    2,206    2,397
Interest Income                      9.88    10.42    10.89    11.18    11.42
Interest Expense                     6.22      7.35      7.57     7.67      7.69
Financial Margin                   3.66      3.07      3.32     3.53      3.73
Administrative & Other Expenses         1.09     0.69      0.58      0.57     0.63
Gross Income                         2.57      2.38      2.74     2.95      3.10
Technical Assistance                 0.43      0.26      0.20     0.18      0.18
Net Income                         2.14      2.12      2.55     2.777
Interest Coverage                      1.34      1.29      1.33      1.36     1.38
Debt Service Ratio                      1.62     0.78      3.21      3.82     4.70
Debt/Equity                            3.28      2.60      2.41      2.50     2.32
Long-term Debt/Equity                  2.44      2.60      2.41      2.50     2.27
Source: Bank estimates.



-71 -                         ANNEX 3
Table 12
ECUADOR: SECOND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
FOPINAR: Forecast of Operating Ratios
(Data in Percentage oVAveaFge3q_uity)
1982     1983      1984     1985      1986
Average Capital (S/ millions)           224       335      522       636       701
Interest Income                    30.58    40.25    38.19    38.78    39.02
Interest Expense                    19.25    28.40    26.53    26.56    26.27
Financial Margin                  11.33    11.85    11.66    12.23    12.75
Administrative & Other Expenses        3.37      2.67     2.04      1.99     2.15
Gross Income                         7.96     9.18      9.62    10.23    10.60
Technical Assistance                 1.34     0.98      0.69      0.61     0.60
Net Income                         6.6T     8.19      8.93      9.62    10.00
Interest Coverage                      1.34      1.29     1.34      1.36     1.38
Debt/Service Ratio                     1.62      0.78     3.21      3.82     4.70
Debt/Equity                            3.28      2.60     2.40      2.50     2.32
Long-term Debt Equity                  2.49      2.60     2.40      2.50     2.27
Source: Mission estimates.



- 72 -
ANNEX 4
Table 1
ECUADOR: SECOND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
Commitments and Disbursementsl/
(US$ 000)
1983       1984        1985       1986
Commitments                 22,667      15,556     11,667       1,667
Disbursements               24,000      14,000     10,500       1,500
Of which IBRD               19,200      11,200      8,400       1,200
Cumulative IBRD             19,200      30,400     38,800      40,000
1/  A detailed cash flow analysis of FOPINAR's total commitments and
disbursements during 1983-86 including reflows of Bank funds under
Loan 1879-EC is included in Annex 3, Table 10.



ANNEX 4
- 73 -                           Table 2
ECUADOR: SECOND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
SSE FUND: Estimated Schedule of Disbursements for the
Proposed Loa"l/
IBRD FY and                                             Disbursements
Quarter                                          By Quarter   Cumulative
(US$'000)
FY83
To December 31
March 31                                       4,800
June 30                                        4,800          9,600
FY84
To September 30                                   4,800
December 31                                    4,800
March 31                                       2,800
June 30                                        2,800         24,800
FY85
To September 30                                   2,800
December 31                                    2,800
March 31                                       2,100
June 30                                        2,100          34,600
FY86
To September 30                                   2,100
December 31                                    2,100
March 31                                       1,800
June 30                                          -            40,600
1/  See Annex 3, Table 10 for FOPINAR's total projected cash flow.
Starting in 1984, a substantial portion of project cash flow will
consist of the annual reflows of FOPINAR resources from Loan
1879-EC and the initial government counterpart funds.
Source: FOPINAR



- 74 -                           ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 4
ECUADOR: SECOND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance Services
to the Corporacion Financiera Nacional
Background
1.        Corporacion Financiera Nacional (CFN) is a development bank and
financial agent of the Government of Ecuador. It has played a key role in
the economic development of the country, principally through the provision of
term financing for industrial, agro-industrial and tourism projects, and
through the provision of guarantees, letters of credit, export financing and
through support to small industry and artesania. CFN has also played an
important role in the development of the country's capital markets through
its participation in the capital of some 50 enterprises located throughout
the country and involved in a range of economic activities. CFN can
intervene in the capital market by buying and selling shares; it can also
contract credits in the domestic or foreign markets.
2.        At present CFN has about 300 principal industrial loans outstanding
as well as 50 investments in national enterprises, 300 discounts of loans to
small enterprises made by financial intermediaries and some export credits.
It has 9 lending and investment programs, about 30 credit lines to finance
these programs and some 350 employees working in headquarters in Quito and in
its 5 branches and agencies. At the end of 1981 it had assets amounting to
about US$350 million (equivalent).
3.        CFN has grown significantly in asset size, staff and number of
operations since its present organizational structure was established in the
early 1970's. In recent years CFN has passed through a challenging period
reflecting the economic difficulties which have affected the Ecuadorian
economy generally. In order to meet the challenges of the 1980's and
maintain its role as a leader in the financial sector of the country, CFN
recognizes that it must seek ways to improve and increase its operating
efficiency. It is therefore seeking assistance to review its organizational
structure and the functions, responsibilities and operating norms and
procedures of its operating units and branches and identify changes which
would enable it to meet its objectives, improve its operating efficiency and
increase it profits.
4.         In 1976 CFN initiated the process of automation of the work of a
number of areas of its organization in order to facilitate certain operating
procedures and increase its efficiency and productivity generally. With this
objective in mind it designed and implemented a system of automatic data
processing with "batch" type programs.
5.        The growth of CFN and its range of operations has made it necessary
to modify these processes and introduce new management information on-line
using teleprocessing systems. CFN wishes to obtain assistance to introduce



- 75 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 4
these new systems to improve the availability of information for effective
decision-making. Since the new management information systems are intimately
linked with the structure, functional responsibilities and procedures of the
various operating units of C.F.N., it was considered essential to coordinate
the organizational and system assignments of the consultants who will provide
the specialized assistance to C.F.N. and therefore it was considered
advisable to request the assistance from a single firm of consultants.
Description of the Consultants Tasks
6.        In carrying out their tasks the consultants will:
a)   Review the study of the organizational structure, policies,
functions and responsabilities, operating norms and procedures of
the various operating units of CFN carried out by CFN's Department
of Organization and Method and make recommendations which will help
CFN to improve its financial management and operating efficiency by
improving (i) its share of the market for lending operations, (ii)
the control and use of its resources and the profitability of its
operations and its investments in controlled and affiliated
companies including development of a new code of accounts, costing
centers and operating statistics; (iii) its development impact in
terms of levels of lending and the quality of projects it supports.
(b) Implement the recommendations as may be agreed with the management
of CFN.
(c) Define with CFN user requirements for the management information
systems which the consultants will assist CFN to implement.
(d) Design a data base structured to provide the data for the priority
management information systems identified in (c) above and which
meet the requirements of the new organizational structure.
(e) Identify appropriate programs which will fill CFN's management
information requirements and assist CFN to modify them as may be
necessary to produce this information.
(f) Assist CFN to design new systems and programs to meet the
management information requirements which can not be met
economically by existing programs which can be identified.
(g) Train staff in CFN's data processing department and CFN's
management and user staff in the use of the data base and
management information systems.
(h) Train CFN programmers in the process of modifying existing programs
(5 above) and in writing new programs (6 above) for the new
systems.



- 76 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 4
Consultants Work Program
7.        The assignment will be carried out in two phases although the work
of the two phases will be continuous. In phase one the consultants will
review CFN's organizational structure, code of accounts, costing centers and
statistical systems and make their recommendations to improve them, will
identify appropriate programs which will fill CFN's management information
requirements and define and agree with CFN the management information systems
which the consultants will assist CFN to implement. The consultants proposal
should contain the number of man-months of time for each member of the
consultants' team proposed to carry out this phase of the assignment.
8.        For the second phase of the work, which will consist of the
remainder of the assignment, the consultants' proposal should include an
estimate of the staff time required to carry out this part of the assignment.
9.        The specific amount of staff time to carry out this second phase of
the assignment will be reviewed and renegotiated at the end of phase one when
a detailed work program for phase two should be presented by the consultants.
Evaluation of Proposals
10.       The consultants proposals will be evaluated on the basis of the
adequacy of their work program, the experience and quality of their team and
the price of their proposal.
Reports
11.       During the first phase of the assignment the consultants will carry
out the review of the organization of CFN and submit a report to CFN with
detailed recommendations. This report should be submitted within two months
of the start of the assignment.
12.       The consultants will also prepare a brief monthly report for CFN
and the World Bank describing the work done during the month and the status
of the assignment generally and noting any unresolved problems identified in
carrying out the assignment. At the end of the assignment a complete report
of the work done will be submitted at which time the consultants should make
recommendations including a cost estimate for any additional work they
consider should be carried out to improve and extend the management
information systems and to improve the efficiency and profitability of CFN
generally.
Facilities
13.       During their assignment the consultants will be provided with
suitable office space and secretarial assistance.
Documents Annexed to Terms of Reference
a.   Description of existing data processing equipment and programs and the
characteristics of the equipment to be acquired.



ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 4
b.   Law creating CFN and statement of Policies and Procedures.
C.   Organization Structure of CFN.
d.   Manual of Functions.
e.   Manual of Administrataive Procedures.
f.   Financial Plan of Action of CFN for 1982.
g.   Audited Financial Statements for 1981.
h.   CFN's Code of Accounts.
i.   Preliminary list of Priority Management Information Systems.



ECUADOR: SECOND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
.. IFOPINAR ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
DIRECTOR
FOPINAR
.    |                                                     ATECHNICAL
i BRANCH                     ASSISTANT                   ,ASSISTANT
OPERATIONS                   DIRECTOR                    PROGRAMS                                 -
[_____   .. __           ADVISOR                                 m
TECHNICAL
LOAN OPERATIONS             ADMINISTRATION                 ASSISTANCE,
TRAINING AND
ECONOMIC ANALYSISi             STATISTICAL                  SUPERVISION
TCNCLSUPERVISION
OPERATIONS                           ASSISTANCE
World Bank-29326.
a'



- 79 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
ECUADOR
SECOND SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A. General Reports
Al    Memoria 1980, Banco Central del Ecuador
A2    Memoria 1980, Superintendencia de Bancos
A3    Boletin 1979-1980, Superintendencia de Bancos
A4    Memoria 1978, Superintendencia de Bancos
A5    Lineas de Credito, Banco Central del Ecuador
A6    Gaceta Bancaria Voz de la Economia Ecuatoriana, December 1981
A7    Manual de Credito del Ecuador, Asociacion Nacional de Empresarios,
1979-1980
A8    Informe de Labores, 1980, Ministerio de Industrias, Comercio e
Integracion (MICIE)
A9    Informe de Labores, 1980, Centro Nacional de Promocion de la
Pequena Industria y Artesania (2 Volumes)
AIO   Reglamentos para la Aplicacion de la Ley N° 299 de Incentivo
Industrial, July 1980
All   Reunion de los Comites de Promocion Industrial de Norte y
Proindustriales, October 1981, CENDES
A12   Gaceta Bancaria, Jan-Feb, 1981
A13   Ecuador:  A Country with Industrial Opportunities, 1980, CENDES
A14   Annual Report, 1980, Banco Nacional de Fomento
A15   Registro Oficial, June 13, 1982, Resolution of Junta Monetaria on
devaluation of sucre and recommendation of new economic policy.



- 80 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
B. Selected Bank Reports
BI    Ecuador Economic Development Issues, December 14, 1981, Report
No 3723-EC.
B2    Ecuador Staff Appraisal Report, Small Scale Enterprise Credit
Project, May 23, 1980, Report No. 2941-EC.
B3    Ecuador Staff Appraisal Report, Fifth Development Banking Project,
December 23, 1981, Report N° 3571-EC
B4    Ecuador Staff Report to Government May 15, 1982, Program for a
Change of Economic Model
C. Consultants' Reports
C1    Small Scale Industries Program, Technical Assistance, November
1981, Nicolas Molenar, Research Institute for Management Science
RVB/Delft.
C2    Study of Small Scale Enterprise in cEcuador (Sample Survey of 880
SSE), Luis Osorio, 1981.
D. CFN Reports
Dl    CFN Estados Financieros - 1979, 1980
D2    CFN Memoria - 1978, 1980
D3    CFN Provisional Lineamientos de Accion y Plan Financiero, 1982
D4    Manual de Organizacion y Funciones de la CFN
E. FOPINAR Documents
El    Statement of Policy (Spanish)
E2    Operating Procedures (Spanish)
E3    Project Evaluation and Supervision Regulations (Spanish)
E4    Organization, Functions and Personnel (Spanish)
E5    Participating Financial Intermediary Agreements (Spanish)
E6    Technical Assitance Program (Second Project), (Spanish)



I B R D 14305
81il'                                  80°                                     790                          M <   19'i AY  1979
-   >  ss OLOMBAA  I
ECUADOR                                                         . .QnL
The Sierra (Elevations bosed on 600m.contours)                              G  - -
_Te - ~~~~~~~~~~~Esmteraldos4¢v(  l   1
Paved roads                         _+m 
Gravel roads
--------Earth  roads                                                                7E  
Railroads
Jj.    Ports
4. Airports                                                                                 0 oaZrt
Rivers                                                                                                        OtvRc*
-    In Iternational boundary                                                              Punte Quito                   oy;lm
\       -:        ~~~~~~El C5rmen      Sansi   Domingo               +5
I, a  c   / I     c
{/   <  ~~~~    //       /           _sK               1 / S~~~~~anSalu 
\\ S / ~~~~~~~~~~~~t ~~achachi 
Bahia de Car6que> '-
O c e a n
ix ACal~~~cete          t      I        
ManA-/><~ ~ocafuerte             /eac         arr f)r                                   Ltoug 
lo       ;o<+%               t                    _         E    )  Q~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~ueve  ............Pl  Saicedot;|
M ntcrisio e7                                                              E 2 J l coraz6n     N  
10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
This map has been prepared by the n-                                                                                Ambato
World Bank's staff exclusively for
the convenience of the readers of                    Sucre        Balzar      (-                                                Pileo
the report to which it is attached             Jipijapa
The denominations used and the
boundaries shown on this mnap
do not imply, on the part of the      /Vinces    eblovieio
World Sank and its affiliates, any V                                            Vce   P eblovjei  I
jdgrment on the legal staus of                                                                                                     bo
any territory or any endorsemnent
or acceptance of such boundaries                                                                               n
\\  -     \~~~~~~~~~~B    a B a hoCyo                                    aj .   /
+Daule                                                     am)1 t)jrote
YaguachiNueae~      ~Cill |2.   -
_   Salinzas  ,;GUAYAQUUNaraito-                                                            tY(:>~
Sana Elena
0     20    40    60    80    )00
KILOMETERS
S.                                      r8 ITo ,,oTrdo /z'



