/   LOAN NUMBER 2221 EC
Project Agreement
(Second Small Scale Enterprise Credit Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
Dated                   , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2221 EC
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, datedc7t,,-,4 e25, 1983, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DWELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank)   and CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL (hereinafter called
CFN).
WHEREAS (A) By the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Ecuador (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Bank, the Bank has agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount
in various currencies equivalent to forty million six hundred
thousand dollars ($40,600,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that CFN agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set
forth;
(B) Part of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the
Loan Agreement will be relent to CFN on the terms and conditions
set forth in a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and
CFN; and
(C) CFN, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of Fopinar
Section 2.01. (a) CFN shall carry out the Project described
in Section 3.01 (a) of the Loan Agreement, Part A of such Project
to be carried out through Fopinar, and shall conduct Fopinar's
operations and affairs, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate economic, financial and investment


﻿-2-
standards and practices, with qualified and experienced manage-
ment and in accordance with Fopinar's Statement of Policy and
Fopinar's Operating Procedures;
(b) For the purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project,
CFN shall: (i) maintain a unit to be exclusively in charge of
managing Fopinar, such unit to be headed by a manager whose qua-
lifications and experience shall always be satisfactory to the
Bank; (ii) provide such unit, promptly as needed, with all the
funds, staff, facilities and other resources required for the
timely execution of the Project; (iii) have Project Appraisal and
Supervision Guidelines for Fopinar satisfactory to the Bank; (iv)
amend, by not later than December 31, 1982, Fopinar's Statement
of Policy and Fopinar's Operating Procedures in a manner satis-
factory to the Bank; and (v) carry out, through Fopinar, training
courses in industrial project appraisal and supervision techni-
ques, whose content shall be satisfactory to the Bank; such
training course to be offered by Fopinar, from time to time to
the staff of Financial Intermediaries and other entities willing
to participate in the Project.
(c) For the purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project,
CFN shall: (i) prepare and furnish to the Bank, by not later than
November 30 of each year, an annual program for providing techni-
cal assistance to Small and Micro Scale Investment Enterprises,
satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) carry out such programs in
accordance with the applicable provisions of Fopinar's Statement
of Policy and Fopinar's Operating Procedures.
Section 2.02. In order to assist CFN in the carrying out of
Part C of the Project, CFN shall employ consultants whose selec-
tion, qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with
the principles and procedures described in the "Guidelines for
the use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.03. CFN shall carry out Part C of the Project in
accordance with terms of reference and a timetable satisfactory
to the Bank.
Section 2.04. For purposes of *operating and capitalizing
Fopinar, CFN shall maintain the Project Account in Banco Central,
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. In accordance with and subject to the provi-
sions of the Loan Agreement, CFN shall present Investment Pro-
jects to the Bank for approval or for authorization for with-
drawals to be made from the Loan Account.
(a) When presenting a sub-loan (other than a free-limit
sub-loan) to the Bank for approval, CFN shall furnish to the Bank
an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together with a
description of the Investment Enterprise and of the Investment
Project to be financed thereunder (including a description of the
expenditures for such Investment Project proposed to be financed
by the Financial Intermediary concerned and an appraisal of the
Investment Project which shall include its internal economic rate
of return) and the proposed terms and conditions of the sub-loan,
and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Each request by CFN for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit sub-loan
shall contain: (i) a summary description of the Investment Enter-
prise and the Investment Project (including a description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan); (ii) the terms and conditions of such free-limit sub-loan;
and (iii) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(c) The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan
shall provide for an appropriate period of grace of up to three
years and, unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree: (i) shall not extend beyond 10 years from the date of
approval by the Bank of such Investment Project or of authoriza-
tion by the Bank to make withdrawals from the Loan Account in
respect of such Investment Project, and (ii) shall provide for
approximately equal, or gradually increasing, semi-annual, or
more frequent, aggregate payments of principal and interest or
approximately equal, or gradually increasing, semi-annual, or
more frequent, payments of principal.
(d) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented to
the Bank on or before December 31, 1985.
Section 2.06. CFN shall:
(a) enter into a Participation Agreement, satisfactory to
the Bank, with each Financial Intermediary, such Participation
Agreement to govern the terms and conditions of lending by such


﻿-4-
Financial Intermediary to Investment Enterprises and shall con-
tain, inter alia, project appraisal guidelines, supervision pro-
cedures, records and reporting requirements, procurement and
disbursement procedures, the commitment by such Financial Inter-
mediary to employ staff capable of performing satisfactory pro-
ject appraisals and supervision, collection and disbursement
procedures satisfactory to the Bank under which Banco Central
shall act as an agent for CFN, as determined in Section 3.02 (a)
(vii) of the Loan Agreement, and the approval procedures for
sub-loans by CFN, such procedures to include simplified require-
ments for the approval of sub-loans under $150,000 equivalent,
such amount to be reviewed and, if necessary, revised from time
to time by CFN in agreement with the Bank;
(b) make loans out of Fopinar's resources to Financial
Intermediaries to finance 90% of sub-loans made by Financial
Intermediaries for Investment Projects and cause the Financial
Intermediaries to finance not more than 75% of the reasonable
cost of Investment Projects that consist of the establishment of
a new Enterprise and not more than 85% of the reasonable cost of
other Investment Projects, all in accordance with the provisions
of this Agreement, the Loan Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment and Fopinar's Statement of Policy;
(c) use the proceeds of Fopinar for making sub-loans (as
such term is defined in Section 1.02 (i) of the Loan Agreement),
whose sum shall be limited to $15,000,000 equivalent per Finan-
cial Intermediary; the adequacy of this amount to be reviewed by
the Bank and CFN not later than 18 months after the date of this
Agreement;
(d) exercise its rights under the Participation Agreements
in such a manner so as to protect the interests of the Borrower,
the Bank and CFN and to accomplish the .purposes of the Loan, and,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not assign, nor
amend, abrogate or waive any Participation Agreement or provision
thereof; and
(e) calculate the Investment Project's expected internal
economic rate of return if the respective sub-loan is equivalent
to $200,000 or more, the adequacy of this amount to be reviewed
and, if necessary, revised from time to time thereafter by the
Bank, in agreement with CFN.


﻿-5-
Section 2.07. (a) CFN shall charge Financial Intermediaries
the annual interest rate set forth in the Schedule to this Agree-
ment on the amounts of Fopinar Loans outstanding from time to
time.
(b) CFN shall cause the Financial Intermediaries to charge
on sub-loans the annual interest rate and other charges set forth
in the Schedule to this Agreement.
(c) The interest rates and other charges referred to in
this Section shall be reviewed from time to time and, if neces-
sary revised, by CFN in agreement with the Bank.
(d) CFN shall provide, as to each Fopinar Loan, that if a
sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to the Financial
Intermediary in advance of maturity, or, if a sub-loan or any
part thereof shall be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise
disposed of for value by the Financial Intermediary, the Finan-
cial Intermediary shall promptly repay to CFN the amount of
Fopinar Loan corresponding to the sub-loans or parts thereof so
repaid in advance or disposed of for value.
Section 2.08. (a) CFN undertakes that, unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, it will cause all sub-loans to be made on terms
whereby the Financial Intermediary shall obtain, by means of a
written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests
of the Borrower, the Bank, CFN and the Financial Intermediary
including the right of the Financial Intermediary to: (i) require
the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
sound technical, financial and managerial standards and to main-
tain adequate records; (ii) require that (A) the goods and ser-
vices to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
suitable for the Investment Project and be purchased     at a rea-
sonable price, account being taken also of other relevant factors
such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the
goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts
therefor, and, in the case of services, of their quality and the
competence of the parties rendering them and (B) such goods and
services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with
representatives of CFN or CFN and the Bank, if the Bank shall so
request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction
included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and


﻿-6-
any relevant records and documents; (iv) require that the Invest-
ment Enterprise shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts,
as shall be consistent with sound business practice; and that
such insurance cover marine, transit and other hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installa-
tion, and that any indemnity thereunder be made payable in a cur-
rency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or
repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as the Bank,
CFN or the Financial Intermediary shall reasonably request rela-
ting to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and
financial condition of the Investment Enterprise and to the bene-
fits to be derived from the Investment Project; and (vi) suspend
or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of
the proceeds of the sub-loan upon failure by such Investment
Enterprise to perform any of its obligations under its contract
with the Financial Intermediary.
(b) CFN shall, and shall cause each Financial Intermediary
to, exercise its rights in relation to each Investment Project in
such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Borrower, the
Bank and CFN; (ii) comply with its obligations in respect of
the Fopinar Loan made to such Financial Intermediary; and (iii)
achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.09. CFN shall:
(a) furnish, or cause to be furnished to the Bank, at regu-
lar intervals, all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Financial Intermediaries, the Fopinar Loans, the sub-loans,
the Investment Enterprises, and the Investment Project, and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from the foregoing;
(b) cause Financial Intermediaries to maintain records and
procedures adequate to: (i) record and monitor the progress of
the Investment Projects; (ii) identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and to disclose their
use in the Project and the Investment Projects; and (iii) indi-
cate the financial condition of the Investment Enterprise; and
(c) within six months following the last withdrawal from
the Loan Account in respect of the sub-loans or by such later
date as the Bank shall request, prepare and furnish to the Bank a


﻿-7-
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Investment Projects financed by sub-loans, their costs and the
benefits derived and to be derived from them, the performance by
the Borrower, Banco Central, CFN, the Financial Intermediaries
and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan
Agreement and the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan.
Section 2.10. CFN shall enter into the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement with the Borrower. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, CFN shall not change or fail to enforce such Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or any provisions thereof.
Section 2.11. CFN shall, at the request of the Bank, ex-
change views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project and the Investment Projects, the performance of its obli-
gations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Loan.
Section 2.12. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, CFN
shall, by not later than November 30 of each year, furnish to the
Bank, for review and comment, the proposed annual budget for
Fopinar.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. CFN shall maintain procedures and records ade-
quate to record the progress of the Project (including its cost
and the benefits derived from it) and'to reflect, in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices, the
operations of Fopinar.
Section 3.02. CFN shall: (a) establish separate financial
accounts for Fopinar; (b) have such accounts and financial state-
ments (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by inde-
pendent auditors acceptable to the Bank as part of the general
audit of CFN's accounts and financial statements; (c) furnish to
the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not later than
five months after the end of each such year, (i) certified copies
of Fopinar's financial statements for such year as so audited and


﻿-8-
(ii) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(d) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial, statements of Fopinar and the audit there-
of as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. The Bank and CFN shall from time to time, at
the request of either party, exchange views through their repre-
sentatives with regard to the administration, operations and
financial condition of Fopinar, and CFN shall furnish to the Bank
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request con-
cerning the administration, operations and financ-a1 condition of
Fopinar.
Section 3.04. CFN. shall promptly inform the Bank of any con-
dition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by
CFN of its obligations under this Agreement or the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
Section 3.05. CFN shall cause each of the Financial Interme-
diaries to: (a) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are made on the basis of statements of expenditure;
and (b) enable the Bank's representatives to examine the records
referred to in paragraph (a) above.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effec-
tive.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of CFN thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under Article VI of the General, Conditions.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, ca-
ble, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For CFN:
Corporaci'n Financiera Nacional
Apartado No. 163
Quito, Ecuador
Cable address:                      Telex:
CORFINAL                            2193 CORFIN ED
Quito, Ecuador                      2444 CORFIN ED
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of CFN may be taken or executed by its
General Manager or by such other person or persons as the General
Manager shall designate in writing.


﻿- 10 -
Section 5.03. CFN shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signa-
ture of the person or persons who will, on behalf of CFN take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by CFN pursuant to any provisions of this Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
By/
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE
I.   Sub-loans:
Size of Investment Enterprises and applicable repayment,
terms of, and interest and other charges on, sub-loans.
Size of        Minimum and
Investment        Maximum
Enterprise    Repayment Terms    Interest rate       Fees
A. Micro Scale    2 years and over    15% per annum
B. Small Scale    2 to 5 years        15% per annum   2% per annum
C. Small Scale    more than 5 and     16% per annum   2% per annum
up to 8 years
D. Small Scale    over 8 years        17% per annum   2% per annum
II. Fopinar loans
Interest and other charges on Fopinar loans.
Interest and other charges
A. Sub-loans under I.A above                  9% per annum
B. Sub-loans under I.B above                 13% per annum
C. Sub-loans under I.C above                 13% per annum
D. Sub-loans under I.D above                 13% per annum


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this    A     day of         198 .      .
FOR SECRETARY


