Document of
FILE COPY    The World Bank
FOR OMFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2209-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR A
POPULATION PROJECT
January 26, 1978
This docuent hb  a restricted distibutio  and msy be used by recpients only in the perfomance of
their ofIcd duties. Its contents my et odrwise be discled withot World Bank authorbanton.  |



GLOSSARY
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
$1.00         5    Baht (B) 20
B 1.00        =    $0.05
$1 million    =    B 20 million
B 1 million   =    $50,000
METRIC EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)       =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)  =   0.62 miles (mi)
i hectare (ha)    =   2.47 acres (ac)
6.25 rai
I liter (1)       =   0.26 US gallons (gal)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADAB   -   Australian Development Assistance Bureau
AFPH   -   Accelerated Family Planning and Health
CIDA   -   Canadian International Development Agency
IEC    -   Information, Education and Communication
MOPH   -   Ministry of Public Health
NARC   -   National Administrative Reform Council
NFPP   -   National Family Planning Program
USAID  -   United States Agency for International Development
THAI FISCAL YEAR
October 1 to September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
POPULATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:        Kingdom of Thailand
Beneficiary:    Ministry of Public Health
Amount:          $33.1 million/1
Terms:           Standard
Project
Description:  The project is the first p1hase of an accelerated National
Family Planning Program. Its objectives are (a) to help the
Government meet its demographic target under the Fourth
Five-Year Economic and Social Development Plan; that is, to
reduce the population growth rate from 2.5% p.a. in FY77 to
2.1% p.a. by FY81, and (b) to assist the Government in
reducing maternal and infant mortality rates by about 20% by
FY81. Such a reduction in mortality would favorably affect
fertility rates by encouraging parents to have fewer children.
The project will help meet these objectives by: (a) strength-
ening and extending the delivery of family planning services
and supplies to rural areas; (b) increasing the supply of
nurses, auxiliary midwives, and practical nurse/midwives, all
of whom are key personnel in providing family planning services;
and (c) strengthening family planning evaluation and research
as well as information, education and communication activities.
While supporting the nationwide expansion of the Government's
ongoing family planning program, the project also concentrates
on strengthening the rural health delivery system in 20 rela-
tively disadvantaged provinces, thereby bringing the level of
service up to national standards. Specifically, the project
includes the construction or expansion of nine training
institutions for paramedical personnel and of about 550 rural
health facilities; the provision of vehicles, equipment, con-
traceptives and IEC supplies; and the provision of technical
assistance and professional services to assist in project
implementation. Provision is also made for financing unforeseen
"innovative activities" which may be identified during project
implementation. Finally, successful implementation of the
project will set the stage for further reductions in fertility
during subsequent plan periods when less receptive members of
the population will have to be reached.
L  The Kingdom of Norway intends to participate in the proposed credit by
making $3.1 million available on a grant basis.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance   |
of their official duties, Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2 -
-----   million ---------             % of
Estimated Cost:                      Local       Foreign        Total       Total
Civil works                         19.7          6.2          25.9        37.8
Furniture                            1.1          0.5           1.6         2.3
Equipment                            0.8          1.2           2.0         3.0
Professional services                0.4             -          0.4         0.5
Land acquisition                     0.9             -          0.9         1.3
Vehicles                             1.2          2.8           4.0         5.8
Technical assistance                 0.1          0.2           0.3         0.5
Special equipment                      -           1.0          1.0         1.4
Contraceptive supplies                 -           6.4          6.4         9.3
IEC production                       1.0            -           1.0         1.5
Evaluation and research              1.1             -          1.1         1.6
Training                             3.9             -          3.9         5.7
Salaries and allowances              5.7            -           5.7         8.3
Subtotal                        35.9         18.3         54.2        79.0
Contingencies
Physical                           2.3          0.8           3.1         4.5
Price                              7.4          2.9         10.3         15.0
Subtotal                         9.7          3.7         13.4        19.5
Innovative activities                0.8          0.2           1.0         1.5
Total                           46.4         22.2         68.6        100.0
Financing Plan:
Government /I                       20.7             -         20.7        30.2
IDA                                 18.3         14.8          33.1 /2    48.2
ADAB                                 1.7           1.3          3.0         4.4
CIDA                                 0.4           5.9          6.3         9.2
USAID                                5.3          0.2           5.5         8.0
Total                           46.4         22.2         68.6        100.0
Estimated Disbursements                    ------------ $ million -----------
From IDA Credit:                 IDA FY   1979        1980       1981       1982
Annual                                   10.9       12.9        8.3        1.0
Cumulative                               10.9       23.8       32.1       33.1
Appraisal Report: No. 1663-TH, dated January 18, 1978
/1 In addition, the Royal Thai Government will finance an average of
$150-160 million annually in Ministry of Public Health operating costs
over the project period for the provision of health care and family
planning services throughout the country.
/2 Of which about $3.1 million equivalent would be provided by Norway on a
grant basis under a Participation Agreement with the Association.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR A POPULATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Kingdom of Thailand on standard terms in an amount in various
currencies equivalent to $33.1 million to help finance a population project.
The Kingdom of Norway intends to participate in the proposed credit by
making $3.1 million available through the Association on a grant basis in
accordance with the provisions of the Agreement dated December 20, 1973,
between the Kingdom of Norway, IBRD and IDA outlining certain co-financing
arrangements.  Additional financing is expected from the Australian Development
Assistance Bureau (ADAB) which would make a grant of about $3.0 million
equivalent to Thailand; the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA)
which would make a loan and grant totalling about $6.3 million equivalent to
Thailand; and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID)
which would make a loan of about $5.5 million to Thailand. The terms of the
CIDA loan will be 50 years including 10 years' grace and no interest. The
terms of the USAID loan will be 20 years including 10 years' grace, with
interest at 2% p.a. during the grace period and 3% p.a. thereafter.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Economic Memorandum on the Current Economic
Situation and Prospects of Thailand" (1280A-TH, dated October 29, 1976) was
distributed to the Executive Directors in November 1976 and to members of the
Consultative Group for Thailand in February 1977. A basic economic mission
visited Thailand in November 1977 and its preliminary findings have been
incorporated in the following paragraphs. Country data are given in Annex I.
Recent Political and Economic Development
3.        The Government of Prime Minister Thanin which was installed follow-
ing the seizure of power by the National Administrative Reform Council (NARC)
in October 1976, lasted one year. On October 20, 1977, members of the
NARC, dissatisfied with the Thanin Government's domestic and foreign policies
and its 16 year timetable for restoring democratic processes, ousted the Prime
Minister and his cabinet. The NARC then reconstituted itself as the National
Policy Council, the highest political authority in the country. An interim
constitution was promulgated which requires a general election to be held in a
year's time and the drafting of a new permanent constitution has been initiated.
In November, the National Policy Council appointed General Kriangsak Chomanand
as the new Prime Minister who then formed a new cabinet comprised mostly of
civilians. The new government affirmed its support of the objectives of the
country's Fourth Five-Year National Economic and Social Development Plan
(1977-81) and announced its intention to undertake more aggressive development
policies. Its principal concerns are alleviating rural poverty, particularly
in the Northeast, and improving relations with neighboring socialist countries.
In December, the first steps towards normalizing relations with Laos and Viet
Nam were taken.



- 2 -
4.        Thailand's economic performance since 1960 has been good.  Rapid
growth of the agricultural and industrial sectors, which recorded average
annual growth rates in constant prices of 5% and 10% respectively, enabled
real GDP to expand at an average rate of about 7.5% annually. The country
also achieved impressive investment and savings rates throughout this period.
Gross domestic capital formation ranged from 20% to 27% of GDP, with private
investment constituting two-thirds of total investment. The share of gross
domestic savings in GDP ranged from 19% to 24%. As a result, in no year did
the resource gap (import surplus needed to realize the levels of consumption
and investment achieved) exceed 5% of GDP, and was considerably less in most
years.
5.        During the international recession of 1974/75, the economy demon-
strated considerable resilience; it has now recovered from the deceleration
of growth which marked the second half of 1974. The growth rate of real GDP
rose from 4.6% in 1974 and 5.5% in 1975 to 6.3% in 1976, and a growth rate of
about 7% is estimated for 1977. In sharp contrast to the situation in
1973/74, when the external sector and private investment provided the main
impetus to growth, the much-needed stimuli to demand in 1975 and 1976 came
from the public sector, with a strong expansion in export receipts reinforcing
the growth of domestic demand in the latter year.
6.        The balance of payments has deteriorated in recent years, however,
despite continued rapid rise in export earnings. Both 1975 and 1976 registered
much higher current account deficits than occurred in previous years ($600 mil-
lion in 1975 and $450 million in 1976 compared to $50 million in 1973 and
$90 million in 1974). A large part of these deficits was due to the decline
in Thailand's terms of trade by 24% between 1973 and 1976. The import price
index rose by 60% in 1974, mainly due to the hike in oil prices; however,
a substantial improvement in prices of most of the country's major exports
helped to limit the decline in the terms of trade in that year to less than
10%. In 1975 and 1976 there were moderate import price increases but stable
or falling export prices led to a further substantial fall in the terms of
trade. In 1977, despite an unprecedented high level of exports, the current
account deficit is estimated to be in excess of $900 million.
7.        As a consequence of the higher current account deficit and lower
net capital inflows, reserves, which had increased in 1974, declined by $195
million in 1975. Although there was some improvement in foreign direct
investment, total private inflows declined further in 1976.  Capital inflows
to the public sector, on the other hand, increased substantially as the
Government's first borrowing from a syndicate of private banks of $100 mil-
lion was drawn down and project loans committed in 1974/75 began to be
disbursed. Taking into account an SDR 67 million loan under the compensatory
financing scheme of the International Monetary Fund, the overall balance of
payments in 1976 recorded a small surplus but is expected to show a deficit
of about $300 million in 1977, financed mainly by drawing on reserves. The
country's net reserves in September 1977 amounted to $1.3 billion, equivalent
to slightly over 3 months' imports, as compared to a reserve level of almost
6 months imports equivalent at the end of 1974.



8.        Thailand enjoyed a large measure of price stability in 1975 and
1976. Slower demand growth, stable export prices and a moderate increase in
import prices contained the rise in the consumer price index to 5.3% in 1975
and 4.2% in 1976, a sharp deceleration from an annual average increase of 20%
in 1973 and 1974. Inflation is increasing somewhat in 1977 with the rise in
the Consumer Price Index expected to be in the 8-9% range.
Development Objectives, Constraints and Prospects
9.        The new Government's policy concerns and development strategies are
reflected in the Fourth Five-Year National Economic and Social Development
Plan (1977-81). The Plan's principal objectives include a growth target of
7%, equitable distribution of income, reduction in the rate of population
growth, faster generation of employment opportunities and a balanced develop-
ment of the different regions. Projected public sector development expendi-
tures amount to $12.5 billion for the Plan period as compared to an estimated
level of $4.6 billion achieved over the Third Plan (1972-76). Nevertheless,
the Plan addresses sectoral issues and strategies only in broad terms and
concrete policy and programs to meet the Plan's economic and social objectives
remain to be defined. The Bank has therefore recently begun an intensive
program of economic studies to help assist the Government define a policy and
investment framework for implementation of the Fourth Plan. These studies as
well as concurrent work under way within the Government are focusing on
problems of unemployment and income distribution and will help to define
better the policy issues involved.
10.       Although these studies are not yet complete, preliminary findings
indicate that the Thai economy has many positive features which augur well
for rapid and broadly distributed growth. These include the sustained rapid
rate of economic growth over the past two decades; the relatively equitable
distribution of rural land; the responsiveness of Thai farmers to superior
technology; the extensive provision of infrastructure by the Thai government;
the dynamism of the private sector in both industry and agriculture; and
finally, the major gains made in family planning in recent years (discussed
in detail in Part III). However, social and economic progress in the future
is likely to require a more active role on the part of the Government if the
goals of the Plan are to be achieved.
11.       Agriculture growth in the past has been based to a large extent on
expansion of cultivated areas. Prospect for further expansion of area is now
limited and future growth of the sector will have to be based mainly on more
intensive utilization of cultivated area, improvement in yields, continued
diversification of crops, including in some areas different forms of cropping
patterns and farming practices, and availability of agricultural credit; all of
these would require increased government assistance to the private rural sector.
Furthermore, much of the rural population, particularly in the North and North-
east regions, has not fully benefitted from the recent growth in rural income,
and special programs will have to be formulated to accelerate income growth
in these areas. In the past, public rural investment has concentrated on the
expansion of the irrigation network in the central plain. A greater effort is
now required to develop upland and other rainfed areas through research, exten-
sion services and rural infrastructure development. Income levels of farmers in



- 4 -
these areas are much lower than in the irrigated areas and their increased
productivity is necessary to ensure continued growth of the agricultural
sector as well as to improve the distribution of income.
12.       While growth in the agricultural sector may be expected to remain
fairly rapid for some time to come, the impetus for future growth will have
to come increasingly from the industrial sector. Industry, construction
and services will have to provide an increasing share of employment and income
opportunities for the growing population. Industrial policy and programs
should be designed to create jobs for the rapidly growing labor force at
increasing levels of productivity and wages. Greater effort will be required
to encourage the location of industries outside Bangkok, and to promote small-
scale and rural industries. While continued rapid growth of manufactured
exports remains feasible, the large domestic rural sector also offers opportu-
nities for a balanced industrial growth strategy based on production of low-
income consumer goods, agricultural inputs and equipment, and processed
agricultural products as well as on production for foreign markets. The
industrial sector has also developed to a stage where basic industries such
as steel and chemicals and harnessing of natural gas potential could also
contribute to future growth.
13.       A central development issue in Thailand today therefore is managing
the transition from an economy whose growth is based on the extension of land
under cultivation and import substitution industries to one based on increas-
ingly intensive use of land and industries producing for the domestic and
export markets under competitive conditions. Effective policies and programs
will be necessary to ensure that economic growth is maintained and income
disparity not widened during this period of transition.
14.       In the past, the Government's role has been confined largely to
short term economic management and to the provision of basic economic and
social services. In order to achieve a relatively smooth transition, the
government will have to undertake more coordinated and longer term actions.
This implies that an integrated and carefully planned program of reform of
public institutions will have to be implemented. Such a program should be
carried out systematically and gradually over a period of years and would need
to include: (a) changes in the system of personnel management; (b) improvement
of the capacities of ministries and departments to plan, monitor and control
their activities; (c) greater decentralization of decision-making to the
provincial and local levels, and (d) rationalization and coordination of the
functions and authority of the central staff agencies of the Government
responsible for planning, budgeting, staff allocation and economic management.
15.       The implementation of policies needed for a satisfactory rate of
economic and social progress will require a steady increase in public expendi-
tures over the next few years. Public expenditures have increased substanti-
ally in nominal terms since 1974, but these increases have merely restored
the share of the public sector in the country's expenditures to that prevailing
before 1973-74, when public spending declined in real terms as a result of
an anti-inflationary policy. A reasonably ambitious development program for
the next few years will therefore require much greater efforts to mobilize
both domestic and external resources than in the past. Government domestic
revenue as a percentage of GNP (13.4% in 1976) is low compared to other develop-
ing countries at similar level of development due to low tax rates, high



- 5 -
exemptions and a somewhat below average rate of compliance. Improved resource
mobilization through increased taxation of property and income and better
collection efforts will also make the tax system more progressive. Such
changes would make it feasible to reduce taxation of foreign trade, particu-
larly on rice and other exports, which has inhibited agricultural growth.
16.       The deterioration in the country's terms of trade has raised substan-
tially the external capital flows needed for achieving a satisfactory rate of
growth. The financing of the tentative investment program of the Fourth Plan
is likely to require commitments of about $3-3.5 billion in project financing
and further public borrowing of $500-700 million through sources such as
Eurocurrency loans, suppliers' credits and industrial countries' export
financing facilities. This public sector borrowing program would raise the
public debt service ratio (service payments on public debt as a percentage of
exports) from 2.6% in 1975 to 4.7% in 1981. Although the service ratio for
total debt, which amounted to 13.4% in 1976, is projected to remain below 17%
throughout the Fourth Plan period, the unfavorable development of the country's
balance of payments since 1974 and the significantly larger role required of
the public sector to maintain growth in the future justify some concessionality
in the foreign financing of government projects. At their meeting of March 22
and 23, 1977, members of the Consultative Group considered these projected
amounts of external borrowing reasonable and supported the Government's
objective to seek a major part of such financing on concessional terms. It
therefore seems appropriate to include a limited amount of IDA credits in the
Bank Group's lending to Thailand. In addition, external agencies, including
the Bank Group, have in recent years increasingly concentrated project lending
to Thailand in the agricultural and social sectors that have high social
benefits but low foreign exchange components. To achieve the higher level of
external resource transfer that is now required, it is necessary, in selected
projects when the foreign exchange component is low, to finance some local
currency expenditures.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
17.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank in 1950 and has received
41 loans amounting to $998.4 million, net of cancellations. Most of these
have been for transportation ($186.0 million), irrigation ($218.8 million)
and power ($216 million) with, in addition, one for a dual-purpose power and
irrigation project ($65.8 million). The remaining loans have been for water
supply ($55 million), telecommunications ($63 million), education ($52.3 mil-
lion), industry ($38 million), rural development ($21 million), livestock
($5 million), rubber replanting ($50 million) and national agricultural
extension ($28 million), with the rural development and livestock loans
having been made on Third Window terms. One loan for an industrial estate
project ($4.75 million) has been signed but is not yet effective. In addition,
Thailand has received three IDA credits: $19.5 million for education and two
credits totalling $12.5 million for irrigation improvement. In general,
Bank-financed projects have been carried out satisfactorily and in accordance
with expectations. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA
credits and IFC investments as of December 31, 1977, as well as notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.



- 6 -
18.       Over the past year, loans have been approved for national agricul-
tural extension, irrigation, power and industrial development. In the next
year or two, projects to support a broad range of agricultural development,
rural infrastructure, education, small- and medium-scale industries and
low-cost housing and neighborhood improvement would, together with the present
project, account for about two thirds of the proposed program. Continued
lending is also planned for power projects, including rural electrification;
in transportation the emphasis is shifting from major highways to provincial
and rural roads. The Bank continues to diversify its lending program in
Thailand with the objective of assisting the government expand its effort to
improve the distribution of income as well as to maintain a rapid rate of
growth; increasingly, projects are selected and designed to spread development
benefits to the lower income groups and the more needy regions. One of the
main functions of the Bank's Regional Mission in Bangkok is to assist the
Government in developing projects to meet the above objectives.
19.       As of December 31, 1976, Bank loans and IDA credits disbursed and
outstanding amounted to $309 million, representing about 38% of public
external debt (disbursed and outstanding). This is not excessive in view of
Thailand's modest overall public external debt (5.2% of GDP in 1976). In
addition, although the level of Bank commitments is expected to increase over
the next five years, the Bank Group's share is projected to decline below
30% of total public external debt by 1982. The Bank's share in total
debt outstanding would remain at about 20%, and its share of debt service is
not expected to exceed 10%.
20.       IFC has made two equity investments in the Industrial Finance
Corporation of Thailand totaling $380,000, two loans to and an investment in
the Siam Cement group totaling $32.08 million, a loan of $300,000 to Concrete
Products Ltd., an equity investment of approximately $300,000 in the Mutual
Fund Company Ltd. and, more recently, a loan for $2.5 million and an equity
investment of $200,000 in United Sugar Terminal Co. IFC has appraised two
projects; one to produce carbon black and another for small and medium scale
enterprises to be administered by a local commercial bank. Prospects for
other IFC operations are reasonably good; IFC has been asked to arrange the
debt financing of approximately $50 million for a $90 million zinc mining and
refinery project. Other prospective projects are the development of privately
sponsored industrial estates and two projects to expand cement production.
At the Government's request, the Capital Markets Department carried out a
reorganization study of the Government Housing Bank, which is currently being
implemented by that institution.
PART III - THE POPULATION SECTOR
Size, Distribution, and Age Composition
21.       According to recent estimates, the population of Thailand reached
about 44 million by early 1977. Population density averages only about 85
persons per sq km, though it varies considerably from region to region; the
density per sq km of cultivable land is much higher - about 260. The popula-
tion is overwhelmingly rural. Only about 20% live in urban areas, and one
half of these (i.e., about 4 million people) reside in Bangkok, the only city
of more than 100,000.



22.       Thailand has a young population.  In 1970, slightly more than 45%
of the population was below 15 years of age and only 3% was 65 or older. The
dependency ratio is thus quite high - at 93 dependents per 100 persons of
working age.
Mortality, Fertility and Population Growth
23.       Mortality has declined steadily as a result of improved public
health measures. The estimated crude death rate was about 50 per thousand
in the early part of this century and was estimated at about 9 per thousand in
1977. Infant and maternal mortality rates are estimated to have decreased
by two-thirds over the three decades between 1940 and 1970, but they remain at
serious levels, with infant mortality probably at about 80 per thousand live
births and maternal mortality about 4 per thousand live births as of the early
1970s, Fertility is high, with a crude birth rate of about 35 per thousand
estimated for 1977. During the intercensal period 1960-1970 the population
grew at an average of about 3% annually, which was one of the highest rates in
the world and the third highest in Asia. As the result of a concerted Govern-
ment effort, however, the rate of growth had slowed to an estimated 2.5% p.a.
in early 1977./i
Population Policy and Program Activities
24.       The Government followed a pronatalist policy through the first half
of the present century, encouraging early marriages and large families. It
gradually altered its policies beginning in the late 1950s when concern began
to be expressed about the effect of a high population growth rate - then about
3.1% annually - on Thailand's economic development. The Ministry of Public
Health (MOPH) began providing family planning services in 1968 through its
rural health network; this arrangement was formalized by the Cabinet in 1970
when the National Family Planning Program (NFPP) was established, with the
Under-Secretary of State for Health named as its Director. A National Family
Planning Coordinating Committee was established in 1974, chaired by the
Minister of Public Health; its objectives are to supervise execution of the
NFPP, to coordinate the population activities of the various sectors and to
mobilize external assistance for the family planning program.
25.       The First Five-Year Plan for the NFPP (FY72-76) established for
the first time a national demographic target (to reduce the estimated
population growth rate from over 3% to 2.5%). Since it was adopted,
the Thai Government's NFPP has successfully reached both its operational
and demographic targets in all respects. By the end of the First Five-Year
Plan period in FY76, over 30% of all eligible women of reproductive age
were practicing contraception, a rate which compares favorably to other
developing countries. The Plan encouraged the spread of family planning
services in a number of ways. Among these were: the utilization of
paramedics in supplying clinical contraceptives; the provision of motorcycles
for midwives; the introduction, on a pilot basis, of a new category of
/1   The current population growth rate quoted here differs from the "most
recent estimates" given in Annex I because the latter refers to average
rates for 1970-75 (to achieve comparability among countries).



- 8 -
full-time, paid field workers; the expansion of in-service training for
physicians, nurses and auxiliary midwives; the accelerated development of
special maternity hospitals (called maternal and child health centers)
as institutions not only for maternity care but also for the provision of
family planning and postpartum services and related clinical training; the
initiation of evaluation and research studies, including clinical trials
intended to extend the delivery network; and the establishment of a special
section in the MOPH for information, education and communication (IEC). By
the end of the Plan period, the program was well established and had exceeded
its acceptor targets. Specifically, it had: (a) recruited 2.5 million
acceptors, an increase in the annual number of new acceptors from 408,000 in
1971 to about 593,000 in 1976; (b) increased the number of MOPH clinic-based
family planning service delivery points from 270 in 1970 to 5,400 in 1976;
(c) given orientation or skills training to about 20,000 paramedical and
medical personnel; (d) improved the data collection system; and (e) undertaken,
on a small scale, IEC activities in support of family planning. This substan-
tial increase in family planning activities by the MOPH is believed to be the
primary reason for the Plan's success in achieving its demographic target.
Nevertheless, while success has been complete in terms of past goals and
objectives, there remains considerable unsatisfied demand for family planning
services. This demand can be met if steps are taken to extend the health
delivery system further into the rural areas and to train more paramedical and
lay field personnel to provide family planning services. Experience to date
in Thailand has shown that increasing the number of service points leads to an
immediate increase of acceptors.
26.       Thailand's NFPP is based on a high degree of integration of family
planning with basic health services, particularly those provided by MOPH.  The
non-MOPH components of the health delivery system include the hospitals and
clinics operated by other Government agencies and a relatively small number of
privately run hospitals and clinics, including those operated by foreign
church missions and by private voluntary organizations. There are in addition
a number of unlicensed physicians who practice extensively in the rural areas
("tambol doctors"); numerous commercial pharmacies, although limited to towns;
and a few privately financed providers - e.g., the McCormick Hospital Family
Planning Program in Chiang Mai Province and the rapidly growing Community-Based
Family Planning Services Program. The MOPH network of rural health facilities
is, however, the most important source of family planning services and currently
accounts for about 80% of family planning acceptors.
The MOPH Rural Health Delivery Network
27.       The MOPH has developed a standardized pattern for the delivery
of rural health services in which health care is provided through a hierarchy
of facilities extending from the provincial hospitals to 10- and 30-bed
district hospitals, to tambol /1 health centers (each staffed by an auxiliary
midwife and a junior sanitarian) and finally to village midwifery centers
(each staffed by an auxiliary midwife)./2 All of these facilities (except the
/1 A tambol is a group of about ten villages and usually ranges in population
from 4,000 to 10,000.
/2 At the lowest level, each village or cluster of villages with a population
of 2,000 is to have a midwifery center.



provincial hospitals) are considered part of the rural health network; they
are administered by the provincial health officer in the provincial capital.
The district health officer is responsible for health services in the district,
except for district hospitals which report directly to the provincial chief
medical officer.
28.       Judged by MOPH targets which call for a service delivery point in
every village, tambol or district of a specific size, the network is far
from complete. Only 40% of the needed midwifery centers, about 80% of the
needed health centers and about 60% of the needed district hospitals
presently exist. Overall, only one-half of the rural population is reached
by the network at present. As a result, there is an unmet demand for
family planning and related health services, particularly in rural areas.
29.       The Government's Health Development Plan for the Fourth Five-Year
National Economic and Social Development Plan period (FY77-81) calls for a
considerable expansion of the rural health delivery network - adding over
1,800 service delivery points. By the end of the Plan period, the network
is expected to be 75% complete. This health delivery network will in turn
support the introduction of a community-based primary health care system
designed to extend village based health volunteers and health communicators
to 50% of the rural villages in Thailand by 1981. These village volunteers
will be trained to provide family planning services and primary health care
and to refer clients requiring specialized treatment and more effective
family planning services to the nearest rural health facility.
30.       The Fourth Five-Year Plan calls for a sizeable expansion of the
NFPP in an effort to reduce the rate of population growth from 2.5% p.a. to
2.1% p.a. by. the end of the plan period. The NFPP's basic strategy is to
extend more effective family planning services to lower points in the hierarchy
of health facilities and occupations and to more geographic locations. Doctors
will perform sterilizations, and nurses will provide injectable contraceptives
and insert IUDs at district hospitals; auxiliary midwives are expected to be
authorized to provide injectable contraceptives and to insert IUDs at health
centers and midwifery centers; and village health volunteers will provide
condoms and resupply pills. An increase in the supply of family planning
services depends on an expanding health delivery system which is fully staffed,
properly trained and adequately supervised. In developing its Health Develop-
ment Plan, the MOPH sought to improve and strengthen its existing health
delivery system by ensuring: (a) the establishment of new well-located rural
health facilities; (b) an adequate supply of drugs and medical supplies; (c) an
adequate number of trained clinical personnel; and (d) an improved system of
supervision and management. With regard to facility location, the MOPH has
developed specific criteria for the siting of future facilities; these criteria
will be applied for all facilities to be constructed under the project (Sec-
tion 3.06 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The National Institute
of Development Administration in Thailand is reviewing the medical supply and
drug distribution system; the Government has agreed to make the results of the
study available to the Association by December 31, 1978 for comment and review
and to introduce such modifications as may be necessary to improve the distri-
bution system (Section 3.10 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). In
order to improve the quality of medical care available and to ensure that



- 10 -
an adequate number of properly trained personnel are available, the Govern-
ment is providing in-service curative training for auxiliary midwives and
adding a practical nurse/midwife or assistant health worker to health
centers and midwifery centers so that these rural health facilities need
not be closed when auxiliary midwives and junior sanitarians do field work
and home visiting. In-service management training will also be provided to
supervisory personnel and a deputy district health officer will be assigned
to each district in 20 relatively disadvantaged provinces to provide
supervision of the primary health care and family planning activities of
the village health volunteers and health communicators.
31.       The MOPH's expansion of facilities and the introduction of new
services and innovative activities nationwide as called for under the Fourth
Plan will be a demanding and chall,enging task. The proposed project has been
designed to ensure that the necessary staff will be available to meet this
challenge and that experience gaineld can be broadly applied and translated
into new directions and activities.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
32.       The Government first approached the Bank concerning possible financing
of a population project in mid-1975 during discussion of the findings of a
population sector review mission./L The project was prepared by a project
preparation task force established in the MOPH, assisted by a Bank preparation
mission which visited the country in July 1976. The project was appraised in
November/December 1976; post appraisal missions visited Thailand in March and
October 1977 to refine the project scope and to firm up cost estimates for
civil works components and the cofinancing plan. Negotiations took place in
Washington from November 28 to December 2, 1977. The Government delegation
was led by H. E. Dr. Arun Panupong, Ambassador to the United States, assisted
by Dr. Amorn Nondasata, Deputy Under-Secretary of State for Public Health.
33.       Concurrently with project: preparation and appraisal, at the request
of the Government, the Association approached several bilateral donors concern-
ing possible participation in project financing. The project became the focus
of attention at the Consultative Group Meeting held in Paris in March 1977.
Pledges of support have now been received from Norway, Australia, Canada and
the United States, as described in detail in paragraphs 50 and 51 of this report.
Project Description
34.       The primary objective of the project is to enable the Government
to reach its demographic target for the Fourth Five-Year Economic and
Social Development Plan (FY77-81) biy assisting in the recruitment of more
than three million new acceptors. A related objective is to reduce both
maternal and infant mortality rates by about 20%; these improvements can be
expected, after some time lag, to influence couples to have fewer children.
The project will also create the foundations for further reductions in
/1 As reported in "The National Family Planning Program: A Sector Report -
Thailand," Report No. 724a-TH, dated November 3, 1975.



- 11 -
fertility during subsequent plan periods when less receptive members of the
population will have to be reached. As the first phase of a longer term
program, the project will help meet these objectives by: (a) strengthening
and extending the delivery of family planning services and supplies to the
rural areas; (b) increasing the supply of nurses, auxiliary midwives and
practical nurse/midwives, all of whom are key personnel in providing family
planning services; and (c) strengthening family planning evaluation and
research as well as IEC activities over the three year project period. The
project will support the nationwide expansion of ongoing family planning
activities and extend the rural health network in 20 relatively disadvantaged
provinces so as to bring them up to national standards. This strategy should
significantly increase the number of new acceptors and improve continuation
rates by bringing family planning services closer to the rural poor who now
lack ready access to service centers.
35.       The NFPP will be strengthened through (a) extension of training
facilities for paramedical personnel most closely associated with delivery
of family planning services either through new construction or expansion of
existing facilities; (b) recruitment of additional MOPH headquarters staff;
(c) training of about 270 assistant health workers in the delivery of
family planning services, and in-service training of about 600 nurse
practitioners for supervision of health and family planning services in
rural areas; (d) provision of vehicles, IEC materials, equipment and
contraceptive supplies for the NFPP; and (e) undertaking of various studies
to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the NFPP. The 20 provinces
selected for acceleration of the program - designated as the accelerated
family planning and health (AFPH) provinces in this report - will also be
provided with (a) additional service facilities at district and tambol
levels through new construction or upgrading of existing facilities,
(b) strengthening of administrative, supervisory and paramedical personnel
at the provincial, district, tambol and village levels through stepped up
recruitment and training programs, (c) additional vehicles, IEC materials
and equipment, and (d) the carrying out of a baseline survey, operational
studies and external evaluation studies to assess the impact and effective-
ness of the AFPH programs. Provision will also be made in the project
for additional innovative activities which may be identified during project
implementation. Details are provided in the report entitled "Thailand -
Appraisal of a Population Project" (No. 1663-TH, dated January 18, 1978),
which is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Training
36.       In addition to physicians, the NFPP relies on four main categories
of paramedical personnel to provide family planning services and maternal and
child health care: nurses, practical nurse/midwives, auxiliary midwives, and
junior sanitarians. The annual output of existing MOPH training institutions
has not been sufficient to provide enough staff for existing rural health
facilities and a shortage of 15 to 20% in all but the sanitarian category
presently exists. To overcome the present shortage and to meet the requirements



- 12 -
to staff additional health facilities to be constructed during the Fourth Plan
period, annual output of nurses, practical nurse/midwives, and auxiliary
midwives must be increased substantially. The necessary new construction or
expansion of existing training facilities will be carried out under the
project. The project includes the construction of three additional practical
nurse/midwifery schools attached to provincial hospitals in Phayao, Phra
Phutthabat and Nakhon Si Thammarat, and one additional midwifery school at
Nakhon Sawan provincial hospital. In addition, the nursing school at Lampang
provincial hospital and the four existing midwifery schools at Khon Kaen,
Ratchburi, Chiang Mai and Lampang will be expanded.  All the midwifery schools
will have attached to them a maternal and child health center which not only
provides needed health care for mothers and mothers-to-be but also allows the
necessary clinical experience midwives and others must have before being
assigned to their rural posts. The Government has agreed to send to the
Association for review and comment its detailed staffing and curricula plans
for these training institutions by August 31, 1978 (Section 3.09 of the draft
Developmeitt Credit Agreement).
37.       In order to upgrade the skills of existing staff or to train new
junior staff or volunteers in famiLy planning and basic health care, a
variety of pre- and in-service training activities are also included in the
project. Eleven such training programs are planned over the three-year
project period: 3 at the national level and 8 in the 20 AFPH provinces.
The national level programs are intended to: (a) provide an introduction
to population and family planning matters and a discussion forum for about
180 national policy makers and opinion leaders through a population awareness
program at Chulalongkorn University, (b) prepare 270 assistant family health
workers for work in maternal and child health and family planning clinics at
hospitals, provincial health offices, and maternal/child health centers
throughout the country, and (c) upgrade the skills of 600 nurses to serve as
nurse practitioners supervising medical care in rural health facilities. The
other short-term training programs in the 20 AFPH provinces are intended to:
(a) prepare assistant health workers to serve as the second staff members in
midwifery centers; (b) train auxiliary midwives in basic curative skills;
(c) prepare nurse practitioners to fill in for physicians in districts not yet
covered by a doctor; (d) upgrade the skills of existing staff to enable them
to serve as provincial or district supervisors or conduct (and follow-up on
afterwards) the recruitment and training of village health volunteers and
health communicators; (e) provide various provincial and district officials
with improved skills in management and administration; and (f) prepare
attendants to operate child nutrition centers. Altogether, these training
programs will reach nearly 100,000 people.
Strengthepning of the Rural Health Delivery System in the AFPH Provinces
38.       The 20 disadvantaged AFPH provinces were selected for focus under
the project because, in relation to the other 51 provinces, they suffer from
poor health facility coverage, low to moderate family planning acceptance and



- 13 -
high population densities. The delivery of family planning services in
these provinces will be strengthened as a first step toward ensuring that
every village has ready access to family planning and health information
and contraceptive supplies, and that the rural health facilities at the
village, tambol, district and provincial levels enjoy the confidence
of the populations they serve. New cadres of health volunteers and health
communicators will be established in every village or group of villages;
they will be (a) well trained in family planning, first aid and basic
health care, (b) regularly supplied with contraceptive supplies and IEC
materials, and (c) closely supervised and advised by paramedical personnel.
Over the project period, about 7,900 village health volunteers and about
79,000 health communicators will be recruited and trained in the AFPII
provinces.
39.       The tambol, district, and provincial level health facilities in the
AFPH provinces will be strengthened to ensure they are able to offer reliable
health services and to give the village health workers the support they need.
To bring coverage in these provinces up to national standard, the project
includes the following construction or upgrading: construction of 19 ten-bed
district hospitals /1 and the upgrading of six existing ten-bed hospitals to
thirty-bed hospitals; construction of 180 health centers, 30 of which would be
upgraded from existing midwifery centers, and construction of 225 new midwifery
centers and 120 one-room child nutrition centers. The child nutrition centers,
each with a full-time attendant, will provide day care and supplemental high
protein food for children and serve as centers for mothers' classes in
nutrition, family planning and child care. They will be located next to
existing rural health facilities and will be supervised by auxiliary midwives.
40.       Altogether some 2,300 new staff will be added to the MOPH rural
health network in the AFPH provinces over the project period. These
include about 75 nurses, 240 practical nurse/midwives, 400 auxiliary
midwives, 200 junior sanitarians and 920 assistant health workers either to
staff additional health or midwifery centers or to supplement staff at
existing centers, 220 provincial and district supervisors and other health
planning, health education and clerical personnel. This strengthening of
staff in rural areas will enable auxiliary midwives and sanitarians to do
more field work and still allow the centers to remain open for a full day.
Supervision will be strengthened by adding the following staff in each of
the provinces: 10 deputy district health officers (district supervisors);
a provincial supervisor for primary health care/family planning; a health
educator; and a three-person planning and research team comprising a chief,
epidemiologist and statistician.
Equipment, Vehicles, Materials
41.       Furniture and equipment for each of the facilities to be constructed
or expanded will be provided under the project. In addition, the incremental
requirements for vehicles for family planning/health personnel will be met.
Such vehicles include 18 buses or mini-buses for transporting nursing students,
/1 Though designated "hospitals," these facilities are similar to what are
called health centers in other countries.



- 14 -
31 mobile vans for sterilization teams operating out of provincial hospitals,
about 195 two-wheel drive vehicles for administrative and supervisory personnel
and about 4,100 motorcycles to ensure that midwives and sanitarians have the
mobility they need to make regular field visits. The larger part of these
vehicles (about 60%) will be in direct support of activities in the 20 AFPH
provinces where, because of the relative paucity of rural health facilities,
mobility of paramedical personnel will be especially important. The project
will also meet the contraceptive requirements for both existing and newly
recruited acceptors not being met from other sources. Both oral contraceptives
(12.5 million cycles) and the injectable contraceptives (3 million doses) will
be provided. In accordance with Government policy, these will be distributed
free of charge to acceptors.
Information, Education and Communciation (IEC)                                             4
42.       The IEC component of the project seeks to strengthen some of the
weak areas in present IEC activities. Among other things, the project will
support the production of additionaL materials on family planning, population,
and nutrition for use in interpersonal communication and the mass media,
provide production and utilization equipment, and strengthen IEC staff at
headquarters and in the field. This component is closely linked with the
service component of the project, since the personnel - paramedicals, village
health volunteers, etc. - who provide family planning and basic health services
also carry out IEC activities in the field. In order to improve its IEC
activities, the Government has agreed that it will take all measures necessary
to ensure that not later than October 1, 1978 that (i) the MOPH's Family Health
Division is authorized to purchase, produce and duplicate color films, includ-
ing entertainment-type films, designed to increase community understanding of
family planning; and (ii) adequate radio time on sufficient stations throughout
the country is allocated or purchased at appropriate times each day for
family planning broadcasts by the Family Health Division (Section 3.08 of
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Research and Evaluation
43.       A number of studies will bhe carried out under the project designed
to improve understanding of demographic issues, increase effectiveness of the
NFPP, and facilitate the improvement of the rural health delivery system and
its utilization. The following studies, among others, will be undertaken by
the NFPP and local population institutions: (a) family planning client follow-
up survey, (b) the adequacy of the injectable contraceptive program in rural
areas, (c) risks and frequency of induced abortions and policy implications,
(d) cost effectiveness of the NFPP, and (e) national survey of family planning
practice, fertility and mortality. The Family Health Division will be respon-
sible for these studies, but will subcontract the cost-effectiveness study and
the national survey to Mahidol and Chulalongkorn Universities, which have
already done considerable work in these areas. The services of consultants
will be utilized to assist in the design of the surveys and studies undertaken
by the NFPP and population institutions. The project will also support three
distinct types of studies in the 20 AFPH provinces: (a) baseline and periodic
surveys, (b) operational studies to assess the adequacy of training, referral
processes, supervisory arrangements, etc., and (c) external evaluation of the



- 15 -
project's impacts in the AFPH provinces, the last to be conducted by an inde-
pendent Thai research group under contract. Short-term advisory assistance
will be provided to assist with the design of the baseline and operational
studies undertaken by the Health Planning Division of the MOPH.
Technical Assistance and Professional Services
44.       A total of 59 man-months of technical assistance will be provided
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. A health planner/
economist will be employed for a period of 36 man-months to assist in project
implementation. In addition 12 man-months of short-term advisory assistance
will be provided to assist with the design of the studies to be carried out in
the 20 AFPH provinces, and 11 man-months of short-term advisory assistance to
help with the design of the studies undertaken by the NFPP and by Mahidol and
Chulalongkorn Universities. Professional services will also be provided, as
the need arises, for design and construction supervision to supplement the
services provided by the MOPH's Design and Construction Divisin. The average
cost of technical assistance and advisory support is estimated at $4,000 per
man-month.
Innovative Activities not yet Identified
45.       An amount of $1 million is earmarked for funding innovative proposals
that may be made during the course of project implementation. Such a provision
is intended to add flexibility to the project and to encourage the authorities
to seek innovations. The Government will obtain the Association's agreement
before tapping this source of funds (Schedule 1 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Project Implementation
46.       The three-year project will be carried out by the MOPH, under the
overall responsibility of the Under-Secretary of State. A Project Administra-
tion and Financing Unit will be established in the Under-Secretary's Office
and will be headed by the Deputy Under-Secretary for Planning and Evaluation
who has been designated as Project Director. This Unit will be responsible
for administrative matters, including the programming and coordination of
activities, procurement and contract award, disbursements, and progress report-
ing. To ensure coordination among the work of the eight divisions responsible
for various aspects of the project, a Project Coordinating Committee composed
of the heads of these divisions will be established, under the chairmanship of
the Project Director. Establishment of both the Project Administration and
Financing Unit and the Project Coordinating Committee is a condition of credit
effectiveness (Sections 3.02 and 6.01 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
47.       To supervise and administer the NFPP and rural health services,
including the expansion of facilities, training of personnel, production of
IEC materials, and monitoring of results, MOPH headquarters staff will need to
be strengthened. Eighty-four additional permanent staff wll be recruited to
fill positions in the headquarters divisions which will carry out the project
(Family Health, Rural Health, Construction and Design, Health Planning and
Health Education). In addition, 6 staff will be assigned to the Project



- 16 -
Administration and Financing Unit and 2 staff will be employed by Chulalongkorn
University to carry out the Population Awareness Program (Section 3.07 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Cost Estimates and Financing
48.       The total estimated project cost is $68.6 million equivalent, of
which $22.2 million, or 32%, is foreign exchange. The foreign exchange
component has been calculated assuming 24% for construction, 30% for furniture,
60% for equipment and 70% for vehicles, 75% for technical assistance and 100%
for special equipment and contraceptives, which is in line with experience in
the country. Cost estimates for construction, furniture and equipment are
based on the experience of the MOPH with similar buildings and take into
account recent cost trends. Allowances have been included for provincial
differences in construction costs.  Site development costs, including land
purchase costs, have been included where required. Cost estimates for vehicles
and special equipment are based on recent price quotations. Incremental
operating costs, including salaries and allowances for key family planning
personnel, short-term training activities, IEC activities, and evaluation and
research activities are included in project costs. Salaries and allowance
estimates include allowances for housing, per diem and travel. Training costs
include per diem, travel, materials, and, in some cases, honoraria for instruc-
tors. The costs of surveys, operational research and seminars are calculated
on the basis of standard local travel and per diem allowances.
49.       The contingency allowances of $13.4 million include:  (a) physical
contingencies for unforeseen factors estimated at 10% of base civil works
costs and (b) price contingencies totalling 18% of base costs and physical
contingencies. Price contingencies were calculated on the basis of the
anticipated expenditure schedule and the expected annual price increases
between 1978 and 1980 using the following annual rates for each major category
of expenditure: civil works - 1978-79, 12% and 1980, 10%; furniture - 1978-79,
10% and 1980, 8%; equipment, vehicles and technical assistance - 1978-79, 8%
and 1980, 7%; operational costs including contraceptive supplies - 1978-79,
6% and 1980, 5%.
50.       Project costs will be met by loans or grants from IDA, Norway, ADAB,
CIDA and USAID totalling $47.9 million equivalent and by a Thai Government
contribution of $20.7 million equivalent. The IDA credit of $33.1 million
(which includes the Norwegian grant of $3.1 million) and the Australian grant
of $3.0 million will finance, on a joint basis, (a) the construction of
training institutions and rural health facilities, (b) the provision of
vehicles, equipment and materials, (c) the procurement of one million doses of
injectable contraceptives, (d) the services of an economist/health planner and
professional services, and (e) innovative activities. About $14.8 million (or
45%) of the $33.1 million credit covers foreign exchange expenditures, and the
remaining $18.3 million is for local costs (see paragraph 16). Norway's
funds, at its request, will be used specifically for the economist/health
planner and for the construction and equipping of health centers. ADAB funds
will be disbursed, by the Association, against initial expenditures for other
civil works, vehicles, equipment, materials and professional services. The



- 17 -
CIDA loan and grant of $6.3 million will be used (a) to purchase 12.5 million
cycles of oral contraceptives and two million doses of injectable contracep-
tives and (b) to finance the cost of evaluation and research studies to be
conducted at the national level by the NFPP, including about 11 man-months of
advisory assistance. The USAID loan of $5.5 million will finance the short-
term training and research and evaluation studies, including 12 man-months of
advisory assistance in support of primary health care activities in the 20
AFPH provinces. The Royal Thai Government will cover the balance of project
costs; namely, all of the cost of salaries and allowances for incremental
staff, the production cost of information, education and communication
materials and programs, and 28% of all civil works.
51.       Norway's participation in the proposed credit will be submitted to
its Cabinet shortly; a participation agreement would be signed with the
Association immediately after signature of the credit. The ADAB grant is
being negotiated with the Thais and is expected to be signed shortly. CIDA
expects to negotiate their agreement in March for signature soon thereafter.
A team to develop the USAID contribution in detail is now in the field;
formal approval is expected in June. Effectiveness of the ADAB Agreement
and signature of the CIDA Agreement are conditions for effectiveness of the
proposed credit (Section 6.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). All
financing is expected to be in place by October 31, 1978 (Section 5.01 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
52.       By FY1981 the project is expected to add about $8 million a year
on average to the MOPH's operating costs. In FY1977, the total operating
costs stood at about $125 million; by FY1981 they are expected to be between
$180 and 200 million in constant prices. These figures indicate that the
project, which will account for most of the service-network expansion in the
20 AFPH provinces and for the establishment of all new paramedical training
institutions, will be responsible for about 11-15% of the expected total
increase in recurrent costs. Total MOPH costs have recently accounted for
just under 4% of the Government's total recurrent expenditures; by 1981 the
figure is expected to rise to about 5 or 6%, reflecting the higher priority
being given to health care and family planning during the Fourth Plan.
Thus, the increases directly related to the project are reasonable both in
terms of resources likely to be available to the MOPH and in terms of the
proportion of population they will benefit.
Procurement
53.       Procurement of USAID- and CIDA-financed items will follow the normal
procurement procedures of those agencies. Procurement of all other goods and
services will follow the Association's normal procedures except for (a) the
child nutrition centers, which will be constructed by the villagers themselves
using locally available materials purchased under procedures acceptable to the
Association; and (b) injectable contraceptives, which are manufactured by one
or two companies and will therefore be purchased on a negotiated basis.



- 18 -
54.       All other civil works will be executed by contracts grouped in
appropriate bid packages on the basis of geographical location and type of
work to be performed. Such packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$750,000 or more will be awarded after international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines. Five such contracts, totalling about
$6.8 million, fall into this category. Remaining civil works (totalling about
$19.1 million) will be awarded after local competitive bidding in accordance
with Government procurement procedures, which are acceptable to the Association;
foreign firms are allowed to participate. Similarly, all contracts for
vehicles, equipment, supplies and furniture will be grouped in appropriate bid
packages. Except as specified below, those for vehicles, equipment and
supplies will be awarded after international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank/IDA guidelines. In the evaluation of bids, domestic manufacturers
will be accorded a preference margin of 15% of the c.i.f. price of competing
imports or, if lower, the applicable customs duties. All furniture, and those
contracts for equipment and supplies which cannot reasonably be packaged in
contracts of at least $100,000 will be awarded after local competitive bidding
in accordance with Government procurement procedures acceptable to the Associa-
tion. Contracts of $10,000 or less each, up to an aggregate of $100,000, may
be procured through prudent shopping after solicitation of at least three
price quotations.
Disbursements
55.       Disbursements from the proposed IDA credit would be on the following
basis:
(a) 72% of expenditures for health centers;
(b) 72% of expenditures for training institutions, district hospitals
and midwifery centers;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment,
furniture, vehicles and materials, 65% of expenditures for locally
procured off-the-shelf items, and 100% of expenditures (ex-factory)
for items procured locally;
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures for contraceptives;
(e) 100% of expenditures for the services of a health planner/
economist;
(f) 100% of expenditures for other technical assistance; and
(g) 100% of expenditures for innovative activities approved by
IDA.
Norway's participation in the credit in an amount of about $3.1 million will,
at its request, be used to help finance items (a) and (e) above. Norway
would reimburse the Association for disbursements it has made against these



- 19 -
items at the rate of 76% and 100% of such disbursements respectively. The
mechanism for doing so will be spelled out in the participation agreement to
be signed with the Association (para. 51) which calls for the establishment
of a special account at the Bank of Norway in the Association's name to be
periodically replenished with Norwegian kroner. At the request of the
Australian Government, the Association will disburse the ADAB grant against
initial expenditures for items (b), (c) and (f) above, at the same disbursement
percentage as the IDA credit. When grant funds have been exhausted, disburse-
ment from the credit against these items would commence. The ADAB would
establish a special account at the Reserve Bank of Australia in an amount of
$A 2.6 million (currently equivalent to about $3.0 million) from which the
grant funds would be disbursed. Disbursements from the ADAB grant account
are expected to be completed by June 30, 1979 and those from the IDA credit
account, by December 31, 1981.
Justification
56.       The target of the NFPP is to reduce the crude birth rate from the
present 34 per thousand to 29 per thousand by the end of FY81. This will
require the recruitment of about 3 million new acceptors during the Fourth
Plan period, an average of 600,000 per annum, compared with an average of
490,000 during the preceding five years. By 1981, the number of active users
(i.e., couples with the wife under 45 years who practice contraception) will
have to rise from the present figure of 1.3 million couples to more than 2.2
million. If the target fertility reduction is achieved by FY81 and a net
reproduction rate of 1.0 is reached in 1990, the total population of Thailand
by the year 2000 will be 42 million less than if fertility remained constant
at the 1970 level.
57.       The principal justification of the project lies in its contribution
to the NFPP's fertility reduction objectives. It is not possible to quantify
precisely this contribution independent of the NFPP's overall performance.
The selection and design of project components is based on judgments as to
the resources and activities needed to reach the stated goals of the project.
Since the extension and strengthening of the rural health delivery system is
the principal means of realizing the project's primary fertility reduction
objective, it is inevitable that the health system itself will be a major
beneficiary of the project. As a result of the project, the coverage of
medical care by physicians will increase from 29% in 1977 to 31% in 1980, and
the coverage of preventive and promotive health care by paramedics (sanitarians
and auxiliary midwives) will be increased from 56% in 1977 to 66% in 1980.
In the 20 AFPH provinces medical coverage will increase from 25% to 28% and
health care from 47% to 65%. Upon project completion, community-based
primary health care and family planning services will be available to 90% of
the village population of these provinces or to over 14 million people. The
project will thus produce an important set of ancillary health benefits,
chief among which will be improvements in maternal and child health care,
including improved child nutrition. Finally, the Association's support for
the NFPP, accompanied by a well-coordinated program of other external support,
will be the foundation for future reductions in fertility.



- 20 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Kingdom of
Thailand and the Association and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately. In addition to the features of the
Development Credit Agreement which are referred to in the text and listed in
Section III of Annex III, the following features are of particular interest:
(a) The following event of suspension has been added, namely that the
CIDA and USAID Agreements shall have failed to become effective by
October 31, 1978 and the Borrower cannot ensure that adequate funds
for the project are available from other sources (Section 5.01 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
(b)  Additional conditions oE effectiveness include:
(i)  establishment of the Project Administration and Financing
Unit (Section 6.01(a) of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment);
(ii) establishment of the Project Coordinating Committee (Sec-
tion 6.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement);
(iii) signature of the CIDA Agreement (Section 6.01(c) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement);
(iv) effectiveness of the ADAB Agreement (Section 6.01(d) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachments
January 26, 1978
Washington, D.C.



ANNaX I
Pagje 3 of, 4  ac
TAB LE 3A
THAILAND                SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LANO AREA (THOU KM2)                     --------                                       ----
- ---------------                        ~~~~THA ILAND                           REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       514.0                                          MOST RE-CENT
AGRIC.      1 44. 3.                      1960        1970    ESTIMATE            PHILIPPINES   KOREA REP.0F  .JAPAN 4
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                       T00.0       2 210.    - j580.            --- *          260.0 * 2630.0 
POPULATION AND VITAL StATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILL:ON)              26.6        36.3   ~ 43.0 /a                36.9         32.2        i04.3
POPULATION DENSITY                                                     ..
PER SQUARE KM.                          52.0       71.0        84+0                123.0       327.0        260.0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LANO          212.0      263.10    29800'-                375.0      1371.0       1744.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU. AV)            47.1       44.3        37. 6                44,2         35.0        17.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (./THOU.AV)            19.8        13.7        9.1                 13.2         11.4          7.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE I/THOUIU)           .        80.0        68.0                 80.0        60.0 /a      13.1
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)          49.0       S5.S        58.0                 55.6        65.0         71.1
GRCSS REPRODUCTION RATE                    ..        3.2        3.)                  3.3          2.6          1.0
POPULATION GROWTH IATE()
TOTAL                                    3.0        3.1         2.9                  3.0          2.3          1.0
URBAN                                    5.2        4.9         5.1                  4.0          6.4          4.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)             12.7        15.0       16.5                 31.0         41.2         64.4
AGE STRuCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                          43.0       45.1          .                  45.6        42.1         24.0
IS TO 64 YEARS                          54.0       51.6          .                  51.6        54.5         66.9
65 YEARS AND OVER                        3.0        3.1          ..2.8                            3.4          7.1
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                       09    09                  .0.9                           0.8          0.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  0.9k        1./1        ..                  1.5          1.4          0.6
FAlAILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORt (CUMIULATIVE. THOU)             ..      470.0    2060.0                  354.0      4424.7
USERS (% OF MIARRIED WOMEN)               ..        o1.0       26.6                  2.0         42.0
EMP LOYIIEN T
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THCILSAND)         13700.0 A 16700. 0Ab1 7700. 0               12300 0 9,10200.0/b53300.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE 1%)            62.0       78.0        76.0~                 5:oL        50:5         19.
UNEMPLOYED'(% OF LABOR FORCE)                .           .        7.0~ b57.00                       4.5          1.2
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOM.E RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HaUSEHOI.DS              21.8/      22.0  'c                           .          17.1        14.2
HIGHEST 20%. CF HOUSEHOLDS              so9__             '                                       43  
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                6.71 .4           -     ...                             7.1          8.8
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS               14.9       1..3 7-       .                    .          17.7        22.3
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OIWNERSHIP
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS                  .                      ...                           23.0
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS                ..                    ...                             2.0
HEALTH AND NUrRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                   7..          _  ~70 81                               2180.0 Lc    060.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON                      6           30                               2170. 0 j4    240.0
POUAINPER HOSPITAL BED                   /dNUOB9.          7.                  850.0      1900.0         80.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF-
CALORIES (% OF REOUIRE1AENTS)           95.0      1 03 .0     107.0                100.0       103.0        106.0
PRCTEIN (GRAMS PER CAY)                 47.0       52. 0/    58.0  L.C              45.0         65.0        78.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE              ..       17.0                             22..3.0      19.0        45.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4                  .           .          .                  9.0           ..1.0
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                            ..       81 .0       83.0 /d113.0                     104.0       100.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                         7.0       16.0       19.0                 49-0         41.0         91.0
YEARS OP SCHOOLING PROVIDEO
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                12.0       13.0        12.0                 10.0        12.0         12.0
VOCATIONAL ENRCLL\1ENT
(11 OF SECONDARY)                       19.0       14.0 /a   13.0 _d__               6.0/b       16.0o       20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                      .        79.0       82.0..                            87.0         99.0
HOUS ING
PERSONS PER ROOM. (URBAN)                    ..          .           .2.1                           2.7          1.0
OCCUPIED D'AELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WIATER IT.)                                      .         ..76.0                          8o.0 /d       5.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                                           63...  63.  f        23.0         50.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)13, O/.d13                                                         7. 0        30. 0
CCN SU.'APT ION
R_ADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)              6.0       781.0       76 046.0                         136.0       651.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)               2.0        5.0         7.O0 8d .0                       2.0         84 .0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/eR PER CAP)              23.0       1 24 .0     194.0               235.0        307.0       3391.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YK PER CAP(                   0.7        1.0         1.4                  2.0          3.5        18.9
SEE NOTES AND DEFINETION1S ON REVERSE



page 2 of 4 pages
;oa.. oherwi.. ..otd. data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Moatc Recent fEtinate  bet-ees
197  and19'S.
SCNP per capita data 4re based on the WorLd Atlas methodology (1974-76 basis).
Although Japan's CRNP per .apita isaouch higher tham that of rh.iland, J.pso ha. bhas' slectd a.  nobj.ctive coutry-                       cceTaln'
deeotprnceeo can resonabty be measured againat that of Japan, an Asiao country which is hinghly trade oriented . bas  ove   fro  an
aricultu'raIlly ba adt  an induecri.lLy based econmy, and in doing So ha. retained Lts cltrldanti.
THRIL,NNO         1960    !a  Ratio of population under 13 and 65 and over to  nmonomiceily active Ppoplition  age 11 and ove;    /b  E.conoicaily
active population age 11 and over;    /c  1962-63   mrurl only;    /d  1962.
1970     I.  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to economic.lly active population ag. Il and owar;    /b  tcononic.lly
active Population age It and over;    Is. Rural only;    /d  19b4-h6;               /a  PubZlc Schools, thich Include technical
education at the poat-.ccondary level.
1(OST 11C7E97 ESTDMAT1:    !a  1976;    /b  Bangkok only;    /c  1969-71 average;    /d  1971;    /a  Public School. vhich include
technical education at the poet-secondary level;    If  la percent of population in Bangkok metro-
poLitan areas;    Lja  Other 67 poice
Pq1L:,PytNS       1970    Ia  AS percentege of aploymnet;            lb  Not including private voacaional Schools.
KORti REP. OE   1970    /a  Goveieset estimate is 38.01              lb  A.a percetage of omployment;    It  Registered, not all practicing in the country;
Id Waetr piped inaide..
R12, Augua t 16, 1977
DWEINrIEN 0?l SIXCL ISICATO3S
Land Are. (thou h2)                                                                            Population nor nursin  oa-eo  - Population divided.by nmber of p-tacicig
TotaL _ Ttait .urface ar.e comprising land areas ad  nland waters.                               saissdtmle        graduate nurses, 'ttraind' or "certified" eur.... co d
iAric.1; Mostc recet se tinsc. of sgricuLtucal area used t-porarily or pare.-                    ainILiary personnel vtbh treining  or aspartaen.
Maeal  tot croa, p.atursa. earbet . kiteben gerdWan  or to Lie tallow                        popuslation Pay henital, bed - Population divided by number of hospital heda
availa ble in pOl.ab and pivate general cod apaclalized hospital end
GMP 2et cntre  (0S5    GNP Pe, capita escimatac an corret makca  Prices,                         rehabiILittion  centeirs; asAlde  nursing h-es  and ..tabliaheenta  for
calculad by  lea convarsim, method aS. world Rak Atlee (1973-75 baels);                        custodial "an  prevenctiv  car.
1960; 1970 sod 1975 data.                                                                   yqe- ceiasnl f c.loriac  (I, of rwiraaot.)   Competed from  energy
euL:ivaee  of net food Supplies avia Le in coIry per capita par dey;
FpopLation and vit.1 etutietic,                                                                  evilabla aupplies. copris* domstic prnduatcbon,.iprts lane.. eaprts. and
Population 'mid-year 'elILo)   Aa of july, first:  if not available,  --S.eg                    chaage  In Stock; noc Supplies Saclud. ..ime  feed,  eaa  quantitias used
of toadya  .aclsoa .; I1)60, 1970 end 1975 date,                                               in food processing and losses in diatribction; r-uranewr  eaciar-d
by FAO ba..d on physiological no-de for naa-I activIty and hasLtb con.id-
PoVilatjaa denair  - oa  onar   e - ptid-yser population par square kilenatar                    eying eovironmnal teeparatuca, body omighta,.$ag  and sen dlatributlono of
11001 hcctae  of  otal  rea,                                                                   pouain -d  Llboieg 107. for 'sate at ho-us-hold leve...
povulari_ danair    P ar Souar  ka of atric. Land - Computed aSe above for                     Per c-nite  erl,  fooem(eaord    - Prteint content of Per capita
agricultura L land ..Iy.                                                                       me  upyo   odpar day; nat Supply of food Ls defined as Shove ; r.quire-
immaca for all ctannries eat.blishod by IEDA Eicondl I esearch Sarvicsa
vital Sctatisics                                                                                 provide for a cinia   ollonence of 60 grom  of total protein per day, and
Crude birth rate oar the,uSand.   -%est  - Aunu1 Iliv  birth. per thousand of                    20 ar-  of aninsi aod pulse Protein, of vhich 10 grama Should be enloal
.Id-year popol.tion; ten-year eritieatic  average  ending in 1960 and 1970,                    proteIn; these otaodards etc l1ar then those of 75 greas of total protein
and five-year -oer.g.encding in 1975 f or met recent asticate.                                 eed 23 greas of aehea1 protein  as an o-erag  far the  -acd, prop-nd by FAO
Crude death tees oa-  th..aond,. avraqa - Anmual deatha par thcaned of  Ji-ya.i the Third World rood Survey.
population; ten-year arithoatic  vavr.ags codin  in 1960 ed 1970 sod five-                   ?Br cait- Protein Supply from  animal and pulse - PrteinL Supply .f food
ye rt:eae  nig  n17  for moat recent scatint.                                              derive  from an-loca and puLbes La garoa par day.
nfn  rtalt   ae(to)- unnuaL desthe of infants udar one year of .ge                       eath rate f/hthou)I area 1-4 -   .nea dIat,a per thou,and to age group 1-4
par th .Ucad lIon births.                                                                      yaS   tochlde  in thi.  gS"  group; auggested as an indi.cato  of
Life ..Pnctoc, at birth ("r0) - Average nabeIr of year  of life roainfing at                     elanstrition.
birth; usually five-year vavrag en .diis in 1960. 1970 end 1975 for danlop-
mgCeaStrilena.f .duag. tipar
Gr=a  tar =urtion rate     orp  combr of live deagbe.ra a meane  will bear                     udluated   hoietrai      rmrrsho     orlato ll- eg.d  a1 pat-
io her nacoal reyrouctiv p- rld if She ..periencee peasant  ge-specific                        cetage  f, pr 'r   colaepp,lto;icum    hide    gd6l   or
fer'tility rstas; -auLLy fuo-y-eaaverage. soding J. 1960, 1970 and 1975                        bant adjoatd for diff.r.st 1angtbe of prisnoy ed-cario; far coutries with
or dcveiopioa councrisa.                                         ucivereel eAscetiom, ~enrlLneet sy emceed 1001  Lato. ca   pupil. ar  below
porudtt"  Orut  raS C.    total - Compomd Smunal gr-teis rate  of mi-eror shor  th  offcia  robe,h"  age.
pouainfr 195-,0.  AI-li and 1970-75.                                                Adutderlon  reti    eeeo4"r school - Computed as above; Secondary
Potloton  towh rte Ct)  - urban - Coputed like gerwth rete of total                         adration requires at leaat four years of approved prinary isacructian;
population; diurot-ct      iiln    f urban arSen  sy affact nmpa... illtr  o                   provide  goeara1, vocational or teacher training instruction  for pupils
daaoogcountti,s.                                                                         of 12 to 17 years of east cnrrmapand-nc  couroe a-  generally occlded.
'::be  po   tLtin(  o  total) - Ratio of urban to total popualation; dlffer.nt                Yeers of schoolIng 7rovid*d (first aod second Jevale) - Total 755c of
dsfinitiona  of -ban aros  ny affsct cmop.rability of data omog coecoti.a.                     schooling; at esoondary level, vocational inatruction nay ha partially o
comp'laetey ecludd
cue structu~re  (Percent) - Child... (0-14 years) ,  -oking-ogs (15-"4  y-ac) ,Voctiona  enrLbantC. of enodr) - vctionl inhittion-  .cciuda
andrair    653v yerSan  Ovewr) aSe percettagoI of eid-,aar population.                       technical. industrial or other pragooma which operate indpad.enly or Sea
AS. depand-n   rato-  _Ratio  f PP.ISecto  _nder 13 and u  ad over to these                       dPaprsaor   aaoodar  insitution..
of ages IS ihrougo                                                                            ... cul  i=sroc, rot   ,  - .itrate. edulc. (ohm. to reed and -itt    S. pr-
Economic d.p..d.c-v  ratio  Ratio of population uinder 15 and 65 and ove  to                      c-ncge of total adult population  gd 15 y-Sr  ad4 over.
the labor force ina        -np of 15-i4. yacro.
psilo  oicnlr0-acentOfl'c'aulaivs.  thou) - CuLaftive nmber of accePto.-              goueins
of brchcontol  aoica uder aupceof national fally planning pr-gran                      Persona oar tons  uba) -Avrage n,ber of peroona per roo  in occuped.
since inception.                                                        conven~~~~~~~~.-stional dw11Lng. in urban areas ; dweLlings sac lode  a-.onn.
pomily pi nntc    uaar  Cof caried woe)-Prcanag   of nerried wome  ofnrcucaduocuidpr.
child-beering ago (15-44 Ya-o) who  sa birtl-cnct1 desica  to all sarriad                    OccupIed dweLIId. witou  pind aetar (l  - OCc.pi.d conventional dueLinge
wmnin  a-  alle group.                                                                      in uban and -rura  -ro  aithouc inid  o  outside piped .-cr faciliti..
taploroent                                                          Access tO alect~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ricin l   of.1  d Rllne     Con-enti-Is dveIlitg  with
Total  labor forc  lth-uaad) - EconooLc-ly active person, including aend                           Ilatriiciy io living quartrs as paroent of total dwel1i.gs in urb.. end
fnrnsa acd unayiovsd hot o..cluding  huai S,etudente, Stc. ; deinitiond                         rura  ares..
in veric  coun tries er  oat comparbile                                                      tRal 1   .llinee- tonneoted to e1octrtcito  '1   Comput.d aSe above for  -ur1
Labor tome ia atiutue(.) -                         Igiulua  l or fote(in f.aring, far..atry.      dwLftna  only
hunting e,nd  f,ishing  Se percetg ft otal labor  frc.
Loompn eed  I o .labr force) - tapIoyst are uasaily defined Se poerono who                      Conaunptboo
are .bla and willing to take a Job, out of a job on a gi-so day, resairted out                Radio rweeivers  ler thou poe) - All ty"" ef receiver. tot radio brod-ast
ofaJab, and seeking work for S specified .1iniess perio  not e..c.edig oeto general public per thousand o"pouato; Sneb :unlieoodren                                          lor
-ss; syapcnt he compA-bebi  betee  cotecria due to diff.r.nn  daf ti-iLn                        in countries end in ya-r  whnreitrton-jof rdost   asi fet
of unapiovd and Sourca of data, e.g., seoployeant office Statistics, emple                      data for re.cn  years say not he copaabe .1c. mos countries ab1ahed
Survey, * copulsory uneoployeent iaur ...e.                                                     ILice-sig.
PSeortr   o?to  nor)    Peag.r cars coprise  -otr car -socic
Inc    dibtr'ibutlin  - Pertentag.,of private incona (both in rash and kind)                     ieeta   ih   esn;Sncet                muaco   otesadsltr
rciebyriche..  57, rlcheec 201, Poor.et 201. end poorest 401 of house-                   vehiclea.
ho1ds.                                                                                       Xllatritttvy fIsh/       pron  cap) - ubotualicanaueptio  cf industrial.   --sriali
pulic and prvae letricit', In khI-o t hours Percpt.  ono
Distributi.n of land oerhip - percaentg.  of land owned by wsslthieac 10.                         be_ad on production data, without alwnefor locene in grid. but allo--
and poores  101 ofln   wes                                                                       mg for imparts and eSporttoOf electricity.
tewprit (hke/- gon, -a) - Par- capitaS ann.al cosI       to   i         r
HealIh Sod Nutritiontiae  from dometic production plus net imports of  -prict.
PapuIotion  Set phyoliia              'soulto   divided by ncb.r of practicing
phnsicians qu1aiLied fro  * mdical School at anc-r.rity le-e.



AN0NEX I
Page 3 of 4
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET
Actual                              Prolected                   Growth rates (%)               1975 share
1965       1970       1974       1975      19761a      1977       1985    1965-75  1975-77  1977-85  1985-90  of GOP (2)
A. National Accounts
(Million US$ at 1975 prices)
1.  Gross domestic product                 7,045.8  10,627.8  13,827.7  14,590.0  15,503.0  16,619.3  27,494.0             7.6       6.7       6.5       6.5       100.0
2.  Gains from terms of trade                -84.5      137.3      593.3          -      -46.6    -706.2    -919.2          -         -         -         -            -
3.  Gross domestic income                  6,961.3  10,765.1  14,421.0  14,590.0  15,456.4  15,913.1  26,574.8             7.7       4.4       6.6       6.2       100.0
4.  Ieports                                1,704.2   3,035.1   3,661.7   3,557.1   3,877.3   4,258.7   6,765.0             7.6       9.4       6.0       6.2         24.4
5.  Expcrts - volume                       1,619.1   2,215.7   2,710.3   2,852.3   3,478.2   4,118.5   6,845.4             5.8      20.2       6.6       7.5         19.5
6.  Experts - adjusted for TOT             1,534.5   2,353.0   3,303.7   2,852.3   3,431.7   3,381.3   5,926.2             6.4       8.9       7.3       6.4         19.5
7.  Rescurce gap - adjusted for TOT          169.7      682.0      358.0      704.8      445.6       877.4      838.8       -         -         -         -            -
8.  Total consumption                      5,733.6   8,404.1  11,283.6  11,384.8  11,737.0  12,366.7  20,238.9             7.1       4.2       b.4       6.1         78.0
9.  Investment                             1,397.4   3,043.2   3,495.4   3,910.0   4,211.6   4,423.8   7,174.7    10.8               6.4       6.2       6.4         26.8
10.  Domestic savings adjusted for TOT  1,227.7   2,361.0   3,137.4   3,205.2   3,719.0   3,546.4   6,335.9    10.1                   5.2       7.5       6.5        22.0
11.  GOP at current US$                     4,052.9   6,543.3  13,450.0  14,590.0  16,199.0  18,796.2  53,533.2    13.7              13.5      14.0      15.8
b. Sector Output
(Share of GDP)
1.  Agriculture                               0.343      0.304      0.276      0.273      0.265       0.263      0.218
2.  Industry                                  0.230      0.251      0.273      0.275       0.279      0.285      0.320
3.  Services                                  0.427      0.445      0.451      0.452      0.456       0.452      0.462
C.  Prices (1975 = 100)
1.  Export price indes                         43.6       49.3      113.8      100.0      101.9        90.2      169.7      8.7      -5.0       8.2       5.8
2.  Import price index                         46.0       46.4       93.4       100.0      103.2      109.9      188.0      8.1       4.8       7.0       6.8
3.  Terms of trade index                       94.8      106.2       121.9      100.0       98.7       82.1       a6.6      0.5      -9.4       0.7      -1.0
4.  GDP deflator (US$)                         57.5       61.6       97.3      100.0       104.8      108.8      187.5      5.7       4.3       70        8.7
5.  Annual average exchange rate               20.8       20.8        20.0       20.0       20.0
D.  Selected Indicators                          1965-75  1975-77  1977-85  1985-90
1.  ICOR                                     3.13      4.16      3.82      3.78
2.  Import elasticity                        1.00      1.40      0.92      0.96
3.  Average national savings rate            0.21      0.22      0.23      0.23
4.  Marginal national savings rate           0.21      0.21      0.23      0.23
5.  Imports/GDP                              0.25      0.25      0.25      0.25
6.  Investment/GDP                           0.26      0.26      0.26      0.26
7.  Resource gap/GDP                         0.03      0.04      0.02      0.01
Value added /b                          Labor force  tc                      N.A. per worker /b /c
E.  Output, Labor Force and Productivity in 1975                  00$ million               %               Milliou               %                 U$j            % af average
1.  Agriculture                                                   4,559              31.3               13.4               75.7                340                 41.5
2.  Industry                                                      4,442              30.4                1.4                7.9              3,170                356.7
3.  Services                                                      S,588              38.3                2.9               16.4              1,930                235.4
Total/average                                              14.589             100.0               17.7             100.0                 820                100.0
F.  Public Finance (% of GDP)                     1965       1970       1974       1975      1976        1977/c
(Central Government)
1.  Currest revenue                            13.5       13.8       14.5        13.6       13.4
2.  Tax revenue                                12.3       12.5        13.5       12.0       12.1
3.  Current expenditures                       10.5       12.6        10.7       12.1       13.0
4.  Budgetary savings                           2.9         1.2        3.7        1.5        0.4
5.  Total publit investment                     6.5         7.7        3.8        4.9        5.3
G.  Fuel Imports (Current US$ millions)             65.0      112.0      628.6      711.7       833.7      923.0
(X of total imports incl. NFS)                  8.3        8.0       18.4       20.0        21.1       19.7
/a  Preliminary.
/b  At current market prices.
J.  Estimate.



AdNNEX I
bALANCE Of PArMENTS. EXIENAL ASSISTANCE. DEBT AND CREDEIWORTHINESS
(L---ent U7$ ill.ons)
____          ~~~Antua         _                                   ProietOnta
197F-   -1972          1973       1974        1975       1976/a       1977       1985         1990
Sleotero of Balance of PayrnenEn
loperns (lenlodln4 BPS)                                  1,210.0    1,332.0          2,084.7    3,0B5.B    2,dIL.4    3,510.4    3,114.9    11,618.4    22,e6S.8
Ispenna  ilelodledig  4NF)                               1,429.6    1,627.0    2,259.3    3,420.2    3,551.,           3,990.3    4,680.1    12,711.2    25,711.6
Ononbran n    _lannt                                      -219.6       -95.0     -173.1      -334.4      -705.7     -430 1      -965.4    -I,099.8    -1,705.8
Ben tfactor nenvin:e innare                                  1.4       -15.3     -_210.a       -3.)7        5.4      -42. 4      -23.70      -31 7.4   -_1.41.d
haS jeetmeae  paynrente                                   20.0       10.0         1.0        31.0       69.4        2b.1        41.6       -3)3.1      ..I1.a
0S ohm0h en public N9b IT leans                        -18.6      -19.9       -25.1       -24.1      -14.5       -41.7       -56.5       -32B.7      -551.0
Drent   inner Steent lonnee                             -27.0       -26.0       -24.4      -37.4       -64.0       -14.3      -66.1       -192.5       -530Ue
Connennnaonlena )nnn)                                       43.5        59.5      141.5       245.9        81.7       23.2        50.0        140.0        3G.0e
Balance enl cerrent onnenat                               -174.7      -51.3       -4.9        -89.2     -6 LB.0 4   -449.3      -940.4    -1,567.6    -2, 747.7
[innene  irnecS lontomeoti                                  39.0        56.0        67.0      137.0        65.0       6b.3       100.0        450.0      1,200.0
t7ns    rnon-llkeflowts                                   -           -           _      -   _              _        _          _            _
Peblic a & IT Inoen
Dnlbunne ns                                               47.9       50.4        69.0        95.9       149.2      241.7       133.4        d2).7      1,183.n
eeoaI_aci_e                                             -21.8      -23,7       -29.3       -32.3       -38.7       43.4       -45.1       -252.5       -398.7
Nan din e.. nents                                         2626.      26.7        39.2        63.6      110.5       198.3       2n8.3        575.2        785.1
ethea M 1 1.T loant
Disburnsents                                             234.2      247.0       179.0       416.0      392.0       360.2       525.0      1,462.9     3,01n.6
ANnntneasno7 -1)6.0                                                -161.0      -226.0      -229.0     -304.0       311.3      -375.0    -1,135.9    -2,314.2
Set dioborsesenSe                                         59.0       40.0       -47.0       187.0      84.0         40.8       150.0        327.0       757.4
Unee)lpfaIMseenorep                                           -           -          -           -           -        77.6          ---
hlloS1-SenoneapitalEtontantElati                             7.0        33.0       42.0        63.0       132.U      130.9       120.7        150.0        220.0
Cspitalntra ionsannen SEI                                   54.3        47.6      64.7        1204,        27.0       -5.1          -         121.0        273.4
Changaneina rsvs-   inc= eane)                             -10.0      -192,2     -113.0      -492.0       195.0      -75.0       521.4         55.6       -4S3.3
Net foreign   ann--tge aTsen-- lb (end oF period)          777.0      969.0    1,042.0    1,564.0    1,369.0    1,444.0    1,347.8          2,126.4      3,969.9
SeonU and Lean Ooeo[rntstE
Oftinisl grants-                                                          -           -          -           -          -
lTeal pIo.Ie M & LT leant                                   61.9       141.4       97.1       436.5       223.4      312.3
16RD                                                      27.0       41.3        15.0       142.0       95.0       1,8.0
DA                                                          -             -      25.0         7.0          -
Oenlh    6lsenel                                          10.3        23.0        1.4        77.2        62.7       92.1
Gernanments                                               13.6        37.4       24.0       200.3       47.7        22.2
0f aOinh tenra-lly pln--d enenneiet nc
Sappliern                                                  1. -I                                             
Financial lnonlaonlonn                                      -           -        16.7         9.7        18.0      100.0
Mteroranaum tmass
Garant elncent oF teeal co=itrntisEs (07                    23.3        30.6       47.4        31.4         0.2
Overage interest  7Y)                                        1.4         6.0         3.9        5.7         1.1
A-e-age m-natu    (-e-rs)                                   19.9        28.9       29.3        23.0        23.2
1ediue- and lent-Teen BabE lolsbnesed only)
Betel deat outsnendtng (DOD end of patitd)                 790.9       997.9      906.3    1,160.7    1,293.2    1,631.5
I-nlading ondisbensed                                      966.3    1,162.5    1,144.8    1,770.0    2,029.2    1,403.7
Publin debt  -ernicn                                       -40.5       -43.6      -54.9       -14.4       -73.2      -94.2
Inneaest                                                   -19.6      -19.9       -23.1       -29. 1      -34.5      -46.7
ether M & LT de.b  -erri-e                                -199.3      -191,5     -258.7      -299.1      -383.4     -381.4
Total dbtl -ernie                                         -239.5      -235.1     -313.1      -359.0      -456.6     -475.6
kebn Burden 77
Deb n.erninaoto                                            19.0        15.3        15.4       11.6        16.0        13.4
Debt  Ielne ratio  /d                                       22.0        11.0        15.4       12,4        I8.3        15.7
Debt taanlne/OOP                                             3.4         3.0         3.0        2.7         3.1         2.9
Pnniin debS service/o entsreven                              4.1         4.0        4.3         3.2         4.3         4.3
Tacos 101
I        .natort on toEal DOD/toatl 003                      5.2         5.1         3.7        5.5         0.6         5.7
Total debt In roaanltlonl DOD                                11.3       11.2        12.4        I1.6       11.9        11.5
Doatodeno) EaSiPs let   I LT Bebt (Y)
least dinb.rse.en.s/aipoat-  (i-nludig NFS)                 19.7        18.3        11.0        15.0       15.2        17.5
Nn _et  nnteerlitpontn (in-lading NFS)                       3.0         3.8        -2.9        4.5         2.4         3.5
Non ecanolat/gross disb-rnetenti                            15.0        21.0      -26.4        29.9        15.6        22.7
Bxosuree (Y)
IBED dinba .seents Igrass total diboasenmtets               6.9        10.1        14.4        6.6         7.6         7.2
took G-oup disb-rsaanntl/gross tonAI d6sb nts                1.9        10.1        14.4        6.            1         4.3
tBD DOD/tuanl DOD                                           21.4        21.3        24.1       24.4        20.0        13.l
Dack Groap D0D/total BOD                                    21.4        21.3        24.1       20.9        24.3        19.2
13ED dabS n_aoi_e/_oSBl denb  -ennic-                        9.1         8.2         7.9        7.7         7.0         7.6
Baok G-rop debt se_ni_/nnotel debl nea-i-o                   8.1         8.2         7.9         7.7        7.0         7.6
Et-tanal Dabt (Wisb-rsad onlY)                            Oustapding 12/31/76
(Cu "nn 063 mUillnon- )                                  Aount           0
IBE                                                        299.4        36.3
noatk Gtop                                                 309.3        37.1
Other  onuleilataral                                       107.1        13.0
G--eranoents                                               248,9        30.3
01 eltob neontrlly planned ecnonoees /nc 
Suppliers                                                   17.0         2.1
Fina-ncil i-stit-ioes                                      139.6        16.9
P blin debt naet
T-tal public M & L detI                                   821.7       100.0
Other palbin 4 6 LT debt                                   784.8        93.5
Otbh_ M A LT debt                                          7849.        95.5
taSel ptblit  debt n(inltding anddsberted-               1,606.5       195.5
Tnt-l PR & L  debt (inelndi.p otdisb--std)               2,403.7       292.5
/a Patlialnery.
/b  Set fortlgn ensets:  US5 equivelest of Line 31.
/c  Intlodes 0MEA neuntrti-, Peeples tepublic of Chin-, N-th o    Korea, Not-h VitE NBr.
/d  nn_lsdOng net OrenS _ nnestat- t Snnn,e.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of December 31, 1977)
Amounts ($ million)
Loan or                                                          Less Cancellations
Credit No.   Year    Borrower                 Purpose        Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Twenty-four loans fully disbursed                            374.4       -       _
822-TH        1972    Kingdom of Thailand   Education         15.4      -      9.8
864-TH        1972    Telephone Organiza-   Telecommuni-  37.0          -      7.9
tion of Thailand         cations
870-TH        1972    Kingdom of Thailand   National          28.6      -      2.9
Highways
369-TH        1973    Kingdom of Thailand   Education            -   19.5      9.0
379-TH        1973    Kingdom of Thailand   Irrigation           -    5.5      0.2
898-TH        1973    State Railway           Railways        15.0      -      0.5
461-TH        1974    Kingdom of Thailand   Irrigation           -    7.0      3.4
977-TH        1974    Electricity Genera-   Power             75.0      -    36.8
rating Authority of
Thailand
992-TH        1974    Industrial Finance    Industry          12.0      -      1.9
Corporation of
Thailand
1021-TH       1974    Metropolitan Water-   Water Supply  55.0          -    31.8
works Authority
1149-TH       1975    Kingdom of Thailand   Irrigation    95.0          -    86.4
1198T-TH ISF 1976    Kingdom of Thailand   Rural Devel-
opment       21.0      -    19.4
1199T-TH ISF 1976    Kingdom of Thailand   Livestock           5.0      -      4.8
1243-TH       1976    Kingdom of Thailand   Rubber
Replanting  50.0        -    48.4
1253-TH       1976    Telephone Organiza-   Telecommuni-
tion of Thailand       cations       26.0      -    22.6
ISF: Interest Subsidy Fund



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9 pages
Amounts ($ million)
Loan or                                                          Less Cancellations
Credit No.  Year    Borrower                 Purpose          Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
1271-TH     1976    Kingdom of Thailand    Education          31.0     -      30.1
1327-TH     1976    Industrial Finance       Industry         25.0     -      25.0
Corporation of
Thailand
1393-TH     1977    National Agricul-        Agriculture    28.0       -      27.8
tural Extension
1468-TH     1977    Kingdom of Thailand    Irrigation        55.0      -      55.0
1485-TH     1977    Electricity Gene-
rating Authority
of Thailand           Power           50.0      -     50.0
1492-TH     1977    Industrial Estate
Authority of
Thailand /a           Sm. Industry    4.8       -      4.8
Total                                           1,003.2   32.0   478.7
of which has been repaid                        163.0     -
Total now outstanding                             840.2   32.0
Amount sold /b                     68.5
of which has been repaid         31.8            36.7
Total now held by Bank and IDA                    803.5   32.0
Total undisbursed                                 466.1   12.6
/a Not yet declared effective.
/b  Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9 pages
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of December 31, 1977)
Amounts ($ million)
Year          Company            Type of Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Concrete Products
Aggregate Ltd.                                  0.30       -     0.30
1964   Industrial Finance        Industrial Finance
Corporation of
Thailand (IFCT)                                    -   0.38      0.38
1969   Siam Cement Group         Cement and Construc-
tion Materials      18.33   3.75    22.08
1975   Siam Cement Group         Cement and
Construction
Materials           10.00       -    10.00
1977   Mutual Fund               Capital Market
Company Limited                                    -   0.30      0.30
1977   United Sugar              Food and Food
Terminal Limited          Processing            2.50   0.20      2.70
Total gross commitments                          31.13   4.63    35.76
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                         19.61   2.35    21.96
Net held by the Corporation                      11.52   2.28    13.80



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
(As of December 31, 1977)
Loan No. 822 Second Education Project (Kasetsart University); $15.4 Million
Loan of May 24, 1972; Effective Date: August 22, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
This project involves development of Kasetsart University and
the relocation of certain units to a new campus. Although the technical
assistance and educational aspects of the project are largely on schedule,
civil works are about three years behind schedule with consequent delays in
furniture and equipment procurement.  Delays in civil works are due to:
(a) an initial 15-month delay in contracting consultant architects; (b) an
18-month delay in completing tender documents; and (c) 2-5 month delays in
contracting civil works. The situation of contract awards is improving:
about 75% of the civil works and 50% of equipment packages have been awarded,
and remaining bid packages for civil works ($6.0 million) are in the process
of being awarded. Furniture and the remaining equipment packages will be
contracted in late 1978. Contracted construction is progressing well, and the
specialist services program under the project is nearly completed. All the
fellowships have been awarded; 84 recipients have completed their training.
Total project cost will exceed appraisal estimates by 36%. Disbursements
amount to about $5.6 million and are expected to increase to $9.0 million by
the end of FY78.
Loan No. 864 Telecommunications Project; $37 Million Loan of December 5,
1972; Effective Date: March 1, 1973; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1977; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is generally maintaining the revised time schedule
established in 1975 following initial delays in procurement. The procurement
action on all Bank-financed items is now substantially complete and $36.1 mil-
lion of the Loan has been committed. The balance $0.9 million will be
committed in 1978. About 77% of the local telephone network expansion has
been completed and the balance will be completed by July 1978. Procurement of
long-distance transmission equipment under a bilateral loan has been delayed
which will cause the project completion to slip to September 1979, two years
and nine months behind appraisal schedule.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9 pages
Loan No. 870 Fifth Highway Project; $28.6 Million Loan of December 26. 1972;
Effective Date: March 26. 1973; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1977; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Works under the project have been divided into nine contracts of
which four have now been completed. Work on seven of the contracts was
interrupted in 1974 because rapid increases in costs led to financial problems
for the contractors. Work was resumed on three contracts after renegotiating
the contract prices with the Government. The other four contracts were
terminated by agreement between the Government and the contractors; new
contracts were awarded and work was resumed in early 1976. Over 80% of the
work has been completed. Because of higher prices in the bids for completing
the unfinished work, total cost of the project is expected to be around $75 mil-
lion, or about 28% above the appraisal estimate, with Government financing
the overruns. In spite of these difficulties the project is likely to be
completed no more than one year behind the original schedule. The highway
maintenance study and feasibility studies for future projects have been
completed, and detailed engineering of the roads found to be feasible has
been completed.
Credit No. 369 Third Education Project; $19.5 Million Credit of April 11,
1973; Effective Date: August 8. 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
Project implementation is about 18 months behind schedule, but
substantial progress was made during the last two years. Contracting has
reached 95% of civil works and 70% of furniture and equipment. Technical
assistance is progressing well. The expert services program is virtually
completed. Ninety-five percent of fellowship funds have been committed.
Disbursements have reached $10.5 million compared with $3.0 million one
year ago.
Credit No. 379 Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project; $5.5 Million
Credit of May 9. 1973; Effective Date: August 23, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project is about 90% complete and should be completed by June
1978. Construction has been somewhat delayed because of procurement difficul-
ties for civil works. However, disbursements are in line with appraisal
estimates. Yields and cropping intensities on the completed parts of the
project are roughly equal to appraisal estimates. A project extension service
has been set up and is operating satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9 pages
Loan No. 898 Fourth Railways Project; $15 Million Loan of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: September 28, 1973; Original Closing Date:
June 30, 1977; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Parts of the project are behind schedule by about 18 months due to
slow procurement. However, apart from rails needed for track renewal (now
being financed by the Government), all material has been received. A contract
for the remaining item financed by the Loan, technical assistance, has been
negotiated with consultants. The growth in passenger traffic slowed in
1975/76, due to passenger fares being increased in November 1975. Freight
traffic has continued to grow (6% in 1975/76), mainly due to increased
cement production. Despite the tariff increases of late 1975, the SRT earned
no return in 1975/76 (against the prescribed 2% rate of return), but, with
the increased traffic, it expects to earn about 1% in the current year,
together with a debt service coverage of 1.4 times (against 0.4 times in
1975/76). A project completion report is being prepared.
Credit No. 461 Northeast Irrigation Improvement Project; $7 Million Credit
of February 19, 1974; Effective Date:  October 7, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project is about one year behind schedule through delays in
appointing consultants and in procuring earthmoving equipment. During the
1976/77 working season there was a marked improvement in the pace of construc-
tion, especially on the tertiary canals. Progress in rehabilitation of
main canal systems has been satisfactory although somewhat behind schedule.
Encouraging progress is being made in developing agricultural extension
services in the project areas. The estimated project cost is $24.7 million,
or about 96% over the appraisal estimate. In part, the increased cost is due
to price inflation being higher than foreseen at appraisal. Also, a large
part of the increase is due to a decision to provide new tertiary canals over
the entire project area and to adopt higher standards for tertiary development
than envisioned at appraisal. The higher costs are compensated for by increases
in projected commodity prices and the economic rate of return is now estimated
at 28% compared to 22% at appraisal. Progress on the rainfed rice component
has improved due to strengthened project management and organization.
Loan No. 977 Ban Chao Nen Hydroelectric Project; $75 Million Loan of
April 15, 1974; Effective Date: June 14, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9 pages
Loan No. 992 Second Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT)
Project; $12.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1974; Effective
Date: September 4. 1974; Closing Date: September 30, 1978
The full amount of the $12 million Loan has been committed. The
commitment was more rapid than originally estimated. Disbursements have also
been very satisfactory. Since June 1974 when the loan was made, IFCT's
financial condition has continued to be good.
Loan No. 1021 Bangkok Water Supply Project; $55 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Effective Date:  December 2, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The project consists of expansion and improvement of raw water
facilities, construction of a treatment plant of 800,000 eu m/day capacity and
transmission tunnels and distribution centers to meet the expected water
demand of the metropolitan area through 1982. A complementary project financed
by Asian Development Bank (ADB) includes trunk mains, distribution pipes,
tubewells and purchase of water meters. All contracts of the IBRD project
have been awarded and construction accomplishment, as measured by contractor
earnings, is 43%. Due to delays in the award of contracts, the project
completion will probably be delayed by about 18 months to the last half of
1979. Due to inadequate tariffs, which were last revised in May 1972, MWWA's
financial performance continues to be poor. MWWA's proposals for raising the
water tariffs in line with the increased operating costs, shelved by the
previous Government, have now been submitted to the new Government.
Loan No. 1149 Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of
July 25, 1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Although the start of major construction was delayed by about a
year, prospects are good that the revised schedule can be adhered to. A
contract was recently awarded for the first of four major civil works contracts;
tenders have been received for the second contract; and most of the equipment
for the project is delivered or on order. The on-farm works are proceeding on
schedule, with four pilot projects in operation. The consulting services for
the project were recently reorganized to provide a nucleus of resident staff
and a greater level of assistance in project management. Systems for monitor-
ing project benefits and water-associated diseases are being established and
the reporting of project progress has improved. The preliminary phase of the-
Chao Phya Basin Study, also financed from the Loan, has been completed, and
the next phase is continuing. Work will begin soon on a feasibility study for
the Phitsanulok II Project. Consultants are being selected for the RID
Administration and Organization Study.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9 pages
Loan No. 1198T Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project; $21 Million
Loan of February 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project has seven components: construction of 1,300 km of
village access roads; strengthening maintenance programs for 2,000 km of
existing rural roads, including provision of equipment; rural electrification;
village water supplies; development of improved techniques for upland crop
cultivation; an agricultural extension program in four provinces; and agricul-
tural development in two existing land settlements. After a delay of one year
in appointing consultants good progress is being made on the engineering of
the village roads and the first of nine construction contracts has been
awarded. Procurement problems continue to delay the water supply component.
Progress on rural electrification is excellent and this component will be
completed on schedule in September 1978. Progress on agricultural extension
and land settlements is satisfactory. The upland crop component has been
delayed by staffing and organizational problems.
Loan No. 1199T Livestock Development Project; $5.0 Million of February 27,
1976; Effective Date: May 25, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1981
Progress of the main component is satisfactory. The seed production
and pasture development programs are progressing reasonably well, although the
"loaned" bull program has been hindered by the delay in importation of cattle.
Permanent staff are being appointed to the project, and the technical assist-
ance component is being ably implemented by the New Zealand Government.
Disbursements are considerably behind schedule, but should pick up within the
next few months once outstanding requests for disbursements are received in
the Bank.
Loan No. 1243 Rubber Replanting Project; $50 Million of September 13, 1976;
Effective Date: January 14, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1981
Despite some initial delays in procuring fertilizers, project
implementation is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1253 Second Telecommunications Project; $26 Million of June 11,
1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The procurement action has been initiated on all components of the
project. The Loan is expected to be fully committed by early 1978. Civil
works are in progress. Local network expansion is expected to be completed as
per schedule by mid-1979 but due ito a year's delay in tender award for trans-
mission equipment under a bilaterall loan, the long-distance network expansion
for the project is only expected to be completed by September 1980, nine
months behind schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9 pages
Loan No. 1271    Fourth Education Project; $31 Million of September 13, 1976;
Effective Date: February 9. 1977: Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1327    Third IFCT Prolect; $25 Million of December 8, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Loan commitment rate has been slower than expected because of sharply
depressed investment climate in 1976. Capital structure and liquidity position
have improved, however, with success of share capital increase. Satisfactory
progress has been made on institution-building aspects of project.
Loan No. 1393    National Agricultural Extension Proiect: $28 Million of
May 17, 1977; Effective Date: September 1, 1977:
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project implementation is progressing well; costs remain close to
the appraisal estimate, but disbursements are slightly behind schedule, mainly
due to lengthy procurement procedures. Disbursements are expected to be close
to, or ahead of the appraisal estimate in 1978. Additional supervisory staff
appointments at district and provincial level will be made and the overall
system of training and visits will be further improved.  Proposals for monitor-
ing are being prepared, a project accounting system is being established, and
monthly reports are presented in a timely manner.
Loan No. 1468    Second Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project;
$55 Million of September 23, 1977; Effective Date:
December 23, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Preparatory activities are progessing well. A Project Director,
Project Managers for the Chao Phya and Mae Klong components, and a Project
Coordination Committee have been appointed and consultants have been engaged
for the Chao Phya component. Equipment procurement has begun and designs and
contract documents are being finalized for the 1978 on-farm construction
program of 10,900 ha. Project monitoring and cost recovery systems are being
set up and the Chao Phya project area came under the National Agricultural
Extension Project in October.
Loan No. 1485    Pattani Hydroelectric Project; $50 Million of September 23,
1977; Effective Date: December 20. 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Project implementation is satisfactory. The main civil works
contract was awarded in October 1977 and preparatory works are under way.



ANNEX III
Page 1
THAILAND
POPULATION PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) The project was prepared over a period of approximately one and
one-half years: mid-1975 through 1976 by a project preparation
task force in the Ministry of Public Health.
(b) The project was first proposed to the Association in
August 1975.
(c) Departure of appraisal mission: November 1976.
(d) Completion of negotiations: December 1977.
(e) Planned date of effectiveness: April 1978.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action: none.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Borrower has agreed to:
(i) apply agreed criteria in choosing the location of rural
health facilities (para. 30);
(ii) share with the Association the findings of its study on drug
distribution by December 31, 1978, and implement mutually agreed
measures to improve the system (para. 30);
(iii) send to the Association for review and comment its detailed
staffing and curriculum plans for training institutions by
August 31,-1978 (para. 36);
(iv) take all measures necessary to ensure that the MOPH's Family
Health Division has sufficient access to high quality films
and radio time to carry out its IEC program (para. 42);
(v) seek the agreement of the Association prior to undertaking
additional innovative activities to be financed under the
project (para. 45); and



ANNEX III
Page 2
(vi) carry out an agreed staffing program (para. 36 and 47).
(b) Additional conditions for effectiveness are:
(i)  establishment of the project administration and financing
unit (para. 46);
b                     (ii)  establishment of the Project Coordinating Committee (para. 46);
and
(iii)  effectiveness of the ADAB Agreement and signature of the
CIDA Agreement (para. 51).






I                       ~~~                                                                              ~          ~         ~       ~~~~~~I  I  C4',  CHINA
20'-
t LAO PEOPLE'S                          ~
OMoohons  ~ ~      ~         I  ~                DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                                           of            OI
Ch-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~IIBoo
5,                                                                                                                                               -v           Ch IND
4,                      p          9~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,7
U,I,~~~~ T11-       ~"                                     - D                      -'          So
'-'~~~~~~~~~~~                                             -v~~~~~~
4.00 
--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  f  A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 1-
12'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
K                     S
-    ~ ~ ~~ ~     ~~~             ~~~~~ PR- LSUSFMD  FEY'COLS3
r                                                                            +     EXPANDED NURSING  G.ISL'I
Sul. Th.~i 0                                                             A      EXPAN.E. MIDWIFERY SHOOSWI.MACfES2
K'--                                       -~~~~~~~~~~~~G l  of                                   EXPANED MtWSoFEY SCHO S
~~TECj<'4~~~~~~~7T0PPYS.0ACCLEATDOFMIYDPANINGACOHELTOPRVICE
,oc,o,Sc                                                AMODRAICA RGOABUNRIS
Ph ~  ~     ~     PeOkounC                                  K             B
Sea  -  -   -                                                 -          -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~05       '             5
=p=y f.,~~~~~~~~~~~~F-- (g
0=2 =7                1 01
C rcla   0  'A
(  LAX                                              )~~~
I~~~~~~~~~~~~                          0



