Report No. 1663-TH
Thailand
Appraisal of a Population Project
January 18, 1978
Population Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by rectuients
only in the performance of their official duties. its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without VVorld Baank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00               Baht (#) 20
g 1.00           =    US$0.05
US$ 1 million    =    $ 20 million
1 million       =    US$50,000
METRIC EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)      =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)      0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)   =    2.47 acres
6.25 rais
A.   ABBREVIATIONS
ADAB      -  Australian Development Assistance Bureau
AFPH      - Accelerated Family Planning and Health
CIDA      -  Canadian International Development Agency
E&R       -  Evaluation and Research
IEC       -  Information, Education and Communication
MCH       - Maternal and Child Health
MOPH      - Ministry of Public Health
NFPP      - National Family Planning Program
RTG       -  Royal Thai Government
UNFPA     - United Nations Fund for Population Activities
USAID     -  United States Agency for International Development
WHO       - World Health Organization
ROYAL THAI GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
B.   DEFINITIONS
Crude Birth Rate:   Number of live births per year per 1,000 of
population.
Crude Death Rate:   Number of deaths per year per 1,000 of population.
Rate of Natural
Increase:         Difference between crude birth and crude death rate;
usually expressed as a percentage.
Rate of Population
Growth:           Rate of natural increase adjusted for (net) migra-
tion, and expressed as a percentage of the total
population of a given year.
General Fertility
Rate:             Number of live births per year per 1,000 women, aged
15-49 years.
Age-Specific
Fertility Rates:  Number of live births to women in a given age group
per 1,000 women in the same age group, in a given
year. It is usually calculated for 5-year age
groups.
Total Fertility
Rate:             The average number of children that would be born
per woman if she were to live to the end of her
childbearing years, and bear children according
to a given set of age-specific fertility rates.
The Total Fertility Rate often serves as an esti-
mate of the average number of children per family.
Gross Reproduc-
tion Rate:        This is the same as the Total Fertility Rate, but
refers to the number of daughters a woman would
have under prevailing fertility patterns.
Net Reproduc-
tion Rate:        The number of daughters a woman would have under
prevailing fertility and mortality patterns, who
would survive to the mean age of childbearing.
Infant Mortality
Rate:             Annual number of deaths of infants under 1 year
per 1,000 live births during the same year.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



B.   DEFINITIONS  (Cont'd)
Maternal Mortality
Rate:              Number of maternal deaths per 1,000 births attri-
butable to pregnancy, childbirth, or puerperal
complications (i.e., within six weeks following
childbirth).
Life Expectancy:    Average number of years expected to be lived by
children born in the same year if mortality rates
for each age sex group remain the same in the
future.
Dependency Ratio:   Number of people of 14 years or under, plus people
65 years or over, divided by the population aged
15 to 64 years.



THAILAND
BASIC DATA
Year           Data
Area (in Km)  2                                       1977          514,000
Density (per Km )                                     1977           84
Population (in millions)                              1977           44
Crude Birth Rate                                      1977           34.5
Crude Death Rate                                      1977            9
Rate of Natural Increase (%)                          1977            2.5
Infant Mortality Rate                                 1975           68
Maternal Mortality Rate                               1970            4
Total Fertility Rate                                1970-74           4.8
Eligible Women of Reproductive Age Practicing
Contraception (%)                                    1976          over 30
New Family Planning Acceptors (millions)              1976            0.6
GNP per Capita                                        1976          US$380
Urban Population as percent of total
Population (%)                                       1976           17
Primary School Enrollment (%)                         1971           83
Age Structure (%)                                     1970
0-14 years                                                         45
15-64 years                                                         52
65+ years                                                            3






THAILAND
APPRAISAL OF A POPULATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...........................................  i-iv
I.    INTRODUCTION      ................................................   1
II.   RECENT DEMOGRAPHIC TRENDS .....    .........................       1
III.  POPULATION POLICY AND PROGRAM ACTIVITIES ...........               3
A.  Present Policy ...       ............................          3
B.  The National Family Planning Program .      ...................  4
C.  The Rural Health Delivery Network .....     ..................  5
D. Main Needs for Strengthening the NFPP ...............           7
IV.   THE PROJECT..g.
IV.  TEPOET.................................................             9
A.  Project Objectives and Strategy .....   ..................     9
B.  Project Components   ......................................    10
C.  Description of Project Components .....    ..................   14
V.    PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, AND ADMINISTRATIVE ARRANGEMENTS ...    21
A.  Project Costs          ...........................................   21
B.  Financing of the Project .............. ..    ................   24
C.  IDA-Financed Components .................................    26
D.  Administrative Arrangements for Project Implementation        27
E.  Physical Facility Implementation ....      ....................    29
F.  Procurement .............................................   30
G.  Disbursements ...........................................   31
H.  Project Readiness ...................  . ....................   32
VI.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION .......................................   32
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .......................   33
This report is based on the findings of the appraisal mission that visited
Thailand in November/December 1976 and post-appraisal missions in March and
October 1977. The appraisal mission was composed of Mr. P.A. Hall (Chief),
Dr. T.I. Kim (Health and Manpower), Mr. D.J. Radel (Information and Educa-
tion), Mr. G. Naleppa (Civil Works) and Mr. J.A. Ross (Consultant, Evalua-
tion and Research). Mr. G.B. Baldwin (Deputy Director) and Ms. J. Murphy
(Loan Officer) joined the mission in the field to explore possible donor
arrangements. This report was prepared by Mr. Hall with the assistance of
Mr. Radel and with the cooperation of Dr. Kim in particular sections.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Annexes
1       National Family Planning Program:  Targets
2.      Delivery of Integrated Health and Family Planning
Services
3.      Manpower Availability and the Need for New Training
Facilities
4.      Short-Term Training in Support of Family Planning and
Primary Halth Care
5.      Information, Education, and Communication (IEC) in Support
of Family Planning and Primary Health Care
6.      Evaluation and Research (E&R) Activities in Support of
Family Planning and Primary Health Care
7.      Management and Planning Activities in Support of Family
Planning and Primary Health Care
8.      Project Activity Matrix
9.      Detailed Cost Estimates
10.      Proposed Co-financing Contributions
11.      Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
12.      Demographic Background and Projected Impact of the
National Family Planning Program
MAP        IBRD 12792R - Thailand Population Project
National Training and Service Facilities and
Accelerated Family Planning and Health Provinces



THAILAND
APPRAISAL OF A POPULATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a population project estimated to cost
about US$68.6 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of
US$22.2 million or 32% of the total costs. The main objective of the
project is to assist the Royal Thai Government (RTG) in reducing the rate
of population growth from 2.5% per annum in FY 1977 to 2.1% in FY 1981.
A related objective is to assist the Government in reducing maternal and
infant mortality rates by about 20% by FY 1981. Such a reduction in in-
fant mortality would encourage parents to have fewer children. Both objec-
tives would be pursued through a substantial extension of the rural health
delivery system.
ii.       Firm action now will prevent the growth of population from becoming
a severe impediment to Thailand's economic and social progress. Thailand's
population, estimated at about 44 million in 1977, would reach about 108
million by the year 2000 if 1970 fertility were to remain constant. For-
tunately, fertility has begun to fall. But even if the target reduction of
fertility is achieved, the population will nearly double by the year 2000.
iii.      Thailand's population problem is characterized by:  (a) a high
dependency ratio, about 45% of the population being under 15 years of age;
(b) moderate but rising unemployment; (c) a high rate of migration from
the country to the towns, particularly Bangkok; and (d) mounting pressure
on arable land. These factors will make it difficult to raise the standard
of living unless the rate of growth of population, which has already fallen
from 3.0% in 1970 to 2.5% in 1977, continues to decline. The prospects for
a continued decline are good. Acceptance of family planning has increased
markedly and a wide variety of contraceptive methods are available within
the areas now reached by the health delivery system.
iv.       Since it was adopted in 1970, the Thai Government's National Family
Planning Program (NFPP) has successfully reached both its operational and
demographic targets in all respects. By the end of the First Five-Year Plan
period in FY 1976, over 30% of all eligible women of reproductive age were
practicing contraception, a rate which compares favorably to other developing
countries. Nevertheless, while success has been complete in terms of past
goals and objectives, there remains considerable unsatisfied demand for family
planning services. This demand cannot be met until steps are taken to extend
the health delivery system further into rural areas and to train more para-
medical and lay field personnel to provide family planning services. At
present the Thai family planning program is supply rather than demand con-
strained. If further progress is to be made, the network itself must be
expanded in terms of service points and personnel to staff them. Experience
to date in Thailand has shown that increasing the number of service points
leads to an immediate increase of acceptors.



- ii -
v.        The three-year project, 1978-80, is designed to:  (a) expand
the rural health infrastructure from about 5,400 service points in 1976
to about 7,000 in 1980; (b) increase the supply and the quality of para-
medicals (nurses, auxiliary midwives and practical nurse/midwives) and to
add, at the village level, new cadres of volunteer health and family plan-
ning worker; (c) stimulate demand for family planning services and encourage
broad community support for fertility reduction through an expanded infor-
mation, education and communicaLtion (IEC) program; and (d) improve evalua-
tion and research (E&R) capabilities.
vi.       The project includes over 100 distinct yet complementary activities
designed to broaden and deepen an already sound NFPP. The main assumption
underlying the project strategy is that significant numbers of new acceptors
can be recruited if family planning services are pushed "down and out", i.e.,
by pushing services "downwards" in the hierarchy of medical and paramedical
occupational groups and by pushing services "outward" from the static ser-
vice delivery points to points closer to the people concerned. Because 20
of the more densely populated of Thailand's 71 provinces lag behind the
others in terms of family planning acceptance, and health facility cover-
age, the project will finance additional rural health facilities, vehicles,
equipment, and staff to enable them to reach the national averages in these
respects by 1981. The components of the project therefore fall into two
categories: "national" components and "provincial" components. The latter
are geared to the needs of the 20 selected provinces, which are called accel-
erated family planning and health (AFPH) provinces.
vii.      The project components include at the national level:  (a) the
construction and equipping of: three practical nurse/midwifery schools
(including acquisition of land for one), one midwifery school with maternal
and child health (MCH) center, and one dormitory and staff housing for the
NFPP Training Center; and the expansion and equipping of: one nursing school,
two midwifery schools with MCHI centers, and two midwifery schools; (b) pro-
fessional services; (c) the purchase of about 90 vehicles and 1,550 motor-
cycles; (d) audiovisual equipment; (e) a health planner/economist and short-
term advisory assistance; (f) contraceptive supplies; (g) incremental salaries
and allowances, E&R studies, family planning and nutrition educational mate-
rials and activities, and the basic training of 270 assistant health workers
for MCH/family planning and in-service training of 600 nurse practitioners.
viii.     The project components at the provincial level include:  (a) the
construction and equipping of 225 midwifery centers, 150 health centers,
19 ten-bed district hospitals and 120 child nutrition centers (including
acquisition of land in some cases); (b) the upgrading and equipping of 30
midwifery centers to health centers and 6 ten-bed district hospitals to 30-bed
district hospitals; (c) professional services; (d) the purchase of about 125
vehicles and 2,550 motorcycles; (e) audiovisual equipment; (f) short-term
advisory assistance; and (g) incremental salaries and allowances, IEC, E&R,
and basic and in-service training activities.
ix.       As the program develops, new ideas for population activities that
are not now foreseen are likely to emerge. The project, therefore, includes
an allocation of US$1 million for "innovative activities."



- iii -
x.        The project will be administered by the Ministry of Public Health
(MOPH). The Deputy Undersecretary of State for Planning and Evaluation will
be designated as Project Director responsible for overall coordination and
implementation. Coordination will be provided by a Project Coordinating
Committee consisting of the heads of the eight MOPH divisions concerned
with the project.
xi.       The proposed project will be financed by loans or grants from IDA,
the United States, Canada, Australia and Norway totalling US$47.9 million
equivalent and by a RTG contribution of US$20.7 million equivalent. The
United States Agency for International Development (USAID) loan of US$5.5
million will be applied towards the short-term training and E&R activities of
the project, largely in the 20 AFPH provinces. The Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA) loan and grant of US$6.3 million will be used to
finance the purchase of contraceptive supplies and the cost of the family
planning E&R studies, including some short-term advisory assistance. The
Association will help finance; the construction of the training institutions
and rural health facilities, procurement of furniture, equipment, vehicles,
materials, supplies and contraceptives, technical assistance, and innova-
tive activities. The IDA credit of US$33.1 million will finance US$14.8
million of foreign exchange costs or 67% of total foreign exchange costs.
The Norwegian grant of US$3.1 million will be included in the IDA Credit
of US$33.1 million and will be used to help finance the costs of the rural
health centers and the health planner/economist. The Australian Development
Assistance Bureau (ADAB) grant of US$3.0 million will be used to help finance
on a joint basis with the Association the other technical assistance, other
civil works, equipment, materials and vehicles. The RTG will finance the
balance of the project costs.
xii.      Each contract for civil works totalling more than US$750,000 equiva-
lent, each contract for equipment and supplies totalling more than US$100,000
equivalent, and contracts for vehicles will be awarded on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. In
evaluation of bids for goods, domestic manufacturers will be accorded a pref-
ercence of 15% of the c.i.f. price of competing imports or the custom duty,
if lower. Contracts for injectable contraceptives will be let on a negotiated
basis with manufacturers of the contraceptives. All contracts for civil works
totalling less than US$750,000 equivalent, contracts for equipment and sup-
plies totalling less than US$100,000 equivalent, and contracts for furniture
will be awarded in accordance with RTG procurement procedures, which have been
found satisfactory. However, to provide flexibility in the procurement of
smaller items, purchases of equipment, vehicles and supplies where the in-
dividual purchases total less than the equivalent of US$10,000 each may be
made on the basis of prudent shopping after soliciting at least three price
quotations up to an aggregate amount of US$100,000.



- iv -
xiii.     The project will assist the NFPP in reducing the crude birth rate
from the present 34 per 1,000 to 29 per 1,000 by FY 1981. If a net reproduc-
tion rate of 1.0 is reached in 1990, the total population of Thailand would
be 42 million less by the year 2000 than if fertility remained constant.
xiv.      The proposed project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$33.1 mil-
lion equivalent to the RTG on standard IDA terms. 1/
1/   The Kingdom of Norway intends to participate in the proposed credit by
making US$3.1 million available on a grant basis.



THAILAND
APPRAISAL OF A POPULATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In November 1974, the Royal Thai Government (RTG) invited the IDA
to review Thailand's demographic situation and the National Family Plan-
ning Program (NFPP) with a view to assisting the Government in preparing
the Fourth Development Plan (FY 1977-81) and providing a basis for external
assistance for population activities during the Fourth Plan period. A Sector
Report issued in 1975 commented favorably on the NFPP but warned that the
program was constrained by a lack of service outlets, rather than a lack of
demand. The need to improve and extend the system for delivering family
planning services was identified as the number one priority. At the same
time, the report indicated that the long-run demand for family planning
services should be strengthened by improving and expanding family planning
information, education and communication (IEC) activities.
1.02      An IDA preparation mission visited Thailand in July 1976 to identify,
with senior Thai officials, possible components of an IDA-assisted project and
the activities required to prepare a project for financing. Based on these
discussions, the RTG identified the need: (a) to expand paramedical training
facilities for key nursing and auxiliary personnel primarily responsible for
providing family planning services; and (b) to extend the rural family plan-
ning/health services network in selected rural areas. A project proposal was
drawn up by the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) and appraised by the Asso-
ciation in November/December 1976. During the appraisal and post-appraisal
missions the RTG requested the Association's help in mobilizing cofinancing
assistance to supplement an IDA Credit and in drawing up a proposed financ-
ing plan. Detailed Appraisal Mission Working Papers together with specific
financing proposals were produced and sent to the interested donors as a basis
for their deciding whether to participate in the financing of the project. 1/
This report describes and summarizes the components of a population project
recommended for financing by the Association and four cofinancing partners,
i.e., the Norwegian Government, the Australian Government (Australian Develop-
ment Assistance Bureau--ADAB), the Canadian Government (Canadian International
Development Agency--CIDA), and the United States Government (United States
Agency for International Development--USAID).
II. RECENT DEMOGRAPHIC TRENDS
2.01      The demographic history of Thailand over the past century, like that
of other developing countries, is one of accelerating population growth caused
primarily by a fall in mortality. In 1850, Thailand's population was probably
1/   The Appraisal Mission Working Papers will be updated periodically as a
basis for detailed planning for implementation.



- 2 -
about 6 million. By the time of the first census in 1911, it had grown to
no more than 8 million, much of the increase coming from Chinese immigration.
The crude death rate early in the century has been estimated at about 50 per
thousand. In the period between World Wars I and II, mortality fell markedly;
following the Second World War, a still more rapid fall took place, largely
as a result of public health measures. By 1970, the crude death rate had
fallen to about 10 per thousand, about the same as in Europe, and well below
that of most Southeast Asian countries. The 1970 crude birth rate was around
42 per thousand, with some estimates putting it over 45. The 1970 census
deterrmined that Thailand's population had reached around 36 million and was
growing rapidly. During the intercensal period 1960-70, the annual growth
rate was about 3%, one of the highest in the world and the third highest in
Asia. Thailand's population is estimated to have reached about 44 million
by early 1977.
2.02      As might be inferred from the high fertility, the relatively low
and declining mortality, and insignificant emigration, Thailand has a young
population. In 1970, slightly more than 45% of the population was below 15
years of age and only 3% was 65 or older.  If the working age population is
defined as those between 15 and 64, there were 93 dependents per 100 persons
of working age, compared with 85 per 100 in 1960.
2.03      The rapid growth of population has been accompanied by a movement
of population from the country to the towns.  The proportion of population
residing in urban areas has increased from 10% in 1947 to around 17% in 1976.
The Bangkok metropolitan area accounts for nearly one-tenth of the country's
population; the next largest city is about one-fortieth of its size. Over
80% of the population lives in rural areas. Although by Asian standards
Thailand is still relatively sparsely populated (about 80 persons per square
kilometer), the density per unit of cultivable land is much higher.
2.04      In spite of the high rate of population growth in recent years,
the demographic outlook is encouraging. This is because Thailand has suffi-
cient time to control its rapid population growth and because fertility has
already begun to fall, primarily because of the NFPP. The rate of growth has
dropped steadily from its peak of more than 3% in 1970 to about 2.5% in 1977.
By the end of 1976, over 30% of the women in the reproductive age group in
Thailand were practicing some form of contraception--one of the highest rates
in the developing world. This high rate of acceptance contributed to a reduc-
tion in the crude birth rate from 42 per thousand in 1970 to around 35 per
thousand in late 1976. Nevertheless, even if fertility falls drastically,
the present age structure will almost inevitably produce a population 80-100%
larger by the year 2000 than it was in 1970.
2.05      The need to reduce fertility further is best illustrated by compar-
ing population projections based on three different assumptions about fertil-
ity trends over the period 1970*-2000:
Projection 1: the total fertility rate remains constant;
Projection 2: the total fertility rate declines at a "moderate"
rate;



- 3 -
Projection 3: the total fertility rate declines sharply resulting
in a net reproduction rate of 1.0 by 1990.
PROJECTED POPULATION OF THAILAND (1970-2000)
(thousands)
Projections          1970     1980      1990      2000
1.   Constant fertility  36,181   50,955   73,595  107,971
2.   "Medium" decline    36,181   50,527   69,420   89,624
3.   "Thai target"        36,181   47,731   57,004   65,729
2.06      By the year 2000, the third projection (based on the Government's
fertility-reduction targets) results in a population some 40% smaller than
the constant fertility projection. Nevertheless, even under these favor-
able circumstances, the population would nearly double within this 30-year
period.
III. POPULATION POLICY AND PROGRAM ACTIVITIES
A. Present Policy
3.01      Thailand had a pronatalist population policy throughout the first
half of the present century. During World War II, the Government encour-
aged early marriages. A private family planning association was started in
the 1950s. Its main function was to provide family planning services. As
the Government became aware of the high rate of population growth, it grad-
ually altered its policy. In 1959, in part because of a comment by the
1959 World Bank economic mission on the implications of rapid population
growth for Thailand's economic development, the Prime Minister set up a
committee to review the problem and submit recommendations to the Cabinet.
Although the Government did not formally announce its support for family
planning until 1970, pilot family planning projects were begun as early as
1964, and the MOPH began to provide family planning services in 1968. A
National Population Policy Committee was established in 1970 and MOPH's
Family Health Project was renamed the National Family Planning Program
(NFPP). In 1974, a National Family Planning Coordinating Committee was
established. In addition to supervising the execution of the family plan-
ning program, the new Committee coordinates the population activities of



- 4 -
the various sectors and the external assistance for the program. This Com-
mittee is chaired by the Minister for Public Health and includes represen-
tatives from other ministries and agencies. A Committee on Population Policy
and Planning was created by the National Economic and Social Development Board
in 1974 to formulate national population policy. It assisted in preparing the
"Population, Manpower and Employment" chapter of the Fourth Development Plan,
FY 1977-81.
3.02      In 1970, the Cabinet made the MOPH responsible for carrying out the
newly approved population policy. The Under-Secretary of State for Health
was made the Director of the NF'PP, the administration of which was entrusted
to the Ministry's Family Health Division.
B. The National Family Planning Program
3.03      Thailand's NFPP has been successfully implemented to date.  The
First Five-Year Plan for the NFPP (FY 1972-76) established for the first
time a national demographic target (to reduce the estimated population growth
rate from over 3% to 2.5%) and facilitated the spread of family planning ser-
vices in a number of ways. Among these were: the utilization of paramedics
in supplying clinical contraceptives; the provision of motorcycles for mid-
wives; the introduction on a pilot basis of a new category of full-time, paid
field-workers; the expansion of in-service training for physicians, nurses and
auxiliary midwives; the accelerated development of special maternity hospitals
(called maternal and child health [MCH] centers) as institutions for family
planning and the provision of postpartum family planning services; the initia-
tion of evaluation and research (E&R) studies, including clinical trials
intended to extend the delivery network; and the establishment of a special
section in the Family Health Division for information, education and communica-
tion (IEC). By the end of the plan period, the program was well established
and had exceeded its acceptor targets. Specifically, it had: (a) recruited
2.5 million acceptors, an increase in the annual number of acceptors from
408,000 in 1971 to around 593,000 in 1976; (b) increased the number of MOPH
clinic-based family planning service delivery points from 270 in 1970 to 5,400
in 1976; (c) given orientation or skills training to about 20,000 paramedical
and medical personnel; (d) improved the data collection system; and (e)
undertaken, on a small scale, IEC activities in support of family planning.
This substantial increase in family planning activities is believed to be the
primary reason for the First Five-Year Family Planning Plan's achieving its
demographic target. 1/
1/   Results of the 1975 World Fertility Survey confirmed the belief of lead-
ing Thai demographers that the rate of population growth had fallen to
around 2.5% by 1977.



- 5 -
3.04      Thailand's NFPP is based on a high degree of integration of family
planning with basic health services. The MOPH network of general health
facilities is by far the most important source of family planning services.
During the past ten years, MOPH facilities have accounted for over 80% of
the family planning acceptors recruited through non-commercial sources.
Thailand has progressively liberalized the regulations defining the ser-
vices which particular categories of paramedical personnel are allowed to
perform. In 1970, for example, auxiliary midwives were permitted to pre-
scribe the oral contraceptive after administering a simple checklist of
contraindications; as a result, the number of service points for oral con-
traceptives increased from 270 to nearly 3,800; and the number of oral con-
traceptives acceptors increased from 132,000 in 1970 to 295,000 in 1971.
Since then, properly trained lay personnel have been authorized to distrib-
ute oral contraceptives on a resupply basis; the insertion of IUDs by auxil-
iary midwives is being tested on a pilot basis; nurses have been permitted
to give injectable contraceptives; and doctors have been trained to perform
sterilizations. The service program that now exists (including the contribu-
tion of the commercial sector and the small but growing number of private
networks) relies 60-65% on oral contraceptives, 20% on IUDs, and 15-20% on
sterilizations (mostly female). The level of use of injectable contracep-
tives is expected to increase significantly as soon as adequate supplies are
available (Annex 1).
3.05      Until recently, the direct costs of the NFPP were financed mostly
by external agencies--USAID, the United Nations Fund for Population Activ-
ities (UNFPA), the Population Council, the International Planned Parenthood
Federation, and others. Between 1969 and 1975 these agencies provided funds
for more than 90% of direct program costs. The RTG began making budgetary
appropriations for the NFPP in 1972, when US$0.5 million was provided. This
appropriation began to increase sharply in FY 1975; by FY 1977 it had risen
to US$2.5 million and over US$3 million is expected in FY 1978. The RTG share
of total NFPP funding is expected to reach about 80% by FY 1981; this sharp
change reflects an expected reduction of external assistance and continuing
program expansion. The indirect costs of the NFPP, such as the costs of
building, maintaining, and staffing the health delivery network through
which the Ministry's family planning services are provided, are carried in
other parts of the MOPH budget, almost all of which is funded by RTG without
external assistance. The project will provide external financial assistance
to supplement the RTG budget for both direct and indirect program costs.
C. The Rural Health Delivery Network
3.06      Thailand's health delivery system includes not only the MOPH
network, the largest and fastest growing provider of services, but also
a number of other public and private networks that serve both general and
specialized needs. The non-MOPH components include the hospitals and
and clinics operated by other Government agencies and a relatively small
number of privately run hospitals and clinics, including those operated by



-6-
foreign church missions and by private voluntary organizations. 1/ There
are in addition many unlicensed physicians who practice extensively in the
rural areas; numerous commercial pharmacies, although limited to towns; and,
in the family planning field, a few privately financed providers--e.g., the
McCormick Hospital Family Planning Program in Chiengmai Province and the
rapidly growing Community-Based Family Planning Services program. Although
the NFPP is making increasing use of some of these non-MOPH networks, the
MOPH system has recruited over three-quarters of all family planning accep-
tors, and its dominant position1 in the field of family planning service
providers, particularly in the rural areas, is expected to continue.
3.07      The MOPH has developed a standardized pattern for the delivery of
rural health services in which health care is provided through a hierarchy
of facilities. Although the Government intends to establish this pattern
nationally, some of Thailand's 71 provinces are much better served than
others. Each level of health care has been organized administratively to
provide a distinct set of services to a defined population group. The key
institution providing specialized medical care in each province is the pro-
vincial hospital, commonly located in tAe provincial capital. Each province
typically has about nine districts (amphoes); each district with 30,000 or
more population is intended to have a 10 or 30-bed district hospital. 2/
Districts are typically divided into about 10 units called tambols; each
tambol with 5,000 or more population is intended to have a health center
staffed by two paramedicals. At the lowest level, each village (muban) or
cluster of villages with a population of 2,000 is to have a midwifery center.
All of these facilities except the provincial hospital are considered part
of the rural health network; they are administered by the provincial health
office in the provincial capital. The district health office is responsible
for health services in the district, except for district hospitals, which
report directly to the provincial chief medical officer.
3.08      The table on the following page shows:  (a) the present number of
district hospitals, health centers, and midwifery centers in the country;
(b) the numbers required to meet MOPH standards; (c) the number which is
proposed to be in existence by the end of the Fourth Plan; (d) the number
of each type to be built during the Plan; and (e) the number to be built as
1/   In 1973, out of a total of about 45,000 hospital beds in Thailand, 26%
were run by non-MOPH government agencies and 7% by private agencies.
2/   Until recently, district hospitals were called "first-class health
centers" and what are now called health centers were known as "second-
class health centers". The use of the term "district hospital" for
the 10-bed facility differs from the use of the term in many other
countries, as the facilities are not hospitals in the normal sense
of that term. The two larger types of district hospitals now being
planned (with 30 and 60 beds), however, are similar to conventional
hospitals.



- 7 -
part of the project. The last two lines show the percentage of MOPH cover-
age-norms ("needed") represented by existing facilities and by those sched-
uled for completion by the end of the Fourth Plan period, indicating that a
nearly complete health delivery system will be in place with over 72% of the
districts, tambols and villages provided with ready access to rural health
services. Detailed standards, staffing patterns and population coverage
figures are given in Annex 2.
Status
of                   District      Health     Midwifery
Facilities               Hospitals    Centers       Centers
Number of existing                             255         3,720       1,455
Number needed to meet MOPH standards           466         4,957        3,720
Number planned by end of Fourth Plan           359 /1      4,208        2,675
Number to be built during Fourth Plan          104           488        1,220
Number in IDA-assisted project                  19           150          225
Existing as percentage of needed
(FY 1976)                                     60%            79%         40%
Percentage of "needed" available
by end FY 1981                                 77%           85%          72%
/1   There will be:  6 sixty-bed district hospitals, 86 thirty-bed hospitals,
and 267 ten-bed district hospitals.
3.09      To provide family planning services and primary health care to
under-served villages, the MOPH plans to select and train village health
volunteers and village health communicators on a large scale. The intro-
duction of this new level of health worker has already been successfully
tried on a pilot basis in several areas. The village volunteers and com-
municators will not only contribute directly to health improvements and
the spread of family planning services but will also help to improve the
utilization of the Ministry's existing rural health facilities by refer-
ring villagers to them. By the end of the Fourth Plan period, it is pro-
jected that about one-half of the villages in Thailand will be covered by
these workers.
D. Main Needs for Strengthening the NFPP
3.10      The NFPP is presently characterized as supply, rather than
demand constrained. There is an existing unmet need for family planning
services, particularly among the rural population. The health delivery



-8-
system reaches only one half of the rural population, so that for the next
few years new acceptors can be recruited by increasing the availability of
family planning services, particularly in the rural areas. There is also
a need to use the IEC program to reinforce current practice in order to
increase continuation rates. At the same time the long-run demand for fam-
ily planning services should be increased by improving and extending IEC
activities. E&R activities also need to be improved and expanded.
3.11      The Family Health Division has drafted a Second Five-Year Plan
for the NFPP (FY 1977-81), which has been incorporated in the RTG's Fourth
National Development Plan. The NFPP Plan calls for a sizeable expansion of
the existing program in an effort to reduce the rate of population growth
from the present 2.5% per annum to 2.1% per annum by the end of the plan
period. 1/ To achieve this target the Plan calls for: (a) the extension
and improvement of family planniing services; (b) the basic and in-service
training of public health personnel who will be providing family planning
services; (c) the expansion and improvement of IEC activities; and (d) the
expansion of E&R activities. Ihe NFPP's basic strategy is to extend the
more effective family planning services to lower points in the hierarchy of
health delivery facilities and occupations, and to more geographical areas.
Doctors will perform sterilizations, and nurses will provide injectable con-
traceptives at district hospitals; mobile teams of doctors and nurses will
perform vasectomies at points where doctors are not regularly available;
auxiliary midwives are expected to be authorized to provide injectable
contraceptives and to insert IUDs at health centers and midwifery centers;
and village health volunteers will provide condoms and resupply pills.
3.12      An increase in the supply of family planning services depends on
an expanding health delivery system which is fully staffed, properly trained,
and adequately supervised. With advice from the World Health Organization
(WHO), the MOPE has prepared a Five-Year Health Development Program to extend
rural health and family planning services to 50% of the rural villages by
1981. The Program calls for the establishment of new well-located rural
health facilities; the rationalization of the use of existing facilities;
the improvement of supervision and staffing; the training of supervisory and
peripheral health workers; the provision of adequate supplies and medical
equipment; the fuller utilization of existing health personnel outside the
MOPH; and the selection and training of volunteers at the village level to
provide information, simple medical care, and contraceptives.
1/ This represents a decline in the crude birth rate from an estimated
34.5 per 1,000 at the end of 1976 to 29.0 per 1,000 by the end of
1981. The crude death rate is expected to decline by 0.3 per year
and thus be equal to 8.0 per 1,000 by 1981. Over the five-year period
an estimated 2.6 million births would need to be prevented to reduce
the crude birth rate to the desired level.



- 9 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Strategy
4.01      The primary objective of the project is to enable the RTG to reach
its demographic target for the Second Five-Year Plan period (FY 1977-81) by
assisting in the recruitment of some three million additional acceptors, thus
adding 1.6 million new continuing users by the end of FY 1981. A related
objective will be to reduce both maternal and infant mortality rates by about
20%. 1/ Since there appears to be a long-run relationship between low infant
and child mortality and low fertility, it can be expected that, after some
time lag, these improvements will influence couples to have fewer children
(Annex 1). The project will also create the foundations for further reduc-
tions in fertility during the future.
4.02      The project will support the strengthening and extension of family
planning services throughout Thailand by: (a) increasing the supply of
nurses, auxiliary midwives, and practical nurses/midwives, all of whom are
key personnel in providing family planning services; (b) intensifying the
NFPP throughout Thailand with special attention to certain provinces; and
(c) increasing the demand for family planning services through an expanded
lEC program, particularly in the rural areas. The project will extend the
rural health network so as to push family planning services "down and out" in
the health delivery system, i.e., services will be increasingly performed by
lower levels of health workers in areas that are not now adequately served.
More specialized family planning services will be provided by mobile teams.
This strategy should significantly increase the number of new acceptors by
bringing family planning services closer to the rural poor who now lack
ready access to service centers.
4.03      The project will contribute to an increase in the number of clinic-
based family planning service delivery points from 5,400 in 1976 to 7,000
in 1980. In addition, it will enable the MOPH to extend its new community-
based primary health care program to around 90% of the villages in 20 selected
provinces with village health volunteers providing oral contraceptives on a
resupply basis and also distributing condoms. Further, as a result of the
project, the shortage of paramedical staff responsible for providing family
planning services will be substantially reduced, in-service training will be
extended to new groups, adequate supplies of contraceptives will be assured,
and more and better IEC materials for family planning will be produced.
The annual output of nurses, practical nurse/midwives, and auxiliary midwives
will increase by 100, 450 and 350, respectively. Manpower balances for key
health occupations, 1976-81, are shown in Annex 3. A specific program of
1/   This is an objective of the Fourth Five-Year Health Development Plan.
The RTG estimates that in 1970 the maternal mortality rate per 1,000
live births was 4 and the infant mortality rate was 80 per thousand
live births. By 1975 the infant mortality rate declined to 68 per
thousand.



- 10 -
family planning services has been drawn up emphasizing the more effective
methods of contraception (i.e., tubectomies, vasectomies, injectables, and
the IUD) (Annex 2). A short-term training program has been designed for new
lower level staff and volunteers to prepare them for their assignments in the
family planning and basic health care programs (Annex 4).
B. Project Components
4.04      The proposed three-year project consists of two sets of compo-
nents--national and provincial. 1/ The national components are primarily
designed to help the MOPH to train the additional paramedical staff called
for by the 1978-80 expansion of the family planning service network and to
ensure the availability throughout Thailand of contraceptive supplies and of
mobile sterilization and other family planning and related health services.
Other national components include the expansion of family planning IEC and
E&R activities, and strengthening the headquarters staff of the NFPP.
4.05      The provincial components are designed to accelerate the expansion
of family planning and rural health services in 20 selected provinces which
are characterized by low-to-moderate family planning acceptance, high popu-
lation densities, and poor health facility coverage and therefore require
special attention. These provinces will hereafter be referred to as the
accelerated family planning and health (AFPH) provinces (see Map IBRD-12792R).
They are geographically distributed in four regions of the country and in-
clude 40% of Thailand's total rural population. The project components
in the 20 AFPH provinces (rural health facilities, vehicles, audiovisual
equipment and incremental operating costs) directly support the activities
required to reach the RTG's national fertility and health objectives through
the accelerated extension of family planning and rural health services so
that by 1980 an improved health delivery system will be in place--one that is
well-designed, adequately staffed and supplied, and effectively managed. The
accelerated expansion of the program in these provinces should yield above-
average gains in family planning acceptance and MICH care. Project-supported
activities in the AFPH provinces differ from ongoing activities in the other
51 provinces in that they represent an accelerated pace of the implementation
of family planning and rural health activities and/or will be used to pioneer
improvements in the rural health services. Consequently, in certain respects
(e.g., population coverage by rural health facilities) the 20 AFPH provinces
will reach or slightly exceed national averages by the end of the three-year
project period, and in other respects (e.g., the appointment of provincial
health educators) the provinces will lead the way in introducing improvements
in the family planning and rural health services.
1/   Provincial components refer to those components of the project compris-
ing the activities to be undertaken under the project within and for the
benefit of 20 provinces receiving intensive inputs under the project.
National components refer to those components, other than the provincial
components, comprising the activities to be undertaken under the project
for the general benefit of the RTG's NFPP and related health activities.



- 11 -
4.06      The public's willingness to make use of rural health facilities
depends primarily on: (a) the convenient location of clinics; (b) adequate
staffing; (c) public confidence that the needed medical care (services and
medicines) will be readily available; and (d) good supervision of clinical
staff. The project includes special provision to ensure that these criteria
will be met in the 20 AFPH provinces. Regarding (a), the RTG agreed to:
(1) take all action necessary to acquire all land and rights to land required
for the construction and operation of the facilities included in the project
and furnish to the Association evidence that such land and rights in respect
of land are available for project purposes; and (ii) ensure that all facilities
to be constructed under the project are located on land selected in accordance
with agreed criteria (para 5.13 (b)). Regarding (b), during negotiations the
RTG agreed, except as it and the Association may otherwise agree, that the
existing and proposed facilities in the 20 AFPH provinces will be staffed not
later than May 31, 1981, according to the agreed staffing pattern (Annex 2,
Appendix 14). Regarding (c), the RTG is financing a study of the system for
procuring and distributing drugs and medical supplies to be carried out by
the National Institute of Development Administration. The results of the
study are expected to be available about October 1978 and will provide MOPH
officials with alternative proposals for improving the existing system.
During negotiations, the RTG agreed: (i) not later than December 31, 1978,
to submit the results of the study to the Association for review and comment;
and (ii) to introduce such modifications in the study as the Association
reasonably requests and, thereafter, take all reasonable measures necessary
to implement the study. While the costs of drugs, medical supplies, fuel and
vehicle maintenance have not been included in the project, the RTG has agreed
to take all measures necessary to ensure that the MOPH's facilities in the
AFPH provinces shall at all times have adequate supplies of fuel and spare
parts for vehicle operation and maintenance and of drugs and other medical
supplies to ensure the timely provision of these services. Regarding (d), the
supervision of clinic staff will be strengthened at the district, provincial
and national levels.
4.07      The project components are summarized below:
a.   National Level (to serve the program nationwide or in the 51
provinces outside the 20 AFPH provinces).
i. The construction and equipping of:
- 3 Practical nurse/midwifery schools;
- 1 Midwifery school with MCH center; and
- 1 Dormitory and staff housing for the NFPP
Training Center;



- 12 -
ii. The expansion and equipping of:
- I Nursing school;
- 2 Midwifery schools with MCH centers; and
- 2 Midwifery schools;
iii. The provision of professional services for design
and construction supervision to supplement the
services provided by the MOPH Design and Construc-
tion Division;
iv. The provision of funds to purchase land for one prac-
tical nurse/midwifery school where suitable donated
land is unavailable;
v. The provision of vehicles for midwives (1,554 motor-
cycles); sterilization teams (11 vans); family plan-
ning supervision and follow-up (51 two-wheel drive.
vehicles); transporting nursing trainees (14 micro-
buses and 2 buses); site selection and supervision
(2 two-wheel drive vehicles); project administra-
tion (7 two-wheel drive vehicles: 3 for the Family
Health Division, 2 for the Rural Health Division,
2 for the Project Administration and Financing
Unit); and transporting family planning trainees
(2 microbuses for the NFPP Training Center);
vi. The provision of audiovisual production and util-
ization equipment (for the Family Health Division,
Health Education Division, Nutrition Division,
Institute of Population Studies at Chulalangkorn
University, and for hospitals and provincial health
offices outside the 20 AFPH provinces);
vii. The provision of technical assistance (a health
planner/economist for 36 person-months) to assist
with project implementation and short-term advisory
assistance (for 11 person-months) to assist with
the design of surveys and studies undertaken by
the NFPP and the population institutes of Mahidol
and Chulalongkorn Universities;
viii. The provision of contraceptive supplies (3 million
doses of injectables and 12.5 million cycles of
oral contraceptives);



- 13 -
ix.  The provision of incremental operating costs for
salaries and allowances (92 posts), E&R studies,
family planning and nutrition education materials,
the basic training of 269 assistant health workers
for family planning and in-service training of 600
nurse practitioners, and the carrying out of the
Population Awareness Program by Chulalongkorn Uni-
versity.
b.   Provincial Level (to serve 20 AFPH provinces).
i. The construction and equipping of:
- 225 new midwifery centers;
- 150 health centers;
- 19 ten-bed district hospitals; and
- 120 child nutrition centers;
ii.  The upgrading and equipping of:
- 30 midwifery centers to health centers;
- 6 ten-bed district hospitals to 30-bed district
hospitals;
iii. The provision of professional services for design
and construction supervision to supplement the
services provided by the Design and Construction
Division;
iv.  The provision of funds for purchasing sites for
rural health facilities where suitable donated land
is unavailable;
v. The provision of vehicles for midwives (675 motor-
cycles), sanitarians (1,661 motorcycles), steril-
ization teams (20 vans), supervision and follow-up
(199 motorcycles and 40 two-wheel drive vehicles),
health educators (20 two-wheel drive vehicles),
district hospitals (25 two-wheel drive vehicles),
and the Planning and Evaluation Sections of pro-
vincial health offices (20 two-wheel drive vehicles);
vi.  The provision of audiovisual equipment to be based
at provincial health offices and at provincial and
district hospitals, and of office equipment;



- 14 -
vii. The provision of 12 person-months of short-term
advisory assistance to assist with the design of
the baseline and subsequent surveys, operational
studies, and external evaluation studies carried
out by the Health Planning Division and/or inde-
pendent Thai research institutes;
viii.  The provision of incremental operating costs for:
salaries and allowances (20 health educators, 219
provincial and district supervisors of primary
health care, 751 nurses, 242 practical nurse/mid-
wives, 394 auxiliary midwives, 199 junior sani-
tarians, 735 assistant health workers at midwifery
centers, 181 assistant health workers for MCH/fam-
ily planning, 60 planning and evaluation staff, and
199 clerk/typists; family planning IEC activities;
family planning and health E&R activities); family
planning and health training (including basic train-
ing for 79,000 health communicators, 7,900 village
health volunteers, 750 assistant health workers for
midwifery centers, 181 assistant/health workers for
MCH/family planning, and 180 child nutrition center
attendants); and in-service training for 650 provin-
cial and district administrators, 225 provincial and
district supervisors, and about 4,600 paramedical
staff).
c.   Allocation for Innovative Activities
i. Provision for the financing of unforeseen innovative
activities acceptable to the Government and to the
Association.
C. Description of Project Components
4.08      Project activities encompass five administrative levels (village,
tambol, district, provincial and national) and are grouped into five func-
tional categories (services, training, IEC, evaluation and research, and
management and administration). Annexes 2-7 provide detailed descriptions
of how the various project inputs, grouped according to particular func-
tional areas, will strengthen the existing system. 1/ Annex 8 provides a
project activity matrix which shows the relationship between project inputs
and each of the five functional activities.
1/   Six annexes are devoted to the five functional areas since two deal
with training: one with basic training institutions and the other
with short-term training programs.



- 15 -
4.09      The highest concentration of project inputs is at the rural
health facility level, supplemented by community-based outreach activities.
Rural health facilities are differentiated into four basic types, the char-
acteristics and functions of which are summarized in the table on the next
page. The nature of higher and lower institutions to which they are linked
and the staffing and manpower requirements serving the local population are
also depicted. A referral system is institutionalized in which more spe-
cialized medical care as well as technical supervision of staff and/or
volunteers working at lower levels in the system are provided by higher
level institutions, and lower level institutions refer clients to higher
institutions for those family planning and health services which are tech-
nically beyond their level (Annex 2).
Inter-Relationships Among Project Components in the 20 AFPH Provinces
4.10      Whereas Annexes 2-7 describe the project inputs according to their
function, the following paragraphs show how the functional components are
related to each other at the village, tambol, district and provincial levels
in the 20 AFPH provinces.
4.11      At the village level the project will support the training of
sufficient village health volunteers and health communicators to reach
directly nearly 90% of the village population in the 20 selected provinces.
To complement this training, the MOPH will be responsible for ensuring that
both groups (together with traditional midwives and tambol doctors) are pro-
vided with the necessary IEC materials (largely leaflets plus a special moti-
vation kit for use by village health volunteers). At the time of training,
each village health volunteer will receive a first-aid kit provided through
the project. Condoms and oral contraceptives (including those required for
resupply by the village health volunteers, traditional midwives, and tambol
doctors) also will be provided. These village workers' activities will be
supervised by the staff of the tambol health and midwifery centers.
4.12      At the tambol level the project will finance the construction
or upgrading of midwifery, health and child nutrition centers and provide
salary support for the standard paramedical staff (auxiliary midwives and
junior sanitarians) of the new health and midwifery centers. A practical
nurse/midwife or auxiliary will be added to the staff of each new or upgraded
health center; and an assistant health worker, to the staff of each midwifery
center, thus releasing the auxiliary midwives and junior sanitarians at these
centers to undertake more field work and enabling the centers to remain open
for longer hours. The project will provide training and motorcycles for
junior sanitarians and auxiliary midwives to enable them to recruit, train,
and supervise the village health volunteers and health communicators. Auxil-
iary midwives in tambol health facilities will receive in-service training in
basic medical care to enable them to provide improved curative services. The
project will also support the training of specialized attendants for the child
nutrition centers. The child nutrition centers serve to increase community



- 16 -
THAILAND
MAJOR FUNCTIONS OF BASIC RURAL HEALTH FACILITIES
Type of Facility             Location Criteria                   Staffing                   Functions and Services
Midwifery Centers       a.  Centrally located in a       a.  Regular staff                a.  FP services:  pills and
group of villages of not          (auxiliary midwife)             condoms (injectables and
less than 2,000.             b.  Assistant health worker.         IUDs will be added in 1978).
b.  Should be at least 4 km                                       b.  Preventive and promotive
from district hospital,                                           health care.
a health center or                                            c.  Simple treatment for diseases
another midwifery center.                                         and injuries that are speci-
fied in MOPH regulations.
d. Technical supervision of
community-based health and
FP.
e. Referral of clients, as
required, to higher level
facilities.
Health Centers         a.  Tambol population of not   a.  3 regular staff (senior   All of the above plus:
less than 5,000.                 sanitarian, auxiliary
b.  No district hospital in           midwife, and practical    f.  Environmental sanitation.
tambol.                          nurse/midwife).
c.  Should be about 8-15 lcm.
from the nearest health
center.
Ten-Bed District        a.  District population of       a.  17 regular staff in-         All of the above plus:
Hospitals                   not less than 30,000.             cluding a physician,
b.  Center of district.               nurses, practical nurse/  g.  IUDs, injectables, and
c.  No district hospital              midwives, auxiliary mid-        sterilizations (male and
exists.                          wives, senior and junior         female).
sanitarians, etc.           h.  Institutionalized deliveries.
b.  9 workers.                  i.  Short-term in-patient care.
j. Medical care by a physician
and/or nurse practitioner;
dental hygiene.
k. Technical supervision of
health centers and midwifery
centers in district.
30-Bed Distridt        a.  District population of        a.  33 regular staff in-         All of the above plus:
Hospitals                   not less than 50,000.             cluding physicians,
b.  Should not be less than           dentist, pharmacist,        1.  24-hour in-patient care.
40 km. away from provin-         nurses, practical nurse/  m.  Dental care, X-ray, and
cial hospital or other           midwives, auxiliary mid-         laboratory.
district hospital.               wives, senior and junior
c.  10-bed district hospital          sanitarians, etc.
already exists and should  b.  22 workers.
be upgraded if well
utilized.



- 17 -
understanding and acceptance of rural health services since they: (a) pro-
vide day-care services and some supplemental high protein foods for children;
and (b) serve as a center for mothers' classes in nutrition, family planning
and child care. Normally, fees are collected from parents to supplement
the modest stipend the child nutrition center attendant receives from the
Government.
4.13      At the district level project inputs are designed to strengthen
the role of the district hospital in providing technical backing for the
rural health and midwifery centers and the district health office which
provides technical and administrative support for preventive and promotive
health activities at the community level. The 10 and 30-bed hospitals will
assume responsibility for certain specialized services (e.g., sterilizations)
that were formerly available in provincial hospitals only. The project will
provide salary support for those auxiliary personnel who deliver family plan-
ning services (e.g., auxiliary midwives, junior sanitarians, and practical
nurse/midwives). The project will also provide these auxiliary midwives and
junior sanitarians with motorcycles. Each district hospital will be provided
with an assistant health worker for family planning duties. The project will
also provide district hospitals with oral and injectable contraceptives and
with various family planning IEC materials, including audiovisual aids to be
used for post-partum education and for public education in the waiting areas.
Nurse practitioners, who will be trained through the project, will be assigned
to districts with priority given to those with no physician present where they
will provide much needed curative care and technical supervision. To ensure
that these new resources are used effectively and to strengthen the role of
the district hospitals in providing technical support for lower levels, the
directors of all district hospitals in the 20 AFPH provinces, will partici-
pate in a short-term management training course during the project period.
4.14      A new post of deputy district health officer will be established
in each of the 199 districts (and subdistricts) in the 20 AFPH provinces
to provide supervision for primary health care activities. These deputy
district health officers will be trained, have their salaries provided, and
be given transportation (motorcycles) through the project. They will also
be responsible for epidemiological surveillance and take part in evaluation
and operational research. Two training programs will be provided to prepare
professional staff of the district health offices for their roles in the pri-
mary health care and family planning program: one for the district health
officers in techniques for training tambol health staff and the other for
the deputy district health officers in the organization and supervision of
the entire primary health care program. To familiarize themselves with
problems of provincial health planning and evaluation, the district health
officers will participate in a management course.
4.15      At the provincial level the project will provide the 23 provincial
hospitals 1/ with relatively small inputs designed mainly to strengthen their
1/   Three of the 20 AFPH provinces, because of their size, have two provin-
cial hospitals rather than one, hence 23.



- 18 -
family planning role. For this purpose each provincial hospital will add two
assistant health workers to its staff and will receive injectable and oral
contraceptives, audiovisual equipment and aids (films, slides, and prerecorded
audio cassettes), and simple IEC materials for distribution. Besides basic
training for the 46 assistant health workers, the project will also enable the
23 hospital directors to take a short-term course in management. This train-
ing will stress the role of the provincial hospital in providing technical
support for rural health facilities.
4.16      The project will considerably expand the capacity of the 20 provin-
cial health offices serving the AFPH provinces to plan, evaluate, and super-
vise the expansion and extension of rural health services "down and out". To
increase the capacity of provincial health offices to plan and direct health
services, short-term management training will be given to the provincial chief
medical officers and the chiefs of the following sections in their offices:
Health Technical Services; Planning and Evaluation; Health Education, Train-
ing, and Supportive Service; and Health Promotion.  In addition, the project
will provide salaries for the three key officers in each of the newly estab-
lished Planning and Evaluation Sections: the chief, an epidemiologist, and a
statistician.  The project will support E&R studies which will provide infor-
mation for use in health planning and management. These can be grouped into
three distinct types of studies: periodic and baseline surveys; operational
studies designed to assess the adequacy of training, referral processes, super-
visory arrangements, etc.; and external evaluation of the project's impact in
the 20 AFPH provinces to be carried out by Thai research institutes. Short-
term advisory assistance is provided to assist the Health Planning Division
and user divisions in designing the studies. Each provincial health office
will be provided with a vehicle to be used primarily by the provincial pub-
lic health nurse who has major responsibility for supervising the family plan-
ning activities carried out by paramedical personnel in the 20 AFPH provinces.
The project will provide each provincial health office with a van for mobile
sterilization teams, which can also provide medical care in remote areas.
Each team will include a physician. In addition, the project will provide
pre-service training and salary support for 20 provincial supervisors who will
supervise the implementation of the community-based primary health care and
family planning activities of the village health volunteers and communicators.
They will also be provided with transport. The project will provide salary
support and vehicles for 20 provincial health educators who, together with
other staff in provincial health offices engaged in training, will have access
to audiovisual support equipment, including the mobile equipment needed to
show films and slides to rural audiences. During negotiations agreement was
reached with the RTG that, except as the RTG and the Association may otherwise
agree, the Civil Service Commission will establish and fill the new posts
required at the provincial and district levels in a timely manner and that
the Budget Bureau will provide appropriate budgetary allocations for suitably
qualified persons.
Inter-relationships Among National-Level Components
4.17      The national level project components are designed to:  (a) in-
crease the output and improve the training of the paramedical workers who



- 19 -
provide family planning services; (b) ensure that the MOPH headquarters has
sufficient staff, technical assistance, special equipment, contraceptive
supplies, and IEC materials to direct and implement the NFPP; and (c) sup-
port the full extension of family planning services outside the 20 AFPH
provinces.
4.18      There are shortages in the three categories of paramedical per-
sonnel most important for family planning and MCH services: nurses, prac-
tical nurse/midwives, and auxiliary midwives. Doctors are also in short
supply, especially for rural service, and steps are being taken to devolve
some of their functions on a new category, the nurse practitioner (Annex 3).
The project includes the construction of and equipment for new training
institutions for paramedics required during the Fourth Plan period as well
as the expansion of four midwifery schools, two of which have associated
MCH centers. The MCH centers, of which the country now has four, are free-
standing maternity hospitals that have proven very effective in recruiting
family planning acceptors and providing a wide range of clinical training
in family planning and MCH. During negotiations the RTG agreed to:
(a) not later than August 31, 1978 prepare and submit to the Association
for its comments a detailed staffing plan for teaching positions and a re-
vised 18-month curriculum designed to ensure that (i) all training institu-
tions under the project are, at all times, adequately staffed and effec-
tively utilized, and (ii) sufficient time and attention are devoted to
family planning and medical care in the revised curriculum; and (b) intro-
duce such modifications in the detailed staffing plan and revised curri-
culum as the Association shall reasonably request and, thereafter, take
all measures necessary promptly to adopt and implement the same. To help
assure that paramedics already in the field are adequately trained in fam-
ily planning, the project also includes the construction of dormitory space
at the NFPP Training Center for 100 trainees, as well as staff housing. To
transport nursing trainees, tutors and short-term family planning trainees,
16 micro-buses and two larger buses are required. The Government will fi-
nance under the project the purchase of land needed for one nurse/midwifery
school.
4.19      The project includes financial support for:  (a) salaries and
allowances at MOPH headquarters for 84 positions to strengthen the operational
divisions which will carry out the project (Family Health, Rural Health, Con-
struction and Design, Health Planning and Health Education) and for six staff
to be assigned to the Project Administration and Financing Unit; (b) technical
assistance from a health planner/economist and short-term advisory assistance
in the design of family planning/population studies to be carried out by the
NFPP and Thai population institutions; (c) professional services to assist the
Design and Construction Division in the construction program; (d) audiovisual
and production equipment, including basic printing and filmmaking equipment
for the Health Education Division; (e) vehicles to enable MOPH staff to carry
out their project responsibilities; (f) contraceptive supplies to supplement



- 20 -
those provided by USAID and UNFPA; 1/ (g) the stipends and other basic train-
ing costs of 269 assistant health workers for family planning and in-service
training of 600 nurse practitioners (Annex 4); (h) recurrent cost support for
the expanded IEC production program (Annex 5); (i) the strengthening of the
family planning service statistics system and the costs of about 10 E&R
studies, five to be conducted by the Family Health Division and five by local
population institutions (Annex 6); and (j) recurrent cost support for the
Population Awareness Program carried out by Chulalongkorn University (Annexes
4 and 5). Regarding (a), except as the RTG and the Association may otherwise
agree, the RTG agreed during negotiations that all of the 84 positions re-
quired at the national level will be established on a permanent basis by the
Civil Service Commission and that the Budget Bureau will provide appropriate
budgetary allocations for suitably qualified persons to be appointed to the
above-mentioned Divisions. Regarding (b) and (c), during negotiations the
RTG agreed to: (i) employ a health planner/economist whose qualifications,
experience and terms and condil:ions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association; and (ii) in carrying out the project, employ suitably qualified
consultants and experts whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory
to the Association. The RTG also agreed that the health planner/economist
and other consultants and experts will be provided for the duration of their
employment with suitable facilities, adequate counterpart staff and other
appropriate support as necessary for the efficient discharge of their activi-
ties under the project. Regarding (d), a much increased IEC production
program, involving a variety of printed and audio materials on family planning
and nutrition and expanded use of mass media (radio and cinema) to increase
community understanding of family planning will be carried out (Annex 5).
During negotiations it was agreed that by October 1, 1978 the RTG will take
all measures necessary to ensure that:  (i) the MOPH's Family Health Division
is authorized to purchase, produce and duplicate color films, including
entertainment-type films, designed to increase community interest in and
understanding of family planning; and (ii) adequate radio time on sufficient
stations throughout the country is allocated or purchased at appropriate times
each day for broadcasts on family planning by the Family Health Division, all
on the basis of criteria acceptable to the RTG and the Association.
4.20      Regarding (e) and (f), the project will provide the vehicles and
contraceptive supplies to ensure the ready availability of family planning
services at all existing and projected service delivery points in the 51
provinces outside the 20 AFPH provinces. Although UNFPA provided over 4,000
motorcycles in the past, 20% of the auxiliary midwives in the field still
1/   Faced with declining grant support and increased demand for contracep-
tives, the RTG has requested financial assistance for procuring injec-
tables over the three-year project period and support for oral contra-
ceptives in 1979 and 1980. The injectable contraceptives have been well
researched over a ten-year period in Thailand and found to be highly
acceptable, clinically sound, and compatible with the existing contra-
ceptive service delivery system.



- 21 -
require motorcycles, as will all new recruits during the three years of the
project. The MOPH is also establishing mobile teams in all 71 provinces,
each team to spend about two days a week performing male sterilizations in
rural areas where doctors are not available. Thirty-one of these vans will
be purchased through the project. In addition, two-wheel drive vehicles will
be provided for use in the supervision of family planning work, one for each
of the 51 non-AFPH provinces.  Regarding (j), during negotiations the RTG
agreed that adequate and suitably qualified staff will be made available to
Chulalongkorn University to carry out the Population Awareness Program.
Allocation for Innovative Activities
4.21      An amount of US$1 million is earmarked for funding innovative pro-
posals that may be made during the course of project implementation. Such a
provision is intended to add flexibility to the project and to encourage the
authorities to seek innovations. During negotiations the Government agreed
to obtain the Association's approval of proposals prior to using this source
of funds.
V. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, AND ADMINISTRATIVE ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Costs
5.01      The total estimated project cost is US$68.6 million equivalent,
of which US$22.2 million or 32% is foreign exchange. The foreign exchange
component has been calculated assuming 24% for construction, 30% for fur-
niture, 60% for equipment, 70% for vehicles, 75% for technical assistance,
and 100% for special equipment and contraceptive supplies. Project cost
estimates are given in Annex 9 and summarized in the table on page 23.
5.02      Cost estimates for construction, furniture, and equipment are
based on the experience of the MOPH with similar buildings and take into
account recent cost trends. Allowances have been included for provincial
differences in construction costs. Site development costs, including land
purchase costs, have been included where required. Cost estimates for vehi-
cles and special equipment are based on recent price quotations. Incremental
operating costs, including salaries and allowances for key family planning
personnel, short-term training activities, IEC activities, and E&R activities
are included in project costs. Salary and allowance estimates include allow-
ances for housing, per diem and travel. Training costs include per diem,
travel, training materials, and, in some cases, honoraria for instructors.
The costs of surveys, operational research and seminars are calculated on
the basis of standard local travel and per diem allowances. The contin-
gency allowances of US$13.4 million include: (a) physical contingencies
for unforeseen factors estimated at 10% of base civil works costs; and (b)
price contingencies averaging 18% of base costs and physical contingencies.



- 22 -
Price contingencies were calculated on the basis of the anticipated expendi-
ture schedule and the expected annual price increases between 1978 and 1980
using the following rates for each major category of expenditure:
Assumed Annual Price Increases
Category                                    1978       1979       1980
------------%--------------
Land, site development, building
and professional services                    12         12         10
Furniture                                    10         10          8
Special equipment, equipment,
vehicles and technical assistance             8          8          7
Operating costs including
contraceptive supplies                        6          6          5



- 23 -
THAILAND
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS BY DISBURSEMENT CATEGORY
Category                                         g million                       US$ million              FEC %
Local      Foreign    Total       Local  Foreign    Total
A. National Level
A.I  Civil Works
Construction & Site Development        146.20      46.00      192.20      7.31      2.30      9.61          24
Furniture                                7.60       3.40       11.00        .38       .17       .55         3C
Equipment                                 7.20     10.80        18.00       .36       .54       .90         6C
Professional Services                     2.00      -            2.00       .10     -           .10          C
Land                                       .40      -             .40       .02     -           .02          C
Sub-Total A.I                     163.40      60.20      223.60      8.17      3.01    11.18          27
A.II Bon-Civil Works
Vehicles                                10.00      22.80        32.80       .50      1.14      1.64         7C
Special Equipment                        -         12.20       12.20      -         ( i         .61       1oC
Technical Assistance                      1.20       3.20        4.40       .06                 .22         75
Contraceptive Supplies                   -        127.20      127.20      -                   6.36        10t
IEC Production                          19.40       -           19.40       .97      -          .97         tl
Evaluation & Research                     6.80      -            6.80      <LX       -          .34          0
Training                                  8.80      -            8.80        >                  .44          0
Salaries & Allowances                    9.00       -            9.00       .45     -           .45          (
Sub-Total A.II                     55.20    165.40       220.60      2.76      8.27    11.03          75
Sub-Total A                       218.60    225.60       444.20    10.93    11.28    22.21            5:L
B. Provincial Level
B.I  Civil Works
Construction & Site Development        248.00      78.20      326.20    12.40       3.91    16.31           24
Furniture                               15.20        6.60       21.80       .76       .33     1.09          30
Equipment                                9.40      14.40        23.80       .47       .72     1.19          60
Professional Services                    5.00       -            5.00       .25     -           .25          0
Thard                                   17.80        -          17.80        Rn      -          .89
Sub-Total B.1                     295.40      99.20      394.60    14.77       4.96    10.73          25
B.II Non-Civil Works
Vehicles                                14.00      32.60        46.60       .70      1.63      2.33         70
Special Equipment                        -          7.60         7.60     -         -.38,.    .38          100
Technical Assittance                       .40       1.20        1.60 i52               f       .08         75
IEC Production                             .60      -             .60                           .03          0
Evaluation & Research                   14.40        -          14.40     C2772)    -           .72          0
Training                                 70.60       -          70.60   C235L        -         3.53          0
Salaries & Allowances                  104.60       -         104.60       5.23     -         5.23           0
Sub-Total B.II                    204.60      41.40      246.00    10.23       2.07    12.30          17
Sub-Total B                       500.00    140.60       640.60    25.00       7.03    32.03          22
C.  Contingencies
Physical Contingencies                   45.80      16.00        61.80      2.29       .80     3.09          26
Price Contingencies                     148.00      57.40       205.40      7.40      2.87    10.27          28
Sub-Total C                       193.80      73.40      267.20      9.69      3.67    13.36          27
D. Allocation for Innovative
Activities                                15.00       5.00       20.00       .75       .25      1.00         25
TOTAL ESTIMIATED PROJECT
COSTS                             927.40    444.60   1,372.00    46.37    22.23    68.60              32



- 24 -
5.03      Cost estimates by functional categories are summarized in the
table on the next page.
B. Financing of the Project
5.04      The proposed three year project, which forms an integral part of
the Five-Year NFPP and the Health Development Program, will be financed by
(a) an IDA Credit of $33.1 million equivalent including a US$3.1 million
equivalent grant from the Norwegian Government; (b) loans or grants from
ADAB, CIDA and USAID totalling US$14.8 million equivalent; and (c) an RTG
contribution of US$20.7 million equivalent. The Norway grant of US$3.1
million equivalent and the ADAB grant of US$3.0 million equivalent will
be financed on a joint basis with the Association, with Norway and ADAB
financing identifiable components in conjunction with the Association.
Specifically, Norway will finance around 50% of the costs of the rural
health centers to be constructed and the full cost of the health planner/
economist. The ADAB funds will be disbursed against initial expenditures
for: (a) the construction of training institutions and rural health facili-
ties (district hospitals and midwifery centers); (b) vehicles, equipment, and
furniture and materials; and (c) professional services. In both cases, IDA
has been requested to disburse their funds. Norway is participating in the
credit under an agreement to be signed with the Association immediately after
credit signature. ADAB is in the process of finalizing its agreement with
the RTG. During negotiations, it was agreed that as a condition of credit
effectiveness all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the ADAB
agreement will have been satisfied.
5.05      USAID and CIDA have expressed definite interest in participating
in the project. They have identified with the RTG the components they would
like to finance and are in the process of completing their project documen-
tation and securing the approval of their management. Specifically, CIDA
is expected to finance: (a) 11 person-months of advisory assistance for
the design of studies to be undertaken by the NFPP and the population insti-
tutes; (b) 12.5 million cycles of oral contraceptives and two million doses
of injectable contraceptives; and (c) E&R studies carried out by the NFPP
and the population institutes. USAID is expected to finance the primary
health care activities in the 20 AFPH provinces, namely: (a) short-term
training; (b) E&R activities; and (c) short-term technical assistance for
the design of studies to be undertaken by the Health Planning Division and
independent local research institutes. It will also finance through its
assistance to the NFPP the costs of around 20 vans for the sterilization
teams. CIDA expects to obtain its management's approval in late January
and to sign its agreement with the RTG by early April. During negotiations,
agreement was reached as a condition of credit effectiveness that CIDA will
have signed its agreement with the RTG. USAID has obtained the approval of
its management to develop detailed project documents on the basis of the
components proposed above. USAID is expected to finalize its agreement



- 25 -
THAILAND
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS BY PUJCTIONAL CATEGORY
Category                                         s million                       US$ million             oP
Local      Foreign    Total       Local   Foreign   Total         Base Cost
I.   Services
A. National Level
Vehicles                                   8.00      19.00       27.00       .40       .95       1.35
Contraceptive Supplies                    -        127.20      127.20       -        6.36       6.36
Incremental Operational Support            1.00       -           1.00       .05      -           .05
B.  Provincial Level
Civil Works                             290.40      99.20      389.60    14.52       4.96      19.48
Vehicles                                  12.40      29.40       41.80       .62      1.47       2.09
Incremental Operational Support          94.60       -           94.60     4.73      -          4.73
Sub-Total 1                        406.40    274.80       681.20    20.32    13.74        34.06        62.8
II.  Trainin
A.  National Level
Civil Works                             161.40      60.20       221.60      8.07      3.01     11.08
Vehicles                                   1.60       3.40        5.00       .08       .17        .25
Incremental Operational Support           10.00      -           10.00       .50     -            .50
B. Provincial Level
Incremental Operational Support           70.60      -           70.60      3.53      -          3.53
Sub-Total II                       243.60      63.61      307.20    12.18       3.18      15.36        28.3
III. Information, Education and
Commounication
A. National Level
Vehicles                                    .20        .20         .40       .01       .01        .02
Audiovisual & Production Equipment         -         12.20       12.20      -          .61        .61
Incremental Operational Support           21.00      -           21.00      1.05      -          1.05
B.  Provincial Level
Vehicles                                    .80       1.60        2.40       .04       .08        .12
Audiovisual & Production Equipment         -          5.40        5.40      -          .27        .27
Incremental Operational Support            2.40      -            2.40       .12     -            .12
Sub-Total III                       24.40      19.40       43.80      1.22       .97       2.19         4.0
IV. Evaluation & Research
A.  National Level
Technical Assistance                        .40       1.00        1.40                0 )         .07
Incremental Operational Support            8.20      -            8.20       .41     -            .41
B.  Provincial Level
Vehicles                                    .80       1.60        2.40       .04       .08        .12
Special Equipstnt                         -           2.20        2.20      -                     .11
Technical Assistance                        .40       1.20        1.60      -         t#6         .08
Incremental Operational Support           22.40       -          22.40      1.12      -          1.12
Sub-Total IV                        32.20       6.00       38.20      1.61       .30       1.91         3.5
V.   Management & Adminietration
A.  National Level
Vehicles                                    .20        .20         .40       .01       .01        .02
Technical Assistance                        .80       2.20        3.00       .2k        i         .15
Professional Services                      2.00       -           2.00      600)                  :.10
Incremental Operational Support            4.00      -            4.00       .20     -            .20
B. Provincial Level
Professional Services                      5.00       -           5.00       .25      -   -       .25
Sub-Total V                         12.00       2.40       14.40        .60      .12        .72         1.4
BNse Cost Estinate                 718.60    3.I.20   1.ORn4..t      35.03    18.31       S4.24        100.0
VI. Contingencies
Physical Contingencies                  45.80      16.00        61.80      2.29       .80       3.09
Price Contingencies                    148.00      57.40      205.40       7.40     2.87      10.27
Sub-Total VI                       193.80      73.40      267.20      9.69      3.67      13.36
VII. Allocation for Innovative
Activities                             15.00       5.00        20.00       .75       .25      1.00
TOTAL ESTIMATED PROJECT
COSTS                              927.40    444.60   1,372.00    46.37    22.23          68.60



- 26 -
with the RTG in June 1978. The detailed financing proposals are outlined
in greater detail in Annex 10 and summarized in the following table.
Proposed Amount                                 Procurement
Country (Agency)           (Status)                       Terms             Rules
-(US$ Million)-
Norway            3.1 (agreement in principle)    Grant (participation)  IDA
Australia (ADAB) 3.0 (agreement in principle)    Grant (joint)              IDA
Canada (CIDA)    6.3 (letter of intent received) Soft loan plus grant   Donor
(parallel)
U.S. (USAID)      5.5 (agreement in principle)    Soft loan (parallel)   Donor
TOTAL       17.9
The proposed contributions of all donors are based on the cost estimates
provided in this report. The RT'G will finance the balance of the project
costs (30%) not financed by the donors, namely 28% of civil works components
and 100% of the salaries and allowances and of the family planning and nutri-
tion education materials included in the project.
5.06      By FY 1981 the project is expected to add about US$8 million a year
on average to the MOPH's operating costs.  In FY 1977, the Ministry's total
operating costs stood at around US$125 million; by FY 1981 they are expected
to be between $180 and $200 million in constant prices. These figures indi-
cate that the project, which will account for most of the service-network
expansion in the 20 AFPH provinces and for the establishment of all new para-
medical training institutions, will be responsible for around 11-15% of the
expected total increase in recurrent costs. Total MOPH costs have recently
accounted for just under 4% of the RTG's total recurrent expenditures; by FY
1981 the figure is expected to rise to around 5 or 6%, reflecting the higher
priority being given to health care and family planning during the Fourth Plan
period. Thus, the increases directly related to the project are reasonable
both in terms of resources likely to be available to the MOPH and in terms
of the proportion of the population they will benefit.
C. IDA-Financed Components
5.07      The proposed IDA Credit, which will be the Association's first
for a population project in Thailand, will assist in financing primarily



- 27 -
the capital cost components of the project, with important contributions
to incremental contraceptive supplies, technical assistance, and unforeseen
innovative activities. These components were selected on the basis of the
expressed preferences of the contributing donors and the RTG. Specifically,
the IDA financed components will include: (a) the construction, furnishing
and equipping of three practical nurse/midwifery schools, one midwifery
school with MCH center, one dormitory and staff housing for the NFPP Training
Center, 225 midwifery centers, 150 health centers, 19 ten-bed district hospi-
tals and 120 child nutrition centers; the upgrading of 30 midwifery centers
to health centers and of six ten-bed district hospitals to 30-bed district
hospitals; and the expansion of one nursing school, two midwifery schools
with MCH centers, and two midwifery schools; (b) the provision of about 90
vehicles and 1,550 motorcycles at the national level and 125 vehicles and
2,500 motorcycles at the provincial level; tc) the provision of audiovisual
production and utilization equipment required at the national and provincial
levels; (d) the provision of one million doses of injectable contraceptives
to finance the incremental supply requirements; (e) the provision of technical
assistance (a health planner/economist for 36 person-months) and for profes-
sional services for design and construction supervision to supplement the
services provided by the Design and Construction Division; and (f) provision
for the financing of unforeseen innovative activities.
5.08      The total cost of the items above is estimated at around US$48.1
million. The IDA credit of US$33.1 million would finance about 48% of total
project costs and would cover about US$14.8 million in foreign exchange, or
about 67% of the total foreign exchange costs, and US$18.3 million in local
costs, or about 39% of total local costs.
D. Administrative Arrangements for Project Implementation
5.09      The project will be administered and coordinated by the I4OPH
through the Office of the Under-secretary of State for Public Health, who
is the senior civil servant in the Ministry. The Deputy Under-secretary of
State for Planning and Evaluation will be designated as Project Director,
responsible for overall coordination and implementation. The Project
Director's office will have attached to it a Project Administration and
Financing Unit, which will provide the Project Director with staff support
in the following areas related to the coordination of project administration:
reporting project progress; processing reimbursement applications; approving
contract documents and tender specifications for civil works, vehicles and
special equipment; coordinating the preparation and submittal to the Asso-
ciation of all designs for facilities to be constructed under the project;
and monitoring of project planning and implementation activities. The Proj-
ect Administration and Financing Unit will include: one financial adminis-
trator, one health planner/economist, one coordinator of field activities,
two accountants, and two secretary/typists. During negotiations agreement



- 28 -
was reached that the RTG will:  (a) establishas a condition of credit effec-
tiveness, and thereafter maintain and staff with suitably qualified personnel,
the Project Administration and Financing Unit under the Project Director; (b)
vest the Unit with responsibility for coordinating project administration
including the matters specified above. Agreement was also reached that the
RTG will: (a) audit the accounts and financial statements of the Project
Administration and Financing Unit, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; and (b) will furnish to the Association not later than four
months after the end of each fiscal year, certified copies of such audited
statements, and the report by the auditors.
5.10      The' technical aspects of project implementation will be handled
by the following Divisions of MOPH: Family Health (responsible for family
planning), Rural Health, Construction and Design, Nursing Colleges, Health
Education, Health Planning, Health Training, and Nutrition. To ensure effec-
tive coordination and that appropriate project actions are taken, a Project
Coordinating Committee consisting of the heads of these eight Divisions and
chaired by the Project Director or his Deputy will be established. Agree-
ment was reached during negotiations that the RTG will: (a) establish,-as a
condition of credit effectiveness, and thereafter maintain, a Project Coor-
dinating Committee under Chairmanship of the Project Director or his Deputy
and composed of the heads of these eight Divisions; and (b) vest the Project
Coordinating Committee with the responsibility for ensuring effective coordi-
nation of the activities of the Divisions in the execution of the Project.
Annex 7 provides a description of the administrative arrangements for imple-
menting the project.
5.11      Since the project provides for an expansion of MOPH activities,
particularly in the 20 AFPH provinces, incremental salary support is in-
cluded for those divisions in the MOPH which will have to take on addi-
tional responsibilities.
5.12      Family planning and health services in the 20 AFPH provinces will
be administered as part of the Ministry's strengthened provincial health
care system. The project will utilize the existing system in accordance
with MOPH plans to strengthen the provincial administration to include plan-
ning, implementation, budget allocation, and personnel control. This decen-
tralization will enable provincial administrators to have greater flexibil-
ity in solving local health problems. At the same time the proposed project
will fully utilize existing committees, including Provincial Health Advisory
Councils, District Health Committees, Tambol Councils, and Muban Committees,
to coordinate health activities and to ensure the involvement of community
leaders in setting health policy. Project implementation in each of the 20
AFPH provinces will be overseen by the Health Planning and Evaluation Com-
mittee, which will be responsible for planning, evaluation, follow-up, and
coordination of project implementation. These working committees, which
have been established as part of the Ministry's efforts to decentralize
decision-making, are comprised of representatives of the various health
departments along with invited resource persons from other ministries and



- 29 -
non-governmental organizations. Day-to-day project implementation will be
the responsibility of the provincial chief medical officers and their staffs
in the provincial health offices. Staff support for planning, managing, and
evaluating project activities at the provincial level will be provided pri-
marily by the new Planning and Evaluation Sections of the provincial health
offices. Each of these Sections will be staffed by a chief, an epidemiologist,
and a statistician. The proposed project includes incremental salary support
for these cadres. These arrangements for project administration are described
in detail in Annex 7.
E. Physical Facility Implementation
5.13      Administrative arrangements for implementation of the construction
components of the project are as follows:
a.   Designs for project buildings will be based on standard
designs that have been developed by the Design and Con-
struction Division of the MOPH. Responsibility for the
remaining design work and for supervising site selection
and construction work will be assigned to the special sec-
tion within the Design and Construction Division that will
work full-time on the project. To avoid over-extending
the capacity of this section, the peak load of required
professional services will be covered by technical staff
temporarily recruited from outside the MOPH. During nego-
tiations the RTG agreed to submit for IDA approval all
designs for facilities to be constructed under the project.
b.   Criteria for Site Selection have been agreed between the
Government and the IDA and will be applied in judging the
suitability of land already owned by the Government or
donated by the community. To ensure optimal siting of all
facilities, during negotiations the RTG agreed: (i) that
the physical facilities to be constructed under the project
will be properly sited according to the agreed criteria
(Annex 2, Appendix 9); and (ii) that sites will be pur-
chased where suitable donated or Government-owned land does
not exist.
c.   Construction Work under the project is within the capacity
of the local building industry. The small and scattered
construction work in the rural areas will attract only
small, but reasonably capable local contracting firms.
The Design and Construction Division, which handles all
aspects of the MOPH's construction program, does not have
sufficient capacity to handle the substantial increase in
construction volume scheduled for the project. Provision
is therefore made for professional support services (as well
as some additional staff) to enable the Division to handle



- 30 -
adequately the construction program of the project, par-
ticularly in supervising the construction of rural health
facilities.
d.   Furniture and Equipment will be standardized for the different
types of facilities. Standard lists have been prepared and
are being reviewed.
e.   Physical Implementation is scheduled to be completed in
three years.
F. Procurement
5.14      Procurement of items financed by USAID and CIDA will follow the
normal procurement procedures of those agencies. Procurement of all goods
and services financed through the ADAB grant and the IDA credit (including
its Norwegian grant component) will follow the Association's normal procedures
except for (a) the construction and equipping of the child nutrition centers,
which will be built by the villagers themselves, using locally available mate-
rials purchased under procedures acceptable to the Association; and (b) in-
jectable contraceptives (totall:ing US$1 million), which will be purchased on
a negotiated basis since at present only two products are on the market and
only one of these is currently approved for use by the RTG.
5.15      With the exception of the child nutrition centers, all civil works
to be tendered in a given year will be grouped separately for the national
and provincial levels in appropriate bid packages on the basis of geographical
location and type of work to be performed. Contracts for packages of civil
works totalling the equivalent of US$750,000 or more will be awarded after
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines.
At the national level there are expected to be five such contracts totalling
approximately US$6.8 million. Most national-level institutions are to be
constructed in widely separated locations so very little grouping will be
possible. It is expected that Thai contractors will be the successful bid-
ders in most cases. At the provincial level, separate bid packages for all
construction in each of the 20 AFPH provinces will be prepared annually in
such a fashion as to attract qualified contractors. It is anticipated that
none of these packages will be large enough, however, to require international
competitive bidding. Contracts for packages of civil works totalling less
than US$750,000 will be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding in
accordance with Government procurement procedures, which are acceptable to
the Association. Foreign contractors are allowed to participate in local
tendering although it is unlikely that they will do so.
5.16      Similarly, contracts for vehicles, for equipment and supplies,
and for furniture will be grouped in appropriate bid packages. Except as
specified below, those for vehicles and for equipment and supplies will be
awarded after international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA
guidelines. In the evaluation of bids, domestic manufacturers will be



- 31 -
accorded a preference margin of 15% of the c.i.f. price of competing imports
or, if lower, the applicable customs duties. Contracts for equipment and
supplies that cannot be reasonably grouped in packages equivalent to at least
US$100,000 and contracts for furniture will be awarded after local competitive
bidding in accordance with Government procurement procedures acceptable to
the Association. Notwithstanding the above, however, in order to provide
flexibility in the procurement of smaller items, contracts for equipment,
vehicles, and supplies where the individual contracts total less than the
equivalent of US$10,000 each may be procured through prudent shopping after
solicitation of at least three price quotations so long as their aggregate
does not exceed the equivalent of US$100,000. The Project Administration
and Financing Unit will be responsible for the procurement of vehicles, equip-
ment and supplies, and furniture under the project.
G. Disbursements
5.17      Disbursements from the proposed IDA Credit would be on the following
basis:
(a) 72% of expenditures for health centers;
(b) 72% of expenditures for training institutions, district
hospitals and midwifery centers;
(c) 100% of expenditures for directly imported equipment,
furniture, vehicles and materials; 65% of expendi-
tures for locally procured off-the-shelf items; and
100% of expenditures (ex-factory) for items procured
locally;
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures for contraceptives;
(e) 100% of expe&nditures for the services of a health
planner/ecdnomist;
(f) 100% of expenditures for other technical assistance; and
(g) 100% of expenditures for innovative activities approved
by IDA.
Norway's participation in the credit in an amount of about US$3.1 million
will, at its request, be used to help finance items (a) and (e) above.
Norway would reimburse the Association for disbursements it has made against
these items at the rate of 76% and 100% of such disbursements respectively.
The mechanism for doing so will be spelled out in the participation agree-
ment to be signed with the Association which calls for the establishment
of a special account at the Bank of Norway in the Association's name to be
periodically replenished with Norwegian kroner. At the request of the
Australian Government, the Association will disburse the ADAB grant against



- 32 -
initial expenditures for items (b), (c) and (f) above, at the same disburse-
ment percentage as the IDA credit. When grant funds have been exhausted,
disbursement from the credit against these items would commence. The ADAB
would establish a special account at the Reserve Bank of Australia in an
amount of $A 2.6 million (currently equivalent to US$3.0 million) from which
the grant funds would be disbursed. Disbursements from the ADAB grant ac-
count are expected to be completed by June 30, 1979 and those from the IDA
credit account, by December 31, 1981. The estimated quarterly disbursement
schedule is given in Annex 11.
H. Project Readiness
5.18      The MOPH, as the principal implementing agency, is completing the
details of project preparation so that implementation can begin as scheduled
on February 1, 1978. Preparation is fairly advanced. Civil works drawings
have been completed, locations selected, and site acquisition nearly com-
pleted for the rural health facilities to be constructed in 1978. The loca-
tions and sites for all training institutions to be constructed have already
been selected. Standardized designs for major parts of the training insti-
tutions have been completed and have been modified where necessary to fit
the space requirements of the training institutions. The MOPH is also com-
pleting the drawing up of specifications and tender advertisements for the
rural health facilities and vehicles financed under the project. To com-
plete the preparation work and to assist in the selection of sites, the MOPH
has hired two architects, three engineers and six technicians to staff the
special section of the Design and Construction Division. Regarding non-
civil works components, the MOPH has in most instances completed the curricula
for short-term training courses,, initiated preparation or identification of
training materials, and begun training of trainers. IEC and E&R preparation
activities are also well advanced. Further, the MOPH has met with the Civil
Service Commission and the Budget Bureau. It has requested Civil Service Com-
mission approval of the posts required in the first two years of the project
and has held discussions with the Budget Bureau to ensure that sufficient
budgetary resources are available in FY1978 to implement the project. The
MOPH has also completed detailed implementation schedules for the various
aspects of the project. These are included in Annexes 2-7. The MOPH intends
to up-date these each year. During negotiations, the RTG agreed to submit to
the Association, for review and comment, a detailed schedule of works expected
to be carried out during the next year, not later than 90 days prior to the
start of FY 1979 and of each fiscal year thereafter.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The current target of the NFPP is to reduce the crude birth rate
from the present 34 per thousand to 29 per thousand by the end of FY 1981.
This will require the recruitment of about three million new acceptors dur-
ing the Fourth Five-Year Plan, an average of 600,000 new acceptors per annum,



- 33 -
compared with an average of 490,000 during the preceding five years. By
1981, the number of active users (i.e., couples with the wife under 45 years
who practice contraception) will have to rise from the present figure of 1.3
million couples to more than 2.2 million. If the target fertility reduction
is achieved by FY 1981 and a net reproduction rate of 1.0 is reached in 1990,
the total population of Thailand will by the year 2000 be 42 million less
than if fertility remained constant at the 1970 level (Annex 12).
6.02      The principal justification of the project lies in its contribu-
tion to the NFPP's fertility-reduction objectives. It is not possible
to quantify precisely this contribution independent of the NFPP's overall
performance. The selection and design of project components is based on
judgments as to the resources and activities needed to reach the stated goals
of the project. Since the extension and strengthening of the rural health-
delivery system is the principal means of realizing the project's primary
fertility-reduction objective, it is inevitable that the health system itself
will be a major beneficiary of the project. As a result of the project, the
coverage of medical care by physicians will increase from 29% in 1977 to 31%
in 1980, and the coverage of preventive and promotive health care by para-
medics (sanitarians and auxiliary midwives) will be increased from 56% in 1977
to 66% in 1980. In the 20 AFPH provinces medical coverage will increase from
25% to 28% and health care from 47% to 65%. In these provinces, upon project
completion, community-based primary health care and family planning services
will be available to 90% of the village population, or to over 14 million
people. The project will thus produce an important set of ancillary health
benefits, chief among which will be improvements in MCH including improved
child nutrition.
6.03      Finally, the Association's support for the NFPP, accompanied by a
well-coordinated program of other external support, will lay the foundation
for future reductions in fertility.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, agreements were reached with the RTG on the
following points:
a.   the RTG will take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire, as and when needed, all such land and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for the construc-
tion (and operation) of the facilities included in the
project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the project;
and it will ensure that all facilities to be constructed
under the project shall be located and sited on land
selected in accordance with the criteria set out in
Annex 2, Appendix 9 (paras. 4.06, 5.13);



- 34 -
b.   not later than December 31, 1978, the RTG will submit
to the Association for its review and comments a study
to improve the Borrower's system for the procurement
and distribution of drugs and medical supplies to
its rural health facilities; and based on the above,
it will introduce such modifications in the study as
the Association shall reasonably request and, there-
after, take all reasonable measures necessary promptly
to adopt and implement the same (para. 4.06);
c.   the RTG will take all measures necessary to ensure that
MOPH's facilities in the AFPH provinces shall at all
times have adequate supplies of fuel and spare parts
for vehicle operation and maintenance, and of drugs
and other medical supplies as shall be sufficient to
ensure the proper and timely provision of the services
to be provided through such facilities (para. 4.06);
d.   except as the RTG and Association may otherwise agree,
the former will ensure that, not later than May 31,
1981, all of its rural health facilities in the 20
AFPH provinces, both existing and those to be con-
structed under the project, shall be appropriately
staffed in accordance with Annex 2, Appendix 14
(para. 4.06);
e.   not later than August 31, 1978, the RTG will prepare
and submit to the Association for its comments a de-
tailed staffing plan for teaching positions and a
revised 18-month curriculum designed to ensure that
(i) all training institutions under the project are,
at all times, adequately staffed and effectively
utilized, and (ii) sufficient time and attention are
devoted to family planning and medical care in the
revised curriculum; and based on the above, it will
introduce such modifications in the detailed staffing
plan and the revised curriculum as the Association
shall reasonably request and, thereafter, take all
measures necessary promptly to adopt and implement
the same (para. 4.18);
f.   the RTG will take all measures necessary to ensure that
not later than October 1, 1978: (i) the MIOPH's Family
Health Division is authorized to purchase, produce and
duplicate color filrns, including entertainment-type
films, designed to iLncrease community interest in and
understanding of family planning; and (ii) adequate
radio time on sufficient stations throughout the country
is allocated or purchased at appropriate times each day
for broadcasts for family planning by the Family Health
Division, all on the basis of criteria acceptable to the
RTG and the Association (para. 4.19);



- 35 -
g.   the RTG will employ a health planner/economist whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association;
and in carrying out the project it will employ suitably
qualified consultants and experts whose qualifications
and experience are satisfactory to the Association
(para. 4.19);
h.   the RTG will provide the health planner/economist and
other consultants and experts for the duration of their
employment with suitable facilities, adequate counter-
part staff and such other appropriate support as may
be necessary for the timely and efficient discharge of
their activities under the project (para. 4.19);
i.   the RTG will vest the Project Administration and Financ-
ing Unit with responsibility for coordinating project
administration including, inter alia, the responsibil-
ity for monitoring project planning and implementation;
approving and making disbursements in respect of expend-
itures under the project; approving contract documents
and technical specifications for procurement under the
project; the preparation and submittal to the Associa-
tion for its prior approval of all designs for the
physical facilities to be constructed under the project;
and the preparation and submittal to the Association of
annual reports, satisfactory to the Association, on the
progress of the project (para. 5.09);
j.   the RTG will vest the Project Coordinating Committee
with responsibility for ensuring effective coordination
of the activities of the Family Health, Rural Health,
Construction and Design, Nursing Colleges, Health Edu-
cation, Health Planning, Health Training, and Nutrition
Divisions (para 5.10);
k.   prior approval by the Association of proposals for
innovative activities will be obtained (para. 4.21);
1.   the RTG will audit the accounts and financial state-
ments of the Project Administration and Financing Unit,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles con-
sistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Association, and will furnish to the Association
not later than four months following the end of each
RTG fiscal year certified copies of such detailed
financial statements and the report by the auditors
(para. 5.09);
m.   except as the RTG and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the former will ensure that the 84 positions



- 36 -
required at the national level and the new posts re-
quired at the provincial and district levels will be
established on a permanent basis by the Civil Service
Commission and that the Budget Bureau will provide
appropriate budgetary allocations for suitably qual-
ified persons to be appointed to the positions, and
that adequate and suitably qualified staff are made
available to Chulalongkorn University (paras. 4.16,
4.19); and
n.   the RTG will prepare and submit to the Association,
for review and comment, a detailed schedule of works
expected to be carried out during the next year, not
later than 90 days prior to the start of FY 1979 and
of each fiscal year thereafter (para. 5.18).
7.02      As conditions of credit effectiveness:
a.   the RTG will establish and thereafter maintain the
Project Administration and Financing Unit and staff
the Unit with a suitably qualified financial admin-
istrator, a coordinator of field activities, two
accountants, two secretary/typists and one health
planner/economist (para. 5.09);
b.   the RTG will establish and thereafter maintain a
Project Coordinating Committee under the chairmanship
of the Project Director or his Deputy and composed of
the heads of MOPH's Family Health, Rural Health, Con-
struction and Design, Nursing Colleges, Health Educa-
tion, Health Planning, Health Training, and Nutrition
Divisions (para. 5.10); and
c.   the CIDA Agreement will have been duly signed on behalf
of the parties concerned, and all conditions precedent
to the effectiveness of the ADAB Agreement will have
been satisfied (paras. 5.04, 5.05).
7.03      The proposed project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$33.1
million equivalent to the RTG on standard IDA terms.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
THAILAND
National Family Planning Program Targets
Family Planning Program Performance
1.        Since 1970, the Thai National Family Planning Program has
developed into one of the most effective in the world (Appendix 1).
The results of the 1975 World Fertility Survey indicate that over 30%
of women of reproductive age in Thailand were practicing some form of
contraception, continuing a very sharp upward trend since the late 1960s.
2.        Thailand began its program with the advantage of a fairly exten-
sive health network, including "auxiliary nurse midwives" deployed to some
3,800 points in rural areas and only a moderate shortage of doctors. These
circumstances permitted the family planning and public health programs to
be integrated and conducted by existing health personnel.
3.        For the most part, the numbers of acceptors have significantly
and consistently exceeded the targets, although there have been striking
changes in the methods chosen (Appendix 2). In 1970 and 1971 the program
achieved a breakthrough in the distribution of oral contraceptives by
authorizing screening and resupply through auxiliary nurse midwives. In
recent years the number of sterilizations has grown rapidly; in 1975, there
were about 90,000 (primarily tubal ligations). Comparatively speaking, in-
jectables play a more important role in the Thai program than in any other
country. Continuation rates have been uniformly high, and the spread of
acceptance across different age and parity groups has produced a younger
distribution of acceptors than in many other countries (partly because of
a strong trend in this direction in the national postpartum program). For
three consecutive years (1973-1975) about 60% of all acceptors were below
30, and about 60% had fewer than four children.
4.        In recent years, the program has made use of mass media and school
education. It has offered subsidies to promote sterilization. Compared with
other national programs, it is well dispersed throughout rural areas, reach-
ing at the periphery, small (one or two room) health clinics. Although the
general performance has been successful, there is considerable variation
among provinces. During 1974, the proportion of married women under 45 who
accepted family planning services ranged from 20.5% in Khon Kaen province
to 2.0% in Si-Sa-kat (Appendix 3). Oral contraceptives were the most popu-
lar method, the majority of new acceptors in all but three provinces choos-
ing that method. On the average, about 7% of all married women under 45
accepted the oral contraceptive; about 1.4% and 1.5% accepted the IUD and
sterilization, respectively.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Demographic Targets
5.        For the first Five-Year Family Planning Program period (FY 1972-1976),
the demographic target was to reduce the rate of growth of population from 3%
to about 2.5%. It is now reasonably certain that this target was reached. 1/
The target for the period FY 1977 to FY 1981 is 2.1%. The crude death rate is
expected to decline by 0.3 per 1,000 per year, thus falling to 8.0 per 1,000
by 1981. If this 2.1% rate of growth is to be reached, the crude birth rate
must therefore fall from an estimated 34.5 per 1,000 at the end of 1976 to
29.0 per 1,000 by the end of 1981. Empirically, a crude birth rate of 30 per
1,000 population is associated with a contraceptive prevalence rate among
women of reproductive age of about 30%. The current rate (over 30%), is
likely to increase as services are extended more widely, so that the goal of
a 29 per 1,000 crude birth rate is well within reach. Moreover, the expanded
national family planning program will lay the foundation for further reduc-
tions in the rate of growth of population after 1981.
Health Targets
6.        It is the objective of the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan
(FY 1977-1981) to reduce both the maternal and infant mortality rates by
20%. To achieve these targets, public health services must be improved
and expanded. The plan proposes to provide:
a.   prenatal care to 90% of the pregnant women in Bangkok and
80% of the pregnant women in other urban and rural areas;
b.   delivery services to 930% of the pregnant women in Bangkok,
60% of the pregnant women in other urban areas, and 44% of
the pregnant women in rural areas; and
c.   postnatal care to 60% of urban women and 68% of rural women
after delivery.
7.        In addition, the plan proposes to improve the nutrition of preg-
nant and lactating women and of infants and pre-school children (0-5 years
of age) by providing nutrition education for new mothers, emphasizing breast
feeding and pre-school health care, and providing high protein supplementary
foods for infants (0-6 months), children (6 months to 2 years), and pre-school
children (3-5 years).
Acceptor Targets
8.        National Level:  For the First-Year Family Planning Program Plan
(FY 1972-1976), the Government set targets for recruitment of acceptors, by
1/ Based on recent data from the World Fertility Survey.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
method (Appendix 2). The achievement in terms of IUD acceptors has been very
close to the targets over the five years. Acceptors of oral contraceptives,
the most popular method, have exceeded the targets in all but one year. The
demand for sterilization, however, has shown a consistent and significant
increase over the five-year period. In 1971, the target was exceeded by
nearly 20%; in 1975, more than twice as many persons chose sterilization as
had been targeted.
9.        The second Five-Year Plan (FY 1977-1981) also sets acceptor targets
for achieving the demographic objective. Since sterilization and injectables
have proven to be such popular methods, the targets for these methods have
been increased substantially. Over the five-year period the program expects
to recruit more than three million additional acceptors (Table 1). Rough
estimates indicate that 1.6 million of these acceptors will still be prac-
ticing contraception by mid-1981, and about 3.2 million couple-years of
contraceptive protection will be achieved within the five years.
Table 1: NEW ACCEPTOR TARGET BY METHOD AND YEAR, 1977-81
Method
Year       IUD        Pill        Sterilization      Injectable       Total
1977      95,000    350,000          90,000            40,000       575,000
1978     100,000    350,000          95,000            42,000       587,000
1979     105,000    360,000         100,000            44,000       609,000
1980     106,500    370,000         100,000            45,000       621,500
1981     106,500    385,000         100,000            45,000       636,500
TOTAL    513,000  1,815,000         485,000           216,000    3,029,000
10.       For 1977, revised targets have already been issued.  These in-
crease the goal for each method (Table 2).



ANNEX 1
Page 4
Table 2: REVISED ACCEPTOR TARGETS, 1977
Method                  Original        Revised      % Increase
Targets         Targets
IUD                      95,000           98,800         4.0
Oral Contraceptive      350,000          360,200         2.9
Sterilization            90,000          96,850          7.6
Injectable               40,000          43,480          8.7
TOTAL                   575,000         599,330          4.2
11.       If the Government decides to authorize more service points for
injectables (Annex 2), there should be a substantial increase in the
number of injectable acceptors and a decrease in acceptors of IUDs and
oral contraceptives. The number of acceptors of sterilization is also
expected to exceed the Government's present target (Table 3).
Table 3: PROJECTEI) ACCEPTORS BY METHOD AND YEAR, 1977-81
Oral
Contra-
Year        IUD      ceptive      Sterilization      Injectable    Total
1977      75,000    350,000         120,000           70,000        615,000
1978      80,000    350,000         135,000          100,000        665,000
1979      87,000    340,000         155,000          125,000        707,000
1980     100,000    325,000         180,000          150,000        755,000
1981     107,000    300,000         200,000          175,000        782,000
TOTAL    449 0     1665,000         790 000          620,000    3_524_ 000
Source: World Bank Estimates.
Rough estimates indicate that 1.9 million of these acceptors will be
practicing contraception in mid-1981, and that approximately 3.6 million
couple years of contraceptive protection will be achieved within the five
years.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
12.       Provincial Level:  The Ministry of Public Health, using the ser-
vice statistics system, has compiled acceptor data for each province, by
method and by year, for 1974 and 1975. The 1975 data indicate that nearly
70% of the provinces exceeded their targets for acceptors; provinces in the
Northern Region did particularly well (Table 4). The data also indicate
that provinces which showed high rates of acceptors of one method showed
high rates for all methods, and vice versa.
Table 4: NUMBER OF PROVINCES EXCEEDING TARGET BY METHOD, 1975
Method
Oral                       Total
No. of                  Contra-                      "All
Region         Provinces         IUD    ceptive   Sterilization   Methods"
Bangkok            1              1         1              1             1
Central           24              2        18            16            15
Northeast         16              8         9             13            13
North             16              0        16             12            15
South             14              1         5             12            5
TOTAL             71             12        49             54           49
13.       For the 1977-1981 period, targets by method and by year for all
71 individual provinces have yet to be developed. To date, the program has
followed a policy of issuing provincial targets only one year at a time,
since it is time-consuming and difficult to predict for longer periods.
14.       Projections:  Projections of acceptors, by method and by year,
have been prepared for the twenty provinces which will be included in the
project. These targets are based on two assumptions:
a.   auxiliary nurse midwives will be authorized to administer
injectables by mid-1978;
b.   the sterilization subsidy program will continue throughout
the project period.
Acceptor targets have been adjusted according to totals of women of reproduc-
tive age in each province, allowing for provincial family planning achieve-
ments through 1981 (Appendix 4).



ANNEX 1
Page 6
15.       It is expected the trend over the five-year period in the contracep-
tive mix will be towards more effective methods. The number of oral contra-
ceptive acceptors will plateau, then decrease during 1979. Acceptors of in-
jectables and sterilizations will increase steadily during the five years.
The number of IUD acceptors is expected to continue its current downward
trend during 1977, then gradually rise.



ANNEX 1
THAILAND                                                   Appendix I
USERS OF FAMILY PLANNING METHODS, BY SOURCE OF SUPPLIES AND SERVICES, FOR SELECTED
COUNTRIES THAT SUPPORT SUCH USE: JANUARY OF SPECIFIED YEAR
All Sources           National Program             Private Sector
Supplies and Services     Supplies and Services
Users as a                   Users as a                  Users as a
% of                         % of                        % of        Total       Nataral         YEar
Aarried                      Married                      Married     Population  Increase      National
Country, year,                No. of Users  Women Aged   No. of Users   Women Aged   No. of Users  Women Aged  (1975 est.)   (%)              ProETam
and method                     (oOOs)        15-44          (oOOs)        15-L4          (DOOs)        15-44         (mil.)   (1974 est.)   Began
Bangladesh (1976)                                                                                                        79.0     2.5 - 3.0      :.971
All methods                     742           4.7             na                         na
IUDs                             88           0.6             na                         na
Orals                           190           1.2             na                         na
Sterilizations                  188           1.2             na                         na
Other                           276           1.7             na                         na
Dominican Republic (1976)                                                                                                 4.9     2.2 - 2.5       1968
All methods                     142.2        24.0             76.0         12.8          66.2          11.2
IUDs                             14.8         2.5             14.8          2.5           0             0
Orals                            53.0         8.9             47.5          8.0           5.5           0.9
Other                            74.4        12.5             13.7          2.3          60.7          10.2
Ghana (1976)                                                                                                              9.6     2.8 - 3.0       L969
All methods                      33.6         2.0             33.6          2.0          na            na
IUDs                              4.8         0.2              4.8          0.2          na            na
Orals                            17.9         1.1             17.9          1.1          na            na
Other                            10.9         0.7             10.9          0.7          na            na
IndonRsia (1976)                                                                                                        132.0     2.1 - 2.4       1968
All methods                       na          na           3,037           lb.8          na            na
IUDs                              nm          na             974            4.7          na            na
Orals                             na          na           1,875            9.1          na            na
Sterilizations                    na          na              '6            0.1          na            na
Other                             na          na             172            0.9          na            na
Philippines (1976) /1                                                                                                    42.0     2.6             1970
(1975 est.)
All methods                   1,129          21.7          1,129           21.7          na            na
TUDs                            202           3.8            202            3.8          na            ra
Orals                           559          10.9            559           10.9          na            na
Sterilizations                   40           0.8             L0            0.8          na            na
Other                           328           6.2            328            6.2          na            na
Taiwan (1976) /2                                                                                                         16.0     1.8             1968
(1975 est.)
All methods                     880          55              338           21           562            34
IUDs                            632          27              240           15           192            12
Orals                            96           6               64            4            32             2
Sterilizations                  144           9                2            0.1         142             9
Other                           208          13               32            2           176            11
Thailarnd (1976)                                                                                                         41.8     2.8             1970
All methods                   1,731          32.0          1,281            23.7        450             8.3
IUDs                            298           5.5            298            5.5          na            na
Orals                        ]2,110          20.5            660           12.2         450             8.3
Injectables                      39           0.7             39            0.7          na            na
Sterilizations                  286           5.3            288            5.3          na            na
/I  Most private supplies and services are provided by clinics that receive financial support from the Government and acceptors at these c'iinics are
reported in the program data. Private use through other channels is considered too small to affect the total.
/2 Data are based on a 1974 KAP survey and are for married women aged 20-39.
na - Not available. Used either when no data -were available or when available data were considered particularly deficient. In cases where
totals are shown, without regard to  unavailable  or uncertain data irn one of the categories, the "na" is considered too small to affect
the total significantly.
Source: Population Council, A Factbook Reports on Population/Family Planning, October 1976.



THAILAND
NATIONAL FAMILY PLANNING PROGRAM:
TARGETS AND ACCEPTORS, BY METHOD, 1965-mid-1977
Pill                       IUD                 Sterilization                   All Methods
Year            Target   Acceptors  Higher Target Acceptors Higher  Target Acceptors  Higher    Target   Acceptors Higher
Lower                    Lower                       Lower                          Lower
1972           235,000    327,582  +39.4   90,000   90,128   +0.1   25,000   32,668   +30.7    350,000    456,694  +30.5
1973           280,000    268,674   -4.0   90,000   93,449   +3.8   30,000   49,606   +65.4    400,000    422,176   +5.5
1974           280,000    305,244   +9.0   90,000   89,739   -0.3   35,000   80,482  +129.9    405,000    494,479  +22.1
1975           280,000    345117  +2393   90,000   75,163  -16.5   40,000   90,184  +125.5    410,000    535,023  +30.5
1976           280,000    344,779  +23.1   90,000   76,259  -15.3   40,000  104,449  +161.1    410,000    592,478  +44.5
Sub-Total    1,355,000  1,591,396  +17.4  450,000  424,738   -5.6  170,000  357,389  +110.2  1,975,000  2,500,850  +26.6
Jan.-June
1977          175,000    245,420  +40.2   47,500   38,828  -18.3   45,000   60,826   +35.2    287,500    379,089  +31.9
TOTAL        1,530,000  1,836,816  +20.0  497,500  463,566   -6.8  215,000  418,215   +94.5  2,262 500  2 879,939  +27.3
Remarks: The total of All Methods is higher than the sum of columns 1-3 because it includes acceptors using
methods other than those listed.
Source: Family Health Division, MOPH.
(Dm
0 M
I.-



THAILAND                             ANNEX 1
Appendix 3
NATIONAL FAMILY PLANNING PERFORMANCE:                Pafe 1
NEW ACCEPTORS BY PROVINCE, 1974
1974
t of A]. I        f 11 ofAll   rf All         orf Ia-
Married Women  Married Wlomen  Mlarried W.Jomen Married TW-omen
1975  1974   Under Age 2X5  TJnder Age ,>   Under .4ge L5  UTnder Age LI',
Province      Rank  Pank      Accepting    AcceDting Cral   Accepting       Accepting
FP Services/i  Contraceptive       ITJD       Sterilization
Khon Kaen         2      1       20.54             6.32          9.58          1.6L
Bangkok          18      2       17.50             8.57          3.86           5.06
Ratchaburi        3      3       15. 77            5.34          4.03           6.39
Trat              1      4       15.49            13.15          1.36           0.9L
Chanthaburi       7      5       15.31            11.36          1.68           2.27
Saraburi         11      6       11.79            7.87           1.91          5.00
Sing Buri        20      7       1J.71           11.34           0.76          2.60
Loei              4      8       1ll.28           13.41           0.49          0.36
Chiang Rai        5      9       13.96             9.71          2.82           1. 42
La mpang         13    10        13.88             9.70           2.85          1.33
Roi Et           24    11        13.70             i.57           7.83           1.29
Kalasin          22    12        13.52             8.75           3.19          1.26
Phrae            17    13        12.79             9.87          1.15           1.76
Phuket            9    11       12.73             8.93           1.22          2.57
Uthai Thani      25.   15        12.49             9.29           2.38          0.80
Phangnga          6    16        12.47            9.45           0.52           2.19
F0yong           19    17        12.38             8.75          0.61           3.01
Nakhon Nlayok    38    18        12.32             9.67           0.77           1.87
Chaiyaphum       12    19        12.20             9.74           1.28           o.65
Ghai Nat         36  _ 20        12.11            9.08           1.58           1.16
Chon Buri         8    21        11.98             7.63           1.29           3.01
Prachin Buri    40    22         11.62             7.59           o.69           3.31
Nan              14    23        11.52             8.06           1.01          2.1l
Kamphang Phet   27    24         11.51             9.47           0.62           1.11
Sukhothai        23    25        11.06             8.68           1.10           1.26
Phitsanulok      31    26        11.0h             8.50           1.38          7.15
Nakhon ,.atchasima 30  27        10.72             6.15           2.60          1.66
Lamphun          14    28        10.06             9.21           0.55           0.29
Nakhon Sa-wan    41    29        10.02             7.12          1.81           1.07
Chiang Nai        9    30.       10                8.11           o.65           1.21
Ranong           26    31         9.70             7.10          1.08           1.51
Prachuap Khiri Khan 32 32         9.62             7.78          0.68           1.15
Sakhon Nakhon   34    33          9.58             5.28          3.83           0.k6
Ncng Khai        48     34        9.45             6.11          1.28           2.06
Udon rnani       35    35         9.21             6.1o         1.43           1.37
Ang Thong        43    36          9.21.           7.83           0.52           0.85
Uttaradit        21    37         9.17             7.18          1.16           0.81
"onthaburi       56     38        9.01             7.95          0.13           C.92
Lop Buri .       37    39          8.98            6.90           0.61           1.L6
Kanchanaburi    4        08 89                     ',R1           0.90           1.15
Ubon Ratchathani33      4i 8.87                     .71          1.87           2.29
Tak             16     19         8.86             6.72          1.03           1.10
Yala            28     13         8.72             4.46          1.78           2.17
tlakhon ?hancm   55    LL         8.58             6.L3          0.79           1.11
Pathum Thani    54      15         8.68            7.92           0.,2           0.413



ANNEX 1
ARpendix3
Page 2
Ayutthaya        63   46          8.64            7.00           0.90          0.74
Maha Sarakham   42   47           8.60            5.U4           2.05          1.11
Samut Prakan     53   48          8.51            7.54           0-33          0.63
Satun            51   49          8.36            7.86           0.11          0.38
Surat Thani      5n   50          8.10            5.13           0.67          2650
Phetchabun       49   51          8.26            6.48          1.S           0.31
Suphan Buri      61   52         *8.19            6.29          1.20           0.70
Phichit          45   53          7.46            5.64           1.52          0.30
Samut Songkhram 66   54          7.34             5.99          0.56           0.78
Buri Ram         47   55         7.27            14.90          1.o6           1.08
Samut Sakhon     44   56          7.06            6.16           0.28          0.61
Phetchaburi      65   57          6.80            5.68           0.36          0.75
Nakhon Si Thammarat68 58          6.7h             5.oh          0.67           1.01
Chumphon         57   59          6.67            h.31           0.52          1.83
Trang_           59   60          6.57            540           0.30           0.86
Nakhon Phathom   67   61          6. 9            5.27           0.83           0.38
Phatthalung     64   62          6.h2             L.61          0.38           1.43
Chachoengsao    60   63          6.40             5.t0          0.56           0.L3
Mae Hong Son    39   6h           6.15            5.30           0.37          0.47
Krabi            58   65          5.96            5.29           0.10          0.55
Surin            62   66          5.21            3.6h           1.o4          0.52
Songkhla         69   67          4.86            3.19           0.41          L.25
Karathiwat       70   68          3.18            1.92           0.62          0.64
Pattani         71   69          2.75             2.12           0.26          0.36
Si Sa Kat       52   70          1.98             1.14          0.52           0.31
Yasothon        29   71
/1 These totals include acceptors of "other" methods not listed in this table.
- Therefore, the figures for the 3 listed methods do not necessarily equal the
totals.
Source: Family Health Division of the Ministry of Public Health.
Spearman vs = .88 correlation between 1974 and 1975 rankings.



THAILAND
ACCEPTOR TARGETS FOR THE 20 ACCELEATED PROVINCES
Calendar 1977                              Calendar Year 1978                              Calendar Year 1979
PROVINCE             {   PILL    IUD       STER.   INJECT  TOTAL*    PILL         IUD    STER. jINJECT-  TOTAL*    PILL         IUD    STER R.  NJTC   TOTAL*
KANCHANABURI                 4,400      349     895      540    6,350    4,264        433   1, 0591   733    6,662    3,793         653   1,216   1,031    6,871
NAKHON PHATHOMI   3,652                 362      874      542    6,028    4,022       463   1 058       794    6,616    3,803       648  11 297   1,152    7,204
PRACHIN BURI I_5_017 1_277   2,121   1,568    9,222    4927                           346 12 493  1  880    9,893    4,4524!   475 12852   2,218   10,564
SUPHAI 3TJRI                 5,3541   696        982     418    7,737    5,519        860   1,264      636    8,597    5,286,  1,135   1,608   1,078    9,457
BURI RAM                     7,605   1,056   1,972   3,296   14,084    7,784   1,197   2,183   3,577   15,694    7,717   1,730   2,942   4,741   17,303
WAFA SARAKIAN                5,144   2,743   2,423       914   11,430    4,895   3,044 12882   1,367   12,424    A:482   3,422   3,331   1,878   13,418
NONG KHAT                    3,500      848   1,306   1,149    6,837    3,557   1,038   1,6581  1,A57    7,749    3,490   1,290   2,035   1,801    8,660
ROI ET                       7 286   7 051   2,621       362   18,079    6,8641 7,889   3,156          986   19,723    5,897   8,760   3,889   1,923   21,366
ST SA KAT                    7 586 1 2,379   2,240   1,610   13,997    7,500   2,809   2 701   2,238   15,433    6,882   3,306   3,357   3,121   16,869
SURIN                   I 6,479   1,126   1,508   1,274   10,621    6,696   1,378  11 934   1,813   12,086    6,396|  1,748   2,466   2,642   13 5S1
UDON THANI                  11,647   3,632 ! 3,415        790   19,741   11,509   4,256   4,148   1,520   21,715   10,470   5,117   5,069   2,724
*   t   I   I   _   |                I                            |        .        .~~~~~~~~I_ _
KANPHANG PHET           I   6,507 1   210   1,153   2,012   10,479    6,437           295   1,453   2,520   11,353    6,101         440   1,809    3179 1 12, 226
LAMPHUN                 !   4,915 I    58        494     250    5,810    4,613        100      654   1 436    6,233    4,792        173      852      732]   6,655
NAKHON SAWAN            I  10,084   1,839   2,004   1,872 1 16,424    9,838 1 2,174   2,495   2,655   17,822    9,033   2,652   3,171   3,632   19, 220
P_FETCHARU_N           6| 36671   557           643  - 2,540   10:719    6,556        7071    9901 3,207   11:791    6:277          926   1,402   3:884   12:862
PHICHIT                 I 3,636      641 1 286 1 641 15,209    ;251866 1 533 1 986    6,664 ;4,134I 1 1063 1 784  1,1341 17,330
FDE TSA?'Th.Ie             I 7,766      619   1,486   2,205   12,386    7,619         808   1,893   2,800   13,462    7,0811  1,090   2,414   3,591   14,540
SUKHOTHAI          |6_ 345              967      807      826    9,386    6,235   1,1 4   1,073   1, 194   10,122    5,885   1,401   1,401   1,661   10,858
NIAKFHON SI TMA ~iABAT    I   8,028     555   2,759   1,733   13,865    8,476         776   3,542   2,459   16,176 18- 3931  1,128   4,455   3,457   18,486
SONGKHLA                     5,419      180   1,782   1,089    9,002    5,639         303 1 2T276  1160S   10,443    5,561          523   2,590   21246  111883
TOTAL                 127,037 126,145 |31771 125,631  217,406  127,215  30,886 139,450  3)4, Y6  240,658 | 1$9,925!  37,680  48,990 !48,032  263,012
Total  includes "other" method acceptors as well.                                                                                                               P>



THAILAND
ACCEPTOR TARGETS FOR THE 20 ACCELERATED PROVINCES
(continued)
Calendar Year 1980                                           Calendar Year 1981
PROVINCE                   PILL        IUD       STER.   INJtCTABLES  T0TAL*          PILL         IUD        STER. INJECTABLES  TOTAL*
KANCHANABURI                       3,256  i    885        1,338      1,416        7,079      2,725  i  1,093        1,457       1,82        7,8
NAKHON PHaTHOM                     3,196         917      1,605       1,605       7,645      2,571       1,213      1,860     2,102          8,086
PRACHIN BURI                       4,537        609       3,099      2,545   111,067         4,211  I      810      3,355       2,893      11,S70
SUPI-IA BURI                       4,839      1,41        1,919   _______6    10,102   '4071             1,612      2,257       2,149      10,746
BURI RAM                  --.7034             2,406  13,424          5,442       18,510      6,157       3,420      4,024      6,318       20,120
____ __A  _ __ARAK ___Am_          3__ 90__   3,753   i  3,824       2,408       1413        330        4 10        4,249       292      _____
MAIIA  SAY{AKPAM   -- ___ 3,909              {-          b                   -~~4,163 3,31  4'0 2-982                  14,909
NONG  KHA&I                        3,289      1,476       2,383      2,149        9,344      3,058      1'  1   '  2,1758       2,507 1  10,028
ROI ET      -_ _                   4,746      9,604i.4,746i    2,554   L 22,599                            367      5,577       2,812      23,'832
.SI SA KAT                     5- 70           3 __876_  ____20       4,128      17,946       4,29         5 27 __ 4,832        5,136       19,022
SURIN                              5,655      2,154       2,989  I3,516          141,650    i1, 882  12,598         3,575      4,331       15,7d9
UDON THANI                         8,860       5  4        ,016      5,286       25,170      6,982       6,889      7,062       5,597       2665
KA,MPHANG PHET      ~      * * 538 - 696                  2,228      3,864       12,881      4,4.13      1,083      2,743       4,534       13,536
LAMPHUN                             ,40         29        1,095  i1,074          6,972       3,063         474      1,348  i1,487           7,289
NZAKHON SAWAN                      54662       3,0         ,                                             573        A562       .5,862      21,316
PHETCHABUJN                        5,46        1,353      1,872      4,578       13,666      4,601       1,722      2,315       5,426      1,7
PHICHIT         ______             3790 1]_,~268            994      1,770        7,830      3,349      1,516       1,283       2,166       8330
PHTITSANUTLOK                      638         1,381      2,947      4,328    ___            544         1,728          8        ,8        16,155
SUKHOTHAI                     I    5,340      1,700       1,757      2,088       1 1 ,A1Oj  4,665       2,046       2,177       2,512      11,962
HiAK-ON SI THAJ4MARAT              7,724       1,597      5,277      4,469       20,220      6,959       2,173      6,081      53,488      21,953
SONGKHLA              5--p           069___     856      3,358       2,17 [126               4,648      1,19=4    3,862         3,511      14,044
TOTAL                                  4536        5,4         246 I279,833            90~3       5~9         886        74,724    297,055
106,205    4,6          872        6,3                     9,9         393       6,6
*Total  includes "other" method acceptors as well.                                                                                                                     4



THAILAND
ACCEPTOR TARGETS FOR THE 20 ACCELERATED PROVINCES
(continued)
Province                                             5-Year Total
Pill         IUD          Ster.        inec t-        TOTAL
Kanchanaburi                          18,438        3,413        5,965         5,546          34,249
Nakhon Phathom                        17,241h       3,603        6,694         6,195          35,579
Prachin Buri                          23,144        2,51 7      13,920        11,104         52,316
Suphan Buri                           25,069       5,717         8,030         5,837         L6,639
Buri Ram                              36,297        9,809       14,545        23,374          85,711
Maha Sarakham                         21,7l40      17,062       16$759         9,549          66,34h
Nong Khai                             16,894        6,307       10,140         9,063          42,618
Roi Et                                28,868       43,671       19,989         8,637         105,599
Si Sa Kat                             31,974      16,897        17,150        16,233         83,267
Surin                                 30,108        9,004       12,472        13,576         66,657
Udon Thani                            49,468       25,834       25,710        15,917         116,966
Kamphang Phet                         28,816        2,724        9,386        16,109          60,475
Lamphun                               22,603       1,084         4,443         3,979         32,959
Nakhon Sawan                          42,967       13,640       16,083        18,764          9I,05c
Phetchabun                            29,567        5,265        7,222        19,635          63,508
Phichit                               19,174        5,354        3,880         6,904         35,363
Phitsanulok                           34,218        5,626       12,234        18,013          71,890
Surhothai                             28,L70        7,2;.8       7,215         8 ,281        53,738
Nakhon Si Thammarat                   39,580        6,229       22,114        17,606          90,700
Songkhla                              26,3 36        ,056       13,868        11,37            8,336
TOTAL                                570,975      19L,070      247,819       245,689      1,297,964
Source:  Ministry of Public Health.
I29



ANNEX 2
Page 1
THAILAND
DELIVERY OF INTEGRATED HEALTH AND FAMIILY PLANNING SERVICES
A. Present Situation: Key Role of the Ministry of
Public Hlealth in Family Planning
General
1.        Thailand's National Family Planning Program (NFPP), which is
integrated with the basic health program, is administered by the Ministry
of Public Health (MOPH). 1/ In 1975, 97% of the 5,300 registered family
planning service units in the country were part of the MOPH health delivery
system. Virtually every type of public health center--from big hospitals
in towns to midwifery centers in small villages--is used for delivering fam-
ily planning services. During the past ten years, MOPH facilities have
accounted for over 80% of the family planning acceptors recruited through
non-commercial channels. More details of the past performance of the pro-
gram are given in Appendix 1.
Increasing the Availability of Family Planning Services at Existing Facilities
2.        Thailand has pioneered in increasing the availability of many family
planning services by entrusting their delivery to lower levels of health pro-
fessionals (see Appendix 2). Family planning performance records for Thailand
show that the larger the number of health facilities and staff available, the
greater the number of acceptors. In 1970, for example, a ruling that permit-
ted 3,500 auxiliary midwives to prescribe oral contraceptives on the basis
of a simple checklist of contra-indications increased the number of service
points for oral contraceptives from 270 to nearly 3,800, and as a result the
number of oral contraceptive acceptors jumped from 132,000 in 1970 to 295,000
in 1971.
3.        Provincial hospitals provide a full range of contraceptive
services from sterilizations to condoms. District hospitals 2/ provide
1/   In the Bangkok metropolitan area, health services are the responsibility
of the Bangkok Municipality. Some health services are provided by other
agencies (see para. 14).
2/   The term "district hospital" is now used for what was called before 1976
a "medical and health center" or a "first class health center." Even-
tually every district hospital will have either ten or 30 beds, but
during the transitional period there are some that do not, and some that
are not yet staffed by physicians.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
IUDs and oral contraceptives and, as the physicians staffing them are
trained to do so, they are beginning to provide sterilizations as well.
Health centers 1/ and midwifery centers primarily provide oral contracep-
tives, but auxiliary midwives, who are based at both, eventually will be
trained to perform IUD insertions as well. The proportions of various
family planning services provided at each type of facility are shown in
Appendix 3.  It is expected that the general use of the injectable contra-
ceptive will be authorized by mid-1978, which means that this type of con-
traceptive will be available in the future at health and midwifery centers
and, of course, at hospitals.
Introduction of New Methods
4.        Sterilization and IUDs:  Current training programs are making
female sterilizations and IUDs more widely available. In 1975, for exam-
ple, after 100 doctors from district hospitals had been trained to perform
mini-laparatomies, they completed 8,000. Together with male sterilizations,
a total of 90,000 sterilizations were performed in 1975, thus establishing
an annual performance rate for Thailand--l.6% of married couples of repro-
ductive age--that is among the highest in the world. During 1977 another
140 doctors from district hospitals are being trained to perform steril-
izations. Although initially only physicians were allowed to insert IUDs,
tests indicate that continuation rates are as good and client reactions are
better when insertions are performed by nurses. Beginning in March 1975,
nurses were permitted to insert IUDs, and a nationwide training program was
started. It is expected that, if a current program is successful, auxiliary
midwives will be permitted to insert IUDs by 1978 or early 1979, and a mas-
sive training program will be undertaken immediately thereafter.
5.        The Injectable Contraceptive:  Thailand has played an important
role in the clinical investigation and use of an injectable progestogen. 2/
Much of the initial work was done at McCormick Hospital in Chiengmai, where
over half a million three-month injections were given between 1965 and the
end of 1976. The MOPH approved the method in 1974, and in 1975 trials were
arranged in 14 provinces. So far, only doctors and nurses have been per-
mitted to inject this compound, so that its use has been restricted to
about 300 provincial and district hospitals. Pilot tests using auxiliary
1/ The term "health center" is now applied to what formerly was called a
" second class health center."
2/  The compound used, depot medroxyprogesterone acetate or DMPA, is also
known by the trade name Depo-Provera. At least one other injectable
compound is about to be marketed. This report will simply use the
term "injectable contraceptive" throughout.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
midwives have been successful, and it is expected that by mid-1978 they
will be allowed to administer the injectable contraceptive at health and
midwifery centers. The trials conducted in Thailand confirmed that neither
return of fertility nor health status was adversely affected by the use of
the injectable contraceptive. In addition, the injectable has proven to be
popular among Thai women and fits well into the family planning delivery
system.
6.        The Thai Government, in reaching its present position, has satis-
fied itself that the injectable contraceptive is safe and appropriate to use
in Thailand. Foreign governments and international agencies have helped the
NFPP to introduce the injectable contraceptive, but now that the number of
service points providing this method is to be greatly increased, an assured
supply is required (see para. 44). The number of injectable contraceptive
acceptors increased from 24,000 in 1975 to 67,000 in 1976. This is a jump
from 5% to 11% of all acceptors. Acceptance continued to increase rapidly
during the first months of 1977, 1/ but then the MOPH had to restrict the
injectable to those women who were already using it due to the rapidly
diminishing supply.
Need to Increase Number of Family Planning Service Points
7.        Taking into account the recent and current development described
above, the NFPP has gone about as far as it can in exploiting the possibil-
ities of the existing delivery network. If further progress is to be made,
the network itself must be expanded in terms of service points and staff
(including lay distributors or volunteers) to run them. Experience has
shown that increasing the number of service points leads to an immediate
increase in the number of acceptors. Since there is no evidence that the
saturation point has been reached or is even near, the project is designed
to assist the MOPH to: (a) increase the number of service points providing
integrated family planning and basic health services, particularly rural
midwifery and health centers; (b) increase demand for the services available
at these points; and (c) use village health volunteers to delivery oral
contraceptives and condoms. Special attention will be given to 20 provinces
which at present are far less well served than the rest of the country.
B. Rural Health Facilities
Linkage between Family Planning and Health
8.        The NFPP's emphasis on the integration of family planning and health
services is maintained in the rural areas where 85% of the people live. This
1/   During the first six months of 1977, over 34,000 injectable contraceptive
acceptors were recruited, most of these in the first quarter of calendar
1977.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
integration has important advantages, since family planning and basic health
services, especially maternal and child health (MCH) services, can reinforce
and support each other. Among other things, improved health services reduce
child mortality, and thus reduce the need for large families. Family plan-
ning is readily introduced in the course of routine antenatal and postnatal
MCH care when the same health workers are responsible for both services.
9.        Already MOPH's rural health facilities 1/ recruit about 60-70%
of all non-commercial family planning acceptors in Thailand (and 75-80%
of all MOPH acceptors). While non-MOPH delivery networks may grow in
relative importance, MOPH's rural health network is likely to remain the
single most important source of family planning services in Thailand.
Plans for Increasing the Number of Health Facilities
10.       With technical assistance from WHO, the MOPH has prepared a number
of ambitious health projects for the period of the Fourth Five-Year National
Economic and Social Development Plan, FY 1977-81. The Provincial Health
Care Project includes the expansion of rural health facilities, the inte-
gration of provincial hospitals into the national health system, and the
widespread use of mobile units. The type of facility allocated to an admin-
istrative unit depends mainly on its population (Appendix 4). In general,
each rural district 2/ with at least 30,000 people should have either a
ten-bed or a 30-bed hospital; each tambol with more than 5,000 people should
have a health center; and each tambol or group of villages (mubans) with
between 2,000 and 5,000 people should have a midwifery center. Some dis-
tricts are not eligible for district hospitals, and served by health cen-
ters and midwifery centers only. Likewise, some tambols are not eligible
for health centers. Many of the districts or tambols that meet the cri-
teria do not yet have the facilities to which they are entitled. Table 1
indicates the shortfall in rural health facilities as of late 1976.
1/ For the purpose of this report, "rural health facilities" are defined
as all facilities that come under the aegis of the Rural Health Division,
namely, district hospitals, health centers, and midwifery centers.
2/ For administrative purposes, Thailand is divided into 71 provinces,
each of which in turn is divided into an average of about nine districts.
Districts, in turn, are divided into units known as tambols; there is
an average of about ten tambols per district. Finally, tambols are
divided into mubans or villages, with an average of ten mubans to
a tambol.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Table 1: SHORTFALL IN MOPE! RURAL HEALTH FACILITIES, SEPTEMBER 1976
Item                                  District        Health      Midwifery
Hospitals      Centers       Centers
Existing                                255            3,720         1,455
Required /1                             425            4,721         3,591
Existing as proportion
of required                            60%              79%           40%
/1   Based on norms given in Appendix 4.
11.       MOPH's plans for the first year of the Fourth Five-Year Develop-
ment Plan (FY 1977) emphasize the establishment of additional 30-bed dis-
trict hospitals in order to provide the full range of medical services
that can be offered by district hospitals and to serve as a referral center
for expanded primary medical care generated by lower level rural health
facilities.
Expected Level of Coverage by End of Current Plan Period
12.       Although the MOPH was unable to revise the FY 1977 construction
plans, it revised the plans for the remainder of the plan period. The impli-
cations of this revised plan are indicated in Table 2.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Table 2: PROPOSED COVERAGE BY RURAL HEALTH FACILITIES VS.
MINISTRY NORMS, END OF FY 1981
District         Health        Midwifery
Item                            Hospitals        Centers        Centers
Proposed                         359             4,208          2,675
Required to meet
MOPH norms /1                   466 /2          4,957 /3       3,720 /3
Proposed as proportion
of required                     77%               85%            72%
/1 Based on norms given in Appendix 4.
/2 Assumes the number of districts will increase by 10%.
/3 Assumes the number of tambols will increase by 5%.
13.       It is estimated that population covered by rural health facilities
will increase considerably by the end of the Fourth Five-Year Plan. The
coverage of medical care by physicians will increase from 21% to 32%, and
the coverage of preventive and promotive health care by paramedical person-
nel (junior sanitarians and auxiliary midwives) will increase from 53% to
67% (see Appendix 5). These increases in coverage will considerably in-
crease the population covered by family planning services.
Other Sources of Family Planning and Basic Health Services
14.       About 20% of the family planning acceptors in Thailand are recruited
through non-commercial sources outside the MOPH, the most important of which
are McCormick Hospital in Chiang Mai and the Community-Based Family Planning
Services. The former, as mentioned above, has demonstrated the popularity
and safety of the injectable contraceptive among rural Thai women. The lat-
ter has organized a widespread system of village-level distributors who sell
oral contraceptives and condoms, keeping part of the proceeds as an incentive.
Called the Village Program, this is the major distribution program operated
by Community-Based Family Planning Services. Distributors, who typically
are shopkeepers, are identified in each village or muban (population of
about 500 to 1,000) and given several days' training. They are supervised
and resupplied by district supervisors, who work closely with the district
health officer and other MOPH officials.  By October 1977 this program cov-
ered 130 districts (90 supported by the International Planned Parenthood
Federation and 40 by USAID). Another 40 districts (also funded by USAID)
were about to be opened up with an expanded version of the program that
includes health and hygiene activities on the part of the distributors.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
Gradually health and hygiene activities will also be added to the respon-
sibilities of all distributors. The relationship between these activities
and the MOPH's new Primary Health Care Program is described below in para.
27. Community-Based Family Planning Services also has a Public Institution
Program, which involves distribution of family planning information and sup-
plies through large Government and industrial organizations, and a Private
Sector Program, which involves special outlets for family planning supplies
in urban areas and fund raising activities (e.g., the sale of special family
planning T-shirts). The Planned Parenthood Association of Thailand concen-
trates mainly on information, education and communication (IEC) activities
and has only a small service program. Other ministries have hospitals, as
do the major universities. The latter have played an important role in
pilot family planning projects. The Ministry of Interior has a number of
basic health programs, and many of its paramedical staff have been trained
in family planning by the MOPH.
C. Strengthening the NFPP: An Integrated Approach
Additional Personnel to Staff New Facilities
15.       Because Thailand's NFPP links family planning services with gen-
eral health services, the strengths and weaknesses of the system as a whole
are in many ways the strengths and weaknesses of the family planning pro-
gram. As indicated above, the health network must be expanded in order to
bring clinic-based family planning and basic health services closer to the
people in rural areas but, without an increase in personnel (particularly
nurses, practical nurse/midwives, and auxiliary midwives), it will not be
possible to staff the facilities that are to be built. A detailed analysis of
staffing needs and a description of plans for meeting them by expanding the
capacity of basic training institutions are to be found in Annex 3.
Utilization of Facilities and Quality of Service
16.       There has been some concern in Thailand about the underutilization
of rural health facilities. A review of the factors affecting utilization by
the 14OPH has identified two main causes of underutilization, The first, the
poor siting of facilities, can be largely dealt with through improved siting
criteria, and through the provision in the project of funds to purchase land
where donated land is poorly situat:ed. The second cause is inadequate quality
of service in terms of the availability and training of staff, the services
they can offer (there is much demand for curative services), and the avail-
ability of drugs and other supplies. The project will provide a number of
inputs to help to overcome these problems: additional staff, short-term
training to upgrade staff skills in management and curative services, improved
supervision and management, and adequate supplies of contraceptives. On other
points, such as the availability of drugs and medical supplies, adequate
supplies of fuel and spare parts, etc., agreement was reached with the RTG
during negotiations that it would ensure that these supplies and materials
will be readily available as required.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
Direct Improvement of Family Planning Services
17.       The project will assist the Family Health Division to expand
its training capacity (Annex 4); improve its information, education, and
communication (IEC) activities (Annex 5); and undertake additional eval-
uation and research (E&R) projects (Annex 6).
18.       Nationwide Impact:  By means of inputs described above, the proj-
ect will contribute to an increase in the number of clinic-based family plan-
ning delivery points from the present 5,400 to 7,000 by 1980. In addition,
the project will enable the Ministry's new community-based primary health
care program to provide basic family planning services (resupply of oral
contraceptives and distribution of condoms) in about half of Thailand's
55,000 villages. These contributions are expected to lead to an increase
in the annual number of family planning acceptors from 535,000 in 1975 to
about 755,000 by 1980.
19.       Impact in 20 Disadvantaged Provinces:  Certain project inputs
(particularly new rural health facilities, salary support for upgraded
staffing, and various forms of short-term training) will be concentrated
in 20 of Thailand's 71 provinces which, in comparison with other provinces,
have fewer health service units in relation to population, lower rates of
family planning acceptance, larger rural populations, and comparatively
better utilization rates. Appendix 6 describes the characteristics of these
20 disadvantaged provinces, which are shown on map no. 12792R at the back of
this report. The project will enable these provinces to catch up with the
national averages by 1980. For this reason they have been designated the
accelerated family planning and health (AFPH) provinces. Various inputs to the
20 provinces are discussed in the annexes referred to in para. 17 above, and a
summary of the total range of project inputs into the AFPH provinces is given
in Annex 8.
D. Expansion of the Network of Rural Health Facilities in the
20 AFPH Provinces
20.       The project will finance the construction and equipping of the
following rural health facilities in the 20 AFPH provinces during the three-
year project period (February 1978 through January 1981):
a.   225 new midwifery centers (with staff housing); 1/
b.   150 new health centers (with staff housing);
I/   Since the only basic difference between the midwifery centers and health
centers being constructed under the project is the number of staff hous-
ing units provided (the former has two and the latter, three), future
upgrading of midwifery centers to health centers will be relatively
simple.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
c.   30 health centers upgraded from midwifery centers
(additional space in existing facilities and more staff
housing); 1/
d.   19 ten-bed district hospitals (with staff hous-
ing); 1/ and
e.   6 30-bed district hospitals upgraded from ten-bed
district hospitals (largely all new construction
of both facilities and staff housing). 1/
Appendix 7 gives the number and types of facilities by province and Appendix 8,
their phasing by year as well as the location of the 25 district hospitals.
The locations of facilities are subject to some modification during the site
selection period. Location and site selection criteria are given in Appen-
dix 9.
21.       With these additional facilities, the population coverage of the
rural health facilities in the AFPH provinces will be increased by 19% for
medical care (through physicians) and 48% for health care (promotive and
preventive services through paramedicals) (see Appendices 10 to 13). About
3.4 million more people in the rural areas will get immediate health care
and family planning services and about 35,000 additional family planning
acceptors will be recruited annually.
E. Staffing of Rural Health Facilities in the 20 AFPH Provinces
Incremental Paramedical Staff
22.       During the preparation of the project, the MOPH revised its stan-
dard staffing patterns to make them compatible with the projected level of
recruitment of key health staff in the 20 AFPH provinces during the plan
period (Appendix 14). Salary support for additional staff needed as the
result of the construction of new or upgraded facilities will be included
in the project (Appendix 15). By the end of the project period, the fol-
lowing additional staff will be supported through the project (this does
not include the new grades of staff described in paras. 24 and 25 below):
a.   75 nurses (including nurse practitioners);
b.   242 practical nurse/midwives;
c.   394 auxiliary midwives; and
d.   199 junior sanitarians.
1/   One two-wheel drive vehicle is provided to each of the 25 district
hospitals for supervision and transport for mobile clinic services
and referral services for patients.



ANNEX 2
Page 10
Changes in Staffing Patterns
23.       Additional Staff Members in Midwifery and Health Centers:  All
but 255 of the 5,431 rural health facilities in the country are staffed
by paramedical personnel only: one auxiliary midwife for each of the
midwifery centers and one auxiliary midwife and one junior sanitarian
for each health center. When these paramedics do field work, no one is
available at the centers to serve outpatients. The MOPH has, therefore,
obtained approval from the Civil Service Commission to add one practical
nurse/midwife as a second staff member at midwifery centers and as a
third staff member at health centers. The assignment of a practical
nurse/midwife to each facility will improve the simple medical care avail-
able and will permit auxiliary midwives and junior sanitarians to spend
more time in the field.
24.       Assistant Health Workers for Midwifery Centers:  The MOPH has
decided to implement this upgraded staffing pattern in the 20 AFPII prov-
inces ahead of the others, but because of the shortage of practical nurse/
midwives, an assistant health worker will be appointed, as a stop-gap
measure, as the second staff member at midwifery centers. The project
will support the training and salaries of 735 of these assistant health
workers, who will be recruited locally and will receive six weeks of
training at the regional MCH centers (Annex 4). As they prove themselves,
the assistant health workers will eventually be upgraded to practical
nurse/midwives or auxiliary midwives by taking additional training.
25.       Assistant Health Worker for MCH/Family Planning:  The project
will support the training nationwide of 450 assistant health workers for
MCH/family planning, who will be deployed in provincial hospitals, district
hospitals, and provincial health offices (Annex 4). One hundred and eighty
one of these assistant health workers will be posted to the 20 AFPH prov-
inces, and the project would provide salary support for them. The vast
majority (about 90%) will be assigned to district hospitals (one each) and
provincial hospitals (two each). The other 10% will be posted to provin-
cial health offices with family planning clinics and to the MCH centers.
Their main duties will be to set up MCH and family planning clinics and
assist in clinic sessions; to supply condoms and oral contraceptives; and
to carry out face-to-face communication activities (including the use of
simple audiovisual equipment being provided through the project) on
hospital wards, in clinics, and during home visits.
26.       During negotiations it was agreed that by no later than May 31,
1981 the RTG will staff all rural health facilities in the 20 AFPH prov-
inces--new and existing--in accordance with the staffing patterns described
above and as given in Appendix 14.



ANNEX 2
Page 11
F.  Extending Family Planning Services:  Primary Health Care
Village Health Volunteer/Health Communicator Program
27.       The MOPH is placing considerable emphasis on efforts to extend
basic health and family planning services to the village level in rural
areas. Called the "primary health care program", this approach has as its
core element the mobilization of volunteer health workers in the villages.
Over the past few years a variety of health projects in Thailand have made
use of different kinds of volunteers. WHO, for instance, has identified
about 14 such projects, including the use of volunteer distributors in the
Community-Based Family Planning Services program described above (para. 14).
Data gathered from the Lampang Project (formerly known as the DEIDS Project)
indicate that in a relatively short period of time the volunteers become known
and accepted as a source of health advice or services. After the first year
nearly 70% of the people in the project area were familiar with the volunteers.
Of these, about 55% had received advice from the communicators and nearly
all of these, in turn, had already acted on it or intended to do so.
About 30% of those who were familiar with the volunteers had turned to the
health post volunteers for help during illness. Consequently during the
Country Health Programming Exercise it was decided to launch a nationwide
scheme for recruiting two types of village-based volunteer health workers:
(a) village health volunteers, who have educational and minor curative
functions; and (b) village health communicators, who have educational
functions only. The ultimate aim is to have one village health volunteer
and an average of ten health communicators in each village without a health
or midwifery center. With an average of nine to ten villages (mubans) per
tambol, each tambol would eventually have about eight village health volun-
teers and 80 health communicators. The national scheme calls for about half
of the volunteers to be recruited and trained by the end of the five-year plan
period in 1981. In the 20 AFPH provinces, however, recruitment will be
accelerated and by the end of the project most of the villages in the scheme
will be covered. In 57 of the 199 districts in the AFPH provinces, Community-
Based Family Planning Services (para. 14) has already recruited and trained
family planning distributors at the village level. Currently they are under-
going additional training in order to add basic health and hygiene activities
to their responsibilities. In these 57 districts the project will not support
the development of village health volunteers and village health communicators.
In the remaining 142 districts there will be about 7,900 village health
volunteers and about 79,000 village health communicators, who will cover about
90% of the rural mubans in which no rural health facility is located by the
end of the project. Appendix 16 shows the distribution of districts between
the MIOPH primary health care program and the Community-Based Family Planning
Services program.
28.       The village health volunteers will supply condoms, and oral
contraceptives to women who have been screened for contraindications by
qualified paramedicals at a rural health facility. Likewise, they will



ANNEX 2
Page 12
provide minor health care in order to extend the services of the health
center to the village level. They will diagnose simple ailments and
sell household drugs. For problems with which the volunteer is unable to
cope, the patient will be referred to the nearest appropriate health facil-
ity. Finally, the volunteer will serve as "chairman" of the approximately
ten health communicators in the village.
29.       Three factors that appear to be vital in assuring an adequate
motivation and continuing participation on the part of volunteers are:
(a) management of the program at the local level; (b) recognition of the
volunteers' contributions by their communities and by the health system
itself; and (c) technical advice and support from the tambol health staff.
It is important, for instance, that health staff should not take the view
that the volunteers are there to carry out unskilled tasks that they prefer
not to do themselves. Consequently, both preparatory training (Annex 4)
and supervision of health and midwifery center staff are essential to a
successful volunteer program.
30.       The Initial Phase of the Program:  The implementation of the
village-level volunteer program will be phased through the first several
years of the current five-year plan. Implementation in the 20 AFPH prov-
inces will follow this original plan. As a result, the first phase of the
program has already been initiated in four AFPH provinces in 1977, i.e.,
before the start of the project. The other 14 provinces will begin the
program in 1978. The program in each province starts with (a) training
provincial and district level staff (Annex 4); and (b) testing the program
in one tambol in each district participating in the program. The experience
of these pilot tambols will be evaluated informally by the provincial and
district staff with the help of the E&R Section of the Health Education
Division and other offices at Ministry headquarters.
31.       The Second Phase:  Training Health Staff:  The latter part of the
first year and some of the second year will be devoted to training tambol
level paramedicals (auxiliary midwives and junior sanitarians) for their
role as trainers and technical supervisors of the village health volun-
teers and village health communicators. During the course of three years,
nearly 2,200 auxiliaries will undergo this training in the 142 districts
of 20 AFPH provinces that are participating in the program. This train-
ing is described in detail in Annex 4. All auxiliary midwives and junior
sanitarians (i.e., two staff members in each health center and one in each
midwifery center) will be responsible in this year and each subsequent
year for recruiting and training village health volunteers and health
communicators. Priority will be given to villages furthest away from
health facilities.
32.       Organizing the Program at the Village Level:  As a first step,
health staff will help village leaders to set up a committee (or use an
existing committee) whose primary function will be to assist in the selec-
tion and management of the village health volunteers and the health



ANN'iX 2
Page 13
communicators.  Whe-n t-e health communicators have agreed to serve, they
will elect their ow-n chaJirman, who will also serve as village health volun-
teer.  Local health st-ff will then arrange informal training for the vil-
lage health volunt.eer and the health communicators (Annex 4).  The health
communicators will work together with the village health volunteer as a team,
and as such, will hold occasional meetings, sometimes with the health center
staff and/or the village committee. l/
33.       Supervisory Responsibilities of Local Health Staff:  Besides advis-
ing the village nealth volunteer and the health communicators, the local
health staff will need to ensure t:hat they have adequate supplies of drugs
and IEC materials.  The volunteers and health communicators will all receive
special manuals, which have been included als part of the project training
costs for the 20 AFPH Drovinces. The villlage health volunteer will also
receive an initial allotment of drugs and a first-aid kit, the cost of the
latter being included in the project training budget.
34.       Evaluation. of the Ville Health Volunteer/Health Communicator
Program:. Ahthough the program design is based on considerable localized
experience in different parts of the country going back over several years,
the NMiOPH has just begun to initiate the program on a nationwide basis in 1977.
Each province will be testing the basic approach in one trial tambol per
district during the first months of the program in that province (para. 30).
This is primarily to make local adjiustments in the basic design and to gather
other useful feedback for provincial and district staff responsible for im-
plementation of the program. Beyond this, however, the newness of this
large-scale program requires that in the 20 AFPH provinces a more comprehen-
sive review and evaluation be undertaken after about a year's experience in
implementing the program.  More details on this evaluation study are given in
Annex 6.
Role of Traditional Midwives in Family Planning
35.       Traditional midwives, known as _ohtamyae, are being trained in MCH
and family planning under the aegis of MOPH's Family Health Division with
funding from USAID. Training and follow-up supervision will be provided by
auxiliary midwives in midwifery centers and health centers.  The traditional
midwives still perform a majority of the deliveries in rural Thailand, al-
though the proportion is steadily declining. In the 20 AFPH provinces about
2,000 will be trained, which is an average of one for each auxiliary midwife
working outside hospitals.
1/   It should be noted that variations on this model will occur in response
to local circumstances.



ANNEX 2
Page 14
Role of "Tambol Doctors" in Family Planning
36.       Traditional healers, often called "tambol doctors" 1/ are also
found widely in rural areas, and the Family Health Division has launched
a program to train them in family planning. In the 20 AFPH provinces,
about 1,200 will be trained, an average of less than one per health cen-
ter. Tambol doctors will also be allowed to supply oral contraceptives
and condoms. They will be supervised by the local health center staff.
Vehicles for Supervision of Primary Health Care Activities
37.       During the three years of the project, auxiliary midwives and
junior sanitarians in the 20 AFPH provinces will be assuming responsibil-
ity for an ever-growing number of village-level health and family planning
activities and workers (health volunteers, health communicators, traditional
midwives, and tambol doctors) in addition to their regular responsibilities
and will, therefore, require greater mobility. In the past UNICEF and, more
recently, UNFPA have provided motorcycles for auxiliary midwives, but some
do not as yet have them. Therefore the project includes 1,554 motorcycles
for auxiliary midwives outside the 20 AFPH provinces and 675 for those in the
20 provinces. In the 20 AFPH provinces, 1,661 motorcycles will be supplied
to junior sanitarians, who have hitherto not been provided with transport.
Supervision of the Primary Health Care Program
by District and Provincial-Level Staff
38.       The recruitment, training, and supervision of these village health
volunteers, health communicators, traditional midwives, and tambol doctors
will impose a heavy additional burden on the tambol health staff. Although
it is planned to train auxiliary midwives and junior sanitarians to cope
with this new burden, there is a clear need for constant supervision and
support from district and provincial staff. In the 20 AFPH provinces one
supervisor will be appointed to each district health office (as deputy dis-
trict health officer) and to each provincial health office. Their func-
tions are described in paras. 46 and 47 below.
Child Nutrition Centers and Community Initiative
39.       The child nutrition centers at rural health facilities provide
day-care services, supplementary feeding for children, and a focal point
for community participation and education. The three ministries offering
1/   In common usage in Thailand, "tambol doctor" refers to a number of
different types of healers, both traditional and modern. As used
here, it refers to various types of traditional healers and not
just to traditional healers who have been trained by and receive a
fixed monthly stipend from the Ministry of the Interior. In fact,
the majority of the latter received family planning training from
the Ministry of Health several years ago.



ANNEX 2
Page 15
day-care services (Public Health, Education, and Interior) have agreed to
a standardized  program.  In cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture,
protein-enriched cookies are provided as a food supplement. In addition,
the auxiliary midwife responsible for the management of the center fre-
quently arranges for the mothers to attend cooking demonstrations and educa-
tional sessions in nutrition and family planning at the end of the day.
Day-care is provided by one or two young women attendants selected by the
mid-wife and the village committee. The MOPH pays each attendant a basic
stipend of US$18 per month, which is supplemented by monthly fees paid by
those parents who can afford to do so (about US$0.50 per month per family).
An average of 30 children is enrolled in each child nutrition center, and
as of early 1977 there were 465 centers in the country, 166 of them in the
20 AFPH provinces.
40.       To increase local participation in village health and family plan-
ning activities, the UIOPH supplies the building materials and equipment for
child nutrition centers, while the community provides the labor for construc-
tion. This helps to ensure that the centers are built only where they are
wanted and needed.  Health center attendance appears to increase after a
child nutrition center has been added, probably because the child nutrition
center not only meets a clear need but also serves to link the community
closer to the health center. Local interest and participation will in the
future be enlisted by village health volunteers and health communicators with
the support of the tambol health staff. Funds to cover building materials
and equipment for a maximum of 120 centers in the 20 AFPH provinces are
included in the project. Construction wi:Ll be based on a standard design.
G. Mobile Family Planning Services
41.       Physicians are deployed down to district hospitals; many districts,
however, (about 40% of those eligible) have no district hospitals at all.  The
MOPH is training district hospital physicians to perform sterilizations and
is also organizing a mobile family plannirng service team in each province to
enable trained physicians from provincial hospitals to meet the needs of
people outside the reach of district hospitals.  The project would provide 31
mobile vans, 20 for the AFPH provinces and 11 for other provinces.  USAID and
the MOPH will provide these vehicles as part of a separate USAID population
project agreement with the RTG. Under thaet agreement, USAID and the MOPH have
agreed to finance the vehicles on a matching basis.  Jointly USAID and the RTG
have already provided some 40 mobile vans for provinces outside of the 20 AFPH
provinces. Therefore, all 71 provinces will have a mobile team. The provin-
cial health office in each province will be responsible for the operation of
the mobile van. Each team is expected to work from seven to ten days a month
and in that time to perform about 100 vasectomies. The rest of the time the
van will be used for mobile medical care, which will also be the responsibil-
ity of the provincial health office. The Assistant health workers (MCH/family



ANNEX 2
Page 16
planning) assigned to provincial health offices (and who are being trained
and, in the AFPH provinces, paid through the project) will join the mobile
teams on family planning days.
H. Contraceptive Supplies to Meet Expanding Needs
42.       It is estimated that 12.5 million cycles of oral contraceptives
and three million doses of an injectable contraceptive will need to be pro-
vided by the project if the acceptor targets (Annex 1) are to be met.
43.       Oral Contraceptives:  USAID has contributed large quantities of
oral contraceptives to the Thai program. Both the Thai Government and
USAID will continue to increase their contributions over the five-year
plan period (Table 3).
Table 3:  SOURCES OF ORAL CONTRACEPTIVES, 1976-81
Year                    RTG            USAID             Total
------(in millions of cycles)-------
1976                     3.0            2.0                5.0
1977                     4.0            4.0                8.0
1978                     4.1            4.5                8.6
1979                     6.0            3.5                9.5
1980                     6.5            5.5               12.0
1981                     8.0            4.5               12.5
TOTAL                   31.6           24.0               55.6
No immediate shortage of oral contraceptives is expected. However, since the
RTG will be more than doubling its budgetary support (in local currency) for
family planning activities throughout Thailand as a result of the project, the
Government has requested that its share of oral contraceptives needed in 1978
and 1979, as shown above, be furnished through external resources (as this
item requires 100% foreign exchange). Specifically the MOPH wishes to provide
its share through project financing during 1979 and 1980 (12.5 million cycles).
The above quantities of oral contraceptives are adequate at projected acceptance
and continuation rates.



ANNEX 2
Page 17
44.       Injectables:  Estimates of the injectables required during the
1978-80 period are necessarily uncertain, since demand for this method is
growing very rapidly. It is likely that auxiliary midwives will be permitted
to give injections by 1978, which will significantly increase the number of
service delivery points at which this method is available and therefore the
number of users.  Thus far the program has been supported by contributions of
injectable contraceptives from the United Kingdom and later from UNFPA, which
is now providing around 300,000 does per year. The use of injectables has
expanded to the point that a substantial inventory and an orderly schedule of
procurement are necessary. If annual new acceptors during the project period
reach around 125,000 per year as envisaged, and if mean use time of each
acceptor on average is two years, then approximately one million doses of
injectables will be required each year by the NFPP (Annex 1). 1/
i. Strengthening the Supervision of Family Planning and
Basic Rural Health Services
Need for Increased Supervision
45.       In addition to personnel, supp:Lies, facilities, and transport, one
other important ingredient--supervision---is necessary to ensure that adequate
services are available to the public.  The expansion in the number of facili-
ties and, more importantly, the addition of new activities--especially the
sizeable primary health care program--have increased the demands on MOPH's
technical supervisory staff. This situation--for a typical district--is shown
graphically in Appendix 17.
District Supervisors of Primary Health Care
46.       The primary health care program calls for new skills and activities
on the part of rural health workers.  In addition, the extent to which the
volunteers participate will in the long run largely be determined by the atti-
tude of the health workers toward them. A third requisite for the success
of the program is adequate supplies of contraceptives and drugs. All these
matters require constant monitoring and supervision by someone close to the
scene. At present there is only one professional staff member in each dis-
trict health office (a senior sanitarian with the title of district health
officer), and under the present administrative system the district hospital,
where one exists, is only nominally responsible for the health and midwifery
centers in the district. To fill this critical gap in the 20 AFPH provinces,
the MOPH will shift an experienced junior sanitarian, nurse, or auxiliary
midwife to each district health office to become the deputy district health
officer and to be responsible for the supervision of the primary health
care program and for health surveillance in that district. All 199 districts
and subdistricts will be covered in the first year. The project will meet
the salaries and allowances for these 199 district supervisors, the costs of
1/   Each user requires four doses per year.



ANNEX 2
Page 18
their four-week training program (Annex 4), and the cost of a motorcycle
for each one. In addition, clerical support is being provided for district
health offices in the form of a clerk/typist and typewriter for each.
Provincial Supervisors for Primary Health Care
47.       To oversee the district supervisors (deputy district health
officers), and to ensure adequate support at the provincial level for the
primary health care program, a provincial supervisor will be appointed to
each of the provincial health offices in the 20 AFPH provinces. These pro-
vincial supervisors will be recruited from among senior sanitarians, public
health nurses, and other qualified personnel. They will take the same four-
week training program as their district counterparts (Annex 4), and the
project will similarly cover their salaries, allowances, and transportation
(two-wheel drive vehicles). Besides supervising the deputy district health
officers and ensuring that contraceptives, drugs, IEC materials, and other
supplies reach the districts, the provincial supervisors will represent the
primary health care program in provincial health planning and similar exer-
cises, and in relations with other government and non-government agencies.
They will work closely with other officials in the provincial health office,
especially the provincial public health nurse supervisor.
Transport for Provincial-Level Family Planning Supervisors
48.       The midwives and nurses who now deliver family planning services
(except sterilizations) are supervised by the public health nurse supervisor
in the health promotion section of the provincial health office, who also
plays a key role in in-service family planning training. For instance, if
a new contraceptive method is introduced, she will first participate in a
special "training for trainers" program; then she will organize training
programs for nurses and auxiliary midwives within her own province; and
finally, she will follow-up to ensure that field staff are following accept-
able procedures. To discharge these and other responsibilities, the provin-
cial public health nurse supervisor requires her own transport.   The project
includes a two-wheel drive vehicle for each of the country's 71 provincial
public health nurse supervisors, i.e., for those in the 20 AFPH provinces as
well as the other 51 provinces.
Strengthening the Supervisory Roles of Headquarters Units
49.       Training and Supervision Section, Family Health Division:  Respon-
sibility at the national level for the supervision of family planning services
rests with the Training and Supervision Section of the Family Health Division
(Annex 4). Several units of the section, including the Supervision Unit, are
divided along regional lines. There are nine regions. Posts in the Super-
vision Unit corresponding to five of these regions are vacant at present, and
a sixth is filled by a staff member on loan from another section of MOPH. The
project includes the salaries and allowances for six nurses to fill these
posts, to be phased in at a rate of two per year during the three years of the



ANNEX 2
Page 19
project. These new posts will help to provide the technical supervision that
is becoming increasingly important as large numbers of new health workers are
trained.
50.       Rural Health Division:  The rapid expansion of rural health facili-
ties in the 20 AFPH provinces will also increase the burden on the Rural
Health Division of the MOPH. To assist this division to provide technical
supervision, the project includes four new posts in the Rural Health Division:
a doctor, a public health nurse, a senior sanitarian, and a secretary/typist.
The doctor would be head of the Rural Health Services Section and would be
responsible for administering the Division's part of the project and for the
technical evaluation of the health services provided by rural health facili-
ties. In both of these tasks, he would need to work closely with the Health
Planning Division. The public health nurse will be responsible for planning
the roles of nurses and midwives in the 20 AFPH provinces with special refer-
ence to family planning, MICH, and school health. The senior sanitarian would
have parallel functions in respect to sanitarians in the 20 AFPH provinces.
The project will also provide transport (two two-wheel drive vehicles) to
support field supervision in the 20 AFPH provinces by these and other Rural
Health Division staff.
J. Summary: Organizational and Administrative Arrangements for the
Delivery of Integrated Health and Family Planning Services
51.       The organizational structure and administrative arrangements for
delivering primary health care and medical care services, including family
planning, are depicted in Appendix 17. The focal point for the delivery
of these services is the district hospital, which provides medical care for
the district and technical supervision and logistical support for the rural
health centers and midwifery centers. The district hospital is headed by a
medical officer, who, as the sen:ior health professional in the district, is
responsible for the quality of health care provided throughout the district.
The medical officer is assisted in this capacity by a nurse practitioner, who
oversees the medical and health care provided at health centers and midwifery
centers. 1/ The nurse practitioner has two principal roles. She provides
medical treatment and performs minor operations at the district hospital, and
she supervises and provides in-service training to paramedical personnel based
at the midwifery and health centers. She visits each midwifery center and
health center at least once a month. The project provides for the in-service
curative training and management training of the nurse practitioner to enable
her to perform her expanded functions.
52.       Administration of public health services is the responsibility of
the district health officer, who has primary responsibility for the adminis-
tration of preventive and promotive services provided in the district. The
1/   In those districts with no hospital and hence no physician, the nurse
practitioner is the senior health professional and assumes some of
the medical officer's responsibilities.



ANNEX 2
Page 20
project will considerably strengthen the capability of the district health
office to deal with the new primary health care program by providing a deputy
district health officer to be responsible for the village health volunteers
and communicators. While the nurse practitioner will look after medical and
health care activities at the tambol level, the deputy district officer will
have similar responsibilities at the village level. The deputy district
health officer will oversee the training, supervision, and management of
the village health volunteers and communicators.
53.       This additional administrative and technical support is required
at each distinct level of health care in the district to meet the increased
demands for health services generated by the primary health care program and
by the improved quality of medical care provided at the district hospitals,
midwifery centers, and health centers.
Implementation Schedule
54.       An implementation schedule for the "service" components appears
in Appendix 18. Appendix 19 gives the construction costs for all of the
facilities described in this Annex.



TLIAILAND
OFN OF Ft' ACCEP'IORS IY MEO), OR.ANIZAI0 0IN .N40  RS(P     , 1 965-19/,
--____   19316             _      1070                  1977                  SF72  1__   __    ]3                        J970                  1975                  1976) _0to_
LRethS. rin -..Oe....eI... teo, RogiOe_    _           leTe         4........            . ISemibee    _,_iRe   /.   Smtier           6o,     Saedarer      _.      Ste                   Omber L   '/  _    ,el,1ler          /       i _itmlezr _ /__ (0f  bNlae  ll.r'i____
41, tInet'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                        i" 
IUD                                       /5,94        5 5. 5     74,8404    326         8,O 4           .1  91), J 28   10.7      93,         22.1      89, 1       ] S. 1    7;, 16       1 4. 0    /G, 2        2.09      6  IG.1.30    22. 0
Ora  Cenernee:iptive                      /8,320       24.7       1382 /    579   201,:4           0 02.2    70,,502       7 7     60,64o       63.6   .15,444       61 .7   345,1017       64. 5    04,40        18 2   2,0506,20        0 7
SleriJir.leeoe   (''ale  aned Fe-ale)     62,838       19.0       18, 648     8.2   '3, 46           5.8     72,08        1. 2       ,00        1  116.03    Y                              16.9 05               17 0 6     62,421    13.4
lej-eabJtl                                    --                   3,130      1,3      3,040          .9      6,:3 1      J 4      10,447        2.5     19,/oil       3.5)    24, :50)      4.6      66,)99 1     I 3      ]34.JJ4      3 9
I'otal                                   317, 1        00 o).0)  228,578   100.0   0 7,835        100.0    456,69           ( 1   4 n00    422,0  100.0                      53  023                   ',478                       5 ,Z     0
Uy arg anit ation:
M()PII                 ]179,Y68                        56.8 J17,771    82.1   369,389               90.6    410,189       89.8    365,22'.   86 .5   411,897          83.3   433, 16i 81                       SIL J 19  850 23 2.S 9
Ncn-OOPMP                                137,144       43.7       /0,807    17.9    38,440           9.4     46,S05      10.2      06,947       13.5     87,587       L6 7   IQ.0                     87,359      14. 7     5YJ 1G648   L7.1
( oet a l                               1 17, I / Z   1 n O ( 100:  20 2 8,, 7 R 1000O 4   739:,31   , e, 8 7   S  L O 5 , 6 6e9 !     0 0  4 2 2, J  0    4 Y ,             K .  5 35,  )0. 3  1 0 0 .O5 , 47 8    0 0     O   )  5  l o 0 . O
By -egi-a
laaigkel                                 100039(89     43.9       38, 304    16.8    43,874        10.8      45,S6()    11.0       52,596)      12.0     660,                     0 13 ,4     ,,      II4 12  71 o  118 0     210,774    15.1
ierltra 1                                 40,240       05>.2      41,350    10.1    62,3008        20.4      90,'382     19.0      04,029       20.0     04,[140      10.0 n 104,650)       2(1.4     19, 248     00.1      600,651    19.0
Neethlcast                                62,(025      19.        60,550    26.5   133,598         32.8    162,780        35.6    143,22'      34.0       11,49       35 3    8',007        J4.8    7(0,695       339    ,] 20(,408    32.4
Northz                                    408,100(     15.2       60,202    29.4   117,147         00.7    103,682       27.1    011,470        26.3    102,08L       24.9   137,91?        25.8    153,016       25.8       8800(13    25.5
ScuLl,                                    19,560        ;.1       41,172      a       29  08 ea                           75           417        .J     26,043 3       4    40,6            7 2.6    4,3,373      0.3      062,529      2.6
TOt,al                                   317,102      1O.0       228,578  I0. 00  407,185        100.0    4756,604    100.0    000 ,16    100.0    40,47           120.0   534 020       10.        592,0178   100.0   3,454,375   100,0
Scarce:  MOPII.



THAILAND
FP SERVICES PROVIDED BY DIFFERENT MOPH CADRES
(Actual and Proposed)
FP
Service  Sterilization      Injectable             IUD)                   Pill           Condom
Original
Cadre        Male    Female                   Insertion    Check-up    Screening   Refill
Physicians     X        X            X             X           X            X          X        X
Nurses                          Approval
expected by        X           X           X          X         X
mid-1977
Auxiliary                       Pilot study  Pilot study
Midwives                        underway;    underway;         X            X          X        X
approval     approval
expected by  expected by
mid-1978     1978 or
early 1979
Practical
Nurse/                                                         X            X          X        X
Midwives
Practical
Nurses                                                                      X          X        X
Junior
Sanitarians                                                                            X        X
Assistant
Health                                                                                 X        X
Workers
Village      .
Health                                                                                 X        Xi
Volunteers                                                                                                     N
~~~~         _   _I  , _ _   .      .              ,      . _  _ _    . _  _    _           _  _    _



THAILAND
PERCENTAGE DISTRIBUTION OF NEW ACCEPTORS
BY TYPE OF FACILITY
(All Columns Total 100%)
Female               Male
IUD                Pill           Sterilization       Sterilization              Total
D7A  127U  1976    1974  1975  1976 4  19714  1975  1976 /1 197h  1975  1976 4  197h  1975  1976 4
Provincial        35.4  37.2  35.5      7.7   7.2   7.0    76.8  77.4  74.5   56.9  42.6  43.6    24.3  23.0  22.2
Hospitals
District /2       26.2  27.2  28.8      9.1  10.8  11.3      9,3  10.7  12.8    20.1  29.0  26.4    11.9  1h.3  18.1
Hlospitals
Health Centers/3  10.7  11.5  13.i   75.8  74.5  73.9       2.5   1.7   2.1      8.3  10.0  19.1    49.6  50.1  47.1
and Midwifery
Centers
Provincial        13.9  11.7  10.7      3.8   3.3   3.6       -    0.2   0.1      7.9  12.14   2.3    h.9   4.3   4.5
llealth
Officers
Maternal and      11.8  11.1   8.9      1.2   1.2   1.2      9.4   8.7   7.1     3.6   2.8   5.3       4.3   3.8   3.3
Child Eleal-th
Centers
Mobile Services    1.3   0.7   1.5      0.9   0.7   0.7      2.0   1.3   2.5     2.8   2.2   2.6       3.6   2.7   3.1
Other              0.7   0.6   1.2      1.5   2.3   2.3       -     -    0.9     0.4   1.0   0.7      1.14  1.8   1.7
/I  1976 data cover January to September.
/2  Previously known as Medical and Health Centers.                                                                      1 x
/3 Previously known as second and third class Health Centers, respectively.i.



ANNEX 2
Appendix 4
THAILAND
MAJOR FUNCTIONS OF BASIC RURAL HEALTH FACILITIES
Type of Facility             Location Criteria                   Staffing                   Functions and Services
Midwifery Centers       a.  Centrally located in a       a.  Regular staff                a.  FP services:  pills and
group of villages of not         (auxiliary midwife)              condoms (injectables and
less than 2,000.             b.  Assistant health worker.         IUDs will be added in 1978).
b.  Should be at least 4 km                                       b.  Preventive and promotive
from district hospital,                                           health care.
a health center or                                           c.  Simple treatment for diseases
another midwifery center.                                         and injuries that are speci-
fied in MOPH regulations.
d.  Technical supervision of
community-based health anc.
FP.
e.  Referral of clients, as
required, to higher level
facilities.
Health Centers          a.  Tambol population of not   a.  3 regular staff (senior   All of the above plus:
less than 5,000.                 sanitarian, auxiliary
b.  No district hospital in           midwife, and practical    f.  Environmental sanitation.
tambol.                          nurse/midwife).
C. Should be about 8-15 km.
from the nearest health
center.
Ten-Bed District        a.  District population of       a.  17 regular staff in-         All of the above plus:
Hospitals                   not less than 30,000.             cluding a physician,
b.  Center of district.               nurses, practical nurse/  g.  IUDs, injectables, and
c.  No district hospital              midwives, auxiliary mid-        sterilizations (male and
exists.                          wives, senior and junior         female).
sanitarians, etc.           h.  Institutionalized deliverLes.
b.  9 workers.                  i.  Short-term in-patient cars.
j, Medical care by a physician
and/or nurse practitioner;
dental hygiene.
k.  Technical supervision of
health centers and midwifery
centers in district.
30-Bed Distridt         a.  District population of       a.  33 regular staff in-         All of the above pluis:
Hospitals                   not less than 50,000.             cluding physicians,
b.  Should not be less than           dentist, pharmacist,        1.  24-hour in-patient care.
40 km. away fron provin-         nurses, practical nurse/  m.  Dental care, X-ray, and
cial hospital or other           midwives, auxiliary mid-         laboratory.
district hospital.               wives, senior and junior
c.  10-bed district hospital          sanitarians, etc.
already exists and should  b.  22 workers.
be uipgraded if well
utilized.



TUlhV,ILAND
ESTIM1ATED P'OPUTLATION COVERAGE BY RURAL HEALTH FACILITIES
(Before anid After Fourth Five-Year Plani)
Population Served
Number of              by Each Facil3ity             _     o__ l PopulfltTho  Served
__Facilities__                                       Medical Ca-e                   H1eRlth Care
in 1976Th3981Medic 1 Carie --Ilealth Care's- ii77                91           h9           h3
District Hlospitals
60-bed                -6               100,000o           8.9000                       600,*000        -           148,00
30- bed               -         86      503,000           8 000           -          14,300,000                   688138000
10- bed              255      267       30,000            8,OOo       7,650,000    8,010,000o  2,0140,000   2,136,ooo
Sub-Total                                                          ((6',00   12,910,000) (2,0140,000) (2,872,000)
Health Centers       3,720   14,208                     14,000-5,000 /4-                           114,880,000  18,317,000
Midwifery Centers  l,h4 5-6   2,676                    23,000-3,00 onoi     ____      -            -    -~12,0    6,i!000
TOTAL                                                                     L502000   12291-9 O000  19,832,000, 2310 ,00
Total rural
popalation to
be  ervd  _                                                         37,3141,908   It0, 817,719  37,3141,130  140,817,719
% of coverage                                                               20.5%         31.7%         53.1%        67.0%
/1 "Medical Care" refers to services provided by a physician.
/2  "Hfealth Care" refere to promotive and preventive health services provided by paramedical personnel.                          r
/3 Entire country excluding Bangkok and provincial capitals.
/4 Assumes that population served by each hiealth center (1,1485) and midwifery center (800) in the 20
AFIII provinces in 1981 will be increased by 1,000 due to an additional staff member in each type of
facility.



THAILAND
ChARACTERISTICS OF ACCELERATED FAMILY PLANNING AND HEALTH PROVINCES
(Population Fig-res as of Septembe- 1975)
Region               Ero-in-e                 Total             Rol                No. of            No. of             Tota] of         No. of           No. of             No. of            No. of              FE Performance (1975)
opoplatizon      Popoltion/l         Districts        Sub-Distriets         (A and B)       Tobols            Tambols           Villages          Village-            Nor FP         FP Rote of
(A)                (B)                                               in Provincial                      in Provincial        Accep-         Acoeptonce
C.pit.l Dist./2                   Capitol Dist./2       to-s
North           Phiohit                         595,782            547,515              6                  1                  7             71                   (17)              565              (137)             5,335           6.86
Petchabun                      680,143            648,914               7                 1                  8              76                  (965              319               (1231             6,927           6.25
Nakhon Saoan                   965,790            912,284              12                --                 12             109                  (16)            1,009               (150)            11,299          7.42
Pitsanulok                     655,216            633,313               8                 1                  9              75                  (17)              684               (132)             8,311           8.17
Kaophaeng Phot                 497,840            481,005               4                 1                  5             44                   (14)              410               (104)             6,708           8.45
Lamphun                        338,521            326,216               5                --                  5             42                   (15)              343               (130)             4,998           9.85
Sokothai                       497_824            473_639               8                 1                  9              70                  ( 9)              504               ( 54)             7,048           9.09
Sub-Total                   (4,231,116)        (4,022,886)           (50)                (5)               (55)          (487)                 (104)           (3,834)              (830)          (55,961)
Northeost       Buri Ram                      1,030,152          1,007,590             10                 1                  11             93                   (15)            1,376              (246)            10,308           6.59
Si Sa Ket                      957,272            940,363               9                 1                 10            137                   (24)            1,395               (200)             9,482          6.11
Srin                           957,537            927,245               9                 2                 11             101                  (19)            1.390               (262)             7,243          4.88
Maho Sa.rokham                 700,596             672,994              8                 1                  9              88                  (12)            1,208               (184)             8,183           7.40
Roi Et                         988,656             962,816             11                 2                 13             128                  (19)            1,561               (259)            13,127           8.80
Nong Kai                       595,199            570,143               7                 2                  9             61                   (14)              695               (135)             5,780           6.28
Udon Thani                           44         1,227,586              14                 5                 19             129                  (14)            1_589               (163)              ,083           7.21
Sub-Totlo                   (6,531,656)        (6,308,737)            (68)             (14)                (82)          (737)                  (117)          (9,214)           (1,449)            (69,262)
Centr-l         Nakhon Phathon                  507,800            468,526              6                --                   6             98                    (25)             775              (195)             3,628           4.52
Suphan Bori                    703,445            671,676               8                 1                  9              99                   (19)             665               ( 97)             5.522           5.13
Prochin B-ri                   553,291            514,109               9                 2                 11              85                   (13)             802               (127)             6,497           7.53
Kanchanobori                   4251349                                  O                --       1                         78                    1471                              ( 72)            i,920            6.82
Sub-Total                   (2,189,885)        (2,055,750)           (33)                (3)               (36)          (360)                   (72)          (2,713)              (491)          (20,567)
Sooth          SEogkhla                         748,233            616,655             10                --                  10            114                    (17)             891              (130)             4.787           4.01
Nakhon Si Th-roat           1,193, 608   1, 136,                       15                 1                 16            133                                   1,012              (109)              7606            4.18    D        B
Sub-Total                   (1,941,841)        (1,753,455)            (255               (1)               (26)          (247)                   (39)          (1,903)              (239)          (12,393) 5
TOTAL                       14.894,498         14,140,828            176                 23                199          1 831                   (332)          17,664            (3,009)            158,183           7.08
/I ExCnBding popolation in prov-ineil capitals.
/7 Known -s a Muang.



THAILAND
ITJEJBER ANn -O'CATION OF RURAL BiEALTY1 FACILITIES BY TYPE, BEFORE AND AFTER THE PROJECT PERIOID
Region         Province                30-bed Dist.  lospital   10-bed Dist. E'ospital                Hlealthl Center         Midwiferv Center
Before  Project  After  Before  Project  After  Before  Project  After  Before  Pro3ect  Aenr
Nortll           Phichit                   1          1        2        3          -        2       42      7      2    51       28         11      37
Petchabun                 3                   3       2          _        2       46      9      1    56       26          2      37
Nakhon Sawan              2         1         3       4          1        4        67    12      2    80       35         18
Plhiitsan lok             2          -        2       4          -        4        62     4      1    67        11         5
Kamphaeng Phet            1         -         1       1          1        2        27     5      1    32       37          8
LanrnhU1                  1.        -         1       1          1        2        34     3      -    36        12         3       i5
Sukbothai                 1         -         1       2          2        4        53     5      1    57       13          7       19
Sub-Total              (11)        (2)      (13)    (17)        (5)     (20)    (331) (45)    (8) (379)   (162)          (64)   (218)
Northeast        Buri Ram                  2          1        3        5          -        4       71     8       0     799     19         10      29
Si Sa Ket:                2         -         2       4          -        4        63    18      8    89        75        33     100
Surin                     1         1         2       3          2        4        83     6      0     87      18          7      25
Maha Saraa'ha. '          2          1        3       4          1        4        57     5      6     67      44         13       51
Roi Et                    2          -        2       4          2        6        93    10      2   103       32         14       44
Nong Khai.                2         -         2       3          -        3        51     3      -    54        13         4       17
Udon Thani                4          1        5       3          3        5        93    10      -   103       27         14      441
Sub-Total              (15)        (4)      (19)    (26)i       (8)     (30)    (511) (60)   (16) (579)   (228)          (95)  (30j)
Central          Nakhon Phathom            1          -         1       5         -         5       60   11        2     73      15         17      30
SuphaniBuri               1         -         1       5          -        5        66     9      -     75       6         11       17
Prachin Buri              3         -         3       1          2        3        61     5      1    65        29         8       36
KanchanabUri              -         -         -       3          1        4        56     6      -    61         3         8       11
Sub-Total                (5)       (-)       (5)    (14)        (3)     (17)    (243) (31)    (3) (274)    (53)          (44)    (94)
South            Songkhla                  I          _         1       5          1        6       92     6       -    97       38          8      46
Nakohn Si ThaTmarat   2             -         2       6          2        8        94     8      3   103       59         1 4      70
Sub-Total                (3)       (-)       (3)    (11)        (3)     (14)    (186) (14)    (3) (200)    (97)          (22)   (116)
TOTAL                   34          6        40      68         19       81     1_   150        30  1432    540          225     735
Source:   Ministry of Public Health
(D



ANNEX 2
Appendix 8
THAILAND
DATA ON FACILITIES TO BE CONSTRUCTED UNDER THE PROJECT
A. Phasing of Facilities to Be Constructed Under the Project
Type of Facility                   1978   1979   1980   TOTAL
30-bed District Hospitals Upgraded                    3      1       2        6
from 10-bed Hospitals
10-bed District Hospitals                             6      6       7       19
Health Centers                                       50     50      50      150
Health Centers Upgraded from Midwifery Centers   10         10      10       30
Midwifery Centers                                    75     75      75      225
Child Nutrition Centers                              40     40      40      120
B.  Location of the 25 District Hospitals to Be Constructed Under the Project
Region         Province               District            Population       iPe                Year
(1975)      No. of Beds       Constructio-
Scheculea
North          Phichit             Bang Mun Nak            84,650           30                 1980
Nakhon Sawan       Nong Bua                55,547            10                 1980
Ladyao                 118,616           30                 19,'8
KaTTphaeng Ptiat    Pranka Tai             76,587            10                 1978
Lamphun            Ban Hong                41,169            10                 1980
Sukhothai          Thung Salium            34,355            10                 1.97'8
Sawan Kalok             71,280           10                 19,79
Northeast       Buri Ram            Prakhon Chai           124,624           30                 19.79
Surin              Pra Sart                82,563            10                 1980
Chumphal Buri           43,944           10                 1979
Sangkha                138,445           30                 1980
Maha Sarakham      Na Cheak                47,739            10                 1979
Kosum Phisai            90,377           30                 1979
Roi Et             Nong Pok                31,969            10                 1979
Thayat Buri             94,911           10                 1930
Udon Thani         Non Sang                 55,656           10                 1979
Sri Boon Ruang          71,190           10                 1979
Sri That                42,112           10                 1980
Nong Han               143,149           30                 1979
Central         Prachin Buri        Ta Paya                 39,279            10                1979
Prachan Takham          40,433           10                 1980
Kanchanaburi       Sri Yok                  23,333           10                 1978
South           Songkhla            Sabayoi                 26,473            10                19,80
Nakhon Si          Tha Sala                 90,801           10                 1978
Thammasat         Ron Phiboon            105,041            10                 1979
S.,our__;   Mi ni4s -r y o_ rU lic  .el;



ANNEX 2
Appendix 9
Page 1
THAILAN:D
LOCATION AND SITE SELECTION CRITERIA FOR RURAL
HEALTH FACILITIES IN THE 20 AFPH PROVINCES
1. The following criteria are to be app:Lied by the Ministry of Public Health
in locating the rural health facilities.
a. Midwifery Centers
The facility:
i. should be central:Ly located in a cluster of mubans
of not less than 2,000 population;
ii. should be located at least 4 km away from any other
rural health facility; and,
iii. if there is no health center elsewhere in the tambol,
the criteria for deciding location and site should be
the same as those of a health center so that the
midwifery center may be upgraded to a health center
in the near future.
b. Health Centers
The facility:
i.  should be centrally located in a tambol of not
less than 5,000 population where, at present, there
is no district hospital/medical and health center
or health center; and,
ii. should be located 8-15 km away from other health
centers of neighboring tambols (depending upon
communications).
c. District Hospitals, 10 beds
The facility:
i. should be located in a district of not less than
30,000 population where, at present, there is no
district hospital/medical and health center; and,
ii. should be located in the tambol where the district
office is situated.



ANNEX 2
Appendix 9
Page 2
d. District Hospitals, 30 beds
The facility:
i. should be located in a district of not less
than 50,000 population;
ii. should not be located less than 40 km away
from the provincial hospital or other district
hospitals; and,
iii. should be upgraded from an existing 10-bed
district hospital, which is well utilized.
2. The criteria for selecting sites of the rural health facilities are the
following:
a. Area requirements:
-Midwifery Center                               not less than 1 rai
-Health Center                                  not less than 1 1/2 rai
-District Hospital, 10 beds                     not less than 10 rai 1/
-District Hospital, 30 beds                     not less than 15 rai
b.  Strategic location:
The sites should, as far as possible, be centrally located
and accessible. Such locations are usually found near
markets, religious shrines, other government offices, etc.
The site should be such that the facility is directly
connected with a main road or street served by public
transport.
Water and electricity must be available at sites where
district hospitals are going to be established. In the
case of midwifery centers and health centers, the
availability of water and electricity is desirable but
not absolutely necessary if other criteria for location
and site selection are met.
1/ In the event that a 10-bed district hospital is to be upgraded to a 30-bed
hospital in the near future, the site should be not less than 15 rai.



ANNEX 2
Appendix 10
THAILAND
ESTIMATED RURAL POPULATION COVERAGE BY HEALTH FACILITIES BEFORE
AND AFIER THE PROJECT PERIOD
Medical Care                   Health Care
1977                    1980    1977                     1980
AFPH provinces /1
Population served               3,740,000           4,430,000    6,980,000          10,333,000
Populationi to be served       14,892,633          15,944,025   14,892,633          15,944,025
Percentage of coverage             25.1%               27.8%         46.9%               64.8%
Non-AFPH provinces /2
Population served               6,920,000           8,020,000   13,898,000          15,850,000
Population to be served        22,449,275          24,034,152   22,449,275          24,034,152
Percentage of coverage             30.8%               33.4%         61.9%               65.9%
Whole country
Population served              10,660,000          12,450,003   20,878,000          26,183,300
Population to be served        37,341,908          39,978,177   37,341,908          39,978,177
Percentage or coverage             28.5%               31.1%         55.9%               65.5%
/1 See Appendices 12 and 13.
/2 See Appendices 13 and 14..



THAILAND
ESTDIATED POPULATION COVERACE BY RURAL HEALTH FACILITIES IN THE 20 AFPH PROVINCES BEFORE AND
AFTER TIHE PROJECT
Type of Facilities      Ntumber of Facilities        Populatioa Served by                            Total Population Served
Each Facilit_ _              M edical Care                   Health Care
1977              1980    Medical      Health Care/2    1977           1980                  1977         1980
________  _Care/i   1977                      i98t0                                         _-
T)istrict Hospitals
3O0 bed                  34                40    50,000   8,000        8, 000    1,700,000)  2,000,000           272,000      320,000
10-bed                  68                 81    30,000   8,000        8,000    2,040,000   2,430,000            544,000      648,000
StAb -Total             (102)             (121)                                  (3,740,000) (4,430,000)         (816,000)    (968,000)
Health Centers           1,271             1,432       -       4,000       5,000/3      -            -            5,084,000   7,160,000
'NIdwifery Centers         540               735       -       2,000       3,000/3      -            -            1,080,000   2,205,000
TOTAL                                                                               3,740 2   4.430,000         6,980.0 un    313 00oo
Total Population                                                                   14,892,633  15,944,025        14,892,633  15,944,025
to be Served
Percentage of                                                                           25.l1%       27.8%           46.9%        64.8%/.
Coverage
/1  Mrdical care by district hospitals only.
/'  Promotive and preventive health services by paramedical personnel only.
/3  At;s,:es that population served by each health center and midwifery center will be increased by 1,000 due to an
arciitional staff member in each type of facility.
H.
11 "



ESThMATJ.D PlOPIULATION COVE'.RAGE BY35 RURAL IUCAjAI'll FCIAITIES IN TIDE 50 N0NQAFFH PROVINCES lBEFORE AN(
AFTER THIE PROJECT PERIOD
Type of Facilities       Numiber of Facilities            Population Served by                      ToLal Population Sero ed
Ea-h f'acilit3p
1971              198(J      Medical. Care/I      Health Care/2        Medical Ca_re _lealth- IC
1977            1930    1977            1980
District 3lospitals
60-4ed                                        5           100,000             8,000          -           500,000                   40,000
30-bed                    43                 46            50,000             8,000   2,150,000       2,300,000       344,000    368,000
10-bed                   159                174            30,000             8,000   4,770,000       5,220,000   1,272,000  1,392,000
Sub-Total                (202)              (225)                                      (6,920,000)    (8,020,000) (L,616,000)(1,800,000)
Hlealt:h Centers         2,513              2,670                -              4,000          -              -      10,052,000 10,680,000
Midwifery Centers        1,115              1,685                        O      2,000                                 2,230,000  3,370,000
TOTAL                                                                                    6,920 000       8Q20Q __    13 J8   00 j15 O5.000
Total Population                                                                        22,449,275    24,034,152  22,449,275 24,034,152
to be served
Percentage of                                                                               30.8%           33.4%         61.9%       65.97.
Coverage
/1 Medical care by district hospitals only.
/2 Promotive and preventive health services by paramedical personnel only.
(D L-1
0 x



ANNEX 2
Appendix 13
THAILAND
ESTIMATION OF RURAL POPULATION
1975 Annual Count by the Ministry of Interior
Total Population             42,471,442
Urban Population              6,963,518
Bangkok                   (4,349,494)
Other Municipalities  :  (2,614,024)
Rural Population          : 35,507,924
20 AFPH Provinces      : (14,161,207)
50 Non-AFPH Provinces : (21,346,707)
Estimated Rural Population /1
Year        Population Growth Rate                    Rural Population
Assumpotion             20 AFPH Provinces    50 Non-AFPII Provir_es
1975                                         14,161,207              21,346,717
1976                   2.6                   14,529,398              21,901,732
1977                   2.5                   14,892,633              22,449,275
1978                   2.4                   15,250,056              22,988,058
1979                   2.3                   15,600,807              23,516,783
1980                   2.2                   15,944,025              24,034,152
1981                   2.1                   16,278,850              24,538,869
/1 Mission estimates.



ANNEX 2
Appendix 14
THAILAND
STAFFING PATTERNS OF RURAL HEALTH FACILITIES IN THE 20 AFPH PROVINCES
Category of Staff                      Number of Staff by Type of Facility-
Midwifery   Health            District Hospital
Center     Center          10 - Bed       30 - Bed
A.  Technical Staff
Physician                                                       1              3
Dentist                                                                         I
Dental Hygienist                                                l              2
Pharmacist                                                                     1
Nurse Practitioner                                              l              1
Nurse (staff)                                                   2              4
Nurse Anesthesiologist                                                         1
Practical Nurse/Midwife                         1               2              6
Auxiliary Midwife                   1           1               2              2
X-ray Technician                                                                1
Laboratory Technician                                           1              1
Senior Sanitarian                                               1              1
Junior Sanitarian                               1               2              2
Assistant Health Worker             1                           1               1
Sub-Total                       (2)         (3)            (14)           (27)
B.  Non-Technical Staff
Chief Administrative Officer                                    1              1
Administrative Officer                                          1              I
Ward Clerk                                                                      I
Statistician                                                                   1
Accountant                                                      1               1
Typist                                                                         1
Sub-Total                                                   (3)            (6)
C.  Temnoia -& Contract TWorkers                                    9             22
TOTAL                            2j          3              26             55



THAIJAND
INCREMENTAL STAFF REQUIRED FOR THE 20 AFPH PROVINCES
Sta'f Category            Numnber of Incremental                1978                    1979 2__18_
Staff Per Facility             Additional  Total    Additional  Total        Additional  Tctal
Facilities  Staff    Facilities  Staff        Facilities  SLatf
Nurse                        3/30-bed District Hospital                                   4        12             2         18
3/10-bed District Hlospital                                12        36             7        57
Sub-Total                                                         (48)                    (73
Practical Nurse/Midwife      4/30-bad District Hospital                                   4         16            2         24
2/10-bed District Hospital                                 12        24            7         38
1/Health Center                                                     120           60        180
Sub-Total                                                       (160)                   (2'2)
Auxiliary Midwife              1/10-bed District Hospital                                 12         12            7         19
1/Health Center                                           100       100           50        150
1/Midwi fe Center                                         150       150           75        225
Sub-Total                                                       (262)                   (394)
Junior Sanitarian              1/10-bed District Hospital                                 12         12            7         19
1/Healthi Center                                          120       120           60        183
Sub-Total                                                       (132)                   (199)
Assistant Health Worker        1/Midwife Center                   25GL1      250         25OLl      500          235       735
Assistant Health Worker        1/Provincial Health Office          14L?       14           0         14            0         14
(MCH/Family Planning)       with Family Planning Service
2/Provincial Hospital               23/3       46           0        46             0        45
1/District Hospital                 90L1       90          24       114             7       121
Sub-Total                                 (150)                 (174)                   (181)
/1  The upper limit in these cases is the number that can be trained each year and not the expansion of
facilities since these new categories of personnel are also being added under the project to existing
facilities.
/2 Although there are, of course, 20 Provincial Health Offices in the 20 AFPH provinces, only about 70% offer
Family Planning services
/3  Tlhree of the AFFH provinces have a second provincial hospital.
ulI



ANNEX 2
Appendix 16
THAILAND
DISTRIBUTIO'N OF DISTRICTS BETWEEN COMMUNITY-BASED FAMILY PLANNING SERVICES PROGRAM
AND MOPH'S PRIMARY HEALTH CARE PROGRAM IN THE 20 AFPH PROVINCES
CBFPD Program
Province                   MOP'H       IPPF      USAID/RTG
Program    Support       Support      Sub-Total    Total
North Region
?hichxit                              3           1            3             4           7
Petchabun                             1           7           --             7           8
Nnkhon Sawan                         12          --           --            --          12
Pitsanulok/l                          1           8           --             8           9
Ka-mphaeng Phet                       1           4           --             4           5
Sukhothai                             4          ---           5             5           9
Lanmph jm .                           5                --                   --           5
\.o--hea.t Region
u-r am                               9                       --             2          11
Si Sa Ket                             5           :3           2             5          10
Su-in                                 8           2            1             3          11
Naha Sarakham                        --           9           --              9           9
Roi Et                               13          --           --            --          13
Along Khai                            8           l           --             1            9
Udon Thani/l                         18          ---           1             1          19
Central Region
Suphan Buri                           8           1           --             1           9
Prachin Buri                         10           1           --             1          11
Kanchanaburi                          9           L          --             1          10
Nakhon Phathom                        4           2           --             2            6
Sourh Region
Songk-hla/L                           8          ---           2             2          10
';Nak<ho-r Si Thnammarat/l           15           1           --             1          16
rTfJ >AL                              142           43          14            57         199
Anbbvia oions
C 7PD-Cocnir.unity-Based Family Planning Services
Tp-PFTnternational Planned Parenthood Federation
/1 Four provinces where MOPH's program started in 1977, which include 42 MOPH
districts and 12 Community-Based Family Planning Services districts.



THAILAND
ORGANIZATIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND LEVEL OF STAFFING IN A
TYPICAL DISTRICT OR SUB-DISTRICT IN THE 20 AFPH PROVINCES
DISTRICT
OFFICE
DISTRICT HOSPITAL
NURSE PRACTITIONER
DISTRICT HEALTH OFFICE
DISTRICT HEALTH OFFICER
DEE. DISTRICT HEALTH OFFICER
CLERK/TYPIST
I r~~------------
r                                           
MIDWIFERY CENTER                                                        HEALTH CENTER
JUNIOR         PATCL         AUXILIARY
AUXILIARY MIDWIFE                                           SANITARIA                    MIDWIFE
I                                           r---   I                              j--
ASSISTANT                                                  I                                     I             I
I  VILLAGE                                            V OMITTEE A
HHEA LTH                                                                         HE
COMMITTEE                               l          M           C
WORKEORR                                                       CTOS .         AOR 
TRADITIONAL  VILLAGE                 I    VILLAGE          ~~~~~VILLAGE   TRDIOA
HEALTH ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ HALHML                      TOA
MIDWIFE ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~  VOLUNTEER I      ELHHAT                          IDWIIFE
HEALTH                      I      H~~~~~ ~~EALT   HEALTHI
COMMUNI-                          COM~~~~~~MUNI-  COMMUNI- 
CATORS                             CA~~~~ ~ ~~~TORS  CATORS
L  ~          -    r --------___
LINE OF COMMAND
TAM B0 L
LINE OF TECHNICAL SUPERVISION                                                DOCTOR
- *     - n  ~ LINE OF POLICY
*FOR COMPLETE LIST OF STAFF SEE APPENDIX 15.                                                                                                          - 
SOURCE: MINISTRY OF PUBLIC HEALTH.                                                                     World Bank - 17835                                X
H' E
N-



THAILAND
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE: SERVICES
_1_9_7_                       1979    _                   1980    _ - 
ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION                             1 MC                                        J                    O
__________________________ F MAMIJ_JIASIOINID J FIMAIMJ J_AS   N D JFIMA M   J A S   N D J
Civil Works
1. Rural Health Facilities
Construction
Tendering, bidding, evaluation            X X X X            X X X                       X X X
IDA review and approval                          X X             X X                          X X
Awarding contracts                                    x               X                           x
Construction:
MWC, HC, MWC-HC, year 1                                  X X 
year 2                                            X XX
year 3                                                                         X XX
D. hosp., 10 bed, 10-30 bed, year 1                   X X X X X X X X
year 2                                X X X XXX  XX
year 3                                      I                       x I I   x x |  X
Equipment and furniture
Tendering, bidding, evaluation              X X  X           X X X                         X X X
Awarding contracts                                 X                X                             X
Delivery and distribution
.XTC, HC, MT--HC                                          XX              X X                           XX
District hospitals                                                 XXX              X |  x                       X X X
2.  Child Nutrition Centers
Promotion of CNC                            XXX X XX X X   XX X XxX  x x x xx x x x  x x x                           |X|XX X xx
Selection of tambols                        XXX XX|X|X|X|X|X|X|X|X|X|X|X|X|X|X|XX|X|X|X|X                       | X   XX 
Establishing CNC--Committee                    XX|X|X|X|X|X|X|X|XXX|X|X  X|XXX|XX|X|X|X|X|X|X|X|X   |
Construction work                                  XXX X X X X X X X X X X X X XX X X X XXX X XX X|X X X X X  |
Organizing CNC--Activities                                XXX|XjX|X|X|X|XX  X X XXX X X X X X X XX X X X X X X    |
Supervisory CNC--Activities                                 XXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXX
Non-Civil Works
1. Vehicles
Motorcycles-
Auxil. midwives (1335-500-394)
Sanitarians (1462-132-67)                                                                                                       (D vbtI
Tendering, bidding, evaluation            X X X X X X                      X X X   X



THAILAND
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE: SERVICES (continued)
1978 ___             _  _1979 _ _ _           _         1980_
ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION                             1978                       1979___                     1980
ACTIVITY_____DESCRIPTION      _____F M A M J J A S O N D J FM AM J J AS 0 NDJ FM AM J JASON|DJ
IDA approval, contract award                     X X   X X                          X X
Documentation, shipping, delivery                  X X X X X X X X X                  X X X X X X
Use in field                                                   XX X X XX X X X X X  X XX X XX X XX X X|X|X  X|X  |X
Motorcycles for supervision of
primary health care (199-0-0)
Tendering, bidding, evaluation            X X X X
IDA approval, contract award                     X X
Documentation, shipping, delivery                     X X X X X X
Use in field                                                     X X X X X X X XX X X X X X X X X XXXX X X  X X
Vans for sterilization teams (31-0-0)
Tendering, bidding, evaluation              X X X X
USAID approval, contract award                     X X X
Documentation, shipping, delivery                       X X X X X X
Use in field                                                        XX X X XX X X X X XX X X X X X X X X X X X X X
Two-wheel drive vehicles for
project administration--RHD (2-0-0)
and district hospitals (0-16-9)
Tendering, bidding, evaluation            X X X X       x x X x   x x x x                       x x x x
IDA approval, contract award                       x X           X Xx        x x                         x x
Documentation, shipping, delivery                     X X X X      X X X X   X X X X                        X X X X
Use in field                                                   x X XX X X  x X X X X X X X X X X x x x x x x x x X
Two-wheel drive vehicles for
supervision of primary health care
(20-0-0), supervision and follow-up
of FP (71-0-0)
Tendering, bidding, evaluation            X X X X
IDA approval, contract award                     X X
Documentation, shipping, delivery                     X X X X X X
Use in field                                                   X X X X X X X X  X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X XXX
2. Contraceptive Supplies
Injectables -- CIDA (600,000-650,000-
750, 000)                                                                                                                                D
Order, production, shipping, deliv-
ery /1                                           X X X X X X X XX            X X X X X X X X X
Distribution                                                          X  X X X X X X X  X X  X  X X X XX  X|X XXXX X                 Io 
I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  1 I  1  .1



THAILAND
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE: SERVICES (continued)
ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION                    -        98                        99                  _     18
F M AM i 1 ASON D1J F MA M J 7 A SO ND J F MA M J JAIS N DI
Injectables -- IDA  (400,000-
350,000-250,000)
Tendering, bidding, evaluation /2                                 XX  X X
IDA approval, contract award                                               X X
Production, shipping, delivery           X X X X X X X X X X X   X              X X I   X X  X X  X  X X I   i
Distribution                                                 X X   X I X   X X X X X X X X X X  X X XX X X  X X X X X X
Pills (0-6,000,000-6,500,000)
Tendering, bidding, evaluation             X X X                  X X X
CIDA approval, contract award                     X X                    X X
Production, shipping, delivery                         XX X X XX X X          X X X X X X X X
Distribution                                                             XXX X X X X X X XX X X XX X X XXX X X 
3.  Manpower Support
Supertvision basic health acti.vitles
(RHD)
Doctor (1-0-0)
Public health nurse (1-0-0)
Senior sanitarian (1-0-0)
Recruitment                              XXXIX                |
Operative                                     XXXXXXXXX XX X X|X|X|X|X|X|X|X|X|X|X|X|X| X|X|X|X|X|X|X|X|
Establishment of post by CSC /3          X          | | I
FHD -- Training & Supervision Section
Supervision unit -- nurses (2-2-2)
Recruitment                              XXXI x x          XXIX                        X X I X  
Operative                               |       |     X|X|X|X|X|X|X|XXXXX X|X|X  X|X|X  X|XXX|X|X |X|X|X|X|X|X|X
Establishment of post by CSC /3         |X|XX|X|X|X|X|X|    XXXIX   X   X X                    |        
Supervision of primary health care
Deputy district health officers
(199-0-0)
Provincial supervisors (20-0-0)
Recruitment                              X|X|X    |
Operative                                         XXXI X X X X XXIX X X X X X X X     X X    XIXII X X X X X XIX  x x
Establishment of post by CSC /3          X I          | I
rD II



THAILAND
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE: SERVICES (continued)
ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION                               17                           9918
__________                                F M A M J J A S 0 N D J F M A M I     A S 0 N D                 M      J    A S 0 N D .1
Staffing of health facilities
Nurses & nurse practitioners
(0-48-27)
Recruitment                                                        XX XX X X X X X X X                         X X X X X
Operative                                                              X X XXX X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X 
Establishment of post by CSC              XX X XX X X  X    X X XX X X X X  X XX                                          I 
Practical nurse/midwives (0-160-82)
Auxiliary midwives (0-262-132)
Junior sanitarians  (0-132-67)
Recruitment                                                        X X XX XXX X X X X                  X XX X X X XX  
Operative                                                              X XX X|X X X XX X XXX X X X X X X X                    xxlxx
Establishment of post by CSC               XXXX X X X X|  X X XX X X XX  X XX
Assistant health workers (MWC)
(250-250-235)
Recruitment                                  XXXX               X X X X          IXX X X                                  I 
Operative                                                X XXX X X X X X XX X X X X X X XX X X X X X X X X|X|X|X|
Establishment of post by CSC               XX XX X X X X   X   X X X X X X|X  XX XX
Assistant health workers MCH/family
planning (150-24-7)
Recruitment                                XX XX            X|XX X                      X X X X
OperAtive                                                XXXX XX X X XX XXX X X X X X X X X X X X X X|X X X X X|
Establishment of post by CSC               X  X  X X      X  X  XX X X X X  X X XX X                
Clerical staff
Secretary/typist -- RHD (1-0-0)
Clerk/typists (199-0-0)
Recruitment                                         
Operative                                                                         X X  X    X  X  X  X X X X X X XX    X X X X X|XXXX
oQ Zd
H  Q
I I I  I  I I I I II I         I III  I I I   I  I          I I            !  ill   IOI  I I II



THAILAND
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE: SERVICES (continued)
Abbreviations:
CNC - Child Nutrition Center           HC - Health Center
CSC - Civil Service Commission         ICB - International Competitive Bidding
D. hosp. - District hospital           MWC - Midwifery Center
FHD - Family Health Division           RHD - Rural Health Division
/I Based on the assumption that the CIDA loan will become effective in May of 1978, at which time
injectables for both the first and the second project year will be ordered. Allowing 9 months for their
production, shipping and delivery, the iniectables intended for the first project year will serve to
replenish supplies used up until February of 1979. The injectables intended for the second project
year will be distributed according to program needs.
/2 Currently there is only one supplier of injectables so initially supplies will necessarily be obtained
through negotiations with that manufacturer. A second company, however, is conducting a field trial
with injectables in Thailand. The results are expected in early 1979. If they are positive and the
Government approves the product for use in Thailand, for the third project year injectables may
continue to be procured under negotiated contracts or, if the Government wishes, through ICB.
/3 For a post to be established in year (x), an application has to be submitted to the CSC in November
of year (x-2); routine processing would see the post established by September of year (x-l).  However,
in special cases, such as for positions for the project in 1978, special CSC processing will see the
post established by May of 1978.
(D (DM
(J Xi
ui X
' M
x
00



THAILAND
SUMMARY OF ESTIMATED COSTS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF SERVICE FACILITIES (20 AFPH PROVINCES)
(Figures in US$'OOO; Contingencies Not Included)
Type of Facility                   Cost   Cost of    Cost of  Cost of  Total Cost  Cost of    Total
of    Construc.  Furni-   Equip-   Exclusive   Prof.         Base Cost
Land   & Site      ture     ment      of Prof.    Services
Develop.                      Services
225 Midwifery Centers                        16.9    4,410.0    405.0    180.0       5,011.9   (1.5% of
Construc-
150 Health Centers                           11.3    3,748.5    270.0    120.0       4,149.7   tion &
Site De-
Upgrading of 30 Midwifery Centers             -        433.8      18.0      12.0       463.5   velopment)
19 Ten-Bed District Hospitals               712.5    4,123.8    167.2    656.5       5,659.9
Upgrading of 6 Ten-Bed District
Hospitals                                  150.0    3,032.7    154.5    195.0       3,532.3
120 Child Nutrition Centers                   -        558.0      78.0     30.0        666.0
Totals                            890.7   16,306.5  1,092.7  1,193.5    19,483.3        244.6    19,727.9
0.1
(Dx
I-.M



ANNEX 3
Page 1
THAILAND
MANPOWER AVAILABILITY AND THE NEED FOR NEW TRAINING FACILITIES
A. Introduction
1.        To assist in preparing its sector plan for the Fourth Five-Year
Development Plan, the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH), with assistance from
IIHO, carried out a "Country Health Programming Exercise" in 1975. This Exer-
cise includes not only a plan for the establishment of new schools and for
the expansion of existing ones for the basic training of paramedical person-
nel; it also includes plans for curriculum revision for three key categories
of paramedical personnel (practical nurse/midwives, auxiliary midwives, and
junior sanitarians) to make each category somewhat less specialized and more
oriented to basic health. The resulting program for the expansion of train-
ing facilities for occupations working in family planning is well-justified.
A considerable armount of flexibi:Lity for varying training schedules and for
training different but related occupations exists to accommodate actual train-
ing requirements that are different from those forecast.
B. The Existing Situation
2.        Although MOPH has several departments and programs, the Provin-
cial Health Care program is much the largest, since it includes all provin-
cial hospitals and all rural hea]Lth facilities. Thus the program employs
high proportions of the main grades of health workers (Table 1). In addi-
tion, the Provincial Health Care Program provides over 95% of all government
family planning service points. Consequently the availability of personnEl
for the Provincial Health Care Program determines the availability of per-
sonnel for the MIOPH's family planning services.
Table 1:  HEALTH PERSONNEL SEPTEMBER 1976
Percent in
Provincial
Category of                    Whole MOPH    Provincial Health    Health Care
Personnel                     (Estimated)       Care Program           Program
Physician                         2,300           1,250                 54
Nurse                             5,500           4,600                 84
Practical Nurse/Midwife           5,000           4,370                 87
Auxiliary Midwife                 6,700           6,530                 97
Junior Sanitarian                 4,500           3,460                 77



ANNEX 3
Page 2
3.        As of September 1976, shortages existed in four of the five main
categories (Table 2). The surplus in the "Auxiliary Mfidwife" category is
misleading, since the "Practical Nurse/Midwife" and "Auxiliary MLidwife"
categories are very close and are likely to be merged, which would leave
an overall shortage of 2,555 or 19%.
Table 2: REQUIRED AND EXISTING STAFF FOR THE PROVINCIAL
HEALTH CARE PROGRAM, SEPTEMBER, 1976
Category of                       Required        Existing
Personnel                         Staff           Staff             Shortage
Physician                         1,492           1,250            -   242 (16%)
Nurse                             5,392 /1        4,597            -   795 (15%)
Practical Nurse/Midwife           7,566           4,374            - 3,192 (42%)
Auxiliary Midwife                 5,893           6,530            +   637 (11%)
Junior Sanitarian                 4,454           3,338            - 1,116 (25%)
/1 Includes 850 nurse practitioners.
C. Projection of Health Manpower Requirements
for the Fourth Five-Year Plan Period
4.        Health manpower requirements have been estimated on the basis of:
(a) the number of health facilities by type, (b) the staffing pattern for
each type of facility, and (c) the annual attrition rate for each category.
During project preparation, the mission assisted the MOPH in reviewing
alternative expansion targets and staffing norms. The MOPH subsequently
fixed the 1981 targets for the provincial health care facilities shown in
Table 3.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Table 3: TARGETS FOR THE EXPANSION OF PROVINCIAL
HEALTH CARE FACILITIES
Existing in    To be Reached
Type of Facility /1                 1976            by 1981        Net Increase
Provincial hospital               20,000 /2        25,000 /2          5,000 /2
60-bed district hospital             -                   6                6
30-bed district hospital             -                 86                86
10-bed district hospital             225              267                42
Health center                      3,720            4,203               483
Midwifery center                   1,456            2,676             1,220
/1   See details in Annex 2, Appendix 4 on services provided by each type of
facility.
/2   Number of beds (not number of facilities) in the case of provincial
hospitals.
5.        Annual attrition rates have been estimated by the MOPH as 2% for
physicians and junior sanitarians; 5% for auxiliary midwives; 5% for nurse
practitioners and practical nurse/midwives; and 10% for nurses. Projected
availability of additional staff to meet manpower needs due to expansions
and dropouts are shown in AppendiLces 1 and 2. However, current projected
output of the training institutions will not fully meet MOPH's requirement,
as shown in Appendix 3. As a result, continuing but less pressing short-
ages will occur as shown in Appendix 4. Since the likelihood that the HIOPH
will succeed in increasing its service facilities as rapidly as planned is
small, the projected 1981 manpower shortages will probably be a less serious
problem than they now appear to be (Appendix 5). In fact, in recognition of
the manpower constraint, the MOPE has already adjusted downwards the number
of service facilities it expects to construct by 1981 (Annex 2). The effi-
cient distribution of new staff as they are produced will be essential for
achieving optimum program effectiveness, especially for the Provincial Health
Care Program.
D. Availability of Key Health Personnel
During the Current Five-Year Plan Period
6.        Physicians:  It is expected that there will be about 2,400 new
medical graduates during the plan. period, of whom the MOPH hopes to recruit
over 1,800.   The mission believes, however, that the MOPH will be able to
recruit only about 1,200 of the hoped for 1,800 (Appendix 3). The Provin-
cial Health Care Program will require about 1,000 of these 1,200 additional
physicians.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
7.        Nurses:  The country's 23 nursing schools produce about 1,600
nurses annually, 500 from the MOPH's seven nursing colleges and 1,100 from
schools run by other organizations. The MOPH plans to establish three new
nursing colleges during the plan period, and to expand the seven nursing
colleges so that each produces 100 nurses annually. In addition, the MOPH
plans to provide fellowships for about 600 nursing students in non-MOPH
nursing schools which will assure that they will be recruited by the
Ministry. Altogether, about 4,800 additional nurses should be available
to the MOPH during the plan period, compared with a total requirement of
about 6,300. There will thus be a shortage of about 1,500 nurses. Over
80% of this shortage will arise from the upgrading of nurses to nurse
practitioners (see para. 11 below). Since most of these nurse practi-
tioners will carry out higher order nursing duties, the shortages will
not be as severe as the numbers indicate and the long-term impact on
health status of the rural population they serve can be expected to be
a positive one. Again, the allocation among the various health programs
of the MOPH will be an important factor in determining whether the needs
of the Provincial Health Care Program will be met. The Provincial Health
Care Program will need at least 3,800 additional nurses during the period,
about 80% of the total number available. An effort should be made to reduce
the requirements for nurses in other programs of the Ministry.
8.        Practical Nurse/Midwives:  There are 23 training institutions
producing about 1,300 practical nurse/midwives or practical nurses a year.
Fifteen of these training institutions are run by the MOPH--seven regular
practical nurse/midwife schools, three specialized practical nurse schools,
and five that form part of the Ministry's seven nursing colleges. The three
specialized practical nursing schools produce about 190 graduates annually
for special disease hospitals. The remaining 12 schools produce about 680
practical nurse/midwives to meet the needs of the Provincial Health Care Pro-
gram. Because of the shortage of practical nurse/midwives, many provincial
hospitals have trained nurse's aides to serve as temporary substitutes for
nurses, and the MOPH has organized a "crash" training program to upgrade
nurse's aides to practical nurse/midwives. Between 1976 to 1978, 4,000
additional practical nurse/midwives will be trained through this crash
training program. Two nursing colleges are starting to produce practical
nurse/midwives in 1977, with an annual output of 30 each in the first two
years and 50 each from the third year. In addition to this, one new school
already established will start producing 50 graduates a year beginning in
1979. The MOPH also plans to establish three new schools during the Fourth
Five-Year Plan Period, each with an annual intake of 70 students. The annual
output should increase by about 300 by 1981. If these plans go well, MOPH
should be able to recruit nearly 9,000 additional practical nurse/midwives
(including 950 practical nurses for special disease hospitals) during the
Plan period (Appendix 3). These plans will ensure that nearly 90% of the
total requirements for the period are met.
9.        Auxiliary Midwives:  Thie country produces about 500 auxiliary
midwives a year from six schools. One school, run by a private hospital,
offers a two-year program and produces 50-60 a year. The remaining five



ANNEX 3
Page 5
sch.Ols sem  ru, Lfv t1he 2IOP1 and IDroduce about 450 auxiliary midwives a year
W4 l    1 an 1  -imnth tra4n4on prograE1.  A new IQOPH school will start accepting
st-udents in 1975'  in addi-ion, -'he  OPIPE plans to establish another new
school amd to exDand capacity at four existing schools during the plan
pe r `i3td   t'nis exo .ansion cf  rairiing capacity, the MOPH will be able
to prduce aLout 9,7Cu0 additional auxiliarv midwives by the end of 1981
n-i     This will meet about 955' of the ,MOPH's requirements.
'0. O         39Junior Sanitarians; A: present, the lOPH runs four schools, -which
produce about 500 junior sanitarians a year.  The training program lasts
P ,months.  Students spend six months ir. school, six months in rural areas,
fou-r months wi,th district or provincial hospitals and two months at provin-
cial health offices.  The NIOPE plans to double the intake capacity during
the Five-Year Plan Period.  It is estimated that these four schools would
produce about 3,400 new junior sanitarians during the period (Appendix 3).
This willl give an apparent surplus of 300 junior sanitarians which will
all-ow the M-inistry to promote some of the experienced existing junior san:i-
tarians to senlor sanitarians.
ll.         urse Practitioner:  In order to overcome the shortage of physi--
cians in the MOPH's health delivery system, the MOPH has organized a ten-
mmonth training program to upgrade experienced nurses to "nurse practition--
ers."  This new group will provide substantial medical care in the Provin--
cial Health Care Program at provincial and district hospitals.  The Schoo:L
of Public Health, Mahidol University, provides 25 weeks of institutional
training in public health and medical care, and the MOPEI, 14 weeks of fie'd
training. The original plan was to produce 1,400 (280 a year) nurse prac--
titioners during the Five-Year Plan period, but the start of the program was
delayed, and the first group of 136 trainees was not admitted until miid-1977.
A revised plan was subsequently formulated and beginning in May 1978 and
annually thereafter, two groups of about 150 trainees each will be admitted
to the program.  One group will i-ollow the ten-month course as originally
poa-r-ned, but the second group, which will consist of nurses who have already
^ad pub]ic health nurse training,, will have about four m.lonths training in
medical care only,
E. Proiect Support of Basic Training
12.       To help to expand the supply of paramedical personnel for family
planning services, the project will construct all of the planned new para-
medical training institutions and will expand six existing institutions,
as f o 1 lows :
a. the construction and equipping of:
three practical nurse/midwifery schools,
- one midwifery school with MICH center;



ANNEX 3
Page 6
b. the expansion and equipping of:
- one nursing school,
- two existing midwifery schols with MCH centers,
- two existing midwifery schools, and
c. the provision of vehicles for these schools.
The location of these facilities is given in Appendix 6 and on the map (no.
12792R) at the end of the report.
13.       Practical Nurse/Hidwifery Schools:  The project will establish three
new schools for practical nurse/midwives in Nakhon Si Thammarat, Phayao (Chiang
Rai Province), and Phra Phutthabat (Saraburi Province). Each school will offer
an 18-month training program, and requires 225 student places to accommodate
75 students every six months. These new schools will produce 450 graduates per
year. There will be no difficulty in providing sufficient delivery cases for
midwifery training at Nlakhon Si Thammarat if the existing number of hospital
beds (300) is doubled during the Fourth Plan period. Special training arrange-
ments can be made with a number of district hospitals nearby, even if the
implementation of the hospital expansion plan is delayed.
14.       Nursing School:  The project will help to expand a nursing school
at Lampang Provincial Hospital, with an annual output of 100 nurses. The
training period, which includes six months of midwifery training, is four
years. After the expansion, the school will accommodate 400 students. The
300-bed Lampang Provincial Hospital will provide clinical training. A mid-
wifery school is already attached to the hospital. It is expected that the
Ministry will expand the number of hospital beds by 300 during the plan
period. This expansion will enable the hospital to handle more than 5,000
deliveries a year, enough to give each student at least 20 cases. The role of
staff nurses in family planning is vital not only for the direct contribution
in providing clinical contraceptive services (injectables and IUDs), but also
in the training and supervision of auxiliary nursing personnel such as prac-
tical nurse/midwives and auxiliary midwives, the key staff in the rural health
care and family planning service-delivery system. Each MOPH-sponsored nursing
graduate will be obliged to serve in MIOPH facilities for four years.
15.       Midwifery Schools and MCH Centers:  With one exception (Lampang),
midwifery schools are closely linked with regional maternal and child health
(MICH) centers, which basically are maternity hospitals that provide the nec-
essary clinical training. In addition to the basic training of auxiliary
midwives, the MICH centers provide in-service training for health staff in
MCH and family planning. There are at present four of these centers, at
Khon Kaen, Chiang Mai, Ratchaburi and Yala. Each complex consists of a
midwifery school, a maternity hospital, a health promotion center, and an
administrative section. The project will establish a new midwifery school



ANNEX 3
Page 7
with 225 student places and a new MCH center with 120 beds in Nakhon Sawan
province, and will also expand four existing midwifery schools by adding 75
student places to each (in Chiang Miai, Khon Kaen, Lampang, and Ratchaburi).
Sixty beds will be added to the existing MCH centers at two of these schools
(Khon Kaen and Ratchaburi). These facilities will increase the annual output
of auxiliary midwives by 350 (150 from the new school and 200 from the four
expansions). The training program is for 18 months. In Thailand auxiliary
midwives are trained as public health midwives and carry out MCH and family
planning services at rural health facilities without immediate supervision
from a physician or a nurse. Besides MCH care, they are taught how to screen
for contra-indications for pills, and will soon be trained to insert IUDs and
to provide injectable contraceptives.
16.       Vehicles:  Two 50-seat buses and one micro-bus will be provided for
the nursing school, and two micro-buses will be provided for each of the new
practical nurse/midwifery schools and the new midwifery school. In addition,
one micro-bus will be provided for each of the five existing nursing colLeges.
These buses will be used mainly to take students to field practice areas.,
F. Improvements in Staffing and Scheduling
in Basic Training Facilities
17.       The availability of trained tutors is essential to the expansion
of all three types of basic training institutions. The situation is summa-
rized in Appendix 7. As of June 1976, there were 367 tutors in the three
sets of institutions, giving an average tutor/student ratio of 1:13. If
the IIOPH succeeds in carrying out its expanded tutor training program as
scheduled, more than 400 additional tutors will be supplied during the Plan
period. Even though the student population will increase, the tutor/stu-
dent ratio should rise to 1:10 by 1981. This is reasonable, although far
from MOPH's long-term goal of a 1:4 ratio (Appendix 7).
18.       During project preparation, the mission noted that if the prac-
tical nurse/midwifery schools could change the student intake from once a
year to twice a year, the MOPH would be able to increase annual output by
one-third. However, unless existing teaching staff time and clinical train-
ing materials are substantially increased the change might affect the qual-
ity of training. At present, most of the training institutions suffer from
a lack of accommodations and of teaching staff. In some cases, not enouglh
hospital deliveries are available. The mission therefore did not press this
point further with respect to existing schools, but the MOPH has agreed to a
semi-annual intake for new schools financed through the project.
19.       At present, the basic curricula for auxiliary midwives and prac.-
tical nurse/midwives are similar except that the auxiliary midwife is given
more training in public health and maternal and child health, while the
practical nurse/midwife is given more ward practice (Appendix 8).  In both



ANNEX 3
Page 8
programs family planning is taught as part of maternal and child health.
It is recommended that in the revision of the curricula, the time given to
clinical training in family planning be increased.
20.       The number and types of key health personnel that will be avail-
able for recruitment by the MOPH during the Fifth Five-Year Plan period
are shown in Appendix 9. Sufficient physicians and nurses to reach the
staff level required by 1981 will not be available until 1985. This means
that the further expansion of hospital services should be slowed until near
the end of the Fifth Five-Year Plan period (1985) when these shortages should
end. There will be some, although less serious, deficit of practical nurse/
midwives, unless the MOPH introduces semi-annual intakes into all training
schools for practical nurse/midwives as early as possible and maintains the
18-month training program throughout the Fifth Five-Year Plan period. Suf-
ficient auxiliary midwives will be available during the plan period to per-
mit the establishment of new midwifery centers and/or the improved staffing
of health centers by assigning a second auxiliary midwife to each of the ex-
isting health centers as a third member of the staff. There will be enough
junior sanitarians to permit the upgrading of many midwifery centers to
health centers and the promotion of experienced junior sanitarians to senior
sanitarians.
G. Conclusions
21.       The shortage of key health staff will not be substantially eased
until the Fifth Five-Year Plan Period. The following are recommended ways
of easing MOPH manpower shortages:
a.   The MOPH, the Budget Bureau, and the authorities responsible
for the non-MOPH nursing schools should try to ensure that
the 2IOPH will have the funds needed to sponsor and thus to
recruit 30 to 50% of the annual graduates from the non-MOPH
nursing schools;
b.   To overcome the shortage of nurses and practical nurse/
midwives, some of the provincial hospitals should continue
to employ "nurse's aides" where they are more needed;
c.   Consolidation of the practical nurse/midwife and auxiliary
midwife categories into a single multipurpose auxiliary
nurse/midwife category would simplify manpower planning,
training, assignment to posts, and on-the-job utilization
of these key paramedicals;
d.   About one-third of the 4,000 practical nurse/midwives pro-
duced by the 1976-78 crash training program should be allo-
cated to the 20 AFPH provinces for assignment as third staff
members at health centers;



ANNEX 3
Page 9
e.   The causes of the present high attrition rate (10%) of nurses
should be investigated in order to see what can be done to
reduce it;
f.   During the Fifth Five-Year Plan period, improvement of staffing
at existing facilities should have priority over the expansion
of facilities;
g.   The Ministry's expansion plans should be periodically reviewed
to assure balanced staffing for all programs.
H. Implementation Schedule
22.       The implementation schedule for the basic training activities
directly supported by the project--the construction and equipping of train-
ing institutions and allied clinical facilities (MCH centers)--is given in
Appendix 10. Summarized cost estimates for each type of training facility
appear in Appendix 11.



THAILAND
MANPOWER PROJECTION FOR THE PROVINCIAL HEALTH CARE PROGRAM
(1977 - 1981)
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
Physicians           Statf  level, end of yeer       1,250   3,396   1,572   1,757   1,932   2,108
rtew allocation                     -      171     204      216      210     215
Attritiocn (2%)                     -       25       28      31       35       39
Net addition                        -      146     176      185      175     176
Nurse Practitioners Staff level, end of year             -        -      137     404      658      899
New allocation                      -        -       -      274      274     274
Attrition (5%)                      -        -                7       20       33
Net addition                        -        -       -      267      25L     241
Nurses (includes    Staff level, end of year         4,597   4,717  4,686   4,771   4,859   5,027
Nurse Anesthetists. New allocation                        -     706      706     820      820      918
and Public Health   Attrition /1                         -      586      737      735     742      750
Nurses).             Net addition                         -     120      -31       85      78      168
Practical Nurse/
Midwives             Staff level, end of year         4,374   6,928   9,292   9,577   9,848  10,312
New allocation                      -   2,773   2,710       750      750     956
Attrition (5%)                      -      219     346      465      479      392
New addition                        -   2,554   2,364       285      271     464
Auxiliary Midwives  Staff level, end of year          6,530   6,634   6,733   6,826   7,160   7,477
New allocation                      -      430     430      430      675     675
Attrition (5%)                      -      326      331     337      341      358
Net addition                        -      104      99       93      334      317
Junior Sanitarians  Staff level, end of year         3,338   3,687   4,041   4,497   5,148   5,878
New allocation                      -      416    1428      537      741      833
Attrition (2%)                              67       74      81       90      103
Net addition                        -      349     354      456      651      730
/1 Figure for attrition assumes annual attrition rates of 10% for staff nurses, 5% fur
nurse anesthetists and for public health if-UsesS and, anrual lo.scs t^ the nurs.e --rat.i r tl rr            Q 
prcgram of 140 in 1977 and 280 annually thereafter.                                                            X
Source: MOPH.



THAILAND
MANPOWER PROJECTION FOR THE MOPH, EXCLUDING THE PROVINCIAL HEALTH CARE PROGRAM
(1977 - 1981)
1976 /1 1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
Physicians           Staff level, end of year         1,050  1,069   1,088   1,106   1,12L4  1,111
New allocation                       -     40        40       40      40       40
Attrition (2%)                       -     21        21       22       22      23
Net addition                        -      19        19       18      18       17
Nurses               Staff level, end of year           903    9824    1,057   1,150   1,234   1,335
New allocation                       -    171       171      199     199      2224
Attrition (10%5)                     -     90        98      106     115      123
Net addition                         -     81        73       93      84      101
Practical Nurses    Staff level, end of year            626    785        936   1,079   1,315   1,31)4 
New allocation                      -    190        190      190     190      190
Attrition (5%0)                      -     31        39       47      524      61
Net addition                        _    159        151      1243    136      129
Auxiliary Midwives  Staff level, end of year            180    191        201     211      220      228
New allocation                      -      20        20       20      20       20
Attrition (5%)                       -      9        10       10       21      22
Net addition                        -      11        10       10        9       8
Junior Sanitarians  Staff level, end of year          1,162  1,212    1,2 c     1,334   1, ! 8   1,556
New ;zllocation                     -      73        76       95     131      147
Attrition (2%)                      -      23        214      25       27      29
Net addition                        -      50        52       70     104      118
/1 Based on mission estimate.
(D



ANNEX 3
Appendix 3
THAILAND
ADDITIONAL HEALTH PERSONNEL WHO WILL BECOME AVAILABLE
TO MOPH DURING THE FOURTH PLAN
1977      1978      1979     1980      1981    Total
Physicians                 211         244     256       250       255    1,216
Nurse Practitioners          -         137     274        274      274       959
Nurses                     852         852     995        995    1,118    4,812
Practioal Nurse/
Mid--aves /1            2,963 /2   2,900 /2  940      1,008    1,146    8,957
Auxiliary lIidwives        450       )450 -  450          695      695    2,7440
Junior Sanitarians         490        504      632        872      872    3,370
/1 Includes annual output of 190 practical nurses fromi three
special hospitals (mental hospital, chest disease hospital and
leprosy nospital).
/2 Temporary increases from a crash training program to upgrade
already-employed nurses aides (2,000 per. year).
Source: World Bank estimate.



THAILAND
STAFF LEVEL OF THE MINISTRY OF PUBLIC HEALTH BY 1981
Staff Level Thnt Could         1981 Staff Level
be Reached/                     (Target)             Shortage (-) or Surplus (+)
FHC    Non-PHC   Total       PH        n-oPHC   Total     PHC    Non-PHC    Total
Physicians            2,108   1,141      3,249       2,048   1,821      3,869      +60      -680      -620
Nurse Practitioners    899         -       899         975        -       975      -76          -     - 76
Nurses                5,027   1,335      6,362       5,688   2,757      8,61hh5   -661    -1,422   -2,083
Practical Nurse/
Midwives            10,312   1,344    11,656    1i0665   2,399    13,064    -353    - 1,055  - 1,)408
Auxiliary Midwives   7,477       228     7,7Q,5      7,573      250     7,823      -96       -22      -118
Jun4or Sanitarians   5,878   1,556       7 43.       .2'l0   1,739      6,979    +638       -183
/ISee Appendices 1 and 2.
Source:  MOPH
M-w



THAILAND
ADDITIONAL PERSONNEL REQUIRED TO REACH THE STAFF LEVEL PLANNED FOR 1981
1976 Staff Level              1981 Staff Level
(Existing)                     (Target)                   Additional Personnel Required
- ~~~~~~~ =~~~~-=~~~~'~~~~~= s~~~ttrilton~
Attrition /4 Inoremen- for
for 1976      tal         Incremental
PHC /I   Others       Total    *RHC /2 Others /3  Total   Staff Level    Staff    Staff               Total
Physicians                   1,250       1,050      2,300    2,018    1,821       3,869         230      1,569           60         1,859
Nurse Practitioners                           -                                                                         1 975  Q00  1,075
Nurses                       4,59'7         903     5,500    5,688    2,757       8,445       2,750      2,945          590         6,285
Practical Nurse/Midwives    4,374          626      5,000   10,665    2,399    13,064         1,250      8,064          810        10,124
Auxiliary Midwives            6,530        180      6,610    7,573        250     7,823       1,675      1,113          110         2,898
(1,005) /5                (70)        (2,118) /5
Junior Sanitarians           3,338       1,162      4,500    5,24o    1,739       6,979         450      2,479          100         3,029
/1 PHC = Provincial Health Care
/2 Based on the revised PHC program that was developed in November-December 1976.
/3 Based on the original health plan.
4Ftimated annual attrition rates are:  2% for physicians and Junior sanitarians;
- 5% for nurse practitioners, practical nurse/midwives and auxiliary midwives;
and 10, for nurses.
/5 With an alternative attrition rate of 3%.
Source: MOPH.
n.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 6
THAILAND
LOCATION OF NEW OR EXPANDED TRAINING FACILITIES
Expanded
Practical                 Midwifery
Expanded  Nurse        Midwifery      School       Expanded    NFPP
Nursing   Midwifery  School with  with MCH    Midwifery   Training
Province               School    School       MCH Center    Center        School       Center
Chiang Mai                                                                  X       I
Chiang Rai                          x
KhQn Kaen                                                       x
Lampang                   x                                                 x              x
Nakhon Sawan                                      x
Nakhon Si Thammarat                 x
Ratchaburi                                                      x
Saraburi                            X
/1 Since this facility is strictly for short-term training, it is described in Annex 4.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 7
THAILAND
AVAILABILITY OF TUTORS
Number of   Number of   Number of    Tutor/Student
Schools     Students    Tutors         Ratio
1976 (Actual)
Nursing Schools                    7            2, 805      248           1:11.3
(Nurse Training)                (7)          (2, 2715)
(P/qNM Training)                (7)          ( (530) /1
P/NM Schools                       8              980  /1   75            1:13.'
Midwifery Schools                _$               920        4            1:20.9
TOTAL                             20            L,705       367           1:12.8
1981 (Estimated)
Nursing Schools                   10            4,310
(Nurse Training)               (10)          (3,600)
(?P/.M Training)               ( 7)          (  710)
P/NM Schools                      10            1,240
Midwifery Schools                  7            1,6h0
TOTAL                             2             7.l190       L~            _9.6
Abbreviation:
P/NV Practical Nurse/Midwifery
/1 Inc1nludes regular training program only.
/2 Based on the assumption that 90% of the existing tutors and 90% of
new graduates from the tutor training program will be available in
1981.
Source: MOPH.



ANN'EX 3
Appendix 8
THAILAND                              Page 1
BASIC TRAINING CURRICULA FOR AUXILIARY MIDWIVES AND
FOR PRACTICAL NURSE/MIDWIVES (18-MONTH COURSE)
fuij ect                                  kours
Auxiliary              Practical
Midwife            Nurse/Midwife
Part I - Class Work
Basic Science
Anatomr  & Physiology                              84                     70
Bacteriology, Parasitology & Pathology             84                     42
Pharmacology                                       22                     20
Social Studies & Psychology                        44                     34
Nutrition & Dietetics                              44                     ,32
Sub-Total                           278                    198
Maternal and Child Health
Maternal and Child Health/FP                       92                     60
Child Health                                       34                     __
Family Health                                      12                     -_
School Health                                      23                      _
Sub-Total                           161                      60
Obstetrics                                          178                    184
Nursing
General Nursing                                    72                     62
Clinical Nursing                                  128                    118
Public Health Nursing                              46                    24
Sub-Total                                                  226
Public Health Service and Medical Care
Sanitation                                         22                     --
Personal Hygiene                                   18                     16
Communicable Disease Control                       50                     --
Health Education                                   34                     12
Community Health Development                       24                     20
Home Economics                                     48                     20
First Aid                                          34                     --
Medical Care                                      _L-
Sub-Total                           266                      68
Miscellaneous
English                                            22                     60
Physical Education                                 44                     78
Public Health Administration & Law                 23                     24
Biostatistics                                      12                     --
Special Lectures                                   24                     12
Civil Service Regulations                          12                     10
Sub-Total                           137                    184
TOTAL                               1                       880



ANNEX 3
ADDendix 8
Page 2
THAILAND
BASIC TRAINING CURRICULA FOR AUXILIARY MIDWIVES
AND FOR PRACTICAL NURSE/MIDWIVES (18-MONTH COURSE) (cont.)
Subject,                                  Hours
Part II - Practical Work
Clinical Nursing                                          592
Labor Room                                                456
Clinic Operation                                          320         2, 200
Public Health Nursing                                     192
Field Work                                                252
Sub-Total                                  1,812         2,200
TOTAL                                      3,0(78        31080



THAILAND
ESTIMATED NUMBER OF HEALTH PERSONNEL WHICH COULD BE RECRUITED BY MOPH, 1982-1986
Personnel                              1982       1983       1984       1985      1986         Total
Physicians /1                                 260        270         280       290       300         1,400
Nurses /2                                   1,213      1,213       1, 213    1,213     1,213         6,o65
Nurse Practitioners /3                        137        137         137       137       137           685
Practical Nurse/Midwives
(with 18-month training) /4               1,293      1,293      1,293      1,293     1,293         6,465
(with 18-month training
and semi-annual intake) /5               1,487      1,487      1,487      1,487     1,487         7,435
(with 24-month training)                  1,146      1,146      1,146      1,146     1,146        5,730
Auxiliary Midwives
(with 18-month training)                    892        892        892        892       892        4,460
(with 24-month training)                    668        668        668        668       668        3,340
Junior Sanitarians
(with 18-month training)                    980        980        980        980       980        4,900
(with 24-month training)                    735        735        735        735       735        3,675
/1 Assumes MOPH recruits about half of all new graduates.
/_2 Assumes MOPH recruits all MOPT school graduates nlhis 30% of graduates from non-MOPH schools.
/ Assumes that annual output will be reduced to half of the pace in the previous plan period.
/4 Assumes that only three project schools adopt semi-annual intake of students from 1979.
/5 Assumes that all schools adopt the semi-annual intake of students from 1979.
Source: World Bank estimate.
PXt>
x



THAILAND
MANPOWER PROJECTION FOR MOPH, 1982-1986
Nos., Required in 1961
Personnel            to Meet Staffing Norms                                    1981]     1982       1983      1984       1985      1986
Physicians                      3,869 (Al)      Staff level, end of year (El)    3,249      3,441      3,645     3,852      h,065     4,284
New Allocation                                260       270        280       290        300
Attrition (2%)                                 65        69         73         77        81
New Addition                                  195       201        207       213        219
(Bl) - (Al)                                 - 425      -224       -17        196        la5
Nurse Practitioners               975 (A2)       Staff levelend of year (B2)       899        991     1,078     1,161      1,2)40     1,315
New Allocation                                137       137        137       137        137
Attrition (5%)                                 45        50         514       58         62
Net Additficn                                  92        87         83        75         75
(B2) - (A2)                                   16        103       186        265        340
Nurses                          8,445 (A3)       Staff level, end of year (B3)    6,362     6,939      7,1458    7,92       8.3)45     8,723
New Allocation                              1,213     1,213      1,213     1,213      1,213
Attrition (10%) /1                            636       69)4       746       793        835
Net Addition                                  577       519        467       420        378
(B3) - (A3)                               -1,506       -987      -520       -100        278
Practical Nurse/Midwives /2  13,064 (A4)         Staff level, end of year (B4)  11,656      12,366   13,041    13,682    11f,291    14,869
New Allocation                               1,293    1,293      1,293     1,293      1,293
Attrition (5%)                                 583      618        652       684        715
New Addition                                   710      675        641       609        578
(B4) - (A4)                                  -698       -23       618      1,227     1,805
Auxiliary Midwives /2           7,823 (A5)       Staff level, end cf year (B5)   7,705        8,212    8,693      9,150     9,584      9,997
New Allocatior:                                892      892        892       892        892
Attritf on (5%)                                385      411        435       14'8       479
Net Addition                                   507      481        457       434        413
(B5) - (A5)                                   489       870     1,327      1,761      2,174
Junior Sanitarians /2           6,979 (A6)      Staff level, end of year (B6)   7,434        8,265    9,080      9,878    10,660    11,427
New Allocation                                 980      980        980       980        980
Attrition (2%)                                 1)X9     165        182       198        213
Net Addition                                   831      815        798       782        767
(B6) - (A6)                                 1,286    2,101      2,899      3,681      4,4U8
(Minus sign indicates a deficit in relation
to 1981 requirements)
/1 Including the loss to Purse practi1tioner training cf 14C nurses a year.
f2 New allocations are based on the annual output irith 18-month training program
Source:  World Bank estirate.
e    >
XI I 
rD  x 
u.O.



TIIAILAND
ALTERNATIVE MANPOWER PROJECTION OF PARAMEDICAL PERSONNEL FOR MOPH, 1982-1986
-----qNous. Reqirdi  -n I 9b1
Personnel                   to Meet Staffing Norms                                 1981      1982       1983       1984       1985       1986
A. With 214-month training program
Practical Nurse/Midwives              13,064 (Al)    Staff level, end of year (El) 11,656    12,219    i',755    13,263    13,746    1-4,205
New Allocation                             1,146      1,146      1,146      1,146    ,11L6
Attrition (5%)                                583       610        638        663        687
Net Addition                                 563        536        508        483        459
(B1) - (Al)                                 -845       -309        199        682     1,141
Auxiliary Midwives                     7,823 (A2)    Staff level, end of year (B2)  7,705         7,988      8,256     8,511      8,753      8,983
New Allocation                                668       668        668        668        668
Attrition (5%)                                385       400        413        426        438
Net Addition                                  283       268        255        242        230
(B2) - (A2)                                  165        433        684        930     1,160
Junior Sanitarians                     6,979 (A3)    Staff level, end of year (B3)  7,)434        8,020     8,594      9,157      9,709    10,250
New Allocation                                735       735        735        735        735
Attrition (2%)                                149       161        172        183        194
Net Addition                                  586       574        563        552        541
(B3) - (A3)                                1,041      1,615      2,078      2,930     3,271
B. With 18-nonth training program.
and semi-annual intaL8 of
studeuts in all. schools
Practical Nurse/Midwives              13,064 (A4)    Staff level, end of year (B4) 11,656    12,560    13,419    14,235    15,000    15,737
New Allocation                             1,487      1,487      1,487      1,487      1,487
Attrition (5%)                                583       628        671        712        750
Net Addition                                  904       859        816        765        737
(B4) - (A4)                                 -504        355      1,171      1,936     2,673
(Minus sign indicates a deficit in relation to
1981 requirements)
Source:  World Bank estimate. i



THAILAND
AVAILABILITY OF HEALTH PERSONNEL /1 FOR MOPH EXPANSION, 1982-1986
Personnel                                       1982      1983       1984       1985      1986
Physicians                                         - 425     - 22)4       -17       196        415
Nurse Practitioners                                  16        103       186        265        340
Nurses                                            1,506      - 987      - 520     - 100        278
Practical Nurse/Midwives
(with 18-month training)                        - 698       - 23       618      1,227     1,805
(with 18-month training)
semi-annual intake)                           - 504       355      1,171      1,936     2,673
(with 24-month training)                        - 8)45    - 309        199        682      1,141
Auxiliary Midwives
(with 18-month training)                          489        870     1,327      1,761      2,174
(with 214month training)                          165       433        684        930      1,160
Junior Sanitarians
(with 18--month training)                       1,286     2,101      2,899      3,681     4,448
(with 24-month training)                        1,041      1,615     2,078      2,930     3,271
(Minus sign indicates a deficit in relatian to 1981
requirements)
/1 Adopted from tables on pages 2 and 3 of this appendix.
Source: World Bank estimates.
M. m
0, 



I ~1V [ L 1] 'FiAT ON  'I C   l]J i.   CA  IL  T VA NL '
-             - - --- - -   .  . .    1.9 7 8                      _  9  .                 1 9 8
ACTIITYDES CRIPTION'
| AC TLVITY                        DESCRIPTION1F M. A MF JJ A S ON  ) .J F M A M J J A S O   N D J 1 M A M J;A J A SOU
Civil Works Training Facilities
1. Construction
Tendering, bidding, evaluation         X XX X X X 
IDA review and approval                       X X  X X
Award contracts                                   X XX
Construction
Nursing school, Lampang                            X X XXX X XX X  X X X            
Practical nurse/midwifery
schools (3)                                     XX X X X X X    X X  x                                 i
Midwifery school & MCH center,
N. Sawan                                                              l  X  x x  x    x x                  i
Midwifery school & MC(.I center,                                    |
Khon Kaen                         Ix  x x x x xx xX e 'Al
Midwifery sc-iono  P' M'I.ofte                        viiifv'f
Ratchaburt  i                     |X   X  X  X X X X    X X
MJidwifery schioctK                                  y x   x 7  xxx   I
Midw ,ri-fery schoo,L (    Mai M:ai               X   X XI X                   1 1 x 
NF1'P tra-inIn g,ntn   Vntnpong /::1                 X X| X X X    x
2.  Furniture and Equ-1pupnt: ror1
Nursing sclhool, Lampang
NFPP training cei)i:cr, L.artoipang               1
Tenderi- g, bidding, eva luation               X X   X          X X X   I|
Awarding contract                                    X X XXX X  X  |X  
Shipping, delivery, distribut-ion                      X F X             X F X
Practical nurse/mtdwifery schools (3)
Expansion midwifery schools & MCHI
centers
Tendering, bidding, evaluation                           X F F X
Awarding contract                                               XX
Shipping, delivery distribution                                     X |  XX X
Midwifery school & MCH center, N. Sawan  | || 
Tendering, bidding, evaluation                                  XXX                                                         -  .X
Awarding contract                                                        X|X
Shipping, delivery, distribution                                           XXX X X
I  I,  1R   1 X    .   I    i      1  A   s   I I   I  i



THAILAND
INPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE: BASIC TRAINING (continued)
1978                 _ 1979                          1980
ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION                 FMAMIJJ M     A S 0 N D J F M A M J J A S 0 N D J F M A M IJ J A S 0 N D_J
Non-Civil Works
1. Vehicles
Minibuses for transporation of
nursing students and for NFPP train-
ing center (7-9-0)
Tendering, bidding, evaluation         X X X X X X X X
IDA approval, contract award                  X X      X X
Documentation, shipping, delivery                  X X X X X X X X X
Use in field                                             X XXX X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X
Buses for transportation of nursing
students (0-2-0)
Tendering, bidding, evaluation                           X X X X
IDA approval, contract award                                    X X
Documentation, shipping, delivery                                   X XX                       X X
Use in field                                                                  X XX XXX XX X XX XXX XX XX X
/1 Used for short-term training and hence described in Annex 4 but listed here for convenience.
eq 10 
D l(D 1
S:p
x*1
0X



THATILAND
SUMMARY OF ESTIMATED COSTS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF TRAINING FACILITIES
(Figures in US$'000; Contingencies Not Included)
Type of Facility                     Cost   Cost of    Cost of  Cost of  Total Cost  Cost of    Total
of    Construc.  Furni-   Equip-   Exclusive   Prof.            Base Cost
Land   & Site       ture     ment       of Prof.     Services
Develop.                        Services
3 Practical Nurse/Midwifery Schools            22.3    3,082.4    213.8    263.3          3,581.9    (1% of
Construc-
1 Midwifery School with MCH Center              -       2,414.6    138.9    335.6         2,889.1   tion &
Site De-
Expansion of 1 Nursing School                   -       1,277.8    110.5    199.9         1,588.2   velopment)
Expansion of 2 Midwifery Schools
with MCH Centers                               -       1,335.3       62.4      31.9      1,429.5
Expansion of 2 Midwifery Schools                -       1,124.5        7.3      24.7      1,156.5
1 Dormitory and Staff Housing for
NFPP Training Center /1                        -         379.1       12.2      49.1        440.4
Tota is                                       9 613.7    545 . 1    90/4.5    1185. 6          96,11   119181.7
/1  Sinice the NFPP Training CenLer ls fcr short--teria t.rainirg, it: is described in Arnnex 4 but is listed
here with other training facilities to provide a complete list:ing of the training facilities to be
constructed under the proiect.
7'|A
(D| 0
e1.



AINEX 4
Page I
THAILAND
SHORT-TERM TRAINING IN SUPPORT OF FAMILY PLANNING AND PRIMARY HEALTH CARE
1.        The concept of short-term training, as used in this report,
refers to training courses and seminars ranging in length from a week or
less to several months. It includes short basic or pre-service training
for junior auxiliaries, such as assistant health workers and child nutri-
tion center attendants, but does not include the basic training of regular
paramedicals, which requires several years to complete (Annex 3).  It does,
however, encompass in-service training for upgrading the skills of these
paramedicals.  Included in the project is support for about twelve short-
term training programs, as well as some staff and facilities to support
selected elements of this short-term training.
A. Present Program of Short-Term Family Planning Training
Introduction
2.        To meet the substantial demand for training from both within and
outside the lMinistry of Public Health (MOPH), the National Family Planning
Program (NFPP) has: (a) organized a continuous program of in-service train-
ing to prepare various MOPII grades of staff for their new and changing roles
in delivering family planning services; (b) provided pre-service training
for certain auxiliaries for specialized family planning projects; and (c)
provided training for selected staff in other ministries and private organi-
zations. These training activities have been organized and/or conducted by
the Training and Supervision Section of the Family Health Division, which
is also responsible for supervision as a natural extension of the training
process. Altogether, from 1971 through 1976, the Section has trained nearly
22,000 health personnel from the MOPH and other ministries for family plan-
ning work (this figure includes some multiple counting).
3.        Initially, emphasis was placed on training the MOPH's own staff.  In
1968 in-service courses were initiated for doctors and nurses, and over 4,000
eventually were trained in contraceptive methods and other aspects of family
planning. In 1972 a new round of nationwide in-service training was begun to
provide more job-oriented training for field staff and to reach lower levels
of paramedical staff, especially auxiliary midwives and sanitarians. This
training program, which has been funded by the United Nations Fund for Popu-
lation Activities (UNFPA) and supported by technical assistance from the
United Nations Development Support Communication Service, i/ has stressed
client motivation and counseling and, for nurses and midwives, the clinical
skills required for offering oral contraceptives.
1/   Recently renamed the Asia and Pacific Programme for Development Train-
ing and Communication Planning.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
This job-oriented training program has a number of innovative
features and has become a model for many subsequent training programs.
It was initiated by giving nurses in the Training and Supervision Section
a solid grounding in training methodology and in the use of educational
media. They were then assigned to specific regions to establish regional
training teams consisting of senior nurses from the provincial health
offices. These regional training teams were trained in family planning;
information, education, and communication (IEC); training methods; and the
use of educational media. Provincial staff then adapted thie curricula to
meet the circumstances of their own provinces and initiated the training of
paramedicals responsible for family planning services and IEC in hospitals,
health centers, and midwifery centers. Courses for nurses and midwives
require 35 hours to complete; those for sanitarians, 21 hours. Stress has
been placed on training nurses and midwives, since their roles in family
planning are more comprehensive (both service and education) than that of
sanitarians (primarily education). Consequently, most of the country's
6,500 auxiliary midwives have already been trained, although as of early
1977 many of the junior sanitarians still need to be trained. Audiovisual
aids and other training devices have been used at all stages of this train-
ing. Audiovisual vans of the Family Ilealth Division's Public Relations and
Information Section support the training of auxiliaries and then follow
them into the field to assist with community meetings and film shows.
5.        As sDecific methods of contraception are proven acceptable and effec-
tive through pilot projects, training programs to introduce them throughout
the health care system are set up by the Training and Supervision Section.
Beginning in 1979, for instance, 240 auxiliary midwives are to undergo a ten-
week training course in IUD insertion each year. It is expected that the
injectable will be approved in mid-1978 for administration by auxiliary mid-
wives 'When it is, the Section will arrange a similar training program for
midwives on administration of the injectable. The maternal and child health
(MCH) centers and provincial and university hospitals play an important part
in clinical training.
Five-Year Short-Term Family Planning Training Plan, FY 1977-81
6.        A five-year plan has been prepared by the Training and Supervision
Section for the Fourth Development Plan period, FY 1977-81. MIost of the train-
ing covered by the plan is being funded by grants from UNFPA and the United
States Agency for International Development (USAID). Besides training for
MOPH's own auxiliaries, the plan includes the following: (a) in-service
family planning training for 530 members of Mobile Hill-tribe Welfare and
Development Teams (public welfare officers, health workers, and assistant
teachers); (b) in-service family planning training for nearly 1,100 staff
and personnel associated with the Public Welfare Department's Self-help
Land Settlements (superintendents of settlements, nurse assistants, and
special village health volunteers); (c) in-service family planning train-
ing for approximately 1,000 health workers (male auxiliary nurses) with
the Border Patrol Police; (d) multi-tiered family planning training pro-
grams for community workers (4,400 tambol doctors and 7,500 traditional



ANNEX 4
Page 3
midwives); (e) training in family life education for about 100 agriculture
officers; (f) training in family planning education in factories for about
120 factory managers; and (g) in-service training in population and family
planning for 60 junior military officers so that they, in turn, can instruct
recruits. The Section has set aside part of the UNFPA Grant to meet requests
for family planning training from other ministries and non-governmental or-
ganizations.
The Family Health Division's Training and Supervision Section
7.        The Training and Supervision Section has four units:  Technical
Training, Clinical Training, Supervision, and Administration (see Appendix
1 for Organization Chart). The Technical Training Unit designs curricula
and prepares training materials, the latter often in cooperation with the
Public Relations and Information Section of the Family Health Division.
The Technical Training Unit also works with provincial staff to set up
specific training schemes, such as those for auxiliaries described above.
The Clinical Training Unit, whose work is closely linked with seven clinical
training facilities around the country, helps to plan the clinical component
of training programs. The Supervision Unit works with provincial staff to
assure that service delivery standards are maintained and that staff members
in the field get help with family planning. A small administrative unit man-
ages the affairs of the Section.
B. Strengthening the Training and Supervision Section
8.        The Training and Supervision Section will, when fully staffed, have
40 staff members. Of these, 35 will be professionals (almost all nurses) and
five will comprise the support staff. As of early 1977, 12 of the 35 profes-
sional positions were unfilled. An additional six professional positions and
one support position were being filled by staff on loan from other divisions
of the Ministry. These 19 vacancies and seconded posts are fairly evenly
spread throughout the four units of the Section. Together they represent
nearly 50% of the total planned staffing for the Section.
9.        To bring the staffing of the Section up to the planned level will en-
tail the funding of 19 permanent posts, ten of which still need to be approved
by the Civil Service Commission. The project will provide salary support for
these posts, which will be phased in during the three years of the project.
Project support for new staff will enable the Section to rerLedy existing defi-
ciencies and to carry out its increasingly varied training responsibilities
within and outside of the HIOPH.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
C. Strengthening of the NFPP Training Center
10       Some of the training organized by the Training and Supervision
Section needs to be centralized because of its specialized nature. A
former United States Coast Guard station has been made available to the
HIOPM for this purpose, and designated the NFPP Training Center. Located
in Hanchat District of Lampang Province, the NFPP Training Center is readily
accessible by air, rail and road, from all parts of the country. Although the
Center has adequate training space, more accommodations for staff and trainees
are needed if large groups are to be handled. The Division's regular budget
for FY 1977 includes funds to remodel existing facilities to make training
space available for up to 120 trainees in groups of various sizes. The
Project will support the construction of: (a) dormitories for 100 trainees
(another 20 can be accommodated in existing facilities); and (b) housing for
10 permanent trainers. In addition, the project will provide two micro-buses
for the NFPP Training Center to meet arriving trainees and to take trainees
on field visits.
11.       Key training activities that have been scheduled as part of the cur-
rent five-year short-term training plan for family planning would take place
at the NFPP Training Center. This training program appears in Appendix 2.
Three key courses are involved: (a) basic family planning training for the
auxiliary nurses that serve under the Border Patrol Police; (b) courses in
family planning supervision and in new contraceptive methods that are to be
introduced into the health services for public health nurses and other senior
provincial staff; and (c) basic family planning and population courses for
junior military officers from all branches of the military to enable them to
give appropriate instruction to new recruits.  In addition, some of the UNFPA
training grant has been set aside for special training programs requested by
other ministries and non-governmental organizations. Much, if not all, of
this training would take place al the NFPP Training Center. Up to about 2,250
trainee-weeks of capacity is available each year for this type of training and
for the use of other divisions of the MOPH. When the NFPP Training Center is
not required for short-term training in family planning, it will be available
for short-term in-service training by other divisions of the M4OPH. First pri-
ority in releasing space, when it is not required for family planning training,
will go to basic health care (e.g., MCH and nutrition) and to rural health in
general. Some family planning content will typically be included in this basic
health training.
12.       The ten permanent family planning training staff to be assigned to
the NFPP Training Center will consist of two senior nurses, five middle-level
staff, and three junior staff.  This core training staff will be complemented
as necessary by temporary trainers. The 25 administrative and service staff
would include an administrator, an accountant, a clerk/typist, a maintenance
engineer, an electrician/audiovisual technician, cooks and kitchen helpers,
laundry workers, drivers, gardeners and guards.



ANN4EX 4
Page 5
D.  Short-Term Training Activities Supported Through the Project
13.       In order to upgrade the skills of existing staff or to train new
junior staff or volunteers in family planning and basic health care, a variety
of short-term training activities are included in the project. Eleven such
training programs are planned over the three-year project period: three at
the national level and eight in the 20 APPH provinces. The number of trainees
in each of these 11 programs is shiown in Appendix 3. An implementation sched-
ule for these training programs, along with the additional personnel described
above, appears in Appendix 4.
Short-Term Training at the National Level
14.       Niational Policy Makers and Opinion Leaders:  The Institute of Popu-
lation Studies at Chulalongkorn University will conduct a series of one and
two-week seminars for senior government officers, key people in the private
sector, and other national and provincial policy makers and opinion leaders.
The seminars will be held twice a year, each with about 30 participants.
Project funds will be transferred from the I4OPH to the Institute of Popula-
tion Studies.
15.       Assistant Health Workers (Maternal and Child Health/Family Planning):
This grade of health worker is being trained to assist in the operation of
MCH and family planning clinics, carry out IEC activities in clinics and
maternity wards, maintain family planning records, and, in some cases, visit
drop-outs, thus freeing more highly trained staff to do other work. They
will be assigned to provincial and district hospitals, provincial health
offices where family planning services are offered, and MCH centers. Four
hundred and fifty will be trained during the project period. Priority in
training will be given to the 181 who will be assigned to the 20 Accelerated
Family Planning and Hlealth (AFPH) provinces and whose salaries will also be
paid through the project. (The master budget - Annex 9 - distinguishes
between the training for assistant health workers in the 20 AFPH provinces
and those in the other 51 provinces, which is treated as a national-level
component.)  The assistant health workers will receive two weeks' classroom
training and two weeks' practical training. The former will be at the MCH
centers, which altogether will accommodate 15 groups of ten each per year,
and the latter will be on a one-to-one basis, typically under the tutelage of
a nurse in the hospital to which the assistant health worker will be assigned.
16.       Nurse Practitioners:  To overcome serious shortages in physicians
(Annex 3), the 140PH has embarked on a new program to upgrade the skills of
nurses to provide medical care in hospitals currently experiencing physician
shortages and in those districts in which the absence of a hospital precludes
physician care, these new personnel will supervise the overall public health
and medical care activities of auxiliary staff in rural health facilities,
such as health centers and midwiferv centers. This new category of health
worker, known as the "nurse practitioner," is being prepared through a
training program that was initiated in mid-1977. Nurses who already have
been trained in public health nursing will receive a concentrated 14-week



ANNEX 4
Page 6
course in medical care whereas those who do not have a background in public
health will participate in a ten-month program that includes both public
health and medical care. To help ensure that sufficient numbers of this
vital category of health personnel are available to rural health services
throughout the country, the project will support the training of 800 nurse
practitioners: 600 at the national level and 200 for the 20 AFPH provinces.
Priority will be given to the preparation of nurse practitioners for the 20
provinces and for the training institutions that will train auxiliary mid-
wives in medical care (para. 18). The project will support the allowances
for the 14-week field training in medical care, transport, training mate-
rials, and medical kits for each trainee. (The overall project budget--
Annex 9--distinguishes between training costs for the 600 nurse practi-
tioners at the national level and the 200 to be trained for the 20 AFPH
provinces.)
Short-Term Training in the 20 AFPH Provinces
17.       Assistant Health Workers for Midwifery Centers:  A total of 750
assistant health workers for midwifery centers will be trained within the
20 AFPH provinces in order to provide a second person to staff each of the
735 midwifery centers that will be functioning by the end of the project
period. 1/ Currently these facilities are staffed with one person, an auxil-
iary midwife, who finds it difficult to provide simultaneously adequate
clinical services at the midwifery center and extension services in the
community. To ease the burden on midwives until their centers are upgraded
to health centers (with one or two additional auxiliaries), assistant health
workers will be temporarily assigned to the midwifery centers. They will
be trained to perform routine tasks at the center and in the field in order
to free the midwife for other activities. Training will last six weeks, of
which two will be devoted to classroom training, and four to practical train-
ing. Ten groups of 25 each (i.e., 250) will be trained each year for three
years, using two of the MCH centers for classroom training; clinical training
will take place in smaller groups or individually in various hospitals and
rural health facilities.
18.       Curative Training for Paramedicals in Rural Health Facilities:  A
serious barrier to greater utilization of rural health facilities has been
the inability of the paramedicals staffing them to offer the kinds of curative
services demanded by the public. This problem is partly the result of legal
restrictions on the types of services that may be offered by paramedicals.
Some of these restrictions have recently been lifted. Although they may
already have been trained in some of the relevant skills, the paramedicals
staffing rural health facilities need refresher training to consolidate and
legitimize their existing skills and to develop additional curative skills.
Additional curative training is also being added to the basic training of
these cadres, and in the long run it is expected that the MOPH will staff
health centers with nurse practitioners. The first major step in the pro-
cess of increasing the medical care skills of auxiliary personnel will be
the development of a four-month course in curative care to be given to all
1/ Number trained allows for attrition.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
auxiliary midwives assigned to health centers and midwifery centers in the
20 AFPH provinces.  Priority is to be given to auxiliary midwives since
they already play a more important role than junior sanitarians (the other
major auxiliary staffing rural health facilities) in providing medical care.
In addition, auxiliary midwives have a crucial role in delivery of family
planning services, and improving their skill in medical care will increase
public acceptance of their advice and help in this and other areas of basic
health. The training program in curative care will consist of one month's
theoretical content and three months' practical training. Over the three-
year project period, 2,200 auxiliary midwives will undergo training in 88
groups of 25 trainees each. The project will fund training costs for individ-
ual trainees (stipends, travel, and training materials) as well as training
aids and equipment for each training center and basic medical kits for each
trainee's home institution. Fourteen training institutions will participate
in the program: three MCH centers and 11 nursing and practical nurse/mid-
wifery schools. Practical training will take place in provincial and dis-
trict hospitals. Nurse practitioners trained under the project will play
a key role in training the auxiliary midwives. The detailed curriculum is
being prepared by the MOPH in consultation with the staff of the Lampang
Project (in northern Thailand) in order to make use of the latter's experi-
ence in training and deploying auxiliaries with special training in medical
care. As soon as auxiliary midwives are permitted to insert IUDs (Annex 2),
IUD insertion training will be initiated under the UNFPA-funded family plan-
ning training grant with priority being given to midwives who have already
completed the four-month curative care training program.
19.       Provincial and District Supervisors of Primary Health Care
Activities: The MOPH, especially in the 20 AFPH provinces, is introducing
a primary health care program based on the use of village health volunteers
and health communicators (Annex 2). Most of the responsibility for the
execution of this new program will be placed on the staff of tambol health
facilities--junior sanitarians and auxiliary midwives--who will be super-
vised in this respect by a sanitarian, nurse, or midwife (deputy district
health officer) based at the 199 district health offices. A senior sani-
tarian, public health nurse, or other staff member with similar qualifica-
tions would be appointed provincial supervisor of primary health care at
each provincial health office. A four-week training program is planned
for the first year of the project to prepare the 219 supervisors for these
tasks. Altogether 225 provincial and district level supervisors will be
trained to allow for attrition. They will be trained in eight groups at the
four Regional Health Training Centers.
20.       Village Health Volunteer/Health Communicator Training Scheme:
The scheme for training the village health volunteers and health communi-
cators consists of several stages. The first is to train staff at the
provincial and district levels in the essentials of the program with con-
siderable emphasis on training techniques. Five staff members from each
provincial health office and one from each district health office, includ-
ing the supervisors described in the previous paragraph, will participate



ANNEX 4
Page 8
in this "train the trainer" course of one week's duration. One auxiliary
from each district will also participate at this stage in order to get a
head start in launching the program in his or her tambol. This training
will take place throughout the country in three annual waves beginning in
1977. Four of the 20 AFPH provinces are included in the first annual wave,
so that this phase of the village health volunteer/health communicator train-
ing scheme will not be funded in those provinces.  All the remaining 16 prov-
inces will take part in 1978. About 280 staff will be trained in these 16
provinces.
21.       The second phase will be the training of junior sanitarians and
auxiliary midwives to organize the village health volunteer/health communi-
cator program in their tambols. This training, given in one-week courses,
will take place in the provincial capitals during the same year as and dur-
ing the year subsequent to the "train the trainer" phase described above.
About 2,200 auxiliaries will undergo this training. They will come from
districts (142) in which the program of Community-Based Family Planning
Services is not taking place (Annex 2).
22.       Each trained junior sanitarian and auxiliary midwife in the 142
districts will be responsible for organizing the village health volunteer/
health communicator program in nearby villages (mubans). This will entail
establishing a special village committee (or working with an existing com-
mittee); helping in the selection of about ten health communicators, one of
whom is, in turn elected village health volunteer; and then carrying out
the training of these volunteers. The village health volunteer will be
responsible for providing a limit-ed range of basic medical care (simple
diagnosis and dispensing of basic drugs), first aid, family planning, and
basic health education (Annex 2). Although the curriculum to be covered
would take about 15 six-hour days, arrangements will be worked out on an
ad hoc basis between the village health volunteer and his/her "trainer" to
suit the convenience of both.  Modest training materials will be provided
to each facility for this purpose. Each trainee will be given a manual and
a first aid kit during the training period.  It is estimated that as a result
of the project about 7,900 village health volunteers will be recruited and
trained in the 142 districts.
23.       An average of about ten health communicators will be selected in
each village to perform basic health education and referral tasks in close
collaboration with the village health volunteer, who serves as "chairman"
of the health communicators. The health communicators will receive an
abbreviated version of the training given to village health volunteers,
with much of the emphasis being placed on IEC techniques and on basic con-
tent in family planning, MICH, and other topics in basic health. In addi-
tion, then, to training village health volunteers, each auxiliary will train
health communicators. The total time required to cover the health communi-
cator curriculum is five days (30 hours). As in the case of the village
health volunteer training, however, both the training venue and hours will
be arranged to suit the convenience of the participants and their "trainer".



ANNEX 4
Page 9
During the course of the project, the junior sanitarians and auxiliary mid-
wives assigned to health centers and midwifery centers in the 142 districts
where this program will operate will be responsible for training about 80,000
health communicators.
24.       Management Training for Provincial Health Officials:  To increase
the management competence of senior and middle-level health administrators
in the 20 AFPH provinces, funds are included in the project to support man-
agement courses for various categories of MIOPH officials at provincial and
district levels. One set of courses will bring the two top administrators
for each province together--the provincial chief medical officer and the
deputy provincial chief medical officer, who serves as head of the Health
Technical Services Office--the first and then again in the second year of
the project. The purpose of these courses is to ensure that these 40 key
administrators develop the skills needed to manage the project and other
aspects of the increasingly more complex provincial health program.
25.       Management Training for Middle-Level Health Administrators:  To
improve health planning and public health administration at the middle
levels in the 20 AFPH provinces, special training will be organized for
the 20 chiefs of the Health Education, Training, and Supportive Service
Sections and the 20 chiefs of the Health Promotion Sections in the provin-
cial health offices (once during the project), for the 20 chiefs of the
Planning and Evaluation Sections in the provincial health offices (twice
during the project), and for the 199 district health officers (once during
the project).
26.       Management Training for Hospital Administrators:  Mlanagement train-
ing will also be offered to the approximately 140 directors of provincial and
district hospitals in the 20 AFPH provinces. This one-week program will be
held the first year of the project. It will stress the changing role of hos-
pitals in support of lower level facilities and of primary health care activ-
ities, as well as improved management of the hospital itself. The approxi-
mately 115 chiefs of Promotion Sections in the district hospitals will also
receive one week's training in management through the project.
27.       Child Nutrition Center Attendants:  Provision has been made in
the project budget to support the construction of up to 120 child nutrition
centers in the 20 AFPH provinces (Annex 2). When a community decides to
construct a child nutrition center, one or two local women (depending upon
the number of children expected) are selected to be attendants and are sent
to the provincial capital for two weeks' training. This training must be
conducted on an ad hoc basis, since there will only be about three trainees
per province per year. Provision is made in the project budget for training
up to 180 child nutrition center attendants.



THAILAND
TRAINING AND SUPERVISION SECTION
FAMILY HEALTH DIVISION
CHIPF OF SECTION
2 ASSISTANT CHIEFS                                                         AS5SISANT CHIEF
|     TECHNICAL  .NO.1T-                                                  (A_MI**.TRATON
I______                                                                  _______    _________          __________                     _____________________                                      _________IR  iN-  _-_-1 1
TECHNICAL TRAINING UNIT                                            CLINICAL 1WAINING UNIT                                               SUPERVISION UNIF                                           ADMINISTRATION UNIT
A                S                 C                              A                                   C                              A                                   CA _
POSITION  NIJMSER P SITTON NUMBER POSITION  S     R               POITIN  NUMBR POSITION  NUMBR POSITIO             R                POSITION NUMBER POSITION NUMBER POSITION  NUMBEFI                  POSITION NUMBER
HEAD                                                              SEAS                                                              SREAS                                                                H        NiEA
OF UNIT             1                                                UNIT  NOF UNIT  NUPRSE                                                               1                                                 UNIT                    NURSE
RGION                                                                                 2           E      I   [NURLGON:                                                                                            NURSE      I    NATOR        I
5 ~ ~~~~~~~    ~      ~~~~~                                                                                             ~       ~          ~        ~~~~~~~~~~ NUS  1                                 NbU RNURI-| 
1      NURSE      I                                                                                                                  1      NURSE      1                                                       CLERK                 E
2  NUHNT      I                                                                                                                   2                       NUIRSE     I                                      MAID       1I___________ 
3  NURSE      1                                                                                                                   2     NURSE 
A      NUJRSE     1                                                                                                                   1     NURSE      1
O                       NURSE      I                                                                                                 S                                         NUHET       1
6                 N LJ A ~STIRE  1                                                                                             5                                         NURSE       1
7                                        NURSE       1                                                                               7                                         NtJRSE      1
8                                         NURSE      1                                                                                0                                        NU1SE       I
9                              l          NURSE      1                                                                             _               _                           NUHE        1I
MEDIA
INSTRUC-
A  POSITIONS ALREADY FILLET AND FUNDED.
B: POSITIONS TO BE FUNDED EHROUJGH PROJECT; TEMPORARILY FILLED BY STAFF FROM OUTSIDE OF SLCTION
C: POSITIONS 10 BF FUNDES THROUGII PROJFCT
SODJRCE: MINISTRY OF PUBLIC HEALTH
WVOld U-k - 17836



THAILAND
PROPOSED SCHEDULE OF TRAINING IN FAMILY PLANNING AND BASIC HEALTH:
NFPP TRAINING CENTER AT LAMPANG, (FY1978-80)
PY1978                           FY1979                          FY1980--
Types of Training and         No. of   No. of   No. of         No. of   No. of   No. of        No. of   No. of  No. of
Trainees                      Days      Groups   Trainees      Days      Groups   Trainees    Days       Groups  Trainees
Basic FP for Auxiliary
Nurses under the Border
Patrol Police                   5          5         200         5          5        200          5          5      200
FP Supervision/Adninis-
tration for Public
lHealth Nurse Supervisors       5         10         200         5         10        200          5         10      200
Basic Population/FP for
Junior Military Officers        20         8         320         20         8        320         20          8      320
Workshop for staff of
FIHD, MCII centers, etc.        5          1          76         5          1         76          5          1       76
Workrhop for Nurse and
Practical Nurse (Midwife)
Instructors on integra-
tion of PP into basic
training curricula              5          2          0          -           -         -          5          2       40
Provincial Agriculture
S,taff in Family Life Educa-
tion and FP Motivation          5          2         110         5           2       110          5          2      110
Available time for FP aid
Basic Ilealth Training fO'r
staff of otlher divisions
andl ministries (assumes
average occupancy of 8O%)                  -       2,25h          5          -    2 ,294          5               2,250o z
Abbreviations:
FP  Family Fianning
FIID Famil-y Ieali-'h Division



ANNEX 4
Appendix 3
Page 1
THAILAND
PHASING OF TRAINING BY YEAR/i
(Number of Trainees)
Type of Trainees/Training Program               1978         1979         1980        Total
A.  National Level:
1. Population Awareness Program,
Chulalongkorn University                     60           60           60          180
2. Assistant Health Workers (MCH/
Family Planning)                            133          136          --           269
3.  Nurse Practitioners                         135          220          245          600
B.  Provincial Level:
1. Assistant Health Workers
(MCH/Family Planning)                       174            7          --           181
2.  Nurse Practitioners                          65           80           55          200
3. Assistant Health Workers
(Midwifery Centers)                         250          250          250          750
4. Curative Training for
Auxiliary Midwives                          908          775          517        2,200
5. Provincial Level and District Level
(Deputy District Health Officers)
Supervisors of Primary Health Care          225          --           --           225
6. Primary Health Care Program
a.  Provincial and District Trainers        280          --           --           280
b.  Tambol Level Health Staff             1,050          750          400        2,200
c.  Village Health Volunteers             1,896        2,765        3,239        7,900
d.  Village Health Communicators         18,960       27,650       32,390       79,000
7. Management Training
a.  Provincial Chief Medical
Officers & Directors, Health
Technical Services, Provin-
cial Health Offices                      40           40/2       --             80
b. Chiefs, Health Education,
Training and Supportive Service
Sections & Chiefs, Health
Promotion Sections, Provincial
Health Offices                           40          --          --             40
c. Chiefs, Planning and Evaluation
Sections, Provincial Health
Offices                                  20           20/2       --            40
d.  District Health Officer                 199          --           --           199



ANNEX 4
Appendix 3
Page 2
Type of Trainees/Training Program              1978         1979         1980       Total
e. Directors, Provincial
Hospitals                               23         --           --            23
f.  Directors, District Hospitals          115         --           --           115
g. Chiefs, Promotion Sections,
District Hospitals                     115         --           --           115
8.  Child Nutrition Center Attendants           60           60           60         180
/1 Trainees are listed under the year in which their training will begin, but in some
cases it will continue into a subsequent year.
/2 The trainees listed for the second year of the project will have already participated
in a different type of management course the first year.



THAILAND
TIMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE: SHORT-TERM TRAINING
ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION              ~~~1978         I197 9                                1980
ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION              F- M A MI J 3 AS OA     N DJ F M A M J J A S O N D.J   M A M L ASO NI)
1.  Manpower Support
FHD -- Training & Supervision Section
Technical training unit -- nurses
(3-3-0)
Clinical training unit -- nurses
(4-1-0)
Administration unit -- nurse (1-0-0)
Recruitment                             X X X X           X X X X
Operative                                     X X X X X XX X X X XX X X X X X X X X X|X XX X X XX X|X|X|X|X|X|
Establishment of post by CSC /1        X X X X X X X X
FHD -- Training & Supervision Section
Administration unit -- media inst.
(1-0-0)
Recruitment                            X X X X
Operative                                       X XXX X X X X X X X X XXX XXXX X XXXXXX X X X X X X
Establishment of post by CSC /1         X X X X
2.  Training Activities
Supervisors of primary health care:
Deputy district health officers
Provincial supervisors
a) Definition of objectives               X X
b) Curriculum development                   x X
c) Identification/preparation
training materials                    |       y
d) Designation/preparation trainers              XI
e) Courses                               |          XX XX
f) Refresher courses /2
Population awareness, Chulalongkorn
a) Definition of objectives              | |   |                                     X |                        X
b) Curriculum development                |       |                       K             X             X             X
c) Identification/preparation
training materials                         K             K                          K            K             K X
d) Designation/preparation trainers               X             X          X X           X X           X X           X X            
e) Courses                                           X             K             K            K            K             K xP



THAILAND
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE:  SHORT-TERM TRAINING (continued)
1978                      1979                1__   980
ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION__
ACTIVITY DSCRIPTIONF MIA MI  1J3 A SIONID J F M AIMJ J97 A SIO NID J IF M A M  L9  JsA o_  DJ
Assistant health workers -- national
(MCH/FP)
c) Identification/preparation
training materials                                    x x                        X X
d) Designation/preparation trainers                      x x                        X X
e) Courses /3                                                 X XX                       X x x
Assistant health workers --provincia
(MCH/FP)
c) Identification/preparation
training materials                    X X             X X                        X X
d) Designation/preparation trainers   X X                X X                         X X
e) Courses /3                                 X XX            X X X                      X X X
Assistant health workers  (MWC)
c) Identification/preparation
training materials                    X X x
d) Designation/preparation trainers           x x x X x x X x X
e) Courses /3                                        XX X|           X X X                      X X X
Nurse practitioners -- natl. & prov.
d) Designation/preparation trainers                      X x                         x x                      x x
e) i.  Courses in institutes                    X X X X X X                X X X X X X               X X X X X X
ii. Courses in field /4                                   X X X  X                    X XXX                   |X|X|X|X|
Curative services for auxiliary
midwives
c) Identification/preparation
training materials                    X X
d) Designation/preparation trainers   X X
e) Courses /3                                 X X X X X X       X X XX X X                 X X X X X X
Village health volunteers and village
health communicators Program:
Provincial trainers
District trainers
e) Courses /5                             X   X   X   X   X    X
Tambol level health staff
d) Designation/preparation trainers   X   X   X   X   X   X
e) Courses /4                               X XXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
l~~ ~~                                          xll         xi lxl                        I xll111  1xxx 



TIIAILAND
IMPLEMENTATION SCIIEDULE:  SHORT-TERM TRAINING (continued)
1978                    _1979       _          __  _ 1980
ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION                            -----______
ACTIVITY ________  ______    F M_AM __  .J A S 0 N D J F M A M J J A S 0_N D J F M AM9 J J rA S 0 N D J
VHV and VUIC
d) Designation/preparation trainers   X X X X X X X X X X XX  X X X X XX X X X X X X     
e) Courses /4                               XX X X X X XX X X X X  X X X X X X XX X X X X X X X|X X X   |
Management:
PCMOs & dir, health technical
services
a) Definition of objectives               X X
b) Curriculum  development                  X X
c) Identification/preparation
training materials                            X X
d) Designation/preparation trainers                  X X              X X
e) Courses                                                X               X
Provincial & district hospital
directors
a) Definiti-on of objectives              x x
b) Curriculum development                   X X
c) Identification/preparation
training materials                         X X
d) Designation/preparation trainers            X X
e) Courses                                         X
Chiefs Planning & Evaluation Sections
a) Definition of objectives                 XX 
b) Curriculum development                      X X
c) Identification/preparation
training materials                           x x
d) Designation/preparation trainers                X x                       X
e) Courses                                            X |
District health officers
a) Definition of objectives                 X|X
b) Curriculum development                      x x
c) Identification/preparation
training materials                           x x                                                                              P3
d) Designation/preparation trainers                xx                                                                             M( 
e) Courses                                           K                                                                               .



THAILAND
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE: SHORT-TERM TRAINING (continued)
ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION-198-17    _190___
ACTIVITY______DESCRIPTION       ____  F M4 A 14 J J A S O N D JF M4 A 14 L9 19 A S O N D       M A      a 14JJ       0ND J
Chiefs Health Education & Training
Sections/chiefs Health Promotion
Sections
Chiefs health promotion (district
hospital
| ) Definition of objectives              X
b) Curriculum development                   X X
c) Identification/preparation training
materials                                    X X
d) Designation/preparation trainers                X X
e) Courses                                             X
Child nutrition center attendants
e) Courses /5                             XXXXXXXXX   X X XXX(X X X XXX (X X X X X XXX X X X XX
Abbreviations:
CSC - Civil Service Commission          PCMO - Provincial Chief Medical Officer
FHD - Family Health Division            PHO - Provincial Health Office
FP - Family Planning                    VHC - Village Health Communicator
MWC - Midwifery Center                  VHV - Village Health Volunteer
/1  For a post to be established in year (x), an application has to be submitted to the CSC in November of year
(x-2); routine processing would see the post established by September of year (x--l).  However, in special
cases, such as for positions for the project in 1978, special CSC processing will see the post established
by May of 1978.
/2  Refresher courses are to be decided upon after review of adequacy of basic training.
/3  Phases a) Definition of objectives, and b) Curriculum development, will have been completed prior to project    w  10-
implementation.                                                                                                          o m
/4  Phases a), b), and c) Identification/preparation training materials, will have been completed prior to                     1 01
project implementation.                                                                                                     VI
/5  Phases a), b), c), and d) Designation/preparation trainers, will have been completed prior to project                       4-
implementation.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
THAILAND
INFORIIATION, EDUCATION AND COMMUNICATION (IEC)
IN SUPPORT OF FAMIILY PLANNING AND PRIMARY HEALTH CARE
A. Introduction
lo        Information, education and communication (IEC) activities in support
of family planning and basic health are carried out by the Ministry of Public
Health (MOPE) and, to a limited extent, by other agencies, both governmental
and private. The IEC component of the project seeks to strengthen some of the
weak areas in present IEC activities. Among other things, the project will
support the production of additional materials on family planning, population
and nutrition for use in interpersonal communication and the mass media,
provide production and utilization equipment, and strengthen IEC staff at
headquarters and in the field. This component is closely linked with the
service component of the project, since the personnel who provide family
planning and basic health services also carry out IEC activities in the
field.
B. Present IEC Situation
IEC Activities in the M4OPH
2.        The MOPE's current IEC policy emphasizes face-to-face communication
in family planning clinics, hospiltal maternity wards, rural health centers,
and through the home visiting and other extension activities of paramedical
staff (especially auxiliary midwives). Various materials have been prepared
in support of these activities, including posters, leaflets, booklets and
films. Some small scale complementary mass media efforts have been under-
taken.
3.        IEC work in support of ifamily planning has so far been largely aimed
at informing married couples in rural areas about contraceptive methods.
XThile this approach is warranted as long as there is an unsatisfied demand for
contraceptive services, in time the MOPH will need to combine it with an
approach aimed at changing social norms and practices affecting childbearing,
family size, the role of women, and family life.  To assure that this and
other adjustments in the IEC strategy are promptly made, the work plan calls
for an annual review of IEC performance and needs.
4.        In 1974 the MOPH, with technical assistance from the UN Development
Support Communication Service and with financial support from UNFPA, prepared
a communication plan for family planning. Many elements in this plan have
not yet been implemented, so that it will continue to guide IEC activities for
several years to come although there will be nmodifications from two sources:



ANNEX 5
Page 2
the annual review of IEC performance and needs and the new inter-agency
consultative process that the MOPH is about to initiate, which will enable
other ministries and non-governmental organizations to indicate the kinds
of IEC support materials or activities they would like the MOPH to provide
on their behalf or jointly.
5.        Most of the Ministry's 6,500 auxiliary midwives have undergone
special in-service training in family planning, including IEC. Junior sani-
tarians are gradually being trained. After a midwife has been trained, the
audiovisual van used in the training program visits her area for a day of
meetings with village leaders and with women. In the evening everyone is
invited to a showing of family planning motivational and information films.
In late 1976 the Ministry began distributing a special "motivational" kit to
family planning clinics, health centers, and midwifery centers. Among other
things, the kit contains a flip chart, a pelvic model, wallcharts, sample
contraceptives, and samples of the family planning leaflets and posters
available for distribution. To help field staff and other interested persons
keep informed about the program and developments in family planning, they
receive a quarterly magazine from headquarters. IEC activities in nutrition
and MCII have been limited almost exclusively to face-to-face communication by
MOPH field staff, supported by booklets and leaflets.
6.        To date, only limited use has been made of the mass media in
support of family planning. A half-hour weekly radio program, consisting of
popular music interspersed with information about family planning is being
carried by about 30 stations. Since mid-1976 radio spots have been aired at
least twice daily on about a dozen stations, a new spot being prepared every
two months. A few slides have been prepared for TV. Six films were ready for
distribution by the end of 1976, including one for policy-makers, an informa-
tional film on family planning methods, and three separate motivational films
for different regions. (The sixth film was for training purposes.)
7.        At least five units of the MOPH are concerned with various aspects
of IEC in support of family planning, maternal and child health (MCH), nutri-
tion and basic health. For family planning IEC, primary responsibility rests
with the Public Relations and Information Section of the MOPH's Family Health
Division. Training in family planning IEC for field staff is carried out by
the Training and Supervision Section of this Division. A third section of
the Division, the MCH Planning and Program Implementation Section, is respon-
sible for IEC in support of MCH. Nutrition IEC is under the Nutrition Educa-
tion Section of the Nutrition Division. Although all these sections have been
using commercial resources for the production of some of their IEC support
materials, some of their production needs have been met by the Health Educa-
tion Division. For an organization chart showing the relationship between
these divisions and other parts of the MOPH, see Annex 7. All these units
confine themselves mainly to the framing of IEC strategy, the production of
materials, and the support of in-service training. IEC is largely carried out
by the various grades of paramedicals in connection with their general duties.
There is no staff specializing in IEC at the provincial or district level.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
8.        The project is providing direct assistance to three of the units
mentioned above: the Public Relations and Information Section of the Family
Ilealth Division, the Nutrition Education Section, and the Health Education
Division. (Support for the Training and Supervision Section is also included;
see Annexes 2 and 4,)
9.        Public Relations and Information Section:  This section has three
operational units:  Mobile Infornation, which is responsible for ten audio-
visual vans; Production, which produces and distributes training and IEC
support materials; and Mass Media, which designs and distributes materials
for the mass media. As of November 1977, the section had 21 professional
and technical staff members and 35 support staff. An Organization Chart
showing the staffing of each unit and other details appears in Appendix 1.
10.       Nutrition Education Section: This section, which has six pro-
fessional staff members, is one of seven that constitute the Nutrition
Division.  In addition to the preparation of IEC materials and the setting
up of exhibitions, the section is responsible for in-service training in
nutrition.
II.       Health Education Division and its Role in IEC Coordination:  The
Health Education Division is generally responsible for public health educa-
tion. Certain MOPH Divisions, such as Family Health and Nutrition, have
their own health education units. Liaison between these units and the Health
Education Division has been very uneven in the past, and since this Division's
production equipment has been substandard, those MOPH divisions that could
afford to do so have largely or exclusively relied on commercial printers and
production units. A new national health education program, approved in 1976,
includes the establishment of a sub-committee for public health education,
which will serve to bring together various divisions in the MOPH, including
those receiving IEC support through the project. For an organization chart
showing the different sections of the Health Education Division and their
staffing, see Appendix 2.
Other Public and Private Agencies Interested in IEC
12.       Other ministries interested in population and family planning
usually include information on family planning in their adult education and
extension activities, especially those directed towards women. Some use is
made of MOPH materials. In July 1976 the Ministry of Education established
a Population Education Unit to undertake both in-school and out-of-school
population education. In the latiter area, for example, the unit has prepared
a series of wall newspapers 1/ on population themes for posting in village
1/   A wall newspaper is similar to a poster, but it has more written content
and is intended to be replaced when a new "issue" comes out, often at
fixed intervals, such as monthly.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
reading centers. The Labor Training Center in the Ministry of Interior has
been holding several courses a year on population for industrial workers.
The Department of Community Development, which is also in the Ministry of
Interior, gives various courses in health and family planning at the village
level. The Ministry of Agriculture's extension program, especially for
women's clubs, includes education in family planning, nutrition, and other
aspects of basic health.
13.       In the private sector, Community-Based Family Planning Services,
besides distributing MOPH materials, has been producing its own wall news-
papers for posting by its distributors and renting audiovisual vans to show
entertainment films; between reels a staff member introduces the local dis-
tributors and describes their services. The Planned Parenthood Association
of Thailand has been working closely with various branches of the Ministry
of the Interior, especially in workers' population education and programs
for youth. The Association also occasionally uses radio and TV.
14.       The Institute of Population Studies at Chulalongkorn University,
founded in 1966, is an autonomous research and training institute of the
University. Besides conducting some of the evaluation and research projects
supported by the project (Annex 6), the Institute will carry out some IEC
activity. The Institute seeks to promote public and official interest in
population, including "beyond family planning" measures. Project funds will
enable the Institute to systematize and strengthen its work in this area.
C. Project Strategy: Identification and Systematic
Strengthening of Weak Areas in IEC
15.       Objectives of the Family Planning IEC Program:  The objective of the
family planning IEC program is to help the national family planning program
reach its target of recruiting three million acceptors during the current
Five-Year Plan period and maintaining a clientele of more than two million
continuing users at the end of the period. It is estimated that by 1981
Thailand will have about nine million couples of reproductive age who will
need to be instructed about the benefits available to them, their children,
and their communities in conjunction with limiting births. Special emphasis
will be placed during this period on improving continuation rates, shifting
acceptors to more reliable and more permanent methods, reaching further into
rural areas not yet reached by the program, and working more closely with
other public and private agencies.
16.       Numerical Targets for IEC:  W4hile there is, as yet, no methodology
for extrapolating from the number of family planning acceptors required to
the number of couples (or women) who need to be reached through a program's
IEC arm, in the Thai case several things are obvious: (a) the number of
couples that can be reached with the help of present funding is totally in-
adequate (e.g., the current UNFPA Grant will permit the production each year



ANNEX 5
Page 5
of about 200,000 copies of one new leaflet and about 100,000 copies of one
new poster); and (b) the number of couples that can be reached with the
additional resources provided through the project is limited by MOPH's
absorptive capacity.
17.       Key IEG Problems and Steps to be Taken to Solve Them:  The IEC
components of the project are designed to build on the strong points of the
IEC program and to overcome as many of the weaknesses as possible. Table 1
indicates the problems that have been identified and the activities to be
taken to overcome them. (The paragraph numbers given in the table indicate
the paragraphs of this Annex in which more details may be found; in a few
cases reference is also made to other Annexes.)
D. Proposed Strengthening of IEC at the National Level
General
18.       Inputs from the project at the national level primarily consist
of support for: (a) the production activities of the Family Health and
Nutrition Divisions and the Institute of Population Studies; (b) production
equipment for the Health Education Division and the Family Health Division;
(c) vehicles for the Public Relations and the Information Section of the
Family Health Division; (d) audiovisual utilization equipment for prov-
inces outside the 20 AFPH provinces; and (e) incremental staff for the Family
Health Division and the Health Education Division and for the Institute of
Population Studies.
Expanded Production and Distribution of IEC Materials (MOPH)
19.       Production of Additional Copies of Existing Materials:  A serious
constraint on the IEC program is an insufficient quantity of materials for
use in the field. Hence an important element of the IEC component of the
project is the greatly expanded production and distribution of family plan-
ning IEC materials that have already been prepared and pretested. Additional
copies of existing nutrition IEG materials will also be produced through the
project.
20.       Production of New Materials:  In addition, the project will provide
the following new materials: (a) additional printed materials and teaching
aids on population/family planning to be developed in cooperation with other
ministries and non-governmental organizations for use in their own extension
programs; (b) 22,500 simple "motivation" kits for the use of village health
volunteers; (c) a daily half-hour dramatic program for radio; (d) 200 slide
sets; (e) 10,000 audio cassettes; (f) 20 sets of entertainment films to attract
crowds to IEG events; and (g) 800,000 copies of an illustrated catalogue list-
ing the available films, audiovisual aids, and printed materials to facilitate



ANNEX 5
Page 6
Table 1: KEY IEC PROBLEMS AND STEPS TO BE TAKEN THROUGH
THE PROJECT FOR THEIR SOLUTION
Problems                              Steps Toward their Solution
1.  Insufficient funding and                a.  More funds for production of
equipment to produce adequate               materials (paras. 19 and 20).
quantity of good quality materials.
b. Better in-house production
equipment to reduce unit cost
of production while matching
quality of commercial production
(para. 21).
c. Increased staff to operate
production equipment (para. 26).
2.  Inadequate distribution of              a.  Health educators posted to pro-
existing materials.                         vincial health offices to over-
see distribution (para. 31).
b. Improved mass mailing system
(para. 21).
c. More funds to increase quantity
of materials in the "pipeline"
(paras. 19 and 20).
d. Supervisors for primary health
care overseeing distribution
in villages (para. 32).
e. Production of a catalogue of
available materials (para. 20),
3.  Insufficient utilization of             a.  Provision of audiovisual equip-
existing audiovisual aids.                  ment to institutions with staff
trained in its use and care
(paras. 23 and 34).



ANNEX 5
Page 7
Problems                             Steps Toward their Solution
4.   Insufficient use of mass media.        a.  Increased staff to free existing
staff hired for mass media work
but engaged in field education
(para. 25).
b.  Increased production of radio
programs through project funds
(para. 20).
c.  Vehicles to permit IEC staff to
keep in close touch with mass
media outlets (para. 22).
d.  Assurances re free or purchased
media time obtained from Govern-
ment (main report para. 7.01(f).
5.   Excessive centralization of            a.  Health educators posted to pro-
materials design.                         vincial health offices to prepare
local materials (para. 31).
b.  Funds for preparing local mate-
rials (para. 35).
6.   Lack of coordination and coopera-   a.  Funds for joint production of
tion among agencies interested in         materials with other agencies
IEC.                                       (paras. 20, 35, and 40).
b.  Widespread distribution to other
agencies of catalogue of MOPH IEC
materials (para. 40).
7.   Inadequate integration of family    a.  Funds for joint production of
planning messages with those in           materials with other agencies
closely allied health subjects             etc. (paras. 20, 35, and 40).
(nutrition, MCH, etc.).
b.  Some funding of nutrition IEC
(paras. 19 and 20).
c.  Joint access to production and
utilization equipment rather
than "title" in name of just
one division (paras. 21, 23
and 34).



ANNEX 5
Page 8
Problems                             Steps Toward their Solution
8.   Insufficient IEC reaching key          a.  Special seminars (Annex 4) and
leadership groups.                        production activities (para. 29)
at Chulalongkorn University
reaching groups less accessible
to MOPH.
9.   Insufficient IEC in rural com-         a.  Implementation of a community-
munities outside health facili-            based primary health care program
ties.                                      (Annex 2) with a strong emphasis
on IEC (paras. 36-39).
10.  Inadequate postpartum education        a.  Deployment of assistant health
and follow-up on defaulters in            workers for MCH/family planning
district hospitals.                        to hospitals (Annex 2) with re-
sponsibilities for, among other
things, IEC (para. 33).
11.  Constraints of Government regula-   a.  Appropriate assurances have been
tions, specifically prohibitions           obtained from the Government
on use of color film and purchase          (main report para. 7.01(f)).
or production of "entertainment"
films.
requests from the field and from other agencies. The Nutrition Education
Section will supplement existing printed materials with: (a) additional
leaflets for village distribution; (b) 7,500 audio cassettes on basic nutri-
tional themes for use in maternity wards and MCH clinics; (c) 1,100 nutrition
demonstration kits for mothers' clubs attached to the child nutrition centers
(Annex 2). Cost estimates for the production activities described in this
and the preceding paragraph are given in Appendix 3.
Equipment and Vehicles (MIOPH)
21.       Production Equipment:  To support the expanded production of
materials described above, various types of production equipment are required
at the national level, mainly for the Health Education Division's production
unit. Existing equipment, especially in the print shop and for filmmaking,
is obsolete. Besides a new offset press and associated equipment (e.g., an
automated camera), two sets of basic filmmaking equipment will be obtained.
During the three years of the project, up to 60% of the capacity of this new
production equipment will be reserved for family planning, MCH, and nutrition.
Besides films for IEC programs, the Health Education Division will also pro-
duce training films for the basic and in-service training programs supported



ANNEX 5
Page 9
through the project (Annexes 3 and 4). The IEC activities of the Family
Health Division include mass mailings (primarily the quarterly family planning
journal), but in the past distribution lhas been handicapped by an inadequate
address system. To overcome this problem, the Family Health Division will
procure an electric addressing machine.  The Division will also obtain an
audio cassette duplicator, which will be shared with other IEC units. Cost
estimates of required production equipment and associated supplies appear in
Annex 9.
22.       Vehicles:  The Public Relations and Information Section of the
Family Health pivision requires three two-wheel drive vehicles. One of these
would give access to mass media outlets in the Bangkok area, and the other
two would be used to enable field staff to pretest IEC materials.
23.       Utilization Equipment:  A 1976 survey by the Family Health Division
revealed that very few functioning projectors and other audiovisual utiliza-
tion equipment are available in the field. To overcome this problem, the
MOPH intends to provide each provincial health office and all provincial and
district hospitals with basic audiovisual equipment. To qualify for this
equipment, a provincial health office or a hospital must first permit at least
one staff member to take a one-month course on audiovisual equipment. Because
of the greater concentration of personnel with special IEC responsibilities
in the 20 AFPH provinces, additional utilization equipment will be supplied
to provincial health offices and hospitals in those provinces (see para. 34
below).
Incremental Staff: HOPH
24.       In order to increase their production of IEC materials, the Public
Relations and Information Section of the Family Health Division and the
Audiovisual Section of the Health Education Division require additional staff.
No additional staff are required by the Nutrition Education Section. The
phasing and costing for all IEC personnel who will receive salary support
through the project are given in Annex 9.
25.       Public Relations and Information Section, Family Health Division:
The Mobile Information Unit needs qualified staff to take charge of five
of the ten mobile units. To keep the mobile units going, staff recruited
for mass media work have had to do double duty. Project funds will support
this incremental staff, together with four other communicators--two each
in the Production and the Mass Media Units, as indicated in Appendix 1.
26.       Audiovisual Section, Health Education Division:  In order to make
effective use of the production equipment provided through the project,
the Health Education Division requires additional staff for its Audiovisual
Section. Altogether seven additional professional and technical posts are
to be funded through the project: an audiovisual officer, who will work with
other divisions in planning and designing audiovisual support materials for
training and IEC uses; an electronics technician, who will be responsible



ANNEX 5
Page 10
for the coordination of film production and production of audio cassettes;
two cameramen and two assistant cameramen; and a paper cutter. All of these
posts, except those of the audiovisual officer and of the electronic tech-
nician still need to be established through the Civil Service Commission or
as permanent, non-Civil Service Commission posts as indicated in Appendix 2.
Supportive Activities (MOPH)
27.       Technical Assistance:  No technical assistance in IEC is included
in the project. Short-term technical assistance in family planning IEC is
available through several UN agencies in conjunction with the UNFPA grant for
IEC. Likewise, the Health Education Division expects to receive support from
WHO for short-term local IEC consultants and the Nutrition Education Section
expects to receive some assistance from UNICEF.
28.       Research and Evaluation:  The current Grant from UNFPA also pro-
vides some funding for IEC-related research and evaluation. Since there
is no immediate demand for additional research in this area, no IEC-related
research and evaluation projects have been expressly included in the project,
although it is possible that some of the uncommitted research funds will.
need to be used for IEG-related research by the third year of the project.
In addition, one small-scale study is to be carried out by the Health Edu-
cation Division to evaluate the utilization and impact of audiovisual aids
and equipment provided through the project. For the details of this study,
see Annex 6.
29.       Population Awareness Program, Chulalongkorn University:  The
Institute of Population Studies, besides its research and teaching, is
committed to the promotion of public and official awareness of population
matters. To systematize its work in this area, which is basically IEC, the
Institute plans to launch the Population Awareness Program, which would
include, twice a year, one and two-week seminars on population policy issues
of current interest for senior government officials and other policy makers
and opinion leaders (Annex 4); the publication of an expanded version of
the quarterly Population Newsletter; the publication of research reports and
papers in Thai; and reference and copy services from the Institute's library.
Support will be provided to the Institute for a part-time publications and
information officer, clerical assistance, seminar costs for about 240 par-
ticipants, publication and dissemination of the Population Newsletter and
of various papers and research reports, library supplies, copy services,
and miscellaneous office supplies.
E. Proposed Strengthening of IEC in the 20 AFPH Provinces
General
30.       In the 20 AFPH provinces, the IEC component of the project will pro-
mote several developments that the MOPH is planning eventually to implement



ANNEX 5
Page 11
nationwide. Most important will be the appointment of a trained health edu-
cator to each provincial health office. The MOPH will also appoint Drovin-
cial and district supervisors whose duties will include IEC. In support of
family planning services at hospitals, provincial health offices, and else-
where, the IIOPH will appoint assistant health workers (MCH/family planning)
who will have some IEC responsibilities. To facilitate IEC activities, ad-
ditional audiovisual utilization equipment as well as funds for local produc-
tion will be provided. Through support of short-term training, incremental
salary support, and other inputs, the project will also greatly strengthen the
community level of IEC activities of MOPH field staff, village health volun-
teers, village health communicators, traditional midwives, and the extension
staff of other ministries and agencies. Appendix 4, which shows the size of
various audiences for family planning IEC in the 20 AFPH provinces, indicates
the magnitude of the IEC task in the field.
The Provincial and District Levels
31.       Provincial Health Educators:  Several weaknesses in the present
IEC situation as well as in the health education program can be attributed
to the absence of a trained, full-time IEC specialist at the provincial
level. It is, therefore, proposed that a provincial health educator be
assigned to each of the 20 AFPH provinces. Fifteen provinces are to be
covered in 1978 and the other five in 1979. Salary support and needed
transportation (a two-wheel drive vehicle for each) will be provided through
the project. The provincial hea'Lth educators will: (a) supervise the IEC
activities of MOPH hospital and field staff; (b) oversee the distribution
and utilization of IEC equipment and materials; (c) oversee the operation
of audiovisual vans; (d) prepare locally oriented IEC materials and events;
(e) provide IEC inputs in various training programs; and (f) cooperate in
IEC activities with other ministries. The provincial health educators will
be assigned to the Health Education, Training and Supportive Service Sec-
tions of the provincial health oi-fices.
32.       Provincial and District Supervisors of Primary Health Care: At the
provincial and district levels, the critical element in relation to the
primary health care program is that of supervision. The MOPH will appoint 20
provincial and 199 district supervisors for community-based health and family
planning in the 20 AFPH provinces, support for their salaries being included
in the project. Their job descriptions are given in Annex 2. They will have
important IEC responsibilities. The provincial supervisor will work closely
with the provincial health educat:or to ensure that community level activities
have appropriate IEC content. The district supervisors will ensure that vil-
lage health volunteers (para. 37), and health communicators (para. 38) receive
adequate training and supervision in IEC and that IEC materials reach them as
required.
33.       Assistant Health Workers (MCH/Family Planning):  To relieve nurses
and auxiliary midwives at hospitals from routine clinical and record-keeping
duties, the Family Health Division proposes to train and deploy 450 more



ANNEX 5
Page 12
assistant health workers (MCH/family planning) during the three years of the
project (Annex 2). In addition to providing clinical services, they will
assume responsibility for clinic education under the supervision of the nurse
or auxiliary midwife in charge of the clinic, and in larger district hospitals
and in provincial hospitals, they will play a key role in a comprehensive
postpartum educational program in family planning, MCH and nutrition. Those
posted to district hospitals, provincial health offices, and MCH centers are
expected to make home visits to discontinuing users. The IEC training for
this group will include the operation of the audiovisual equipment provided to
hospitals through the project.
34.       Additional Audiovisual Utilization Equipment:  As indicated above,
audiovisual utilization equipment will be provided for provincial health
offices and hospitals. In the 20 AFPH provinces, the 20 provincial health
offices, the 23 provincial hospitals, and the 40 larger (i.e., 30-bed) dis-
trict hospitals will also each receive an automatic slide projector with
rear projection screen for daytime viewing and a cassette tape recorder/
player with built-in synchronizer to operate the slide projector. The 81
smaller district hospitals (i.e., those with ten beds) will be given a simple
slide projector in addition to the basic audio system. Cost estimates of
equipment to be procured for use in the 20 AFPH provinces are given in
Annex 9.
35.       Local IEC Activities:  To encourage local IEC activities the proj-
ect budget includes small subventions to the 20 AFPH provinces, averaging
US$500 each annually. The Public Relations and Information Section of the
Family Health Division will be responsible for notifying provincial authori-
ties of the availability of these special funds, for judging the merits of
proposals and for providing technical advice on implementation. It is ex-
pected that provincial health educators will play a key role in using these
funds.
The Community Level
36.       IEC Responsibilities of MOPH Field Staff:  As shown in the chart
in Appendix 5, auxiliary midwives and junior sanitarians in health centers
and midwifery centers not only provide education within the clinic to family
planning acceptors or potential acceptors, but also carry out home visits and
work with various groups in the community. In the future, they will have
important responsibilities for the organization, training, and supervision of
the new primary health and family planning program (Annex 2). Many junior
sanitarians still require training for their role in family planning, which
is largely in the area of IEC. The 20 AFPH provinces will be given priority
in this respect. Besides their responsibilities for supervising village
health volunteers and health communicators, which they share with junior
sanitarians, auxiliary midwives have several special IEC functions: (a)
they supervise traditional midwives and tambol doctors (para. 39) and (b)
they organize mother's classes (and clubs) in conjunction with the child
nutrition centers. The project inputs that will directly strengthen the



ANNEX 5
Page 13
IEC activities of MOPH field staff are two-fold: (a) there will be more
IEC materials available and (b) there will be supervision and support from
the provincial health educators and provincial and district supervisors of
primary health care.
37,       Village Health Volunteers:  The responsibilities of village health
volunteers are described in Annex 2 and the extensive project-supported
training program for the 7,900 m.embers of this new grade in the 20 AFPH pro-
vinces is described in Annex 4. Village health volunteers will inform their
neighbors about family planning, MCH, nutrition, and communicable diseases,
and encourage them to use family planning and other health services. The
project will support the provision of a special family planning motivation
kit for the use of the village health volunteers. They will work closely with
local health center staff to organize local IEC events.
38.       Village Health Communicators:  Like the village health volunteers,
the health communicators in the 20 AFPH provinces will be trained with support
from the project (Annex 4). Unlike the village health volunteers, the health
communicators will not provide family planning supplies and basic drugs, and
their role will be almost entirely in the IEC area. Since there are to be
about ten health communicators for each village health volunteer, about 79,000
will be recruited and trained in the 20 AFPH provinces during the three years
of the project. Communicators are to be identified through sociometric pro-
cedures and interviews in the village by health center or midwifery center
staff. Where a village health committee or other suitable body exists, it,
along with the village health volunteer, would oversee the work of the health
communicators in their village and the local health staff would serve as
f'advisors." Otherwise supervision will be the responsibility of health center
and midwifery center staff serving that village. As with village health
volunteers, health communicators will informally inform their neighbors and
relatives about family planning, MCH, nutrition, important communicable
diseases, sanitation and other basic health topics. They will encourage
people to make use of the health services available in their area. To assist
health communicators with their IEC tasks, project funds will be used to
provide them with copies of simple materials on family planning and nutrition
for distribution. Health communicators will also promote participation in
local IEC events, such as film showings and mass immunization programs.
39.       Traditional Midwives and Tambol Doctors:  As described in Annex 4,
the MOPH is training traditional midwives (mohtamYae) and tambol doctors for
active roles in family planning. Besides supplying condoms and resupplying
oral contraceptives, they are to participate in !EC by: (a) advising their
"patients" on MCH and family planning; (b) correcting rumors and misunder-
standings about contraceptive methods and services; and (c) referring poten-
tial acceptors of clinical methods (oral contraceptives, IUDs, injections,
or sterilization) to the nearest source of services. Additional copies of
leaflets and other IEC materials will be prepared under the project to assist
the mohtamyae and tambol doctors.



ANNEX 5
Page 14
40.       Field Staff of Other Agencies:  The project will provide funds to
enable the MOPH to produce IEC materials for the extension education cadres
of other ministries and of non-governmental organizations. 2Iaterials would
be designed jointly. In addition, at the provincial level, funds available
for local IEC activities could be used to produce materials for the use of
staff of other agencies. To facilitate extension workers, teachers, and others
making use of the existing materials (audiovisual aids, films, etc.), funds
from the project will also be used to prepare, print, and distribute widely
a catalogue describing the available materials and how to obtain and use them.
41.       Implementation Schedule:  An implementation schedule for IEC activ-
ities supported through the project is given as Appendix 6.



THAILAND
PUBLIC RELATIONS AND INFORMATION SECTION
FAMILY HEALTH DIVISION
CHIEF OF SECTION    A   I HCLAL TH ESCT  O      I
MOBILE INFO..IAlON UNIT                                                   PRODUCTION UNIT                                                       MASS MEDIA UNIT                                           CLERICAL SUPPORT UNIT
A              B                C        _           _                                 __      [     C _A                                             __
POSITION   NO.  POSITION   NO   IOSITION   NO   POSITION  NO.        POSI I ION      POSIIN   NO.  POSI I.ION  NO.  POSITION   NO         POSITION   NO.  POIIION   N    POSITION           POSITION   N        pOTION       . POSITION   N    POSITION   No
IIEALTH     4                   EMPLOYtE   17   COMMUNI.               EALH      S  DRAFTSMAN   3   EMPLOTCH   7   COMMUNI   2            HEALTH       2                   EMPLDTEE   2  COMMUNI.   2            CLERK       2   POLIC       1   EMPL.OYEE   7
EDTCATOR                               _         CATOR              EDRcAFTMNQR       LNlH                            CATOR        ~       DCAUoATNI                                        CATOR              __     _              PLAN       __
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P T A    I                                                                          LAI-ST
CHOMUHI-  1  SESCIHI                                                      I
I COMMUNI.   4                                I     C~~~~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~ATCH  CIAINCARCLRI
PHOTO    N I                                                         RELATIONS
PRINTER     1                                                        POI WY       I
OLECTRI.    1A
t1  X    L  1    11               1          ;~~~~~~~NALYST_i                     .   N__ 
A EXISIlNG POSITIONS EST-BLISHED BY CIVIl SFRVICE COMMISSION
BPOSITIO.S REOOIFSTED FRDMCIVIL S-RVCECOMMISSION.
C: PERMASIENI, NONO-CVIT<SERTICC EMPLOYEES
D0 TO BE FUNDED THROIS- PROJECT
SOIIRCE: MINISlRYOFC PUBLIC HEALTI INOVECBER 1977).                                                                                                                                                                                              UH   .k 1747
'iM,



THAI LAND
HEALTH EDUCATION DIVISION
|       DIRECTOR  | A  I
|DEPUTY DIRECTOR| A|
ADMINISTRATION                  COMMUNIIY HEALTH                 SCHOOL HEALTH                    HOSPITAL HEALTIH                  REGIONAL FIEALTH                RESEARCH A EVALUATION                 AUDIO - VISUAL
SECTION                         EDUCATION SLCTION                EDUCATION SECTION                 EDUCATION SECTION                EDUCATION SCCI ION              SECTION                               SECTION
POSITION                        POSITION      NME                 POS TION                         POSITION                          POSITION       PM 1              POSITION                          POSITION        ---
A                                A                                A                                 A                                A                                  A                              ARbC
CHIEF           1         CHIEF                  1          CHIEF                            CHIEF                  I                                            CHIEF                  1         CHIEF                1
HEALTH EDUCATOR       1          HEALTH EDOJCATOH      1          HEALTH EDUCATOR       S           HEALTH CDLJRCIOR      2           HEALTH EDUJCATOR      2          ASST CHIEF FTECH)  1
ASST. CRIER (ASMV   1
HEALTH EDUCATOR 
                                                                 ----------    --r--                                                                            -----   ------- AUDIIO -VISUAIA  OLE.             1
PRINTER            2
A  POSI TION APPROVED DY CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION                                                                                                                                                         PHOTOGRAPHER        1 4
AND BUDGET BUREAD,JBOIEIFQ                                                                                                                                                                             PROJFTfONSTAE       I H
D. PERMANENT POSITION (NON--CSC)                                                                                                                  .1  ORIENIAIION                                         PROJEETIONISO         11
C POSITION 10 BE FUNDFD T1HROUGH THE PROJECI
POSITION      NUMBLR                                  TYPESETTER             S
POSITION CURRENTLY VACANT                                                                                                                                        A
WILL IRECE VA DLFINITE ASSIGNMENT AFTER S MON VHS ORIENTATION.                                                                                                                                         PAPERCUTTER               I
HEALTII EDUCATOR                                           ELECTR TECHNICIAN          I
_____________                                CAMERAMAN                  2
SOURCE MINISTRY OF PUBLIC HEALTH,                                                                                                                                                                          ASST CAMLRAMAN             2
OS B



AINTEX 5
Appendix 3
Page 1
THAILAND
DETAILED COST ESTIMATE IOR JEC PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES
1Y         FY          FY
1978       1979        1980         TOTAL
A. Pablic lie,.at`ions & Lnfo. Section
a. Various printed materials (leaf'-   $100, 000   $100, 000   $200, 000       $400, 000
lets, posters, manuals, catalogue,
etc.) to support educational
activities of MOPH & other
agencies (10.2 million pieces of
printed m.aterial at various
costs).
b. Simple motivational kits                 -       $225,000       -           $225,000
village health volunteers
(22,500 at $.0)
c. Ad6itional ccpiez of existing            -       $116,0O0 /1    _           $116,000/I
films (color)(290 at $400)
d.  ntrertainment fil.ms for use            -        $40,000/1                  $4o,oO/1
with mobile audiovisual units
(20 sets at $2,000)
e. Production for radio (actors'          $3,200      $3,200      $3,200         $9,600
fee fcr daily 30-mi.n. drarmatic
program at $800 per quarter)
f. Embossing addressing machine              $625     4,250        $125         $2,000
plates (16,000at 12.5q)
g. Production of slides (12,000             -         $1,500      $1,500         $3,000
duplicate slides at 25c)
Sub-Total A.                               $103,825   $486,950   $204,825         $795,600
B. Nutrition Education Section
77uitritisn D1ivision
e.. Various printed maaterials (leaf-    $79,00       $7,500    $17,250        $103,750
lets, posters, manuals, flash
cards, etc.) to support edu-
cational activities of 110OPH and
other agencies (980,000 pieces
of prInted material at various
priOes).
/1 Foreign cost.



ANNEX 5
ppenix 3
T9
Page 7
FY         FY          Fl
1978       197=        1980         TOTAL
b. Nutrition demonstratiorL kit          -        $55,000       -            $5,wooo
for mothers t clubs at Child
Nutrition Centers etc. (1,000 at
$50) 
Sub-Ttal B.                               $79g,000    $62,50O    $17,250       $158,75o
C. Production !'.ctivities in             .o1000     $10,000    $10, 000        $30,000
20 AFPH PrH.zmoes
($>00 per  province per year)
TOTAIL For Production by IVIPH          $192,825   $559,450   .$232,075       $984,35C
(A+B+c )
D. Poaiulation Awarenes Proect,,
Institute of Populatipn Studies,
Chulalongkorn University.
a. Population newsletters               $4,000     $5,000      $6,000        $a5,000
and othe-r publications
b. InformaL ion services based            $250        $500       $500         $1,250
oIi librar-y holdings
(photocopies)
c. Related supplies                     $1,000     $1,250      $1,500         $3,750)
Sub-Total D.                               $5, 250     $6, 75o    $8,000        $20, QOOo
GRANTlD 0A'Al                            $198,075   $566,200   $21l0,075    $1,004,,350
for all production e t i = = 
activities (A+3*C+D)



ANNEX 5
Appendix 4
THAILAND
AUDIENCES FOR IEC ACTIVITIES - 20 AFPH PROVINCES
in the lEC plan developed by the NFPP, a nuniber of audience
categor1.es have been identified.  lEO activities or materials to be
supported through the project are oriented to specific audiences both
nationwide and in the 20 AFPH provinces. Ti-he nat-ure and size of major
target audiences in the 20 provinces are as follows:
a.   Government officers:  h,900
b.  Village leaders:  20,200
c.   Vill-age school teachers:  20,200
d.   Communicatbion and media personnel:  800
e.   Post secondary school students:  30,000
f.   Women (fertile ages):  2,300,000
g.  M4en married to wo-i,n in fertile ages:  2,300,000
h.   Current famtily planning users:  800,000



THAILAND
FAMILY PLANNING IEC RESPONSIBILITIES OF VARIOUS CADRES AND PROJECT SUPPORT
(20 AFPH PROVINCES)
Provincial/District Hospitals          Health Centers/Midwifery Centers                         Community                                     Other
Individual and grouip education at    Individual and group education                  Individual education during home    Particinate in training of village
MCH and FP clinics and on mater-          at all appropriate times: use               visiting: use of materials pro-          health volunteers and health comma,-
nity wards; use of materials and         of materials produced under                  duced under project: some super-    ni,ators; formu mothers' club for
Auxiliary Midwives            auidiovisual aids produiced under         project.                                     visioni of village health vol-           FP/4CH nutrition education throuigh
project.                                                                              unteers and health commcunicators    child nutrition centers attached
as trained under project.                to health center: works with
audiovistual van when it visits
the area: training program, child
nutrition centers, and software
for van all supported by project,
At least one trained audio-              Some eduicational work, especially           Some individual education during    Participate in training of village
visual technician in each hos-           with males; use of materials                 home visits; use of materials            health volunteers and health commu-
pital; use of audiovisual aids           produced under project,                      produced under project: super-           nicators: work with audiovisual van
Junior Sanitarians            and equipment supplied through                                                         vision of village health vol-            when it visits area: training pro-
pro ject.                                                                             unteers and health communicators    gram and software for van both
as trained under preject and            supported by psroject.
with transport supplied by
project.
Assistant health workers(Family          Assistant health workers (in                 Assistant health workers (lCH/FP)   Assistant health workers (MCH/FP)
Planning) do individual and              midwifery centers) do indi-                  do home visits on drop-outs;             assigned to provincial health
group education at FP clinics            vidual and group educating at                assistant health workers (in mid-   offices do individual and group
Assistant lIealth             and on maternity wards: train-            appropriate times; use of                    wiferv centers) do general home          education at FP clinics and with
Workers                       ing and salary support included           materials produced under grant;              visits to assist midwife and in-    FP mobile teams; use of materials
in project; use of materials and         training and salary support                  clude FP education; use of mater-   produced under project,
audiovisual aids produced                included under project.                      ials produced under project.
under project,
Special individualized train-                Individual education at
Village Hlealth                                                         ing of village health volunteers             appropriate times: use of mate-
Volunteers and Hlea tM NA                                               and health communicators takes               rials produced under project;                              NA
Cossnunicators                                                         place at health centers and                  village  health volunteers use                                                            p-
midwifery centers; supported                 special motivational kit pro-                                                            -
under the project.                           duced under project.
Individual education at
Traditional Midwives                         NA                                          NA                          appropriate times: use of mate-                            NA
and Tambol Doctors                                                                                                   rials produced under project.
Abbreviations:
FP Family Planning
NA Not Applicable



THAILAND
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE: INFORMATION, EDUCATION AND COMMUNICATION ACTIVITIES
. . _ ],~~~~~~~~~~978                                      ~            ~1.979                    198   _   --1
ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION                            197           -            1979-                        98
1.TIVehIcsF M                                   J JDASCON D   F M A M J J AS JO N D J F M A M J J A S    ND J
Two-wheel drive vehicles
Project administration (FHD) (3-0-0)
Health educators (20-0-0)
Tendering, bidding, evaluation          X X X X
IDA approval contract award                    X X
Documentation, shipping, delivery                   X X X X X X
Use in field                                                  XX XX X X|XXX XX X X XX X X X X X X X|X|X X|X X X 
2. Special Equipment
Printing equipment (HED)
Filmmaking equipment (HED)
Equipment for pretesting and training
activities
Utilization equipment (HED, PHOs,
PHs, DHs)
Tendering, bidding, evaluation           X X X X
IDA approval, contract award                   X X
Shipping, delivery                                  X XXX        j
Use in field                                                  XXXX X X XX X X XX X XXXXXXX X X X XXX X X
Electric addressing machine (FHD)
Procurement, delivery /l1                                            X X
Use in field                                                             XXXXXXXXXXXXX X XX|X|X|X|X|X|X|
Filing cabinets for addressing
machine plates (FHD)
Procurement, delivery /l                                            XX                         X X
Use in field                                                             X XXX X X X XXX|X|XXX X X|X X X X X X X
Audiovisual supplies (FHD, ND)
Special supplies (PAP)
Procurement, delivery /1                XXX                XX         XX               XX         XX             X X
Use in field                               X XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXX X|X X X X|
Audio cassette duplicator                                                                                                            1
Procurement, delivery /1                 X                                 II 1X X
Use in field                                 X X|XXX|X|X|X|X|X|X  X  XXX X X X X X X|X|X|XXX   X|X|X|X|XXX  x x
O1
I            I  1  1-1  1  1  1  1  1  1  1  1  1   I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



THAILAND
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE:   INFORMATION, EDUCATION AND COMMUNICATION ACTIVITIES (continuation)
1978            ~~ ~ 1979                              1980              _
ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION                              17                                                ___ 
F M AIM J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S 0 N D J F M A M J JASO N |D J
3. Assessment of Communication Needs and
Program Performance (PR and Informa-
tion Section -- FHD and Evaluation
and Research Section -- FHD) /2                x x x                  x x x                        x x x
4.  Production Activities
Printed  materials  (FHD, ND)               XX XX X X X X X  X X X X XXX X X X X|X|X X X X X X X X|X  X|XXX|X X
Motivation kits (FHD)
Demonstration kits (ND)
Design                                                                XX XX XX X
Production/procurement                                                              X X X X X X
Dissemination                                                                                      X XX X
Entertainment films (FHD)
Identification                                                            X X
Production/procurement                                                         XX  X X|X|X
Dissemination                                                                                 XX X
Additional copies existing films --
FHD
Production/procurement                                                         X X X X X X
Dissemination                                                                            X|X        X
Production of slides and duplicate
slides (FHD)
Identification, reproduction/
procurement                                                                     X X X X X X               X  X  X X X     f
Dissemination                                                                                 XXX  x                    XXX
Production activities for radio (FHD)  X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X
Embossing addressing machine plates
(FHD)                                        X X X XX X X X X X X X x X X x x x x xX X X X X xX X X XX X X X X
Production activities in AFPH pruv.  X X XX X XX X X X X X X X X X X X X X|X|X X X X X X X X X X X XXX X
Population newsletters & information
services (PAP)                                X X X XXX X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X XXXX  X X X XX
I  I
rDWt~
Ln(D



THAILAND
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE:  INFORMATION, EDUCATION AND COMNJNICATION ACTIVITIES (continuation)
_ _ _~~~~~~17                                        1979             ___1980_
ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION                            17                          99 __18
ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION_ ______  ____    F M A M 3 J A S 0 N D J F M A M J J A S 0 N D J F M A M J J A 5 0 ND
5. Manpower Support
Health educators (15-5-0)
Recruitment                             X X X X            X X X X
Operative                                      X X X X X X X XX XX X X X X X X X X X X X X XX X X X X X X X X
Establishment of post by CSC /3         X X XX X XX X
Design & production staff -- IBED
(7-0-0)
Recruitment                             X X X X
Operative                                      X X X X XXX X X X X X X X X X XX X X X X X X X X X XXX X X X
Establishment of post by CSC /3            X X X X
Communicators, Public Relations and
Information Section -- FHD (9-0-0)
Recruitment                             X X X X
Operative                                      XX X X X X|X X  X X XX X X X X X|X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X
Establishment of post by CSC            X K K X
Publications & information officer --
PAP (1-0-0)
Operative                               XXXXX X|XXX X X X XXX X X X X X X X X X X X XXX X X X X X X X
Clerk/typist -- PAP (1-0-0)
Operative                               X X X   X   XIX    X X  KX X X XXXKXKIXIXIXIX X X X X  X  X|X|X X X X X X X X X
Abbreviations:
CSC - Civil Service Commission                ND - Nutrition Division
DH - District hospital                        PAP - Population Awareness Program
FHD - Family Health Division                  PH - Provincial hospital
IiED - Health Education Division              PHO - Provincial Health Office
/1 In view of small amount of money involved, procurement is expected to be through prudent shopping.
/2  Not  funded through the project but essential to guidance of subsequent production activities.
/3  For a post to be established in year (x), an application must be submitted to the CSC in November of
year (x-2); routine processing will then see the post established by September of year (x-l).  However,
in special cases, such as posts for the project in 1978, special CSC processing will see the post                              D
established by May of 1978.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
THAILAND
EVALUATION AND RESEARCH (E&R) ACTIVITIES IN SUPPORT
OF FAMILY PLANNING AND PRIMARY HEALTH CARE
A. Present Situation
E&R Activities
1.        Foundations for formal academic research were laid in 1966 with
the creation of population research centers at two leading universities,
Chulalongkorn and Mahidol, the first concentrating on demography and the
second on public health. Out of the work of the Chulalongkorn Institute
of Population Studies came a series of national fertility and family plan-
ning studies that provide a most useful source of knowledge about trends in
vital rates, rising contraceptive usage, attitudes, and associated economic
variables. Chulalongkorn Institute's national longitudinal surveys, starting
in the late 1960s, showed trends in fertility and birth control that have been
the chief source of reassurance that fertility has indeed been falling. The
School of Public Health at Mahidol University and the Institute for Popula-
tion and Social Research, also at Mahidol, participate in a range of applied
studies, including the use of village volunteers, the placement of family
planning work within a rural development context, the diffusion of vasectomy
within the Thai culture, and more traditional topics such as use-effective-
ness determinations and service statistics improvement. Certain of these
projects, including an evaluation of field workers, have been conducted in
collaboration with the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH).  Important biomedi-
cal research has been done at the Chulalongkorn Medical School, as well as
at two medical schools connected with Mahidol University.
2.        Outside of Bangkok, the leading center is at Chiang Mai University.
Also in the Chiang Mai area is McCormack Hospital, the site of injectable con-
traceptive investigations. The Maternal and Child Health (MCH) Center at Khon
Kaen has been exceptionally active, and Songkhla University in the south has
increasingly taken part in social research projects in that region. The
National Statistical Office operates the census and vital statistics systems,
and conducts a continuous demographic survey covering the entire country. The
National Economic and Social Development Board focuses on the relation of pop-
ulation to socio-economic development.
3.        Although these institutions make important contributions, the core
of family planning evaluation and research in Thailand is the Evaluation and
Research (E&R) Section of the Family Health Division of the lIOPH. At pres-
ent, 30 staff within this Section process the national service statistics;
conduct the principal continuation surveys; and carry out directly or arrange
with outside agencies applied studies of contraceptive methods, special cate-
gories of personnel, and new delivery systems. This group also, more than
any other agency, coordinates the work of other agencies. The E&R Section



ANNEX 6
Page 2
is divided into three functional units (Appendix 1). The Research Unit de-
signs and executes studies. The Evaluation Unit handles the service statis-
tics system and interprets the results (paras. 42-49). The Reporting Unit
prepares and distributes documents. (The present program of research studies
by the E&R Unit is outlined in Appendix 2.) E&R activities are also carried
out by the Health Education Division and the Health Planning Division. (An
organizational chart for the latter appears as Appendix 3.)
4.        The E&R activities of the E&R Section began at the outset of the
National Family Planning Program (NFPP) in 1969, when an overriding question
was the extent to which paramedical personnel could safely distribute oral
contraceptives. The MOPH accordingly conducted a field experiment, utiliz-
ing experimental and control provinces, in which rural auxiliary midwives
screened candidate acceptors with a simple check list of contraindications,
and then resupplied the acceptors at their rural field stations. This
investigation found no increase in side effects or complications, and showed
a very large increase in acceptance rates and a continuation rate actually
higher when auxiliary midwives made the initial prescription than when
physicians did so.  This led to a MOPH ruling in 1970 that auxiliary mid-
wives, after a short training, could prescribe oral contraceptives. For
primary information on the functioning of the program, tIOPH evaluation
studies have been the key source. The MOPH conducted the client follow-up
surveys that established Thailand's exceptionally high continuation rates
for both oral contraceptives and the IUD, and it has run the national service
statistics system that showed the exceptionally favorable distribution of
acceptors as regards early ages and smaller family size. Thus operational
research has made significant contributions to the program from the earliest
beginnings, permitting NFPP administrators to test important program options
before implementing them.
6.        Nevertheless, results of the E&R Section have not been free from
shortcomings. Well trained professionals are in short supply and the most
able are severely overloaded. While individual staff members may work
chiefly in one part of the Section, he or she may participate in activities
in several of the units; clearly this has both advantages and disadvantages.
It gives the individual greater familiarity with the work of the entire sec-
tion, but it impairs the development of specialized skills, and it often
means that highly qualified staff perform relatively simple tasks.
7.        The creation of a field interviewing unit to which some staff
members would be permanently assigned has been proposed. This would have
the advantage of specialized training for interviewing and for interviewer
supervision.  However, at this stage such a step appears premature; such a
unit would probably have its own problems and might deteriorate in time.
8.        These staffing problems will be eased to some extent as young
graduates return to Thailand from foreign training. However, in the MOPH,
as well as in certain other ministries, career opportunities for researchers
are limited.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
9.        Notwithstanding the return of newly graduated Thai professionals
and the help of outside technical agencies, much remains to be done. The
program of assistance included in the project outlined below attempts to
support those studies that will give valuable new knowledge or will lead
to the improved application of present knowledge. A special effort has been
made to avoid undue increases in the numbers of projects carried by research
directors.  In most cases, research directors and the personnel under them
are spread thinly over many studies, and there exists a constant need to
balance demands for short-term productivity with the investment of time in
the in-service training of younger staff.
10.       Family Planning Evaluation and Research:  The National Family Plan-
ning Coordinating Committee has appointed a Family Planning Research and
Evaluation Sub-Committee, which stands as a useful resource for coordinating
family planning E&R. On a week-to-week basis, relationships with outside
agencies are handled by the Family Health Division, which contains the E&R
Section, and at a working level by the two or three most responsible staff
within the Section. Communication with most agencies outside the MOPH is
generally satisfactory, as is evident in the collaborative relations with
the National Economic and Social Development Board, National Statistical
Office, and groups in universities. There is room for closer collaboration
with other groups within the N4OPH; such collaboration will be encouraged by
the joining of health and family planning objectives in the project.
11.       Past Technical Assistance for Evaluation and Research:  The Rocke-
feller Foundation began an association with the Mahidol School of Public
Health in the mid 1960s which was later extended to population through the
participation of the Carolina Population Center. The Population Council has
supported with funds and resident personnel the work of the National Research
Council, the MOPH, Chulalongkorn Institute of Population Studies and the
National Economic and Social Development Board. Important advice on E&R has
also been given by the Ford Foundation regional office and the USAID popula-
tion section in Bangkok. Columbia University maintains a resident advisor
with the MOPH Research and Evaluation Unit. IHO resident staff concentrate
on the improvement of health statistics and management methods.
B. Strengthening Evaluation and Research Activities: National Level
12.       To assist in alleviating the dual constraints of lack of adequate
staff and lack of professional staff, personnel in two divisions will be
added under the project. Within the E&R Section, three policy and planning
analysts will be added, one each of the three years; two statisticians and
one administrative clerk and support staff will also be added. Within the
Health Planning Division, an operations researcher, a management special-
ist and a provinces coordinator will be added. These additional personnel
should enable the planned E&R activities to be carried out more effectively
and allow additional studies to be done which will further assist the na-
tional program effort.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
13.       The studies financed under the project at the national level sup-
port the ongoing E&R activities at the NFPP and the population research
activities at Chulalongkorn and Mahidol Universities.  A limited number of
important studies have been identified.  These studies are summarized below.
Appendix 4 provides a list of the studies, their estimated costs and the
names of the implementing agencies.
National Family Planning Progam
14.       Family Planning Client Follow-Up Survey:  In the three-year life of
the project it is realistic to think of at most three continuation surveys.
The MOPH plans to mix national surveys, done every two to three years, with
more frequent small scale regional surveys, which can concentrate on a par-
ticular contraceptive method of interest at the time. New methods can sud-
denly assume increased importance in the NFPP, e.g., female sterilization and
injectable contraceptives, which may soon be followed by vasectomy and even
by induced abortion..  Post-procedure interviews can be very important in es-
tablishing the quality of service received, and whether post-abortal contra-
ception was suggested, and taken up. The surveys will determine the average
length of use of a particular contraceptive method and the reasons for dis-
continuation. From this information more accurate estimates can be made of
the impact of the NFPP on continued protection from contraception and impact
on the birth rate.
15.       Injectable Contraceptive Program in Rural Areas:  If, as expected,
the MOPH decides to allow trained government midwives to provide contraceptive
injections, a considerable increase of supplies, not only of injections but
also needles, swabs and alcohol will be needed, with distribution complicated
by the fact that the midwives are stationed at some 3,500 rural sites. Early
and strict monitoring of this distribution process is particularly needed to
ensure continuity since high continuation rates among users of injectable
contraceptives is essential for program success. If continuation is high, the
accumulation of continuing users rises in a non-linear fashion. This budget
item allows for special field monitoring of the supply-flow system, stocking
capabilities of the service units, and central efficiency in meeting these
needs as well as early identification of any potential adverse effects of
Depo-Provera on the user population.
16,       Induced Abortion and Policv Implications:  Abortion is illegal
in Thailand except on grounds of rape or a serious threat to health. The
Buddhist injunction against the taking of life still carries weight in Thai
culture, but unsanctioned and unsafe procedures by unqualified practitioners
present a serious problem. Changes in the law are now under consideration
and form the subject of active debate. It is desirable to provide for semi-
nars/workshops to consider the medical and policy issues involved, as well
as to provide for service-related studies that would follow upon change in
the law. This would be required whether therapeutic abortion were incorpo-
rated in the official program or simply legitimized in the private sector.
Three studies are planned: (a) epidemiology of abortion; (b) attitudes



ANNEX 6
Page 5
towards abortion among the general population; and (c) dynamics of rural
abortion, post-liberalization.
17.       Evaluation Studies:  In addition to these three studies begun
in 1978, the NFPP will carry out some smaller studies in 1979 and 1980 to
improve the family planning services and program management. The terms of
reference for these applied studies will be developed in 1978, 1979 and
1980.
18.       Needed Advisory Assistance in Evaluation and Research:  A need
exists for short-term assistance for the NFPP client continuation surveys
(sampling process, design of questionnaires) to yield the most accurate
esti,ate possible of continuation measures.  Assuming three consultant
visits, each of one month's duration, the cost would be:
Travel:  $1,790 x 3                   $ 5,370
Per diem:  $50 x 30 x 3               $ 4,500
Fee:  $135 x 30 x 3        =          $12,150
Total                            $22,020
External Studies Carried Out by Mahidol and Chulalongkorn Universities
19.       Cost-Effectiveness of the National Family Planning Program:  It
is difficult to calculate the cost of the  WFPP in Thailand because it uses
the same facilities and personnel as the health infrastructure. Rough esti-
mates 1/ indicate that over US$1.5 million wqas spent on the NFPP during the
three-year period 1968-70, the annual amount rising from around $180,000 in
1968 to $860,000 in 1970; in addition the Thai Bureau provided $145,000 dur-
ing these three years as counterpart funds. W7hile these sums are substan-
tial, expenditures would have been greater had a separate family planning
organization been established. Finally, total foreign assistance from 1968-
71 approached US$3.5 million.
20.       In 1972 the Thai Government, for the first time, allocated budget
funds specifically for the NFPP, in the amount of $600,000; indirect costs
were estimated at about $1,000,000. Foreign assistance also increased, so
that in 1972 about $4,450,000 was spent from all sources.
21.       The total cost per acceptor in the Thai Program, estimated from
the total direct expenditures both Thai and foreign, together with the in-
direct budget costs, declined sharply from $17.91 in 1968 to $9.92 in 1972.
Cost per estimated woman-year of protection was $3.71 in 1968, $3.91 in
1/   The Population of Thailand:  A monograph prepared for the World Popu-
lation Year Series under the general direction of CICRED (Committee
for International Coordination of National Research in Demography),
Bangkok 1974, 66pp.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
1969 and $4.20 in 1970.  All these measures compare favorably with esti-
mates made with similar methodology for the Korea and Taiwan Programs in
their early years.
22.       The Institute of Population Studies at Chulalongkorn and the Insti-
tute for Population and Social Research at Mahidol University, have been work-
ing to refine the methodology and the results of calculations of this kind.
Because of their close relations with the MOPH and the National Economic and
Social Development Board, they are well placed to obtain the necessary data
and technical collaboration.
Impact Effectiveness and Efficiency of the NFPP Program on Health and Family
Planning Status
23.       The study will focus on the impact of the NFPP and will be organized
to compare the group of 20 AcceLerated Family Planning and Health (AFPH)
provinces with the remaining fifty-one. This requires a consistent set of
costing procedures across the two groups, and explicit attention to the
problem of joint costs. The output side is less problematic, inasmuch as the
regular service statistics system affords counts of acceptors by provinces,
facility type, method and personal characteristics of acceptors. This study
will be carried out by the Institute for Population and Social Research at
Mahidol University in cooperation with the MOPH.
24.       National Survey of Family Planning Practice, Fertility, and Mortality:
Thailand shares the unfortunate plight of many developing countries in that
reliable estimates of fertility and mortality cannot yet be derived from its
vital statistics. While the censuses provide an independent measure of over-
all growth, they come at infrequent intervals and are subject to important
sources of error. Undertakings such as the National Statistical Office's
continuous demographic survey also have not yet attained the desired quality
for demographic estimation.
25.       Thailand, however, has benefitted greatly from high quality sur-
veys based on household samples. This series of surveys, conducted by the
Institute of Population Studies, has continued for almost a decade. The
latest undertaking, the Thai participation in the World Fertility Survey,
has been the chief source of reliable demographic information.
26.       The next national survey falls within the project period.  The
Institute of Population Studies plans to conduct a national survey of fer-
tility, abortion, and family planning in March-June 1978, approximately a
ten-year interval from the dates of the urban and rural components of the
first study. The national sample can be segmented to provide separate esti-
mates for the aggregate of the 20 special provinces and the 51, with self-
weighting to permit merging of the two parts for national figures. The
presence of community variable information of some ten years ago permits
correlative retrospective work on the role of intrastructure development
in fertility change, etc., an exceptional opportunity of special interest.



AiNEX 6
Page 7
The survey will not attempt to cover health behavior and health facility
usage, as that would stretch the questionnaire excessively and impair the
quality of the fertility/family planning information. It will, however,
devote special attention to induced abortion. While abortion is known to
be practiced in Thailand, its incidence has never been accurately measured.
Results from the survey will provide a basis for national policy.
27.       In summary, this national survey offers a number of features that
are of advantage to the project and of special value both to Thailand and
internationally. These include: (a) the sample design comparing the 20
special provinces with the other 51; (b) the additional value gained by a
series of surveys, i.e., that this will provide not only its own estimates
of current fertility levels and contraceptive use figures but will extend
the time trends needed for the work of Government agencies particularly the
National Economic and Social Development Board; (c) it has community var-
iables; and (d) it will give special emphasis to abortion at a time when
liberalization of the law is under consideration.
28.       Field Trial of Ferility Control Incentives:  Both research results
and the actual response to the NFPP suggest that in Thailand the constraint
upon contraceptive usage has been supply rather than demand.  Nevertheless,
in looking to the future, leaders in the population field are exploring the
possibilities of further demand creation.
29.       A project is underway to design an action experiment with incen-
tives. The first stage was to collect background information on experiments
in incentives already conducted in other countries; in the second stage,
Thai family planning experts visited countries in the region to study the
use of incentives; and in the third stage the results of the first two stages
were reviewed in a formal seminar, which then formulated recommendations on
the kind of incentive that appears most useful in the Thai setting. Ford
Foundation funding is carrying activities through this seminar, which took
place in 1977.
30.       The seminar will be followed by a field trial.  It is proposed
that the project make a substantial contribution to the cost of the field
trial.  If necessary, this item could be made contingent upon a subsequent
detailed proposal, when the results of the national seminar are available.
The Institute of Population Studies at Chulalongkorn University will carry
out the study.
31.       Field Trial on Methods to Enlist Traditional Healers in Modern
Health Care: The MOPH and cooperating institutions are investigating the
potential usefulness of local "doctors" and traditional healers in the fam-
ily planning delivery system. The project would enable the School of Public
Health to conduct a small pilot project, first to determine the present func-
tions of the tambol doctor and traditional healer, and then to train them to
cooperate with the national health service in peripheral rural areas.



ANNEX 6
Page 8
32.       Village Experiment in Multi-Sectoral Population and Development
Activities: The School of Public Health at Mahidol University proposes
to conduct a small experiment in the establishment of village cooperatives
that would be based upon existing agricultural organizations, primary health
care and contraceptive services being provided through village health vol-
unteers or local Buddhist priests. If an experimental cooperative could
become self sufficient within a year, efforts to enlarge the experiment
would follow.
33.       Needed Advisory Assistance in Evaluation and Research:  A need
exists for short-term assistance to help design the studies and surveys to
be undertaken by the above-mentioned population institutes. Approximately
8 person-months of assistance are planned. The detailed phasing of the ad-
visory assistance inputs are shown in the implementation schedule (Appendix
5). The cost would be:
Travel:  $1,790 x 3                  $ 5,370
Per diem:  $55 x 30 x 12 =           $19,800
Fee:  $150 x 30 x 12      =          $54,000
Total                           $79,170
34.       Research Coordination:  The Evaluation and Research Sub-Committee
of the National Family Planning Coordinating Committee will oversee the im-
plementation of the studies conducted by the NFPP and by Chulalongkorn and
Mahidol Universities.
C. Strengthening Evaluation and Research Activities: Provincial Level
35.       To plan and evaluate the family planning and rural health activ-
ities in the 20 provinces, fully staffed planning and evaluation sections
will be established in the provincial health office. They will be staffed
by a Section Chief, an epidemiological worker and a statistician. To ensure
adequate supervision of the E&R studies in the field, to oversee the data
collection process and routine collection of service statistics, and to
facilitate provincial planning, each provincial health office will be pro-
vided with a two-wheel drive vehicle for use by the Section Chief and his
staff. In addition, typewriters, filing cabinets and calculators will be
provided to the provincial health office and district health office for
reporting and data compilation purposes. The E&R program for the 20 prov-
inces includes certain components already outlined: the service statistics
plan, the fertility/family planning survey, and the cost effectiveness proj-
ect.  In addition, there will be a series of surveys to detect trends in fer-
tility, health and in health facility usage, in both the private and public
sectors; a series of operationa:L investigations designed to strengthen proj-
ect implementation; an evaluation of the use and use-effectiveness of audio-
visual aids and equipment by health personnel in the 20 AFPH provinces; and
an external impact evaluation of the cost-effectiveness and efficiency of
the system being introduced through the project in the 20 AFPH provinces.



ANNEX 6
Page 9
36.       Surveys:  The four surveys to be conducted will cover variables
measuring fertility, health and health facility usage which, as mentioned
previously, cannot be incorporated into the Institute of Population Studies
national survey in 1978 without seriously compromising its primary goals.
The first of these surveys will establish a baseline against which overall
program impact, as well as that of selected components, can be measured.
This series will be repeated more often than the Institute's surveys, as
the intent is to measure progress from year to year instead of over a ten-
year period. The surveys will also provide information on utilization of
the facilities over time; improvements in the quality of medical and health
care with improved staffing and expanded in-service training, etc. The sur-
veys will be carried out by the Health Planning Division. Post graduate
students will conduct the surveys in 24 provinces, 20 of which are AFPH
provinces and the other four provinces are control areas, one in each region.
37.       Operational Studies:  Over the three years of the project, the
rapid expansion of the health system in the 20 AFPH provinces will call for
adaptability in administration. Difficulties may arise under such headings
as logistics, personnel, high cost/output ratios, and evaluation of health
staff performance. It is important that the problems that arise should be
promptly identified and dealt with, and the research program should make
provision for this. In the nature of the case their precise character can-
not be known before the fact, although the fact of their future appearance
is certain. This project will support operational studies over the three
years. One of these studies will focus on the implementation of the vil-
lage health volunteer/health communicator program in the first four of the
20 AFPH provinces in which this program is being implemented. This study
should examine, among others, the following elements of the program: train-
ing of provincial and district trainers, training of tambol-level staff,
preparation of the community for participation in the program, selection
and training of volunteers, performance and public acceptance of volunteers,
supervision by health staff, adequacy of logistical support, and, in con-
junction with the household surveys described above, the initial impact on
health and family planning knowledge and utilization of services. It is
suggested that this study be designed to take about four to six months and
that it should be carried out no later than about mid-1978. Technical as-
sistance is provided for in the project budget. This study must be closely
linked with the local evaluation of the program that each province is doing
in the initial trial tambols with the help of the Health Education Division.
The results should be provided to the Project Executive Committee through
the Project Director to ensure that necessary changes are made in implemen-
tation procedures as the program expands to other provinces.  Other possible
topics of operational research studies are: (a) the adequacy of four months
training for providing paramedicals with curative skills; (b) comparative
effectiveness of volunteers trained by the MOPH for primary health care and
distributors organized by the Community Based Family Planning Services; (c)
the adequacy of the referral system between rural health facilities, etc.; and
(d) the performance of: (a) the nurse practitioners in providing medical care;
(b) all categories of staff involved in family planning; (c) sanitarians in



ANNEX 6
Page 10
supervising primary health care and family planning activities while working
on environmental sanitation, etc. Emphasis will be placed on isolating the
effects of in-service training, staff supervision, availability of drugs
and medical supplies, and management of the quality of services provided.
These studies will largely be carried out by the Health Planning Division.
38.       Evaluation of the Use and Use-Effectiveness of Audiovisual Aids
and Equipment: To determine how frequently and effectively various cadres
of health workers have used the newly provided audiovisual equipment and
health education materials, about 2,100 interviews with health staff will
be conducted in five of the 20 AFPH provinces during 1978.  A follow-up
survey in 1980 will seek to determine whether the corrective measures imple-
mented on the basis of the results of the first survey were effective in
correcting the problems identified. This evaluation should assist the Royal
Thai Government, the Bank and other donors in subsequently supplying audio-
visual materials and equipment. These surveys will be carried out by the
Health Education Division with technical support from its E&R Section. The
interviewers will be regularly-salaried Division Staff.
39.       External Evaluation of the Impact of the AFPH Program:  This re-
search would be carried out by an external research group in Thailand. It
would provide program administrators with an independent external evaluation
of project impact or effectiveness on health status and the efficiency of the
AFPH program in reaching its objectives and targets. This research should
enable the MOPH to decide what elements of the project should be replicated
nationwide and in what fashion.
40.       Technical Assistance for E&R Activities in the 20 AFPH Provinces:
The project provides for one year of short-term advisory assistance in E&R.
Eight person-months of these would be used to provide a consultant in research
methodology to assist in the development of the design for the baseline survey
and for the further specification of the operational research studies. This
technical assistance would be required during the first eight months of the
project. Another two person-months would be required in 1979 to design and
help implement the comprehensive evaluation of the village health volunteer/
health communicator program that represents one of the key operational re-
search studies. This consultant would concentrate on the evaluation of the
training of provincial, district, and tambol-level staff, and administrative
and logistical support at these levels. The consultant would help set up
arrangements with the planning and evaluation sections of the Provincial
Fealth Offices in the four AFPH provinces that are initiating the village
volunteer program early to carry out a brief, but detailed assessment of the
implementation of the program at the village level. Subsequent follow-up
would be provided through two additional person-months of advisory assistance
in 1980 to follow-up on the studies underway and to assist in the design of
the impact studies, etc.



ANNEX 6
Page 11
D. Allocation for Innovative E&R Activities
41.       The experience of recent years suggests that, over the three-year
life of the project, important new delivery systems, birth control methods,
and avenues of demand creation are likely to emerge. There is no doubt that
the Thai NFPP will maintain its pioneering record. It is therefore probable
that studies will present demand on the contingency for innovative activities
during the project, especially the second and third years, since the most
pressing immediate E&R needs are being met by the E&R activities summarized
in this annex.
E. Family Planning Service Statistics System
42.       A card is completed on each new acceptor at local service outlets
showing method accepted and personal characteristics, and these cards flow
to Bangkok, where they are computerized. Second class hlealth centers and
midwifery centers prepare a daily report, including numbers of new and old
acceptors, number of home visits by type, and number of oral contraceptive
cycles given to new and return clients. These daily reports flow to the
district health office, which compiles them into a monthly report sent to
Bangkok. Acceptor characteristics and supplies distributed provide the
information by which performance by province and type of service outlet is
judged, and thus enable trends to be established reflecting the impact of
key policy decisions. All information is aggregated by geographic unit, so
that at the provincial level the performance of each of its amphoes can be
assessed, and each amphoe can know the record of its tambols. This system,
in broad outline, is similar to that of many Asian programs, and shares their
strengths and defects.
43.       The defects lie more in the utilization of the system than in its
character. Given the computerization of the information, considerably greater
exploitation of the data is possible. For example, little feedback is given
to subordinate units on their own performance, and none is given on compara-
tive performance elsewhere. Thus they lack a basis for judging their work
relative to that of others, or for knowing, for example, whether a bad month
was shared by others and was therefore likely due to general conditions out-
side their control. Moreover, the central processing of the data is somewhat
slower than it need be, so that the effects of such decisions as removing all
charges for oral contraceptives or the effect upon oral contraceptive perfor-
mance of introducing injectables are not monitored as closely as they should
be.
F. Strengthening the Family Planning Service Statistics System
44.       Needed Improvements:  The initial step needed to improve the ser-
vice statistics system is one which will reduce staff duties to routine so



ANINEX 6
Page 12
that informationL flows more quickly through the series of steps from receipt
and checking of records to keypunching, verification, and computer processing.
At present this flow is partially ad hoc, especially in its later stages,
where conflicting priorities sometimes cause interruptions.
45.       The second and more difficult step is to modify the computer pro-
gramas to produce desired new kinds of output. Certain output, in multip'le
copies, is needed for feedback to the provinces and possibly, amphoes. At
present, each province receives only its own results; a different output is
needed to show in a simple and effective manner performance in other prov-
inces, at least in the same region. Different output is needed to aggre-
gate results by type of facility within individual provinces. Yet a differ-
ent output is needed for convenient indices of performance at the national
level, and so on. The complexity of this work is compounded because appar-
ently small changes in coding and other processing routines carry implica-
tions when the volume is substantial as it is in the Thai program.
46.       A third step is to improve reporting from the field; about 70% of
the units report within 15 days of the end of the month, but the remaining
30% are often repeatedly delinquent and slow up processing. The delinquents
should receive admonitory letters, followed up if necessary by visits from
supervisors. A realistic goal is a two-thirds reduction of delinquent re-
porting units over two years.
47.       The long-term approach to expediting the monthly report is to make
each service unit a reporting unit which would send a copy of its monthly
service statistics report to the central level as well as to the district
health office. Besides expediting central feedback, this system would en-
courage program evaluation at the lowest service levels.
48.       To make the monthly report more useful for supervision and pro-
gram management, two changes are planned. The first is to add an acceptor
recruitment achievement rate based on an estimated eligible population; the
second is to translate the present caseload statistics into a true estimate
of the active number of cases per reporting area. This latter step is to
be accomplished by a semi-annual, active-caseload inventory of all service
units. Both these modifications will assist the comparative evaluation of
reporting unit performance. Unit and provincial rankings by achievement and
other factors will also help to guide the supervision of the program's service
units. Work along these lines will begin by the start of the project period.
49.       Project Inputs:  Project inputs in support of improvements in the
FP service statistical system con!sist of the following:
a.   Improvement of slow reporting units
(i) computer re-programming,
(ii) orientation of field staff,



ANNEX 6
Page 13
(iii) initial supervision and site visits to implement
system;
b.   Implementation of revised national system
(i) computer programming,
(ii) explanatory forms and instructions,
(iii)  mailing and processing of inventory,
(iv) site visits to facilitate implementation and
trouble shooting.
50.       An implementation schedule for the E&R project inputs is provided
in Appendix 5.



THAI LAND
EVALUATION AND RESEARCH SECTION
ORGANIZATION CHART
|   CHIEF  POLICY & Pl ANNING ANALYST  A
|_ASSISTANT CHIEF  POLICY A PLANNING ANALYS I A
RESEARCH PROJECTS                                                                         EVALUATIO  ACTIVITIES                                                     SLPOIIING SYSTEM
CHIEf. PO1LCY & PLANNING ANALYS- A                                                                 CHIEF: STATISTICIAN       A                                      CI_ILEL: POILICY N PLANNING ANALYST  N
RESEARCH STUDIES                 ANALYSIS INTERPRETATION                DA IA PILEPARATION                     COMPU ATION                   STATISlTICAL INTERPRETATION        REPORT ACCUMIJLATION & SENDING
NUMBER                              NUMBER                               NUMBER                              NLMf ER                              NUMBER                               NUMBER
POSITION       -  -  -              POSITION                            POSITION                             POSITION                             POSITION                             POSITION
A B C~~~~~~~~-FTI                             A B C                               ABBC                                 A BC                     C                             A S C
ADIMOIN ISTR ATIVEC
POL. & PLAN. ANALYST   4    1       PlL. A PLAN. ANALYST   1             POL. & PLAN. ANALYST   2             POL. & PLAN. ANALYST        1       STATISTICIAN           2             CLERK                  6     1
STATISTICIAN                 1                                           CoDOl                  4    3        STATISTICIAN           1    1       PO L. & PL AN. ANALYST       I       WORKER                 2
PUNCHER               4     1       CODER                  I __________SECRETAiSY/TYPIST                                             3    2
PUNCHER                1                                                 __________
A: EXISTING GOVERNMENT POSITION,
B: RECUESTED (GOVERNMENT POS:TION.
C: ADDITIONAL POSITION TO BE FUNDED THROIJGH THE PROJECT
E Al
SOURCE: MINISTRY OF PUBLIC HEALTH,
W1
VN-ld R-kE17393 



THAILAND
EVALUATION AND RESEARCH ACTIVITIES OF THE FAMILY HEALTH DIVISION
Study         | Funding  ,                      I  Population
Date of Inception      Agency     Duration   Budget        Coverage              Objectives                Expected Outcome
1.                                                 -                    !1
Midwife IUD         Pathfinder   18 mos.    $60,000  domain of 40    To explore the feasibi-    Demonstration that midwife
Insertion                                           midwives, to be lity of training midwives Iperformance is medically
Begin 9/76                                         expanded         for TUD insertion.           acceptable, thus paving
inationwide.                                   the way for nationwide
l  expansion.
2.
Depo-Provera         Pop          8 mos.        _      domain of 44    To assess the acceptabili- Demonstration of midwife
Follow-up of Mid-   Council                           midwives based  ty of DMPA in rural areas,~ competence in management
wife Experience                                        at midwifery    and midwife management of ! of DMPA clients and
Begin 8/76                                       centers and 2nd side effects.                |acceptability of DMPA
class health                                 rurally.
centers.
3. 
Family Planning/    USAID        48 mos.   $1.5 mil.   7 million       To examine the relative    Demonstration that rural
Health and Hygiene                                                      cost-effectiveness of 4    distributors of contra-
Begin(?)12/76                                                     different systems of         ceptives who also provide
community-based distri-    household drugs obtain
bution of contraceptives.  greater family planning
achievement in their
communities.
4.
Songkhla Project    UNFPA        48 mos.   $150,000  the Province of To examine the feasibili-  Demonstration of the feasi-
Begin(?)                                         Songkhla         ty and replicability of    of grassroots planning and
early /78                                                         the integration of family  implementation of the
planning with local agri-  integrated system, thus
culture, health and         leading the way toward
educational services as    expansion of the concept.
planned by local person-
Inel.
.._-_______1_-.__ __   -                                                                                                           D  t1@
(D  z,g
1X



Study          Funding              '              Population
Date of Inception    Agency      Duration I Budget        Coverage             Objectives            ____ Expected Outcome
5.
Expanded Sterili-   USAID-       12 mos.   $1.2 mil.   nationwide    To make sterilization and  Dramatic increase in the
zation and IUD    I MOP[HI                                             IUD services more accessi- total number of steriliza-
Services           a                                                   ble to the target popula--, tions and IUD insertions
Begin 10/76                                                      tion by eliminating or       performed.
|                           reducing cost barriers
*          I                            and decentralizing the
services.
Accelerated MCH     MOPH-     48 mos.  1 $800,000    4 million         To increase health          Improvement among the
Begin 3/73     UNFPA                                             services for mothers and   various outcome indicators
young children through      such as infant and mater-
I the integration of family  nal mortality, prevalence
I planning services based    of pregnancy and fertility.
at MCII sub-centers.
_ I  T__ __ I __ _ ___ __ I ~~~~~~I                  - - - - - - - -   - - -- - -- - ~ - -   - _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _   _ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ _
7.
Family Planning     UNFPA        18 mos.    $37,500   2 provinces    To evaluate the effect of  A significant rise in family
Communication                                                          intensive family planning  planning achievement in the
Impact                                                                 communication in one        experimental province as
Begin 9/75                                                        province.                   as compared with the
|control province.
M.D. Abortion        ICARP        9 mos.   $ 3,500         750         To assess the acceptabili- Attainment of a profile of
Attitudes                                                              ty of abortion among Thai !the physician who is most
Begin 4/76               i                      0                 physicians and estimate   ireceptive to a liberalized
its prevalence.            |abortion regulation to
lend weight to those push-
ing for liberalization.
9.           -_                                _ __   , ._        ___ 
Incomplete Abortion ICARP    14 mos.   $10,500    9 provincial   To dramatize the problem   Attainment of a better esti-
Begin 2/76                                          hospitals   lof incomplete abortion in  mate of abortion in Thailand
I g       4                ,Thailand, and to study the and moderately good
characteristics of women   acceptance and continua-
I presenting and to provide  tion of family planning.
family planning for these                                  >
women.                                                  , 
_______  __________   _____ K_____ __                                    _ __ _____              __-          K        a



Study          Funding                             Population
Date of Inception    Agency    Duration    Budget          Coverage             Objectives              Expected Outcome
10.
Training the        UNFPA       12 mos.    $4,000         100         To explore the feasibili-  Achievement of increased
Indigenous Midwifq                      l            individuals      ty of training indigenous  interest in the training
Begin 11/76   I                                                   midwives in modern deli-   by participants as
very principles with        measured by some standard,
decentralized training in  and increased rapport
small groups.               with the trainer.
11.
Family Planning    East-West|    7 mos.    $2,000   1,000 health    To determine the needs         Demonstration that certain
Communication       Center                           centers,         for family planning          additions and modifications
Needs                                    I            administrators  information and litera-    of the existing information
Begin 12/76                         i            and policy       ture among concerned         and feedback system are
makers.          individuals and personnel. desirable.
12.                                                                                                   _
Vasectomy by        ICARP        5 mos.    $7,000   600 vasectomy   To compare the perfor-         Demonstration of the
Paramedicals                                         clients.         mance of paramedicals        competence of paramedicals
Begin(?)8/76                                                      and physicians in            in performing vasectomy
vasectomy procedure.         and, thus, leading the
way to policy recommen-
dations,
13.
Traditional         MOPH        24 mos.       -            200        To gather baseline infor-  Improved indigenous midwife
Midwife                                                 indigenous    mation on traditional        performance and increased
Lampang                                                  midwives     midwife KAP/1 prior to       effectiveness in job as a
Begin 8/76                                                        special training, after    result of the training.
which a post interview
will attempt to assess
the effect of training.
To be conducted at the
Lampang Project.
/1  Knowledge, attitude and practice.
Ix '-



Study         Funding                           Population
Date of Inception    Agency    Duration    Budget      Coverage              Obj ectives             Expected Outcome
14.
Increase           USAID      24 mos.               1. province     To attempt to increase    A significant increase in
Mobility           and                                              the availability of        family planning acceptance
Begin 1/76     Japanese                                         contraceptive services    and continuation during
Govern-                                         and the practice of        the pre- and post-survey
ment                                            contraception through      period.
increased outreach
capability of the
health personnel.
15.
Contraceptive      Johns      12 mos.    $4,000    1 province       To compare the effective- Significantly higher family
Saturation         Hopkins                                          ness of individual         planning achievement rate in
Project(?)         Univ. &                                          schedules of revisit for  the area with a given schedule
Begin(?)       UNFPA(?)                                         contraceptive re-supply   of re-supply visit.
based on initial house-
to-house availability of
l__ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _    ~supplies.
Qq m
(jrDt= >
X 
M::O



THAILAND
EVALUATION AND RESEARCH ACTIVITIES OF THE FAMILY HEALTH DIVISION
1V7 1977                                                                      .,1 1.78
Oct  D-t AC, )r r l Ag Ott Dc Peb t-tr Jkn  Aug Oct D&        A,r 7, At-'  Oct Pec  ',  Ape J=  A'g Cct )"c  ?0' P TrJ-    Pg   Oct Dc  A". JQ'   Nil
Midwife IUD(8/75)    . .  -  4i|  
DIMPA Follow-up(8/76) hi  j                                                      i   I                            i
FP/Health Hygiene                          j........ .  ,                          tI
Songkhla Project             |                                             t
Expanded Steriliza.   _
Accelerated MCH(5/:.'i!-                                                                      I |
Commun> Impact(9/75,  ',    I |II                                                               !   I                   i|i
MD Attitudes-Abortion                      j !
Incomplete Abor.(2/75)|-.    s       I                                                              I i
Train TBA-Udorn                                I
FP Communicat. Needs      I                                               I                        i
Vasect. by Paramedics    L  . _! I
Train TBA-Lampang       I                                 I r
(8/76) 
Increased Mobility      4       g i l - X7  t i  j ! I  ! , !  i  i > '  |   !  i | S |  5                          | I|
Abbreviation:  TBA-Traditional Birth Attendant
DMPA - Depo-Provera
FP - Family Planning
SouiEce; Family Health Division, MOPH.



THAILAND
HEALTH PLANNING DIVISION
ORGANIZATION CHART
UNDER-SECRETARY OF STATE FOR PUBLIC HEALTH
DIRECTOR HEALTH PLANNING DIVISION
ADMINISTRATION SECTION                      PLANNING SECTION                     BUDGETING & EVALUATION SECTION              INFORMATION SECTION
POSITION    A  B C                        POSITION              A  B C  D             POSITION        A  B C D               POSITION        A  B C
CHIEF            1  1          CHIEF (DOCTOR)                       1  1  1       POL. & PLAN. ANALYST                  CHIEF (DOCTOR)           1 1
CLERK            1 1  1         DOCTOR                              2 2  2         (BIOSTATISTICIAN)       1 1 1        POL. & PLAN. ANALYST
CLERK            1 1            DOCTOR                               1 1          POL. & PLAN. ANALYST                  (PUBlIC ADMINISTRATION) 1 1
TYPIST           1 1  1         POL. & PLAN. ANALYST                               (ADMINISTRATION)        1            Po
TYPIST           3  3  3         (PUBLIC HEALTH NURSE)               1 1 j        POL. & PLAN. ANALYST     4  1          (ECONOMIST 1NAY1
AUDIO-VISUAL           ~~~POL. & PLAN. ANALYST                            OPERATIONS RESEARCHER             1   PEOL.   M PLAN ANLS (ACUNIG  111I 
(PUOBICGHALl H ADMINISTRATION)      1 1  1
POL. & PLAN. ANALYST
(HUOSITAL ADMINISTRATION)          1 1 1
POL. & PLAN. ANALYST
(ECONOMI[ST)                        1  11
POL. & PLAN. ANALYST
(STATISTICS & PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION) 3 3
CLERK                                1 1 1
MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST                         1
PROVINCES COORDINATOR                         1
POL. & PLAN ANALYST
(PHARMACY)                          1 1                                                                                               X
A: APPROVED BY CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
B: FUNDED BY BUDGET BUREAU.
C: EXISTING STAFF
D: TO BE FUNDED THROUGH PROJECT.
: ACTING CHIEF OF BUDGETING & EVALUATION SECTION                                                                                           World BaCnk- 17840
SOURCE: MINISTRY OF PUBLIC HEALTH



THAILAND
PROPOSED PROJECT: EVALUATION AND RESEARCH ACTIVITIES
Study/Agency                                   Cost                                Objectives
NATIONAL LEVEL
A.  NFPP:  MOPH                                   US$10 per interview x 1,000         Monitor continuation rates for
1.  Family Planning                          average sample size x 3              different contraceptive methods and
Client follow-up                         studies = $30,000                   measure client satisfaction with
Surveys (3)                                                                   services received.
2.  Injectable Contraceptive Program         US$30,000                            Monitor supply system of Depo-Provera
in Rural Areas                                                                to ease transition to supplying greater
number of service points.
3.  Induced Abortion and Policy              a)  US$5,000, plus                   a)  Seminars to consider medical
Implications                             b)  3 x 5,000 = US$20,000            and policy issues to prepare for
possible legalization of abortion.
b) 3 small operational studies.
4.  Evaluation Studies (including            US$40,000                            Improve FP services and program
Population Awareness Seminar                                                  management.
(see Annex 5, para. 29)
B. Mahidol and Chulalongkorn
Universities
5.  Cost-effectiveness of the NFPP           US$30,000                            In collaboration with MOPH and the
National Economic and Social
Development Board, to further refine
cost-effectiveness estimates; will
compare AFPH with 51 other provinces.
6.  National Survey of Family                US$10 per interview x 5,000          To obtain more reliable estimates
Planning Practice, Fertility             interviews = US$50,000               of fertility and mortality,                 I >d
and Mortality                            (does not include publication        devoting particular attention to   
of results)                         induced abortion.                          D .
4-  O



Study/Agency                                   Cost                                 Ob ectives
7.  Field Trial of Fertility Control          US$20,000                            To test recommendations regarding
Incentives                                                                    most effective incentive in Thai
setting, thereby preparing for
eventuality of service supply
exceeding demand in NFPP.
8.  Field Trial on Methods to Enlist          US$10,000                            Pilot project to integrate tambol
Traditional Healers in Modern                                                 doctor and traditional healer with
Health Care                                                                   national health service; to be under-
taken by Mahidol School of Public Health.
9.  Village Experiment in Multi-              US$15,000                            Pilot project to establish village
Sectoral Population and                                                       cooperatives.
Development Activities
iQ.  Impact, Effectiveness and                 US$100,000                           Study to assess impact, effectiveness
Efficiency Study                                                              and efficiency of NFPP program on
health and family planning status.
PROVINCIAL LEVEL (20 AFPH Provinces)
A. Health Planning Division
10.  Baseline Surveys                                                               Establish a baseline against which to
measure changes in health and fertility
indicators, perceptions, behavior
patterns as a result of the AFPH
US$62,000                            program.
11.  Annual Surveys (3                                                              Survey to measure increased utiliza-
tion and changes in health behavior
and attitudes over time.
B. Health Education Division
12.  Evaluation of the Use and                 Per diem + travel costs +            To determine how new audiovisual equip-
Use-Effectiveness of                      supplies   US$3,100 each of         ment has been used and how effectively.,,
Audiovisual Aids and                      2 years   US$6,200                                                             m
Equipment



Study/Agency                                 Cost                                Objectives
C. Health Planning Division
13.  Operational Studies                     US$450,000                          Operational studies to guide program
management. Terms of reference for
additional studies to be defined later.
D. Mahidol University
14.  External Evaluation Research            US$200,000                          To evaluate program impact or
effectiveness on health status, and
the efficiency of the AFPH program.
Abbreviations:
DMPA-Depo-Provera
NESDB-National Economic and Social Development Board
Source: World Bank estimates.
(D (bDm
:zx 



Tl LI .h\KNL
VPLr'fEItN?ATYON ',C?iIiiJLEv EVAIJiJAITT)O & DRI ; ;A.RCTI
.9 78                    j97 9                      1 9 80
ACTIVITY D&8CR{IPTJOLJ               FPrAf 7 A ;           ?
-F-- 1Y;ArjJJ       0N DJ    MA    JA S!II N        I  1,MY~mJ A,s~
Tw1-.V hicls  drive vehicles for HPD       f                                                                  i
(20-0-0)                                                                                                   t? ||
Tendering, bidding, evaluation          X X X X
IDA approval, conitract award                 X X
Documenitation, shipping, delivery                X XX X X X 
Use in field                                          I    xx XXXXXXXXXXXXXX x x    x x x|  xK x
2.  Special Equipment for    _                                               X                                  |
Health Planning and Research
Tendering, bidding, evaluation          X X X
IDA approval, contract award                  X X
Shipping, delivery                                 XX                                                 I   I
Use irn field                              I i i ! i               X X   X    XXX_X X jXXAX X X'X XX L.X
3.  Technical Assistance
Client continuation surveys
Selection of consultant                                x x x  x
Visit to Thailand                                               x                            x              x
Population institutes
Selection of consultant                       X X             X
Visit to T'hailand                                XXXX          X x                     X x
Researchl methodology
Selection of consultant                X
Visit to Thailand                         x xxxxxx             |    x    x|x                                X X
4.  Studies in Family Health Division
Client continuation surveys
Finalizing terms of reference                                   x                         x               X
Conduct of study                                                  x                          x, x
Preparation of reports                                              x x                        x               x
Injectable contraceptives program                                                                                            Id ii7
Finalizing terms of reference               X X                       X X                        x x  t 1 |       | 
Conduct of study                                XX                         X    x                    X x                    -J
Preparation of reports                               XX                          X |                       X X



THAILAND
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE: EVALUATION & RESEARCH (continued)
_ - 1978                       1979                        1980
ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION- 
ACTIVITY_________   ________      _  F M A M J J A S 0 N D J F M A M J J A S 0 N D J F M A M J I A S 0 N D J
Induced abortion stud-
Finalizing terms of reference                   X X X
Conduct of study                                       X X X XX
Preparation of final report                                       XX X
Evaluation studies (Including
population awareness seminar)
Finalizing terms of reference                              X X              X X        X X              X X
Conduct of study                                                X X X X         X X         X X X X       X|X
Preparation of reports                                               X X           X X             X X         X|X
5.  Studies in Population Institutes
Cost Effectiveness, NFPP
Finalizing terms of reference                              X X X X
Conduct of study                                                     X X X X X X  X X  X X
Preparation of final report                                                                 X XX X 
FP practice, fertility, mortality
Finalizing terms of reference                                      X X X X
Conduct of study                                                            X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X
Preparation of final report                                                                                      X X X X
Field trial of fertility control
Incentives
Finalizing terms of reference                        X X X
Conduct of study                                            X X X X X X
Preparation of final report                                               X X X
Village experiment in multisectoral
population and development activities
Finalizing terms of reference                        X X X
Conduct of study                                            X X X
Preparation of final report                                        X X
Impact, effectiveness and efficiency
of the AFPH program on health and FP
status (including cost study)                                                                                                        ii
Finalizing terms of reference                        X X X
Conduct of study                                            X X X X X X X X X X X X XXX  
Preparation of final report                                                                    X X X



THAILAND
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE: EVALUATION & RESEARCH (continued)
ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION                              17                          99_18  __
F M A MJ J A S OINID J F M AIM J J  A S O N D JIF M A M J  J|A|SO N|D J
6. Studies in AFPH Provinces
Surveys -- HPD (baseline, etc.)
Finalizing terms of reference               X X X
Conduct of study                                 XX X X X X X X XX X X X X X X X XX X X X X X X X X
Preparation of reports                                       X                            X                     X|XXX|
Evaluation of use of audio-visual
equipment -- HED
Finalizing terms of reference             X X X                                                X
Conduct of study                              X X X X                                            X X X X
Preparation of reports                                X X X                                                X X X
Evaluation of program impact
Finalizing terms of reference                                                             X X X X
Conduct of study                                                                                    x xx xx x
Preparation of final report                                                                                     x x x x
Operational studies -- HPD
Finalizing terms of reference             X X X X X X X X
Conduct of study                                   X |   X XXX X X X X X X X X XXX X XX X XX X XX 
Preparation of final report                                                                                     X  X X X
7.  Manpower Support
Policy & planning analysts, E&R
Sect. -- FHD (1-1-1)
Recruitment                               X X X X             XXX                         X X XX
Operative                                        XX | |   X|X|X|X|X|X|XXX|X|X|X  X|X|X X|X|X XXX XXX X X X  X X X X
Establishment of post by CSC /            XXXXXXX X             X|X|X X|X|XXX|X X|X|
Statisticians, E&R Sect. -- FHD
(2-0-0)
Recruitment                               X X x x
Operative                                         X|X|XXX X|X|X|X|X|X|X|X|X|X X|X X|X|X|X X|X X|X X X X X X X X X
Establishment of post by CSC /1           X X X X
Administrative clerk, E&R Sect. --                                       XX
FHD (0-1-0)                                                                                                                            Z( D
Recruitment                                                   XXXX4
Operative                                                              XX XX XX X XXX XX XX XX X XXX XX                        X x      . a',



THAILAND
IMPLEMENTATION SCHIEDULE: EVALUATION & RESEARCH (continued)
F   - - 1978                        1979                        1980
ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION
F M A MIJ J A S O NID J F M A M J J A S 0 N D J F M A M J J|A|S|O|N D J
CodErs, E&R Sect. -- F1lD (2-0-1)
Secretary/typist, E&R Sect. -- FHD
(1-0-1)
Recruitment                             X X X X            X X X X                     X X X X
Operative                                        X X X X  X X X X X X X X X X X X X X XX X X X x              x xXx x xlxlxlx
Punchers,E&R Sect. -- FHD (1-0-0)
Recruitment                             X X
Operative                                  X X XX XX X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X
Operations researcher -- HPD (1-0-0)
Management specialist -- HPD (1-0-0)
Provinces coordinator -- HPD (1-n-0)
Recruitment                             X X X X X
Operative                                      X XX X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X XX|X X|X X|X|X|X|X|X|X
Establishment of post by CSC /1         X X X X
Chiefs, Plan. & Res. Sect. - AFPH
prov. (20-0-0)
Recruitment                             X XX XX XX X
Operative                                        X X X XX X X X X X X X X X X X XX X X X X X|X X|X|X|X|XX|XX
Establishment of post by CSC /1         X X X X
Epid. workers, Plan. & Res. Sect. --
AFPH Prov. (20-0-0)
Statisticians, Plan. & Res. Sect. --
AFPH Prov. (20-0-0)
Recruitment                             XXX X X X X X  
Operative                                      xX X X XX XXX    X                  X  X XXXXX XxXXXX X XXXX XXX|X|XX
Establishment of post by  3C /1         X X X X
Abbreviations:
CSC - Civil Service Commission           HED - Health Education Division
FHD - Family Health Division             HPD - Health Planning Division                                                            M (D
FP - Family Planning                                                                                                                 0 >1
/1  For a post to be established in year (x), an application must be submitted to the CSC in November of                              |@
year (x-2); routine processing will then see the post established by September of year (x-l).  However,
in special cases, such as for thle posts fcr the project for 1978, special processing by the CSC r4ll see
the post established by May of 1978.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
THAILAND
MANAGEMENT AND PLANNING IN SUPPORT OF FAMILY
PLANNING AND PRIMARY HEALTH CARE
A. National Level
National Family Planning Organization and Administration
1.        The ,National Family Planning Coordinating Committee oversees the
implementation of the National Family Planning Program (NFPP) in Thailand.
Chaired by the Minister of Public Health, it is primarily responsible for
coordinating the operational policies and programs of agencies providing
family planning services. The Committee includes representatives from other
ministries and agencies involved in family planning in Thailand (Appendix 1).
The Under-Secretary of State for Health, the chief civil servant in the Min-
istry of Public Health (MOPH), is the Director of the NFPP. The Director-
General of the Department of Health is the Deputy Program Director and the
head of the Family Health Division is the Program Officer (Appendix 2).
2.        The NFPP is administered at the headquarters level by the Family
Planning Unit in the Family Health Division. The Family Planning Unit is
in turn divided into five sections: Administrative, Evaluation and Research
(E&R), Public Relations and Information, Training and Supervision, and Spe-
cial Projects Sections. The Administrative Section is in charge of logis-
tic support, correspondence, storage and distribution of contraceptives,
and financial management. The E&R Section undertakes internal evaluation
and operational research to evaluate the impact and effectiveness of the
NFPP. The Public Information Section is responsible for the production and
dissemination of family planning informational and educational materials and
for the family planning motivational activities of the MOPH. The Training
and Supervision Section identifies training needs, coordinates training
arrangements and supervises the paramedical personnel in the field who are
responsible for the delivery of family planning services. Annexes 2, 4, 5
and 6 describe in greater detail the roles and functions of these sections.
Altogether there are some 122 employees of the NFPP; 29 are employed by the
MOPH in established posts and 93 in non-established posts. Around one-half
of the non-established (temporary) posts have been funded by subventions from
external donors (Appendix 3).
3.        To enable the NFPP to continue its present level of operations and
expand its activities, there is a need for the Royal Thai Government (RTG)
to employ many of the subventioned persons as Government civil servants and
to somewhat expand the nucleus. Altogether some 45 positions are required
to ensure that the Family Health Division has the operational and technical
support to implement the expanded family planning program (Annex 9). Salary
support for these posts are included in the project. Previously, as shown
in Appendix 2, family planning and maternal and child health activities were
discrete programs. However, the Family Health Division's recognition of the



ANNEX 7
Page 2
need to optimize scarce human and financial resources have served as an
impetus for adopting an integrated approach. The proposed organizational
structure (currently under consideration by the RTG) is shown in Appendix 4.
MOPH Organization and Administration
4.        The MOPH is responsible for the organization and administration of
public health services in Thailand. The Ministry is divided into five depart-
ments responsible for technical supervision of public health activities and
the Office of the Under-Secretary of State for Public Health responsible for
administration, management and planning and evaluation (Appendix 5). The
departments report to the Under-Secretary of State for Public Health and in-
clude: The Department of Medical Care which is in charge of medical care
in hospitals or institutions; the Department of Health which oversees eight
technical divisions: Family Health, Nutrition, Rural Waterwork, Environmental
Health, etc.; the Department of Communicable Disease Control which supervises
nine technical divisions dealing with malaria, leprosy, T.B., V.D., filariasis
control, etc.; the Department of Medical Sciences which is responsible for
diagnostic laboratories and the promotion of medical research; and the Office
of Food and Drug Committee which is responsible for the control and regulation
of drugs and drug abuse.
5.        The Office of the Under-Secretary of State for Public Health coor-
dinates the work of the various departments and the provincial health admin-
istration, and supervises 18 divisions in i.s office together with the 71
provincial chief medical officers. The Office of the Under-Secretary is
managed by three Deputy Under-Secretaries of State: Planning and Evalua-
tion; Administration; and Support Services (Superintendent). Six of the
eight divisions responsible for project implementation report to the Deputy
Under-Secretaries: Rural Health, Construction and Design, Nursing Colleges,
Health Education, Health Training and Health Planning. The Family Health
and Nutrition Divisions report to the Director of the Department of Health.
Project Organization and Administration
6.        The project will be administered and coordinated by the MIOPH
through the Office of the Under-Secretary of State for Public Health. The
Deputy Under-Secretary of State for Planning and Evaluation will be desig-
nated as Project Director, responsible for overall coordination and imple-
mentation. The Deputy Director-General of the Department of Health will
serve as the Deputy Project Director and the heads of the Family Health and
Rural Health Divisions will be designated Assistant Project Directors. The
Project Director's office will have attached to it a Project Administration
and Financing Unit, which will provide the Project Director with staff sup-
port in the following areas: reporting project progress, processing reim-
bursement applications, approving contract documents and technical specifi-
cations for procurement under the project, preparing and submitting to the
Association for its prior approval all designs for the physical facilities
to be constructed under the project, and monitoring of project planning and



ANNEX 7
Page 3
implementation activities. The Project Administration and Financing Unit
will include: one financial administrator, one coordinator of field activi-
ties, two accountants, two secretary/typists and one health planner/economist.
The health planner/economist will be a 36 person-month advisor who will
assist the Project Director and his staff in carrying out the project. Two
two-wheel drive vehicles, to be procured in the first year of the project,
will be provided to the Project Director and the staff of the Project Admin-
istration and Financing Unit to enable them to oversee project implementation.
7.        The technical aspects of project implementation will be handled by
the following Divisions of the MOPH: Family Health (responsible for family
planning), Rural Health, Construction and Design, Nursing Colleges, Health
Education, Health Planning, Health Training, and Nutrition. To ensure effec-
tive coordination and that appropriate project actions are taken, a Project
Coordinating Committee consisting of the heads of these eight Divisions and
chaired by the Project Director or his Deputy will be established (Appendix 6).
Civil Works Administration and Supervision
8.        Since the project provides for an expansion of MOPH activities,
particularly in the 20 accelerated family planning and health (AFPH) prov-
inces, incremental salary support is included for those divisions in the
MOPH which will take on special responsibilities. In addition to the person-
nel requirements of the Family Health Division, Rural Health Division, Health
Education Division and Health Planning Division, additional personnel will
also be required by the Design and Construction Division. Within that Divi-
sion, a special section will be established to implement the national-level
and provincial-level construction program. This unit will be staffed by a
section head, who is a senior architect and who will report to the Director of
the Design and Construction Division, and by four other engineers/architects
and by 20 technicians. Two two-wheel drive vehicles will be provided to the
section head and his staff to enable them to supervise site selections and the
construction work. To avoid overiextending the capacity of the special section,
the peak load of required architectural and engineering services will be
covered by technical staff recruited from outside the MOPH. Annex 9 provides
details on the additional posts resquired to implement the project.
9.        Designs for project facilities will be based on standard designs
that have been developed by the Design and Construction Division. The staff
of the special project section wiLl be responsible for the remaining design
work, for supervising site selection, and for supervising construction work
including preparation of bidding documents. Supervising the scattered and
small-scale construction work in the provinces will be particularly demanding
on technical staff input. It is particularly so for this type of work where
technical staff recruited from the outside will be required to supplement the
special section staff.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
B. Provincial Level (AFPH Provinces)
10.       At the provincial level, the provincial chief medical officer is
the senior health official responsible for coordinating and supervising cura-
tive and preventive health services, including family planning. At the dis-
trict level, the district health officer, under the authority of the district
officer, has similar district level responsibilities. Family planning ser-
vices are administered as an integral part of Thailand's rural health ser-
vices.  Annex 2 describes the existing and proposed MOPH strategy for deliv-
ering family planning and basic health services.
11.       Family planning and health services in the 20 AFPH provinces will
be administered as part of the Ministry's strengthened provincial health care
system. 1/ The project will utilize and strengthen the existing system in
accordance with MOPH plans to strengthen the provincial administration to
include planning, implementation, budget allocation, and personnel control.
This decentralization will enable provincial administrators to exercise
greater flexibility in solving local health problems. At the same time the
proposed project will fully utilize existing committees, including Provin-
cial Health Advisory Councils, District Health Advisory Committees, Tambol
Councils, and Muban Committees to coordinate health activities and to ensure
the involvement of community leaders in setting health policy. Appendix 7
provides an organizational chart of provincial health care administration.
The Provincial Health Advisory Committee is an advisory body headed by the
provincial governor and including senior representatives of the MOPH and
other concerned Government agencies. It promotes coordination with other
agencies concerned and advises on implementation of health projects. The
District Advisory Council is a body established at the district level with
similar functions. The Tambol Councils and Muban Committees also help coor-
dinate health activities and ensure the involvement of community leaders in
setting health policy. The main committee responsible for overseeing the
implementation of the project in the 20 AFPH provinces is the Health Plan-
ning and Evaluation Working Committee. Its main functions are provincial
health planning, monitoring and evaluation, coordinating with other health
units and other agencies concerned, and integrating health activities with
1/   The 1974 reorganization of the MOPH strengthened central coordination
and decentralized planning and management. According to the newly or-
ganized structure, all of the provincial chief medical officers were
given full control over the delivery of provincial health services and,
henceforth, were to report directly to the Office of the Under-Secretary
of State. The five Departments of the central health administration
provide technical support to the Office of the Provincial Medical Offi-
cer. The Health Planning Division assists the provincial chief medical
officer in developing provincial health plans.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
other relevant sectors. The provincial chief medical officer chairs the
committee whose membership includes all key administrators at the provin-
cial and district levels. The Chief of the Planning and Evaluation Section
in the provincial health office is secretary to the Committee. This section
provides staff support in planning, monitoring, and evaluation to the provin-
cial chief medical officer. The project includes salary support for this
unit.
12.       An implementation schedule for the management and planning project
inputs is provided as Appendix 8.



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
THAILAND
COMPOSITION OF NATIONAL FAMILY PLANNING COORDINATING COMMITTEEI'
1.   Minister of the Ministry of Public Health (Chairman).
2.   Assistant Minister of the Ministry of Public Health (Deputy Chairman).
3.   Under-Secretary of the State of the Ministry of Public Health.
4.   Under-Secretary of State of the Ministry of Interior.
5.   Under-Secretary of the State of the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperative.
6.   Secretary of the National Economic and Social Development Board.
7.   Deputy Under-Secretary of State of the Ministry of Public Health.
8.   Director of the Budget Bureau.
9.   Director of the National Family Planning Program.
10.   Director General of the Health Department.
11.   Director General of the Medical Services Department.
12.   Director General of the Department of Technical and Economic Cooperation.
13.   Director General of the Department of Public Relations.
14.   Director of the Population and Social Resarch Institution, Mahidol University.
15.   Director of the Institute for Population Studies, Chulalongkorn University.
16.   Director of Population Research Division, National Statistical Office.
17.   Head of Adult Education, Ministry of Education.
18.   President of the Planned Parenthood Association of Thailand.
19.   Director of the Family Health Division, Ministry of Public Health.
J/ The National Family Planning Committee was established in '974. It is
responsible for overseeing the work of the National Family P'anning Pro-
gram as planned and administered by the Ministry of Public Health. It
also helps coordinate the population activities of external donors.
Source: Family Health Division, Ministry of Public Health.



THAILAND
EXISTING ORGANIZATION OF THE NATIONAL
FAMILY PLANNING PROGRAM
MINISTER OF HEALTH
AND
DEPUTY-MINISTER
I
UNDER-SECRETARY OF STATE
FR HEAL TH
OFFICE OF THE UINDER-
SECRETARY OF STATE
FOR H EALTH
DEPARTMENT OF
HEALTH
I
FAMILY HEALTH
DIVISION
F                            _I                                           I1
|MATERNAL AND||FAIYPNIG|
lCHILD HEALTH                                                             FAIL PLANIN
ADMINI-     EVALUA-       PUBLIC RE-                   S    L
STRA-       TION AND      LATIONS IN-    TRAININ       SPEC IA
& SUPERVI-     PRO
TIVE        RESEARCH      FORMATION    SION SECT.      JECTS                                                   X
SECTION     SECTION       SECTION                      SECTION 
SOURCE: FAMILY HEALTH DIVISION, MINISTRY OF PUBLIC HEALTH.
WORLD BANK - 17841



THAI LAND
STAFFING OF THE NATIONAL FAMILY PLANNING
PROGRAM AT HEADQUARTERS, MINISTRY OF PUBLIC HEALTHI/
FAMILY PLANNING UNIT
NUMBERO(F  NUMBER OF
POSITION       PERMANENT  FEMPORARY
POSITIONSV  POSITIONS
DOCTORS             5
ADMINISTRAFION SECTION                    EVALUATION A RESEARCH SECTION              PUBLIC RELATIONS & INFORMATION SECTION            TRAINING AND SUPERVISION SECTION             SPECIAL PROJECTS SECTION (TECH SECTIONI
NUMREROF  NUMBER OF                           NUMBER OF  NUMRER OF                             NUMBER OF NUMBEROF                           NUMRER OF  NUMBER OF                             NUMBER OF  NUMBER OF
POSITION       PERMANENT TEMPORARY            POSITION        PERMANENT  TEMPORARY           POSITION         PERMANENT TEMPORARY           POSITION        PERMANENT  TEMPORARY            POSITION         PERMANENT TEMPORARY
PO.ITIONSZ/ POSITIONS                         POSITIONS21 POSITIONS                           POSITIONS21 POSITIONS                         POSII IONS21  POSITIONS                          POSITIONSS' POSITIO0NSY
ADMINISTRATIVe      I                          DOCTOR             1                           HEAPUBLIC HEALTH                                                   13                           ESEARCHER           1          I
ASSISTANT                                      STATISTICIAN       1           2               EUAO                                           NURSE                                          PROJECT                          3
ACCOUNTANT          2           2                                                             COMMUNICATION                  3               CLERK                           1               COORDINATOR
ADMINISTRATIVE                 I               OFFICER
NURSE               1                          ASSISTANT                                                                                     NURSE                           I               FORE:GN                         I
MOBILE UNIT                    7              ASSISTANT                                       AFFAIRS OFFICER
CLERK               3           2              RSESARCRER         1                                                                                                                          ADMNISRATEER
SUPPLY OFFICER                  4              SENIOR CODER                   2               PRINTER                         I              WOKER                           2               ASSISTANT
WORKER                          8              JUNIOR CODER                  10               FIELD WORKER                   10                                                              LIBRARIAN                       1
DRIVER                         12              CLERK                          2               CLERK                           2                                                              TRAINING                        1
JANITOR                         I              KEY-PUNCHER                    1               ELECTRONIC                      2
OFFICER                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JANITOR       1
ELECTRONIC                      1              JANITOR                        I
OFFICER                                                                                      JANITOR                          1
TYPIST                          4
NUMBER OF NUNBER OF
1] AS OF SEPTEMBER 1975.                                                                                                                                                                    TOTAL            PERMANENT TEMPORARY
POSITIONST' POSITIONS
2/ POSTS ESTABLISHIED BY T'HE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.                                                                                                                                       1PS
122                29          9J
SOURCE FAMILY IIEALTH DIVISION' MINISTRY OF PU3LIC HEALTH
World B-nk  17842
N IN



T-iAI LAND
PROPOSED ORGANiZATION OF THE
FAMILY HEALTrH DIVISION'!
FAMILY HEAI TH DIVISION
BOARD OF PHlYSICIANS
PLANNING AND              EVALUATION             PUBLIC RELATIONS            TECHNICAL                  PROGRAM                ADMINISTRATIVE
p                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~AND INFORMATION                             SUJPPORT
SUPERVISION SECTION     PROGRAMMING SECTION      AND RESEARCH SECTION             SECTION                  SECTION                   SECTION                  SECTION
_  FHAINING   {   <           XRESt ARCH                4      ~     ~    ~ ~~MOBL  tDOCIlMENAIN                         - <                FAMILY 
SIJEP LIES~ ~ ~~FA IL-
DOUETATION
QUL                             CH~~~~~~~~ENA  N
TRAINlING AND                                             .DCUMENA ON                                                              ._ MAERAAN 
PERVISION               PROGRAMMING               EVALUATION                PRODUC I ION             TFCI-INQUE         _IL    CHILD HEALTHV
UNIT                                                                                             AND ANALYSIS
SUPERVIIO                                                                                             PRODCTION
_4 AND FIELD    l      |      LIAISON     l     |     REPORTING                 MASS MEDIA               AND PUBLIC
DEOERATIONS                 _|     INFORMATITON
CLERCAL
SUPPORT
NATIODNAIL
[:NATIN~AL                          MATERNAL AND CHILD                   LFAML  PL~ANNINO
TE                          HEAL-TH CENTER                          TRAINING CENTER
_                      I      ,   I  __~~~~~~-  
MATERNAL AND CHILD
HEALTH SUB-CENIERS
1/ REQUIRES APPRVAL FROM MINISTRY
OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND CIVIL SERVICE
COMMISSION
SOURCE. MINISTRY OF PUBLIC HFALTI-.                                                                                                                            World Bonk - 18421
(D I
:,1r
H. I



ANNEX 7
Appendix 5
THAILAND
ORGANIZATION CHART OF MINISTRY
OF PUBLIC HEALTH
Mi%ISTER OF PUBLIC HEALTH|
OFIICEOFITH'ESECRETR                                AND
DEPUTY -UNDER SECRETARY       DEPUTY -UNDER SECRETARY      DEPUTY -UNDER SECRE TARY
DSUPERINTENDENT)         (PLANNING AND EVALUATION)         (ADMNISTRATIONI
- HIEALTH TRAINING DIV.       - GENERAL ADMINISTRATION DIN
-INSPECTOR GENERAL       -NURSING COLLEGE AFFAIRS DIV. -OSRCIN&DSG   I
PEOV NCIAL HOSPITAL DIV    -NURSING DIV.               -MEDICALREGIN TRDESIG DIV
- RURAL HEALTH DIV         -HEALTH PLANNING DIN.         - LEGIAL AFFAISRSADIV DI
PERSONNEL DV             - EPIDEMIOLOGY DIV.            - EALNT ENACEA& REPAIV DIV.
- FINANCIAL DIV.- HEALTH STATISTICS D[V            - HEALTH EDUCATION CDE
_ INTERNATIONAL HEALTH DIV
DEPARTMOENT OF COM-DEATETFOFIEPP00&
DEPARTMENT OF MEDICAL            DEPARTMENT OF HEA.LTH          -MUNCA BLE D ISEASED                                       v           O *                    0 F FOC D  '
SERV ODS                                                                                   CONTROL                 MEDICAL SCIENCES            DRUGS COMMITTEES
ELSA~~~ ~~ L                                                                                  TE INEESATS
-OFFICE OF THE                     OFFICEOFTHE                  RURALADMINISTRATION         - O'FFCEOF THE               - OFFICEOF THE               - OFFICEOF THE
SECRETARY                        SECRETARN                                                  SECPETARY                    SECRETARY                    SECRETARY
-FINANCIAL DIV                   - FINANC AL DIV                                            - FINANCIAL DIV.              - ENTOMOLOGY DIV.           - PUBLIC RELATIONS
PERSONNEL DIV.                 - PERSDNNEL DIV.                                           - PERSONNEL DIV.             - NATIONAL HEALTH              AND ADVERTISE.MENT
TECHNICAL DIV                  _ DENTAL HEALTH DIV.                                         V D. CONTROL DIV.             LABORATORIES                CONTROL DIV.
MENTAL HEALTH DIV             _ RURAL WATER SUPPLY                                          MALARIA ERADICATION          PROJECT DIV               - COSMETIC CONTROL
CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL              DIV.                                                       DIV.                       - RADIATION PROTEC-            DIV.
THANYARAK HOSPITAL             -NUTHIT ON DIV                                               GENERAL C.D.C DIV.           TION SERVICE DIV          - DRUGS CONTRCL DIV
PRASART NEUROLOGICAL          _ FAMILY HEA LTH DIN               PROVINCIALCHIEF          - FILAIASIS CONTROL          - CLINICAL PATHOLOGY        - PSYCHOTROMIC
HOSPITAL& INSTITUTE           - SCHOOL HEALTH DIV                MEDICAL OFFICER            DIV.                         DIV.                         SUBSTANCE
-M ENTAL DEFICIENCY              ENVIRDNMENTAL HEALTH                                     - LEPROSY CONTROL DIV,       - TOXICOLOGY DIV.              CONTROL DIV.
HOSPITAL                         DIV.                           PRDVINC AL PUBLIC         - TB CONTROL DIV.            - DRUG ANALYSIS DIV.        - FOOD & BEVERAGE
LERD SIN HOSP TAL                OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH            BEALTH OFFICE               BAMRASNARADURA             _ FOGS & BEVERAGE              CONTROL DIV
SR ITHEANYA HOSPITAL             DIV.                            HARLT INCIAEAN              S. HOSPITAL                 ANALYSIS DIV.             - TECHNICAL DIV.
BUDDIST MONK'S                                                 PDISTRICT HOSPITAL         - LEPROSY HOSPITAL           - MEDICAL RESEARCH            INSPECTOR DIV
HOSFITEJCHAOYAL                                         t        1EDICALAND HEALT           CHEST HOSP TAI.            -VRURESEARCHl
HOSPITAL HCENTER                                                                                                          INSTITUTE
_WOMEN'S HOSPITAL
INSTITUTE OF PATHOLOGY
NATIONAL CANCER
INSTITUTE
-I NSTITUTE OF
DERM.ATOLOGY
DISTRICT HEALTH
OFFICER
DISTRICT HEALTH
OFF ICE
ISTCLASS HEALTH
CENTERS
2ND CLASS HEALTH
CENTERS
W.IDWIFERY
CENTERS
SOURCE MINISTRY OF PULIC HEALTH
World Sa - 17909



THAILAND
ORGANIZATION ARRANGEMENTS
FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC HEALTH
UNDER SECRETARY OF STATE
FOR
PUBLIC HEALTH
r                                         OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION                       PROJECT DIRECTOR
AND FINANCES UNIT            l                (DEPUTY UNDER-SECRETARY OF STATE
_   .                 .                ~~~~~~~~~~~fOR PUBLIC HEALIHI
POSITION           NUMBER
DEPUTY PROJECT DIRECTOR
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATOR           1                    (DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL,
COORDINATOR OF FIELD ACTIVITIES    1                   DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH)
HEALTH PLANNER/ECONOMIST          1
ACCOUNTANT                        2                   ASSISTANT PROJECT DIRECTORS
SECRETARY/TYPIST                  2                   (DIRECTOR FAMILY HEALTH DIVISION AND
DIRECTOR RURAL HEALTH DIVISION)
PROJECT COORDINATING COMMITTEE
CHAIRMAN (PROJECT DIRECTOR OR DEPUTY PROJECT DIRECTOR)
SECRETARY (ASSISTANT PROJECT DIRECTOR)
DIRECTOR         DIRECTOR            CONSRUCTION       DIRECTOR            DIRECTOR        DIRECTORDIETRIECO
|FAM I LY HELALTIH11   H EA LTH TRAINING    CONSTRUCTIBOM    RRURAL HEALTH  HEALTH         NURSING           HEALTH PLANNING       NUTRITION
FAILYIO HEATH    HELTSTAIIN          AND DESIGN        DIIINEDUCATION                      COLLEGE AFFAIRS DISONIVIN
DIVISION   DIVISIONDIVSIONDIVISION                               DIVISION         DIVISIONDISONIVIN
SOURCE: MINIST-RY OF PUBLIC HEALTH                                                                                                                                      4>
World Bank -- 17843                X



THAILAND
ORGANIZATION CHART OF PROVINCIAL
HEALTH ADMINISTRATION
PROVINC                  |MINISTRY OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
PROVINCIAL HEALTH OFFICE     - - -  PROVINCIAL HEALTH
ISPECIALIZED SERVICE UNIT                       I                       PLANNING AND EVALUATION
I UNDER CENTRAL ADMINISTRATION |                                         COMMITTEE
ADMINISTRATION  9              PL~ANNING AND
SECTION          T             EV~~~~~~ALUATION SECTION
REGIONAL/PROVINCIAL     DISTRICT HOSPITAL MEDICAL                   I                      HEALTH TECHNICAL SERVICES
HOSPITAL                AND HEALTH CENTER                                                | OFFICE               HA
HEALTH    COMMUNICABLE ENVIRONMENTAL  EDUCATION,   MEDICAL I DENTAL1
PROMOTION DISEASE       SANITATION    TRAINING     SERVICES I HEALTH I
SECTION    CONTROL SEC  SECTION       AND SUPPOR-- SECTION I SECTION I
L   ~ ~ ~ ~       ~             s    \\  I  / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ DlS ~~~~~~SECTION                        ___I__J
DISTRICT HEALTH OF~FICE __ DSRCHELHAVOY
|HEALTH CENTER ||MIDWIFERY CENTER|
CHILD NUTRITION                          TRADITIONAL        VILLAGE HEALTH        VILLAGE            OTHER PRIVATE I
CENTER             TAMBON DOCTOR          MIDWIFE           VOLUNTEERS            DISTRIBUTOR        VOLUNTEERS
L   HEALTH COMMUNICATOR
____________   LNE OF COMMAND
-                - - - - LINE OF COMMUNICATION/SUPERVISION
SOJRCE. MINISTRY OF PUBLIC HEALTH
WodE IE-1, 17844



THAILAND
IMPLEMENTATTON SCHEDULE: MANAGEMENT & ADMINISTRATION
ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION                              1978     - - -             1979              -           1980
ACTIVITY_______________F M A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S O N D J F M A M JJ A |  0N D .
1.  Vehicles
Two-wheel drive vehicles for
project administration -- PAFU(2-0-0)
Site selection (2-0-0)
Tendering, bidding, evaluation            X X X X
IDA approval, contract award                     X X
Documentation, shipping, delivery                     X X X X X X
Use in field                                                      xxx x x x x x x x x|x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x
2.  Technical Assistance
Health planner, economist
Operative                                 X XX X X X X XX X X|X X X X X X X X X|X X X X X X X X XXXXX X X X
3.  Manpower Support
Fl.scal servlce officer -- Admilin.
Sect. FIID (0-1-0)
Recruitment                                                  X X X      |
Operative                                                              X|X|X|X|X|X XX X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X
Establishment of post by CSC /1           XX X X XXX X X X            |
Architects -- Constr.  & Design Div.
(2-0-0)
Engineers -- Constr. & Design Div.
(3-0-0)
Operative                                 XXXXX|X|X|X|XXX|X|X|X|X|X|X|X XXX XX XXX X X XXX X X X XXX
Technicians -- Constr. & Design Div.
(20-0-0)
Recruitment                               x x x x
Operative /2                              X|X|XXX|X|X|X|X|X|XXX|X|X|X|X|X XXXXXXX X X XX X XXXXXXX
Establishment of post by CSC /1           X X X X
Financial administrator -- PAFU
(1-0-0)
Coordinator (1-0-0)
Recruitment                               X X X  
Operative                                        XXXXX|X|X|X|X|X X|X|X|X|X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X                        l lx
Accountants -- PAFU (1-1-0)
Recruitment                               xxxx   | |               xlxlx
Operative                                        XXX X X X X X X X X X XX X X XX X X X X X X XX X X X X X X X    |



THAILAND
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE: MANAGEMENT & ADMINISTRATION (continued)
ACTIVIT  DESCRI1978  _    -                 1979       __              1980
ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION                  F MA M J J A SO N D J F MA M J JASON D J FM M   IA SOND J
Administrative clerk -- Admin. Sect.                                                                        T
FHD (1-1-0)
Recruitment                             XX                                                 XX
Operative                                    XX X X X X X X X X X X XX X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X
Secretary typist    Admin. Sect. FHD
(1-1-0)
Recruitment                             X X                   X X
Operative                                   XX X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X XX
Abbreviations:
CSC - Civil Service Commission
FHD - Family Health Division
PAFU - Project Administration and Financing Unit
/1  For a post to be established in year (x), an application must be submitted to the CSC in November of year
(x-2); routine processing will then see the post established by September of year (x-l). However, in
special cases, such as for posts for the project in 1978, special processing will see the post established
by May of 1978.
/2  Of 20 engineers, 6 are already operative.
0..
cx 1
Hx' -J
mc



AtMEX 8
ThAILAND                                                                                        Page 1
POPULATLON PROJECT ACTIV7IT MATRIX
Ditbt.e.n.t   Faciitites.- teoreoti Lan.    taeo Euir et                    MANAcles                    Techolesl Assistance &  Suotli-s                          I-tctentia  IFeratearsl S,,.ert
Category                                                                                            Oroeteitolal Serojees                                    Salaries & Allean-ess    Antivitie-
F-sntio-tl
Catearor         Itno                      Cost   I-                 Coatt                        C      ie                 Cost   Ite                   Cent -    tee                 Cast  Ites                 Coat
SERVIC5S
teeotl Leon                                                                     1,554 Cataeyz~Ies                                      3 oilecdose                    FAD:
(Ott. Cevel(Au i )  902.4                             of Iojeetoblts  3,000.0        6 Ntets (Sopee-
11 Vats (stertil-                                      12.5 siliit  ty-                  vist U Uit)   21.99
esateo  Teans)    107.8                                tles ef Pills   3,356.3   RaD:
51 Tat-aheel drtre                                                                      1 Docttr           10.81
(syanois.os FP) 215.8                                                                 1 Pubio  Heath
2 Two-weel dOrie                                                                          Nurte            5.29
(Prottr AC-.'    11.6                                                                t Inie9 tant-
tattoo           5.29
19 eretory/
Toit    3.06
Proottotal   ontL-   25 tideit-ey Ceters 4,49                                   675  7etoryc te                                                                        5 Fcte s 1s6  2o
1SX 9natti Cetter  -'.4'9.8                            (OAt.. dios   405.0                                                                  Toaitils-es    169.2
1 isTtiet Ftnpitt                                          1,661 Motorcyclen                                                                     242 Poottit
1th-be                3,363.0                              (lanitteian)       996.5                                                              Noen Midwiros  409.8
lXMtAotitt-                                        25 yar  (Seertlia-                                                                    39    t.midetoe  699.1
Cantier                 666.0                              tite Tnann6        196.0                                                            199 J.siar Sari-
upgradin6:                                                 20  rn-t-rnl drti-                                                                       tortate          348.5
3M StArt tery Cnn-                          ~~~~~~~~~~~(Peto-y Health                                                           730 Anst. P-lth
ter  to  Ntaith                                         Coon)ry 1de .lthWeoters-MASC   1,101.3
Certers              463.5                             199 Meotyorvles                                                                       101 Anti. 1teal-
6 Di-stitt  gEepitale                                      (Ptr-ary HnaL eM                                                                      ttorers-DN /PHM
(13 to 30 beAd)   3,332.2                                Care)             1'9.4                                                              2Ttt)t2)          344.5
25 Two--h-el drin                                                                     20 P..rvincial
(tisritct tespi-                                                                       X-,i-
tate)             145.0                                                               Ptri.ay Heallh
21 yno-t.-ent dArio                                                                      1e 153.9
(MSpeisotitt FP) 116.8                                                             199 trpcty lit-
Offi-ios         893.0
195 Clerk/Tvitse 610.0
Natlo Level 1-enI Epeno  Stoning                                                14 Minibus-e (Trees-                                                                  FHD:                        Pepoltltio
Soh-ol                1,588.2                              Fenn etodeots)   152.2                                                                6 Nurses (Te-hni-           Aoarnst           15.0
3 P_a_rica-  torte 2ruset    (Ta-to-tro                                                                                                                al training)  27.03 A-st. Health
Midrile-y Stho-ls   3,581.8                                st-deets)           9Q.0                                                              5 tortes (Cliti-           lWr-kes            IO.1
0 Midoifery Soboet &                                       2 Iti-hoes (FP                                                                             -al troating)  24.54   (MC9  FP)
MCH Center            2,889.1                             TCrioing C-ater)  19.6                                                                  1 been  (Ar.)    5.13 Sense PeaceMetre-
1I'FP Traiting                                                                                                                                     1 Media In-tron-            nee             420.0
Center                  4054                                                                                                                       ro4 (Ade.)        4.99
2 Midwttany
Sch.ole 6 MCI
C-eMer              1,429.6
2 Midt tfery
Sohools            1.156.5
Ft.o.iti1 L-eel                                                                                                                                                                                   Astt. Eealth
sork-rs(HCH/FP)  6.8
Nsot. lealt
VoOrker  MVCt)  182.5
Curative Ser-
oiuts 2,066.3
eMoesn-         140.0
Dsprey Dietrit
lealth Offi-
c iali  IrtIo-
eons             50.6
NC Aet-nderis       9.0
Matarsentete        45.3
LtfOR`ATIO, VDUCATION
& COf f lUTICOTI5A
Ntti-ol tnoel                                         FHD:  AV Pre-             3 yan-oheel dri-e                                                                    FtD-PR & Infotea-            Fasily Hea-th
dottio-          90.1    (Freccjr Ade.)    17.4                                                                 tion   9 Crest-             Ditisito        795.6
MED:  AV Pee-                                                                                                     etoatees           00.01 NutrttnDioi-
do-eioo         131.4                                                                                         HID:  2 Design &              site            158.8
51 Frovitnes:                                                                                                     Ped-oriat 8taff 25.95 Pe,leatieo
Utili-stiet     314.3                                                                                         Pop.lactei  Oaane_             tarsaeet        20.0
N2:  At 8upplies  15.0                                                                                            tnes:
Cholaloogieri:                                                                                                    1 Publications &
AV Supplis-        6.0                                                                                            I=fo  Ftio-
fi-er            5.62
1 Clenk/tirts    3.24
Prooi-orat Lsvel                                      Frorin'al                 20 sTo-eheel deiva                                                                    20 H-sth Ed- a A
Health Offices  69.6    (Health Edons-                                                                          nore               97.4  Pr-duction           30.0
Provincial Hon-              tin)              116.0
pitals           67.4
Distric- HApi-
tale (30-bMd)   52.6
Di-tstri  Hospi-
atas (t0-bed)   27.0



THAILAND                                                                                   PANNX 2
POPULATION PROJECT ACTIViTf MATRIX (nti..n.ed)
T:aharseaace   Facilities. Eauipment, Lead   Special Eqaip-et             Vehicles                    Technical A-isaneace &  Suppliea                       Iccraeaenal Operatnacal Sanport
Ca-egoty                                                                                         Profe         S-ional Sernicee                          Ealarias & Alleeances
Eunanieaol
etege       ep                           Coena  Ease  Itee         Ease  Iteee                 rCes  lacm                C       Ite T eaCost    Item                             gnat   Itee               nats
1E31UATION & RESEARCH
Nati-nal Leanl                                                                                            3/12 Adni-ca                                            FHD-E&R Sec-i-n:           Pasil Rea'Tth
(Cpntinuatioa                                          3 Pelicy & Plea-           Dan-sice        120.0
Ecrvelcal        21.8                                    cg Analytst  10185 Population
8/12 Adnisor                                              2 5tatisticiRDs  10.31   Instiues          223.0
(Pnpelatia-                                            1iAd.. Clack        2.16
Istittes)        49.4                                  3 Ede-c             702
I Euncher          3.15
Typiats          4.05
1 Enseaticac
Researcher      10.31
IpacpeilAt      10.31
Iaaccleanc       10.3
Eroviecial Le1                                      HRealth Plaaa-g           20 Tco--heel deiae          12/12 Adnia                                             Eleing   --h: ECl: Tdinats                    132.5
& E,cleetian   109.5    (HPD)               116.0    -Reaa..ch                                               20 ChisC af              ElD:  Utilize-
Ystha dsl1gy)   79.2                                     Saction        172.8    tian of Equip-
20 Epld-aialag-           a6t .2
icLa Wrkers  115.2  C aaiae Era-
20 Steti-l-               gran Inpact    2EE.E
cina           115.2  HPD:  Operaetne-
al Stidies      450.0
MASAGEMENT & ALMINISTRATION
NAtio-la   Lanai                                                              2 Two-wheel dri-e           Pre-ion-al                                              FFD-Administratine
(Site sese-tion)  11.6    gecvica5          96.1 i
2 Two-aheel drire           I HIealth Elacoak                                         2 Ad . Cleka       4.14
(PAFU)             11.0    E-c-ascist      150.0                                   2 Sacrecary/
Typi...          5.22
IAFiscal 5sr-
nice Officec    2.16
Caetrcttaniaa
2 Acchint_ea      13.20
3 Rnginaers      19.44
2  Tec  icles  104.0
I Fiscal Adaie-
iseasea_        12.28
1 Cnrdicat       10.30
2 Accountants    12.0
2 Secretary{
2Evoniats         10.44
PenellLanI                                                                                          Peaf-aiatal
5ec-icea        244.6
Abb-tsieti-si:
Ada. - AdeicaHaiin                   hPD - ealth Planning Din"sLao
ARst, -Assitacet                     eWC - Midwifery c eDee
Aux. - AcailiRry                    ND - Nateitiaa Dii.n..
AV - _ALdiOvisu9                     FAFV - Paja-ct Adelsi-tra-lna and Pieas-iad Uait
CNC - Child Natrieios Ecate          PE - Promcalal 3.-piecl
DN - District f{epital               PRO - Proviecial Health Offic-
FHD - Paaily Halath Divisiaa         PR - Pabl-c Ralati-es
PP - Panpily Pleacig                 RHD - fcr-l EHsalth Diniian
HC - Health C-onanica-t-             V-    illlage Healeh Vlncer
lED - Realth Ed-catiac Diviisao



__ l_ Year I                                                  He___   _n_  2                                                      e=  3 =.
Coo posren                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Totasl      ioreoio           'onial
I I            III             IV              I              I f               II             It,             I                II            1TTrI                                           Cos-             l.,oI
A.  SoolLevel
A.1 Civil Works
1.  ionstreetion  snd Site Senopot
2678%          7 676~ 
1.1   Lspaoosioo Nt,rniog steool                            -              -             511.0          255.6           255.6           25S.6              -               _               _                                              -                1,277.            306.6         9 71.2
1.2  PractIcal Nureo Midwiftey  Schools                     -              -          1,289.0           672.5           672.1           448.4                              -3,082.                                                                                           739,R       2,312.6
1.3  Midwifery Slclooi sod 91011 C-ete-                     -              -             700.6          340.6           340.8           3.10.8           340.8                                                                                              7,414 6               .      99,,637.1
1.4  NFPP TIlsislg Looter                                   -              -             162.6          129.9            66.6             -                -               -                                                                                  379.1           91.6         208.
1.5  1spassio  2 Midoifery  iShool s a-d
MCII C_nta                                            -               -            514.5           246.2           246.2          246.2              82.2            -               _               _                                                1,335.3          32(1.5      1,014.6
1.6  Etpansi-n 2 Molsifsey Schols                         ,-               -  _           750.0        _268            236.3_            94.8   _      _ -               _  _              _                               _                                  12      _
Stb-Total A.1.1                                    -          3,696.7   .    1,929.0          1,838.4         1,385.8            423.6           3011m.            -               -                      -                         9,613.7       2,397.3        7,306.4
2.  Loreire
2.1  topo -sios Nlrsiog S1hooi                              -               -             46.5            84.7             -             55.3              -               -               _               _                                                    l(i,0         33I            877.
2.2   Pr Nst Mcsl Ososs  Tidoif-ry Schools                  -              -               -               -I 1.2                      102.0              -               -               -               _                                                  2l3.8           64.1           '19.7
2.3  Mllotfsry Schoonl ond MCh Ceot-r                       -              -               -               -                             72.2             66.7             -               -                                              -                   737.9           7(7            97.2
2.4  NPrP T-rinae,g Center                                  --                              .5             1.6             -               6,1             -                               -               -                               -                   (7.3            3.1            6.5
2.5  Eopassi-n  2 Midlifery Schools ood
MCH C-Lt-rs                                           _               -                              -              32.5            29.7              -              -               -               -               -               -                    62.4          18.7           43./
2.6  Stsp-nsio-  2 MidloifIry StIols          i               -            -       _                                      3.8             3.3 -  _,                                                                                                                              .. -  -  -  -1 ,  _.7   3......2.__ 5 
SoL-iotal A,.2                     -              -              45.0            16.3          147.5           269.6             66.7                             -               -               _               _                  545. 1         163.5         3981 .0
3. E_quipoicat
3.1   Exponnios Noieog School                               -               -            19.0              -               -             99.9              -                                                                                                    99- 90,9     (Is .)          80.0
3.2  footsto-l Itiros  Miclwifery Schools                   -              -               -               -            263.3                      -               -               -               -               -                       -                  269.3          15.0           105.3
3.3   Mlidofecy  School asd 0140 Cootos                     -                      -                       -               -            335.6              -       -               -               -               -               -                          335.0           01.4          134.2
3.4  N10' P T-raiing CooLer                                 -               -             24.6             -                             24.5                              -               -                       -                                           47.3           29.5           19.6
3.5  ELpaoa-io  2 Midwif-ry Schoola a-d
MCII C-L-er                                           -               -               -              -              31.9                                     -               -               -                               -                            3i.9            9,1          12.6
3.6  lopnnsion 2lMidwifcry9choaLa                           -               -              -               -              24.7            -                -               -               -               -               -               -                     47            9.68           9.9
Sb_-Total A.1.3                     -              -             124.6             -            319.9           460.0              -               -               -               -               -               -                  904.5          542.7         361.8
4.  Otof... -eol S--OlO
0. 1x      (Iess  367,)
12 of A.l.1                                           -               -             37.0            19.3           (8.4            13.8              4.2            83.              -               -              -                                    96.1            -             96.1
5, Lted
5.2   Pridtical Nuroc Slwn fOcy Seheois                    22.3                            -               -               -               -               -               -                       -               -               -                           22.3            -             27.3
SLb_- _ca I _loaT I Wok            22.3 -                          _           3,903.3 _,'64.6                2 ,12, 229.2       .97.9          344.2              -               -               -               -                       71,    1 7   3l,2(3.S  3, 1068.2
A. I   Noe-CinI Whoks
1.777hicic  (7n)  (307)
0.1   Motoroycles (hooIC,acy  MsloSvot)                     -            632.4           350.0                     -               -                     159.8             -               -               -               -               -                  932.4          652.I          289.7
1.2  Vaos (Sterilo-atio-  Toe-s)                            -             (7.                                                                                                                                                                                 107.8           75.5           32.3 
I.3  2-14hol Drivs  Vehi Ic.  (Sop-evision
of 57)                                                -            295.8              -                              -               -               -                               -               -               -               -                  295.8          2(7.1           88.7
1.4  Transport a1 Nrsciog Stuleite
a)  Mlnib-se-                                                       49.8            88.2                                                                                                                                                                     -  -  -  -  -    -  37.2  96.0  41.2
b)  Boss                                                                              -              -              90                               -               -                       -               -                       -                    90.0          63.0           27.0
1.5  2-Wheel Drive VOhiales  (Sirt SeSe-tio-,)              -             11.6                                            1-               -               -               -               -                       -                                             1.6           8.1            3.5
1.6  2-Wheeil nrive VSnilsls
a)  Pro_ect AmList rct_ion, RIID                      -              11.6                            -               -               -               -                               -               -               -               -                    I .6            8.1           3,i
b)  P-j-et Adsioistrntioo  -ao
Financi-ng Uit                                                  11.6                                   --                -              -               -               -                               -               -                             1.6            8.1           3.5
o)  Project Administr-tion  LFll)                                                                                                                     -              -               -                                                                    1 -  -  7.4   12.2            5.2
1.7  MiTib-so. (PP Training  Ce.ne-)                        -             19.6             -9                              -              -                -                                                                                                       6 -  -  -  _  __ _   13,7  5.9
Sab-ToLtI A.TT.t                    -          I,156.8           238.2             -             90.0             -                                                                                                                 15n .  _  _  , 635.0  1,144.5  490.5



THAILAND
DETAILEDOI T00 ESTIMATES
(US8' 000)
Ye    1                                                    Year 2                                                         Year 3
Co-pone.-L                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Tmot.        origr l.ocal
I              II             00T            IV'            I              II             ITI             IV            1                Tl            III             TV                           Coet            Co-t
2.  3  :L
2.1  AV  llro.la     EqOlip.ent (F0D)
a)   'ctric Add-Ieslio Machinr                                                                                 3.2                            -              -              -              -              -              -                    3.2      i ,  
b) OHitng *rbintte for Addrenssinr
blachine- lAOrs P                                             _              _              _               .4            _               _                              .3            _              _                                     .7           .7
r)  Audio Cassetrr  Oupliraror                     _                                            -                      - 3.6                                                                                                                  3.6
d)  AV SOapple-                                    7.5            7.5     _      7.6            7.6            5.8           _5.              5.9              9            7.2      _     7.2            7.2       _    7.3                 0.6           82.6           -
SOrb-lotal A._f.2.1               7.5            7.5            7.6            7.6           13.0            5.9             5.9            5.9            7.a            7.2            7.2            7.3                 90.1          90.1
2.2  AV POrodactio- Eqaepment (11ED)
a)  loiti,g Eqoip.n.t                                             _             88.0            -              -                              -              -              -              -              -              -                   880.)         8.0 
b)   1i-aking bquip-ent                            -              _             73.4            _              _                              _              _                                            _              _                   73.4          73.4
C   O'lip.ent fo  P-rernetitg and
Tranaing A.tirirle-                            -      .                    20.0                           -              -               -               -             -               -              -              -                   20.0 -0.0                    -
Fub-Tottl A.T0.2.2                -              -            181.4                                                                                                                                                        11-  -  -  -  -  -  -  1.4  081.4  -
2.3  Oltill e       ,ien Yqalipment
a) .rov.nc,al Otalth Offi-es (51
0_Iel_ces)                                                   -            121.9                                                                                                                                                         120.9         121.9
b)  OProitnrl  .ard Disirict9
Corpitala  (51 Orave     ) 3          _                                   2 057.4             _                     _                    -         _                   -         _              _              _     -_   _ 192.4                    _12.4       
Sl,0-Total A.II.2.3               -              -            314.3            -              -              -               -              -              -              -              -              -                  314.3         314.3           -
2.4  AV Suppli-c (Nutrition Division)                     .9 .9                         .9            1.0             .9             .9             1.0            I,11           1.8            1.0            1,. 9.0                            15.0          15.0           -
2.5  AV Supplirs i  Ohaoaloagkoeo)                        .5             .5              5             .5             .5             .5              .5             .5             .5             .5             .5             .5                   6.0      _    .0           -
084-Torae A.0t.2                  8.9            8.0          504.7            9.1           14.41           7.3             7.4            7.4            9.8            9.6            9.6            9 7                606.8         6016.8          -
3.  TroclAaoor
1375)         (250)
31  H-ealth  oarner/Eenoa12 12.5                                       12.5           02.5           12.5           12.5           02.5            12.5           02.3           12.3           12.5           12.5           02.5                150.0         012.5          37.5
3.2  ShorO-Te..  te na.ltane tonrarlen
Surveys                                            -              -              -              7.7            -              -               -              -              7.3            -               7.3            -                   71.8          16.4           5.4
3.3  Short-Tern Consultant Popalatian
Institutes                                         -              6.4           17.5            6.4            6.3            -               _             02.8            _              -              -              -                   49.4          37.0          12.h
S h-Total A.0I.3                 12.5           18.9           30.0           26.1           18.8           12.5            12.5           25.3           19.8           12.5           19.8            12.5               201.2         165.9          55.3
4.  Coaternerpivn S-no1-e(
4.1  TOnajtablea                                       400.7          950.0          650.0            -              -          1,033.0                            -              -              -              -               -               3,030.0       0,033.0
4.2  Pills                                               -          1, 611.0           -              -              -         l,745.3              -              -              -              -              -               -               3,35 ,   3   356.3
OaLb-Totl A .I1.4               400.0        2,561.0          650.0            -              -         2,745.3              -              -              -                                             -               6,356.3       6,356.3            -
5.  IEC Peedtc-ln(a
5.1  F-aily Rea]eb Diviaion                             25.9           25.9           26.01          26.0           26.1           78.6           217.3          164.9           50.9           51.6           51.6            50.8               795.6           -           795.6
5.2  Nleitri-n Division                                 19.7           19.7           09.8           19.8            1.8            1.9            2954           29.4            4.4            4.3            4.3            4.3                158.8            -          158.8
5.3  Pop.l.tioa Ar.enes                                  1.3            1.3            1.3            1.3            1.7            1.7             1.7            1.7            2.0            2.0            2.0             2.0                20.0           -            20.0
Sub-Totol A.T0.5                 46.9           46.9           47.1           47.1           29.6           82.2           248.4          196.0           57.3           57.9           57.9           57.1                974.4           -           974.4
6.  Evaluation and Rennarch
6.1  Fanily HIlth D-Vini-n                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (00)        (100/)
a)  Conrina tion Surveys                           -              -              -              -             12.8            -               -              -              8.6            -               8.6            -                   30.0           -            30.0
b)   aj-ncrable-  Peog-ra                          -              4.6            4.6            _              _              4.6             7.D            -              _              4.6             0.6                                3 30.0                      30
0)  lndaoed Abortion                               -              -              7.5            7.5            5.0            -               -              -              -              -               -              -                   20.0           -            20.0
d) Evaluatinn Stadies (Ineluding
Population AoaeeennnA  Seinar)                 -             -               7.2            2.8           2.5             5.0            5.0             7.5            5.0            5.(- -                                            40.0           -            40.0
S      _lb-Total A.11.6.1         -              4.6           19.3           111.3          20.3            9.6            12.0            7.5           13.6            9.6            13.2            _                 120.0            -          120.0
'Ie



0  .0C.C0100                 0 ~          ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ . .     ..                                                           ..     
00  0 0 0 0         00                     00       0000000000000 .                        .       .         0 0.0.0 0.0.0.



DETAILED COST ESTO100ES
Soa    1                               _ _ _ _ _          So r 2                                                       Y -a   3
I             TIT            III           TV             I              1T             III            IVd           I               OfIIT                         IV                          Cost            Cs
8.7  Toojoon Adniitnlotrata     aad Fioonotn
U'ttoa-otl Adninltr-n-                                          .62           .62            .62           .62            .62             .62           .62            .62            .62            .62           .62                6.82-                       6.82
Coordinator                                  ~~~~           ~~~~          ~~~~          ~~~      ~~.52  .52  .52  .52  .52  .52        .52           .52            .52            .52           .52                 5.72         -5.722
Aoooontenls                                   ~~~            ~~~           ~~~           ~~~~          ~~~       ~~37  .37  .37  .75  .75  .75  .70'  .75           .75            .75            .75                2.11                       7.11
Sle-ot-y/TyFiots                               .10                  .30    .32            .30            .0.(                  .60             .60           .60                   .60 .0.05 . 00                                                              5.00
lab -To t IAl 2.11 8.0.7          .10           1.01          1.01           1.01           2.40          2.49            2.40           2.49          2.49           2.49           2.40          2,49                25.45          -25.45
~Sat-totl A     _I.8l.1..2..
4.5.6.7                         4.54          18.51         19.02          19.82         22.20          22.79           22.20         22.79          24.03          24.03          24.03         24.03              249.9 -7                    249.97
0.0  All--ao  of 022  For Stop         ..o.oson
Otter  s-ftra                                     3.66         14.~79         15.00         13.80          10.21          18.21          10.21          10.01          10.27         29.20          19.27          19.27              200.13                      200.13
Sob-Totld  A.11.0                2.2           33.3          35.7           35.2          41.0           41.0            41.0          41.2           43.3           43.3          43.3           42.3               450.1            -452.1
Sob-Total non-Cloll Ootbs 426.5    3.061.3        1352             197            251.3       2,977.1           544.2         392.2          200.4            204.8        213.2         192.3            11 033 9       0223 5        27 260 4
TOTAl NOTTIONAL CEVEL          490.0       3,061.3        5 460.3        2 154.3       2,525.5        5,106.9        1,030.1          201.0          200.4          224.6         212.0        -  92.3             22213.6    II 207 0    10 920 6
F.  Tr-o-iota  L-no
0.1 Tint] Oorbs
1.CosactoadOt   eooaa
224%)        126)
1.1  lIldoiCer5 onatora               -           ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~~204.0  1,176.0  -      1,070.0          392.0             --                       1,070.0          392.0            --4,410,0                                   1,056.4       3,331.6
1.2  Oeattt Coalons                   .           ~~~~~~         ~~~~~~~~~249.9  999.  -       916.3         333.2             -                           16.2          333.2            --3,20.899.2                                              2,841.8
1.3  Ojatojot Oospitsls  (10 Sods)    -           ~~~~~~        ~~260.4  390 .2  390.2        201.4          390.            390.0            -           676            450           455.0             -              4,2.            989.2       3,1 34.1
1.4  OttlO Fairtolon Coatorn          -            ~~~~~         ~~~~~~ 52.3  523 9.                  52.3             2.3           52.3   3.             52.3          3.3            52.3           35.0               55.139                      424.1
0.3  Upgr-dssg Mtdif-ry C-eters to H-a1tb
Coato-                                            -            719           113.6           .            106.0          380.3            -              -           104.0           30.5            -              -                 433.5         104.0        329.3
1.6  Upgrading Dlatrit lospitals  (10 to
30 BoOs)                                         -7.          303.3         454.9          454.9          305.4         151.6           151.0            --          424.4      3__03. 3          303.3             .                      2 0      7222.0     2,304.9
lab-To taln 1.1 I-                         1,100.0       3,109.1          002.9        3,439.4        1,330.5          594.6           52.7       3,164.6        1,325.1          011.4           33.0            10,306.5       3,913.5     12,393.0
ruraLWre                                                                                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(3052  (704)
2.1  Midwif-ry Coot-a                                                              01.0          54.0            -           133.0             -              .             .            135.0            -              -                 403.0         121.5        203.5
2.2  lealIb Captrs                                                                 54.0           36.0            -            90.0             -              -                           90.0            -                                272.0          01.0        109.
2.3  Osaoso  Oopt1l  (IS Sods)                         ---                                         -             52.0           -              30.2           14.1           --                           45.2          16.4                167.2          50.2        117.0
2.4  Ittild lonrltios Contai-                                         7.3            2.3           7.23.                        7.3             2.             7.3           7.3            7.3            2.3            2.                 20.0          23.4         54.6
2.5  Upgrading Midlf-y Ceoner  to loalth
Castrs-                                                                        3.6           2.4            -             6.0             -              -                            6.0            -              -                  10.            5.4          12.6
2.6  Upgrading  sstrtiat Oa-pltol   (10 ta
30 Sods)                                                                        ---------                  22.3           -              10.0            6,9           -                            32._L7 8       13.7               034.3          46.3        100.2
lab -Total.     1.1.2            -               .3         143.9           99.2         137.4          230.3            64.0          28.3            2.3          230.3          90.3           33.1             1,092.7         320.0         764.9
3.  iotipan-t
(60)        (40%)
3.1Mldoliory C-tror                                                   -            60.0            -              -            60.0-                   -              -                    60.0            -              -                 100.0         000.0         72.0
3.2  OsaIl, Coo--n-                                                                40.0            --                          50.2(            -              -             -40.0                         -              -120.0                           22.7         40.0
0.3D lisoton OoPltsls  (10 Eodo)                                      -             -              -            207.3           -             207.3            -             -              -241.9                        .656.5                          393.9        262.6
3.4  16002 Natnit-o  C-nton                                           2.0            2.0           2.0            2.0           2.0             2.6            2.0           2.8            2.0            2.0            2.0                30.2          10.0         12.
3.3  Upgraing Mtsilor-y ConCer  to bo1mb
CMnor                                             --                           4.0                          -              4.0            -              -              -             4.01                          -                  12.0           7.2           4.1
3.6  Upg-adtng Disirst gspirals  210 to
30 lads)                                          ---                                        -             92.9            -             32.5                           -             -65.0                         -193.0                          117.0         78.0
Sat-To.tal gg13                  -2.0                       106.0            2.0         307.6          [06.0          242.6            2.0            2.0         106.0          309.2            2.0             1,193.9         216.1         422.0
4.Frasonloooe
1.5%  fO 1.0.1                                     -            11.1           42.0          13.5           51.6          20.4             0.9             .0          47.3           23.6           12.2             .3               244.6                       7 44.6
3.  tsnd
(SC)       (1055.
S.   tidolia-y Coaoar                                  5.6            -              3.6           -              -                             5.7            -----16.9                                                                                    .16.9
3.2   nelith C_nt_r                                    3.73.---                                                                                 3.8            ---.-1.                                                                                     11.3
0.5  OlsOrOct Onepitolo                ~~~~~~           ~           ~~225.0  - 223.0                                            262.5            ----712.5                                                                                                7 12.5
0.6 Upgrading DiotrOct HospItals 110 to
20 lads)                                         I                            930            ---50.0                                                     -.---132.0                                                                                              150.0
tatb-Sotal  01.5               309.3           -            259.4            -             .-322.0                                                                                                                   8       90.2    -890.7
Oa-Tta  Cot  Works      2300.9       1,215.9      _12C9.0  ,,,fjf_ 9tS                         122.             lj 3             04.2       0222 2                          22.             73 419 7220.2                  4,957.      14)770 6



ThAILAND
DETAILE.0D 'OST E  17110T21
(US$ '000)
Year I          _______                      _______           Year 2                                      _______              Year 3
Ca,apooest                                                                                                                                                                                                                  X                 Toral       l oreign          local
I              II             Il              TV             I               II               IT              I IV                             II            III              IV                              oat             Cost
B. 11  NSue-Cvii 1 ok
1,Vehicles
(700/.)       (30/.)
1.1  Motorcycles (Aoili-ry N,.doavcs)                       -            168.6           150.0             _               _                              86.4                     -               -         _            _                                   405.0          23.5          121,.5
1.2    t-roreyoco-  ICaeisarlaea)                                        017.2            79.2             -               _              _                0,2             -               -                                              _                   996.6          697.6         299.0
1.3  Vans (T-erilizoican  lotms)                            -            196.0             -               -               -              _                _               _                                                                                  196.0          137.2           58.8
1.4  iuearvasio  nf Prfiarp Ooallh Cart
a)   2-Whhel Drive Vehicles                           -            116.10                                                                                                                                                                               11.0            81             34.1
h)  NoeroxyalCa                                                    119,              -               -               -              -                 -              -               _.1  -  -                                                          119,4           83.6           35.8
1.5  2-Wheel Drive Vohiolca (DiLariot
IloapiL.1s)                                           -                                                                             9-  -  -  2.8     -              -                              52.2                             -                  145.0          101.5           43.5
1.6  2-wheel DNivo Vthiclea (lealsth
Ed-arors)                                             -            116.0             -               -                                                                                                               -               -                  116.0           81.2           34.8
1.7  2-Wheel Drive Vel.ic-e  (Hva 1l1
Plvin g DiNivio-)                                     -            116.0             -               -                                                                                                                                                  116.0           01.2           34.8
1.8  2-Whael ODri   VsloI,loa  (Nsuervo
of VP)                               -                                 16.1          -                               -                                -      _       --                                                                                 116,h008.2                     34.02
Sab- o_ ol B.1.1                               1,825.2           229.2             -                             92.8            126.6             -               -              52.2             -               -                2,326.0        1,628,2          697.8
2.    poolal Woos vot
(010/)           (OX)
2.1I"h olfi..a .                                                           -              69.6ffic-s                                                       -               -                               -676                                                69.6           69.6
2.2   Provieclal  Vaspiesis                                 -              -              67.4             -               -              -                                                                               - _                                  67.4           67.4
2.3  Di.t-iolo  lospiaola  (30 Beds)                           7 D                        52.6                                                                                                                                                                 52                6
2.,  51 ari,,ti   ll-spitalo  (12 iesI--                                                   70                                                                                                                                                                  77 --    2.    10.0
2.5  lleltPlanning avd  valoa                                       -           _        100.3            -               -               -                _                                                                                                  109.5          109.5-
Sab- loal B.IT.2                    -                            376.              -               -              _                _               _               _                                                                  376.1          376.1
3.  Tecl  o.asCitac
Shorrt-Tarm  CoeaOtoan  avacaroil                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,_(.7>g)         (25%)
M,c,odaIogy                                     13.2            18.s           19.3             _               _              14.1              -               _              _                              14.1                                  79.2      (   5)44 '0         19.8
4.   LVrC
Prad-oioC       Aciivitios                       2.5             2.5            0.5             2.5             2.5             2.5              2.5            2.1             2.5             2.5             2.5             2.5                 30.0            -             30,(
5.   -velatinn  sod Research
00/ 0       ) (100-
5,1  "aIll ti    .io'AVE Dipimi-  (SaryoD )                 -              6.7             6.2             6.2             6.2            6.2              6.2             6.2             6.0             6.2            6.2             6.2                  62.5                          62
3.   Ooleal      A V tqv,ip-oa   (002)                    .5             1.4            1.0             -               -              --                                .5             i.4,            1.4            -                                     6.2            -6.2
5.3  E-alttion af lt-rvram  Imp-rt                          -              -               -                                                 -             -               -             66.6            66.6            66.0             -                   200.0            -           200.0
5.4  H-Ith Pliaoasg Divis-on, Op-eotivoa
Stvdies                                               -             31.5            46.5           46.5            46.5            46.5             46.5            46.5            46.5          _96.5            46.5             -                   450.0            -           450.0
Oab-Total B.II.5                     .5           39.6            53.7            52.7            52.7           52.7             52.7            51.2           120.7          120.7           119.5              -                  718,7                         71807
6.  T-oiere-
(OY 0       ( Ik 00 /,
6.1  Oosisvt Healtl Nookis  (MCI/P)                         I .9           3.7             -                .9             _              -                -               .3              -              -                               -                     6.8                           6.8
6.2  Asistavt lealrh  WOvkere  (M14)                        -             21.1            42.5             _             63.8             -                -               -              59.2            _               _               _                    8.              -            187.5
6.3   C_aCti_e Neroioes (A-oiliary Midaive-)             106.4           319.2           212.7          238.0           357.0           119.(              -            238.0           3572.0          119.0             -               -                2,066.3             -         7,066.0'
6.4  Nuoso PotiCol-ses                                      -             13.6            13.7            13.7            4.5            16.8             16.8            16.8             9.6           11.5            11.5            11.5                 140,0            -            11.0
6.5  Deputy Distriet 0 alth Offi-ers a-l
Provincil  aSper-istre of Primary  oolOth
Core                                                  -             25.3            25.3             -                                               -               -               -               -              -               -                    50.6            -             50.6
6.6  Child Nutrition  C-CoLr Atoo-d-aCe                      .7              .7             .7              .7              .7              .7               .              .8              .8              .8              .8              8                   9.0            -              9.0
6.7  VHV/ViC
a)  Provmcial A-d Distric T-ri-eos                    3.8             1.9            3.8             1.9             -              -                 -                                                              - _                                 11.4            -             11.4
b)  TVbol H-Itah Stoff                               6.7           10.1            10.1            10.1             6.6             6.6             6.6            13.6             7.1             -               _                                   77.5            -             77.5
c)  Villoge Ovotid  Voloasoers                      11.0           1.75            17.5            10.5           23.4            23.4             23.4            23.4            41.2           41.1            27.5                                 062.0            -            2067.
d)  ViIlage Heolrh Co.essiravooa                     25.8           30.8            38.0            30.8           51.9            51.9             01.9            01.9           01.1            91.1            60.2             -                   592.2            -           592.7
e)  TraislaWg Eqaip-st, ttc.                         81.3            -               -               _               _              _              _      _                                                                                              81.3            -          _8.3
NsIh-lotsl B,11.6  7              129.4           68.3            710.2           68.3           81.9            81.9             81.9            88.9          139.4           132.3            88.2                               1,030.7            -         I,O030.7



THAILAND
DETAI.ED CDST EIST7IATES
W83  '811)
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-    3
coopontos                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Total      Forts go        Local
I              9            ITT            IV            I              11             TTI           IV             I               II           ITI             IV                          CosL            C-ot
6.8 a     o ri-c- t-l
a) POtIlo cod birectors I:soLth
Toohnic-l L-roic-                            -                            5 5.8         -              5.7                   -              -                     -                     -             -                          8115          _            11.5
b)  P-ovinc-Ll Haoplail Directors                 -             2.9           -              -             _              -              _              -             _              _             _              _                   2.9           -            2.5
c)  Cho-ft Plo-tiog S-Ltio-                      -                                                                        1.0            -                                        I                                                   2 1 2.1
a)  tlsstvtct EeoLth Ittloocs                    -             1O9.           -              -             -             -               -             -              -              -             -              -                  10.1           _           10.1
e)  DistrIct  4soi-L'.1 Oj-octo-             -              8.4             -                                        -                             -              -                            - _                                84           -             8.4
f)  Gh-ofs T-aisiog ond Ed-tlc-o.
_nd  ailth PoL-ot-o, St-tion                 -              -             2.3           -              -2 3                                                                                                                                                      3
8)  Ch-efs  2rotto8oc8, DIstt.2
I sooto          -t,l                          s                          8 2           -                                                                         -             --  -  -
______________ __-                            2              18 ,63,        -              5.7           ..-                           -              _             _.             _                                 1!,55   _                  45.s
Scb-Tot-l 3.11.6               238.4         47t.6         38l.4          321 .6        511.6          219.A            99.5         344.8         566.7          213.6          9o8.5           12.3            3,536. 4                   3,538.4
7.  Slaltes a8d All-oo -to
7.t  800000 .nd 00000  zdOOtlL-oslorL                                               -             -              3.7           3.1             9.7          22.8           12.6         812.6           18,3           19.7                94.8          -            94.0
7.2  Pt6otsoL 0                                                           Ng                                 r     sc -  .  -  -  .  18.2     86.6          28.0           28.2          31.5           40.4           42.4               227. 7                _     7.7
7.3  Autili.ty 8118o800s                               -                            .             .             22.4          34.3           45.3           45.9          45.9           17.0           68.4           69.z              398.6           _           383.4
7.4  Jsniot S-lr-taIs                                                        -       -            -             11.0          1.3             2.1,          23.1          23.1           28.4           34.3          31.8                193.6          -           193.8
7.5  A00108--1 .l-alth 800kers
IdJif -ry Ct.tO.s                            -              -            2R.1          35.8           56.2          56.2            56.2           16.2          82.7          82.3           82.7           82.7               61l.8                      6 811.8
DH/8P/9PO8 (F1r                                                           I6 18.9      18.5           38.7          18.8            18.8           9.86          29.14         280,           20.4           2084               :91,4           _          991,4
7.8  OOoOtootaY 4s0lpervisc  Priptry B-s1th
Cars                                                                           ..8                                                                                                   9.8           32             9.8                95.5           _           85.5
3.7   pcpsly Olotrist 8esl.lllcsss                     -             -             .G.3          93.2           32.2          52.2            52.2                         52.2          52.2           57.2           52.2               f968.          _          494.1
7,8  Cl-ok/Typ,iso                                    10.,1         22.9           290.          29.9            Y.9          2 299            9                           2.9           29.9           2.             299                338.Y                      338,
7.9  hcalth Id-c.tor..                                                39            3.9             .9           5.3          51.3             5.3           5.                             3            53               3                54.1                       5,
7210 Pro1ijOOi.lfI)-cttt LeTe0  Fl--005g
OlsIolo nf 800010                            -             6.0            3.2           8.4.           I.'.          9.1!            9.0           9.        0        92.       9.0            9.0            9.20               9G.            -           96.Q
Epidlilol.gtcil W80k-                                                                   6. C.                        6               6.0           b.U 8.9                       6.0 D. 8.  8.0 6..                       0      048                        b4,0
Statioticlattt                               -              4.' -         8.9     ,     8.0            6.0           8.9             8.8            .5           68.8          6.]             6.8            6.0            _64.0             - ,64.
8b-10t1l BI.11.7.1.7.3 4
5_6,7,709.,_D                  13.C          47.8         133.6          161.0         242.1         268.;           293,6          302.8         330.1          35U.2         379.,          386.0             2,905.5           -        z,905.5
7.11  Ali--. t 01 804 fto  Step incoasOo.
80001000. bardr, 49tIOoaooo and
oth-t Bnfits                                    8.9           38.2         9.            838.8          183.7         214.6           237.3          242,2         264.t1        2.3            83.7           309.1             2 342.3 20, 9
ob_-latol B.1I,3                18.8          86.0          235.1         2893.         435.8          482.9          533.9          545.0          534.2         830.4          .83.3        685.5              5,229.9           -         5,229,9
3-30t,  N-Cill W008        272.6       2 4468t       _ 297.3         4666.8        0_4             86_4815. 15                ,  945.5          2, 0,888.4                   919            710.3            2293          2,863.      1232.0
IT2At Pr0V18TA44818            5891. ~9    3,662.3       5.0463         1 68885       4_3406        2 .38  2         ,8048.1 _      ,81 21,      4,506.3       3,83,2        2,143.5          78373            32 .028.3      7 831.1     25 0.3,2



THAILAND
DETAILED COST ESTIMATES (SUMMAT)
(OS$ 000)
Year 1                                                       Tear 2                                                          Tea  3                                            Vet1   ersY           Lera
I              T I            lTT            IV              I              IC               III            IT             I                IT            ITI              IT
A.  Het-e-l Leon
A.1 CIvIil Heels
I.  C-tlar.ertiee AAJ Sita TeTIlpraet                     --                        3,696.7        1,929.0         1,838.4        1,383.8            423.0          340.8             ---9,613.7                                                                   2,307.3        7,306.4
2.  Fareitere-                                                                          45.0           16.3          117.5          269.6             66.7             -                                                                                54 --.35.1    163.5         391.6
3.  Equip-ta                                                                           t2-17.6          -            319.9           ,60.1 0                                          -               -                                                 904.5         512.7         361.1
4.  Peteestei-l le-vi-e                                    -                            37.0           19.3           19.4            13.8             7,.2            3.4                            ---96.1                                                           -             96.1
3.  Lacd                                                 22.3            ----                                                                                          -----                                                                             22.3       ___22.3
Su~b-DeCa   Civil Aerbe-          21.3            -          3,903.3        1,960,.6        7,320,.2       7,129.2            193.9          311.2             ----11,181.7                                                                 3,013.5      81168.2
1.  Velheles                                              -          1,156.6           230.2            -             90.0             -             130.1 0                                             -                                           1,633.0        1,144.5         490.9
2.    pe-lal Equip-et                                      .9             89           5904.7           9.1           14.4             7.3             7.1             7.4            9.8            9.6             9.6             9.7                606.6         606.08
3 Tlehela    aioee12.5                                                16.9           30.             26.1           19.8            12.5            12.5           253.            19.8           12.1           19.9            12.3                221.2          165.9          52.3
4.    ota~pIeSple                                       400.2        3,211.0             .                              -         2,245.               -               -                                             .-                              1,391.3        6,356.3-
0.  IEC Peed-trle                                        16.9           46.9            12.            17.1           29.6            022240.                        106.0           57.3           57.9            5293.1                              924.4           -974.4
6.  Yvlatoead Rea-eelh                                                    4.6           31.            35.8           48.7            40.7            38.7            31.43.                        27.              101.                                1.                         345.0
7.  Irulila I-                                                          30.9            26.4           33,9             9.3           40.87           46.2            33.8           32.2           53.9            514            53.9                 445.1           -445.1
8.  SalaIes- as  Alles-,,-e                                8.7           33             37             357            41.8            41.8            41.0           41.0            43.3           43.3            63.3           43,3                 101-431
Sab-Teta1 Sea-Civil Woels   476.5            4,511.3           013.2          189.7           251.3        2,977.7            544.2          332.2          200.4           204.6          213.2           192.3             11,033.9       8,273.5       2,760.4
B.   DevlcllLerel
1.1 Civil Werle
I.  CeestreYtlee aed Also TeseleprYol    -         1,IY~~~~~I.0.  3~189.1          897.9        3,139.4         1,358.33          394.6            373         3,164.6        1,7.1             011.4            33014,36.31                     3,913.3      17,393.0
2. Fr  Cure-                                                           7.3          143.9            99.7          17.            233               6482.73                                      283903311,27                                                       378769
3.  Y'u4".o`-                                                             2.1          416.0            0.0F         307.            116.0           243.4             5.8            2.8            T668         3097              20               1,195.5          716.1         477.4
4.  Prefe-s-l Nervi-e                                      -             17.8           47.8           13.5           51.6            20.1              0.9             .1           47.5           23.6            12 .7. 2 5144.6                                     -           244.6
3.  Land                                                309.3            -             239.4            -                              -322.0 o                                                                                                         898.7                  _ 890. 7
Sub-T-1u Civil Oct41             309.3       1,213.9         3,749.0        1,013.0        3,936.0         1,723.8         1,737.9            84.7        3,222.2        1,943.8         1,723.6            73.1             19,778.0       4,937.4      11,770.6
1.11 lea-CIvil Weeka
0.    eillc                                             -          1,823,2          229.2             -              -92,8                         106.6            -               -52.2                          -              -                 ,376,0       1,670.71         697.8
2.  Ipetlal lqalpaeet                -              -            3~~76,1-.I-                                                                                                                                                      326.:1        37.-
3.  Tehla   uIatsu                                        32             1.5            10I- 4. 1                                                      ---14.1                                                                       -                    9259.1                     198
4.  ICC                                                    2.5            7.3            2,,      5       5             7.             2,3             0.5              ,              .             2.5             2.3            2.1                  30.            -30.
3.    valuatiee a-d lsearh                                  .3           301I, 37.7                                   377             3275.73.                                      120.           1.7            119.-                                 718.7           -710.7
6.  TY-liul                                             230,4          474.6           381.1          321,6          536             71.               95           344.0           366.'7         26'3.6          1023 73                           3,536.4-                     3,536. 4
7.  Salarie  -ed Al esave                               I10T            06.0          233,1           789.0          133,0           492,0           533.9          345,0           191.72         630. 4         103.3'          055                5,229.9            .          ,279,9
Sub-Tota  No,u-Clllluu          272,6        2,446.4         1,292.3          1666.6       1,8014.6          064.4            811.7          945,3        1,204.1        1,019.4           910.0           711.3             12,296.3       7,063.7      10,232.6
TRIAL TAFTONAL  1.00T4           498.0       3,861.3         3 4668,3       215.          _251755L3 5      3, 106. 9       1,038.1           701.0          700.4           704.64         713.0   1~      19 2.3            22,215.6      11,287.0      _10,920,
TOTAL PROVINCIAL  LOVOL  301.9 ~~~3_62.3         5041.~3        1 6,005        4,~940.6       2,3908.2    ~ 2,040.1            1,029.7        0056.3        3,013.2         2,112.5           783.7             37,024.3       707.1   2 5730~03.2
TOTAL BASC COST               1,8.           7,323.6        1  1_14..       3,83428        75316.1       _5_,5  51 _ 3,0~81,2              1,731.1        4,706.7        3,217.9        _2 356,5___976.0                     54,239.9      18,308,1   35,031.0
Physi-ul  C-uti,,g-vuTu                       33.1           121,6          765.2          297,0           121.1          305.3           122.01           17~.8         327.7          194.1           122.              7.43,9.770                                   7739
Poluu CuaLlt,guuu,uu              ~~~~~        ~~89,1  39                      11,            ,696          1431(4.)288                                    1707            ,6.              711717                            10,269.2       2,872.3       7,097.
A~~~ti,ili-             -              5.0           15.0~~~~~~~~~1.    30,0                       33.0             430 1.7        0 0.7         100.0           130.1          200.0          730.0               1,000.0         250.0          730.7
TLOTAL YSlIIICAY  0004440( COST   1,03.2            6,7196 4       217400 5       4,105.O       10,061.7         9,670.3         3,914.3         2,133.7          8219 .6      1,627.4         3,379,9          4325.1             68 600 11 22,226 4          46,373.6
Abb-rvAi-ut-
A"-Au~dItlsu                              PCuT80 -Pru..1u-1a1C1sutOeuc D0ilie
DI1 -I OsrLu,Il Huu-                      InP    I ..viOll   -opst ii
S~HY . Prlly Acalels DlvluluA             TIl  -  url lraLO'tuh        o
FP    F_iPauly VIelCVII -VIllage AuITTu-                                ueuao
TOTD -lirhr Eduuuin- Diviu,i-             TIIIT -   llIneOu1T  A ule
TAT il   if fuy COLA



TSR ILAND
PROPOSED POPULATION PROJECT CONTRIBUTION: AUSTRALIAN DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE BURFAU (AEAB)
(US$ '000)
YUeA  1                                                      Y-er 2                                                       Year 3
TOepRUleRE                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Total
I            IT             III            TV              I             IT              III           IV                I              If            III            IV
A. National Level
A.II NUU-CNvil W-rks
1. XehlUiSl
1.1   Motorcycles (Auviliary E7idNivec)                  -           476.4             -                             -              -               -              -              -               _             _                _                476.4
1.3   wo-WhUal Drive JehiOlre  (Supervisio- FP)    -                 222.9            -              -              -              -               -              -222.9
1.4  Transbort Nurse-StUldets2
a. NlnibEnses                                      _             36.8            --                            -              -               -              -              -___3 
36.8  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                               --36.8
1.D 5Two-Wh4eel Drive Vehicles (Site Selecoti-)    -                    8.7            -              -              -              -                      -              -               -          _          _                                   8.7
1.6 Teo-Wheel Drive Vehiclet
a.  PrIje-t AdmisNt-atiEon, RHD                    -              8.7                                   -              -              -               -                      -             - __                                                8.7
b.  PATE                                           -              8.7                    -                     -              -               -              -              -                -             -               -                   8.0
c-  ProecaL Admini tration, ERR                    -             13.1            -              -              -              -               -              -              -                                                                  I _  _  13.1
1.7  ElinibEaUc  (FP Tr-ining Ce--er)                    -             14.7                           -              -              -               -              -              -               _             _                _                 14.2
SoSb-T-Dl A.II.1                  -           790.0             -              -                                                                                                                                           790.O
2. Special Equipment
2.1 AV P-rd-tion EqUuipm-nt (FND)
d.  AV Supplies                                    5.6            5.6            -              -              -              -               -                      -         _             _             _                                  11.2
2.4  AV supplIes (Nutrition  Divigion)                    .6             .6            -              _              _              _               _              -              -               _             _                _                  1.2
2.5  AV Supplies (Chulalongkorn)                          .3             .3            -              -              -              -               -              -              -               -             -                _                    .6
Sub-Tctal A.1E.2                  6.5            6.5                                          -                      -              -               -                       -            -                -                 13.il
Total NationAl Level              6.5          796.5                    -             -              -               -               -              -              -                      -               -                803.0
B. Provincial Level
B.1 Civil Works
1. Ce-tr-Uti 6 Sit.RUe Developmcnt
1T1   Midwifery Centers                                  -            196.9            -              -              -              -               -              -              -               -             -                -                196.9
1.3   District Nespitels (10 Beds)                       -            174.3            -              _              -              -               -              -              -                                                               174.3
1.4  Chi0  Nutrition  Cealere                           -             35.1            -              -              -              -               -              -              -               _             _                _                 35.1
1.5  llpgrading Midwifery Centes to NealLth
CaRterS                                           -             19.4            -              -              -              -               -              -              -                _             _               _                  19.4
1.6  pUpe-ding District Nospitals (10 t1  30 Beds) -                  203.D                   -              -              -               -               -              -              -          _          _                                 203.0
Sub-Ttotl B.I.1                   -            628.7            -              -              -              -               -              -                              -             -                -                628.7
2. Furniatre
2.4  Child Nutritioa CeUtere                             -              5.5                   -              -              -               -              -               -                      -             -                -                  525
3. Eguleeeut
3.4  Child Nutriti-o  Ce-ters                            -              1.6            -              -              -              -               -              -              -               -             _                -                   1.6
4.  PrEfessieeel Services                                -             16.5            -              -              -              -               -              -              -                -             -               -                  16.3
Sob-TRIal jB.l.                                652.3                    -             -                      -               -              -              -                -             -               -                652.3
B.11 Non-Civil Werko
1. Sehiel-s
1.1  Nelereyeles (Axili-ary  llidai-e)                   -            127.1            _              _              _              _               _              _              _               _             _                _                127.1
1.2  MNot_ycles (Sa.itri_ans)                            -            660.8            -              -                                                                                                                                           660.8
1.4 Sup'evigion ef Primary health CEae
a.  Teo-Wheel Drive Vehicles                       _             87.4                    -              -              -              -               -                      - _                                                              87.4
b. Motorcycles                                     -             89.9                    -              -              -                      -              -               -               -             -               -                  89.9
1.6  Two-wheel Drive Vehicles (ealth Edu            rs)  -             87.4                                                                                                                                                                        87.4
1.7  Two-Wheel Deive Vehieles  (IEPD)                    -             87.4                                                                                                                                                                        87.4
1.8  TUR-Wheel DElive Vehiles (Supervision FP)    -                    87.4            -              -              -              -               -              -              -               _             _                _                 87.4
Sub-Total  B.II.1                 -         1,227.4             -              -              -              -               -              -              -                -             -               -              1,227.4
Tetal Pr-vincial Level            -         1,879.7                            -              -              -               -              -              -                -             -               -              1,879.7



THAIL AND
RTOlosED POPULATION PROJECT (.ONTRIDUTION:  AUSTRALIAN DEVELO,iTIENT ASSJSTANCE BUREAU (AiAB)
(US' O(O)
Y-ar I                                                          YREr 2                                                          Yc:r 3
C-tporont                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    T-ta
I             IT              III           IV                I              II        TII  IV  I  I  III   IV                                11             III             IV
TOtD] BDsD  Co-t                                            6.5        2, 676.2                                                                                                                                                                             2 ,672.7
Physicil C-otingencie:                                      -             65.2             -               -               -               -               -               -               -                _              -                -                  65.2
PrIeD  ContiDg-fci-a                                         .5          247.8             -               -               -               -               -               -               -                               -                -                 248.3
GRAND T0 AL                                                 7.0        2,989.2                     -               -               -               -               -               -                -              -               -                        2,996.2
Abb-rviai-ons:
AV - Audiovisual                                HP1  - He:lth PIFlanig  Divi:ion
FlilD - Faily (1001-th Division                 PAFU - Pro)j-t Adoii--troi-o, and lin-nciEg Unit
FP - Pomily Pl=nning                            RHD - raD  IT-alth  Dvi Dion
IDOD - I-Itah: Edoatio    Divio i-



TIATANANO
PROPOSED POPULATION PROJECT CONTRIBUTION:  CANADIAN TNCIERNATIONAL DEVELOMENT AGENCY (CIDA)
US$ '000)
Coopoo-or                                              Ieo. I                             To   2                                   Year 3                                Foretgn     loa
IIIITI             IV         I        IT          STL      IY         I        TI        TTN        1V       ToLal      Cost         Cost
A.  Nainal Eel
A.11.  Non- Wmil Nooks
3.  Teohaical Ass-istanc
3.2  Cootio-atlin  Sorvays                        -        -          -        7.0                                      -          7.3                  7.3                21.8         16.4       5.4
3.3  Popolation I. nairores                                6.h:      12.5      6.4        6.3      _           _       12.8                             -        -         43.4         37.0      12.4
Solb-Total A.11.3                               6.4       17.5    13.6         6.3      _          _       12.8         7.3                 7 7.3    -          71.         S3.4      17.8
4.  Cootra--pLiv- Nupplics
4.1   Taj-ctables                                 -      600.0      650.0      -                 750.0         - -            -         -               -        -                  2.03). , 2.000.0  -
4.2  Pills                                        -   1,611.0         -         -          -   1,745.3         -        -                    _          _        _ -     ,356.3    3,356.3         _
Sob-Total A.II.4                       -   2,211.0       650.0      -               2,495.3         -3-                -           _                  -     5,36.3    5,356.3
6. E-aToatlo- and Re.saroh
6.1  FnIDly Healt): Division
a.   Cooeinoation Sorveys                   -        -           -        -         12.8      -          -                    8.6      -          8.6      -         30.0          -        30.0
0.  Tajeccables Prooc,m                      -       '.6         4.6           -              4.6        7.0      -                    4.6        4.6      -         30.0          _        30.0
.Idoo-d Abortion                                 -          7.5      7.0        0.0      -           -                            -          - _00.0                                    20.0
d.  E-lsarion Stodie-                        -        -          1.2      2.8        2.5        0        5.0       7.5        5.0      5.0        -        -         40.T          -        40.0
(onclades popuhldto:
a ..ccoo0o taai:ar)
Sitb-Total A.11.6.1                             4.6       19.3    I0 3        20.03      .6        12.0      7.5       13.6      Q.6        13.2               120.0         -       17D.0
6.7  P.ppflation institua.es
a.  CoaL EfCectivcos NFPP                            - -                            6.4      6.4        6.4      8.4         4.4      -          -        -          0.0          -        30.0
4.  Family Planning Practice                 -                   -        -          -        7.0        7.0       7,0        7.0      7.0        7.3       0.0       00.1         -        00.0
c.PFertlitoy Control TIncttieso         -        -          0.2      8.7          6.7     4.4           -         -       -                              -       20.0          -        20.0
d.  Tr_doAional .  oaloro                    -        -          2.0      6.0        2.0      -                                          -  -     -        -          I.0          -        10.0
.Villag  Ep-eri-ent                     -        -            .0      2.S        2.5      2.5        2.1      2.5         1.7      -                             15.0          -        15.0
f.  Tmpact So-d-ts                          -        -           6.8    10.3        10.3    10.3        10.3    10.3         10.3    10.3        10.3    10.8       100.0          -       100.0
S0,b-T.raD A.TT.6.2                    -        -         11.8    25.5        27.9    31.1         26.7     26.7       23.9    17.8         17.8    15.8       225.0          -       225.0
Slb-Total A.II.6                                4.6       31.1    35.8        48.2    40.7         38.7    34.2        37.5    27.4        31.0    15.0        140.0         -       345.0
To-al Bate Cotc                                        2,222.0      698.6    49.4         54.5  2,536.0       38.7    47.0        44.0     27.4        38.3    15.8   5,772.5    5,409.7         362.8
Price Contingroriat                               -      133.5        42.3      3.2        6.9     304.2       4.7      6.3         9.0      5.2        7.8    31.0       S26.1       478.6       47.5
GRAND TOTAL                                            2,355.5      740.9    52.6         61.4  2,840.2       43.4    53.3        53.8    32.6         76.1     18.8   6,298.6    5,800.3        410.0



TRAILAND
PROPOSED POPULATION PROJECT CONTRIBUTION: NORWAY
(US01000)
Coponen=                                                  Year 1                                     Year 2                                     Yer 3
I         II         III        IV        I          RI        III        IV         I          OR         III       IV         Papal
A. Nai.o.al Level
A.II. No.-Civil Werks
3.  Technical Assiseaner
3.1  Health Pla..er E-oeEi-a                             12.5      12.5        12.5     12.5       12.5       12.5        12.5     12.5       12.5       12.5        12.5     12.5        150.0
B. Pr-vnciRl Level
BR.I. Civil Warks L
1. Canstructian and Site Develep=ent
1.2  Health Cenerst                                      -        139.9      559.8       -        513.1     186.6         -         -       513.1      186.6         -         -         2099.1
Total BRae CRs                                           12.5     152.4       572.3     12.5      525.6     199.1         12.5     12.5      525.6      199.1        12.5     12.5       2249.1
PhyPicil Contingencies                                    -        14.0        56.0       -        51.3       18.6          -       -         51.3       18.7         -        -          209.9
Price Contingen.ies                                       1.0      19.5        74.9       1.0     148.8       55.5         2.1      2.1      229.1       85.4         3.3      3.3        626.0
GRAND TOTAL                                             13.5      185.9       703.2     13.5      725.7     273.2         14.6     14.6      806.0     303.2         15.8     15.8       3085.0
/1 56% of tetal .nntrart cRat.
m Ie



THAILAND
PROPOSED POPULATION PROJECT CONTRIBUTION:  UNTTED SIATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPhENT (USAID)
(115$'000)
Component                                        Year 1                                    Year 2                                    Year 3                                 F-rciga       Lacel
II       111iIV                          TI        III       IV E                  1U        III       IV       T-ral        Coat          Casr
A. Natiacal Level
A.TI. Nan-Civil WDeks
7. Tra-iinE
7.2  Assistan, Healh WHrDers (MCTI/FP)          -         -          -       5.0         -         -          -        5.1         -         -          -        -           10.1         _            10.1
7.3  N-rte Pra-tliti-ors                                 28.4       28.4    28.4          9.3     46.2       46.2    46.2         32.7      51.4        51.4    51.4       420.0          -           420.D
Sub-Tatal A.I.7                      -        28.4       28.4    33.4          9.3     46.2       46.2    51.3         32.7      51.4       51.4    51.4        430.1          _           430,1
N.  PrvnttLeve
BDII.  Nn-Ciil WHrks
3.  Techeial AtsistanDe
Research Methodelogy                     13.2      18.5       19.3      -           -        14.1        -        -           -         -         14.1      -          79.2         59.4          19.8
5. Evalusti-n and Reseerch
5.1  Health Planning DivisiDa-4 S-rveys         -         6.7        6.2     6.2         6.2       6.2        6.2      6.2         6.2       6.2        6.2      -          62.5          -            62.5
5.2 Health EdDeatti- Divition-UtiDica-
tiin AV Equipm.ent                          3       1.4        1.       -           -         -          -         .5         1.4       1.4        -                    0 6.2       -              6.2
5.3  evaluation oE Pr_gram Impact               -         -          -       _            -         -          -       _          66.6      66.6       66.8      -         200.0          -           250.0
5.4 Health Planeing Divisite-
Oper-tiann1 Ntudie.                       -        31.5       46.5    46.5         46.5      46.5       46.5    46.5         46.5      46.5       46.5      -         450.0         -            450.0
Sub-Total B.11.5                      .5      39.6       53.7    52.7         52.7     52.7        52.7    53.2        120.7    120.7       119.5      -         718.7         -           718.7
6. T-DiDiDE
6.1  Asssi:act Health Workers (MCd/FP)          1.9       3.7        -         .9        -         -           -         .3         -                                         6.8                      86.8
6.2  Assista-t Health Workert (MWC)             -        21.3       42.5      -         63.8       -           -       -          59.9       -           -       -         172.5          -           107.5
6.3 3Crative Sorvi-es Aaxiliary Mjidives 106.4    319.2            212.7   238.0       357.0    119.0          -     238.0       357.0    1.0 0          -       _       2,066.3          -         2,066,3
6.4  Nurse PraDiti.aners                        -        13.6       13.7    13.7         4.5      16.8       16.8    16.8          9.6      11.5        11.5    11.5       140.0          -           140.0
6.5 Depaty Ditrrict Health Off0eert aed
PravincialiSspervisors of Prinary
Health Care                               -        25.3       25.3      -           -         -          -        -           -         -          -        -          50.6          -            50.6
6.6 Village Health Volunt_er/Vllasge
Health Communinatar
a.  Pravincial and Dietrict Trainers   3.8          1.9        3.8      1.9         -         -          -        -           _            _                -          11.4         -             11.4
b.  Tombol Health Ntaft                    6.7     10.1       10.1    10.1          6.6       6.6        6.6    13.6          7.1       -          -        -          77.5         -             77.5
t.  Village Health Volanteer             11.8      17.5       17.5    17.5         23.4      23.4       23.4    23.4         41.2      41.2       27.5      -         267.8         -            267.8
.  Village H'ealth Communicator          25.8      38.8       38.8    38.8         51.9      51.9       51.9    51.9         91.1      91.1       60.7      -         592.7                      592.7
e.  Training Eqipent., etc.              81.3       -          -        -           -         -          -        -           -         -          -        -          81.3         -             81.3
6.7 Management
a. Provincial Chine Hedi-al
OfmiDers & Directar health
Technical Sereite                     -         -          5.8      -           5.7       -          -        -           -         -          -        -          11.5         -             11.5
b.  Provincial Hospital Dire-ttes          -        2.9        -        -           -         -          -        -           -         -          -        -           2.9          -             2.9
c.  Chief Planning TeDtion                -         1.1        -        _           _         1.0        -        -           -         _          -        -           2.1          -             2.1
d.  Distriet dealth Offiners              -        10.1        -        -           -         -          -        -           -         -          -        -          10.1          -            13.1
e.  District Hospital Directors           -         8.4        -        -           -         -          -        -           -         -          -        -           8.4          -             8.4
f.  Chief Training and Educatian
and HeAlth Promotio- SNetion          -         -          2.3      -           -         -          _        -           -         -          -        -           2.3         -              2.3
H. Chiefs Promotion Distriet
Hospitals                             -         -          8.2      -           -         -          -        -           -         -          -        -           8.2         -              8.2
6.8  Child N.tritian Ceotar Artendanes           .7        .7         .7       .7          .7        .7         .8       .8          .8        .8         .8       .8         9.0         -              9.0
SHb-Total B.11.6                   238.4    474.6       381.4   321.6        513.6    219.4        99.5   344.8        566.7    263.6       100.5    12.3    3,536.4           _         3.536.4
Total Bane Cost                               252.1    561.1       482.8   407.7        575.6    332.4       198.4   449.3        720.1    435.7       285.5    63.7    4,764.4          59.4       4,705.8
Prite ContinHecites                            15.4      34.1       29.3    24.5         69.1      40.6       23.8    53.9        136.8      82.8       55.3    12.1        577.7         7.6          570.1
GRAND TOTAL                                   267.5    595.2       512.1   432.2        644.7    373.0       222.2   503.2        856.9    518.5       340.8    75.8    5,342.1          67.0        5,275.1
Note:  This US$5.3 million UDAID  -netribhtioc to the peojeet falls short of the oeiginally anticipated US85.5 nillion contribution for rural health sapport.  The total, however,
is lieply to inL rease to US$5.5 million bhsed on the project proparatiac distanniens bee-een the U8AID Mission and the RTC, eurrently taki,, plano in Bangkok.
Abbre-iaitinn-
AV - Audievi..al
FP - Family PloeeinH
etWi - lid-tiery ..t.er



THAILAND
PROPOSED POP9lIJLTO   PROJECT CONTRIBUT1lOi   UNlTED STATES AGENCY FOR lUTERNATIONAl DEVELOPMENT (USAID)  (Eamily Plto,ioS S,poot? )
Yoor 1                                     ~~~~~~~~~~Y-S  2                                            Coot 3
Component                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total           Forcign       Local
I            II             III           IV              C            IT              I I            IV             I              11            ll              IV                                 Coot        Cost
A.  Natioal I.evel
A.ll No-Ctvil W-ork
1. VCoi-los
1.2  VCat, Sterilization T..es/l (FP)                                53.9            _             -              -              _              _              _             _               _             _               _                 53.9            37.7         16.2
B.  PrvtilL-ca
B.11 Non-Civil Works
1. Vehiolet
1.3  V=ns, St-Ili-stio- TCom-/l (FP)                    -            98.0            -             -              -              -              -              -             -               -             -               -                 98.0            68.6          29.4
Tot.1 Bt.e Cost                                         -           151.9            -             -              -              -              -              -             -               _             _               _                151.9           106.3         45.6
Price C-oting-toito                                     -            12.1            -                                                                     ~ -  -            -               -             -               -                 12.1             8.5           3.6
GRAND TOTAL                                             _           164.0                                                        -              -              -              -              -             -               -                164.0           114.8         49.2
/1  507. of -ttal costs;  -eoainder to bc fi-noocd by RTG.



a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pg
c        4                       <44-4                0              -4-                             4<,<
z4<             <4                                     <4 ,..  ..  .4 ...                ..       .          . .4. 
<4-                                         4 4   4  4   4  4   4           < 4           4 4    <            <   ,  ,    < <      <    <4    <                              4,                 ,       <              4       < <
s~~~~~~~~4                                0                              S4    0                                                                                            <4       <    4  <      e4 **g() 4.D0U
~ ZN gs  :sV)04              -    _                                                    <4o                                                                      <4       _~       <       <       4  _      O
AS O N 4 e N < o<_<4   -_   <4                                                                      0<4    <O   <4                                                           00      04                 <442<      0E <
O~ ~ ~ ~~~40  4                                   g-4< .40<<
O~ ~~~~~4<   4<                                                                                        <  4<                                                                      44                       00             <
<40<004~ ~~~~~~~ ~~ ~~~~~ ~~ .             04               ,                                                    ,0      00       ,          <4O             <4
4  <4<4   <4                         <4    <4<4    <4   <4                                                    <4-44<44        <4          04<440 C
<4 44<                                                              <40 C0    4                                        <4      4     4     4    4 4       o              0404X
c       <4c        4 a44                                                              0    <4                                                   -4<40-44<:4-<--   a   a
a~~ ~~~ _4                                                                                                                                                         0   0  444 3    W44 a<4    W<W4'   W > >ggC        l     a    
8  ? X               Z  O    f  z0,                 ZZ     34 -                      zz wc  <4400                                      <4_ <a    za<    a  <44<40<4404                           OP 44 <0_           c
o   a    3     o  a >0444c0 4 a                     04<4 u0 04 .      0        a4C            C       C          0                        _           0   _4<*<04 U O44O0<4.g 044i   cX  
~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 4 - _4                                                                                               44<4 r40              00 .J<40 Vl 4_                        0<x .
4<,<44                                                                 I _< 0 0 _4< _<4__                                                  < 4<4<4<4<4<  40  ''        ' S     e4  -4  0<r  _   <40



lliAIL AND
PRO'OSED 2P015L ATTON PROJECT CONTRIBUTION:  TNTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  (IDA)
(LIS$ 'Ooo)
Year 1                                                         Year 2                                                          Year 3
Component                                   I               II              III             IV               1--           IIT             T1             TV              I                II             111              IV                T.Lc1
2.3  Utilizatio- Equip.-en
a) Pr-vi-nial llealth Offi-co (51
Provinces)                                                                     98.8                                                                                _ _                                                                            98.8
b)  Provinil and Distric
H-spltoIs  (51 Provinces)                       -                -            155.9             -              -                -               -                                               _              _                _                155.9
2.4,  AV Soipplies  (Dutritioc Divisi-l)                    .1               .1              .8              .8            .8               .8              .8              .8           1.4               1.5            1.5              1.5               10.9
2.5  AV Supplies  (Chclalogkorn)                          -                -                .4             .3             .5               .4             .S              .4            .S                 .4             .5               .4                4.3
Snb-Tatal A.11.2                    .6               .6          409.0             7.3          11.7              6.0             6.1             6.0           7.9                7.7            7.8              7,8             478.5
4. Contraceptive Supplies
4.1  Injectbles                                         408.0            390.01            -               -              -             250.0                                            -                 -              -                -             1,000.0
Sub-Total A.11                  400.6            410.1           601.9             7.3          84.6            256.0           127.6            68.             7.9               7.7            7.8              7.8           1,925.3
lotal NStio.al Level            400.6            410.1        3.438.D         1,428.9        1,805.1          1,858.5           490.4           254.8            7.9               7.7            7.8              7.8          10,117.4
B.  Pravin-ial Level
8.1 Civil Worko
1.  C-onttrction a-d Si"e D.vel..sont
1.1   Midnifery Centers                                    -              14.8           846.7             -           776.1            282.3             -                           7 776,1           282.3            -                               2,978.3
1.2  Helth Centers                                         -              48.8           IS9.9             -           146.6             53.3                                         1 146.86             3.3           -                 -                599.7
1.3  Dis-ticitoupltalu  (10 Beds)                                         13.1           281.3           281.3         562.6            281.3           281.3 I                       437.3              328.2         328.2               -             2,394.6
1.4  Child Nutrition Centers                               -                2.6           37.7            37.7          37.7             37.7            37.7            37./          37.7              37.7           37.7             24.8               366.7
1.5  Upgrading Midtif-ry C(enters  1
Heli CnusI .5  83.2            -            76.3             2/.7             -               -            7G.3              27.7            -                -                252.7
1.6  Upgoding Di-triet HeapStLlv  (10
to 38 Sead)                                          -              1.3            327.6           327.6         363.9            109.1           109.1             -           291.3             218.3          218.3              -              1,980.5
lub-ToFtl B.I.1                    -              87.3        1,736.4           646.6        1,963.2            791.4           428.1            37.7      1,765.3              947.5          584.2             24.8            9,012.5
2.  Fornicte
2.1  MlidniCe- Cyence                                                      -              65.0            43.8            -             109.3                             .             -019.3                           -                -                328.0
2.2  Health C-eLts                                         --                             43.8            29.1           -                7.9             -                                               72.9           -                -                 218.7
2.3   itoriet lH-piralo  (10 lcdn)                         -               -                                            42.8                             3               11.4           5                  .            36.7             13.3               135
2.4  Child Natciti-n Cooler                                                  .4            5.9             5.9            5.9              5.9            5.9             5.            5.9                5.9             .93,9                             57.4
2.5  Upgradfng "idwifery Cottern to
H-lcoh Centers                                                                       2.9             1.9            -                4.9            -                              -                 4.9            -                -                 14.0
2.6  Upgr-diug District  ospicals  (10
to 30 Beds)                                          -               -               -               -            62.7              -              15.2             5.6           -                  -            30.7             11.1               125.3
Sab-oLeal B.1.2                    -                 .4          118.2            nO.7         111.4            193.0            57.4            22.9           5,9             193.0           73.3             28.3               879.5
3. Enuipvmen
3.1  Midiife-y Cr-ern                                                                     48.7                           .-                 .6-                                          -               48.6                              -                115.9
3.7  Oevlth C-ntcrs                                                        3- 2.3                                                        32.4                                            -                 2.4                                               97.1
3.3   TI.strict   ..pit'a      (10 Beds)                   -                -              -               -           167.9               -            167.9                                     -                    195.9                                531.7
3.4  Child Nutrition (encrte                               -                 .1            2.2             2.2            2.2               .2            7 .2            2.2            2.3               2.3            7.9              2.3               72.5
3.5   Tpg-cdig Midaifory Cc-cics   a.
liet ItloltCenters                                   -                -              3.2z            -              -                2.2            -                              -93.7                           -                                    9.8
3.6   Upg-ading Dir-c liospitain  (10
to 30  qdi)                                                          -               -               -            79.0                             26.3             -             -                  -            52.7              -                  58.0
Sub-Taol1 B.1.3                                      .1           86.4             2.2         249.1             86.'1          196.4             2.2           2.3              86.5          250.9               2.13              64.8
4.  Pr-ofsoi.e-   Sirvies                                  -                1.3           47.8            13.5          51.6             20.4             8.9              .8          C 7.3              23. 6         12.2                .5
Sub-Tata1 8.l                      -              89.1        1,988.8            743.0       2,375.3          1,091.2           685.8            63.6       1, 81.0           1,250.6          929.6             55.9      a   15,383.9



THAILAND
PROPOSED POPUILATION PROJECT CONTRIBUTION:  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (1125
(CNN  0001
Teen                                      ToorA                                                       Yeor3~~~~~~(s.voo
Component                                I                  Ya        TI_           IT          I                     Ys  2      II            IV             I II  3II                                    IV 0T1T-
N.II Non-Civil Works
1. Vehicles
1.1  Mptorcycle-  (A.oil-yrn Midwives)                -               9.5         121.4            -             -              -             70.0           -             _                _             _                              200.9
1.2  Motorcycles   -ltbirorlns)                       -              49.1          64.1            -             -              -             32.6           -             -                -             -                              146.4
1.4  Suporvision of Primory H.Ilh Care
)  TooWh-el DIriv- Vehfcle-                      -              6.6            -              -            -               -              -             -             -               -             -               -                 6.6
b)  OoloroyclOl                                  -              6.8R           -              -            -               -              -             -             -                -            - -                               6.8
1.5  ' wo-Wh-l Drive V.hi.l-t  (Di-rict
H.ospital)                                       -                             -              -                           75.1            -                           _              42.3           _                               117.4
1.6  Two-Whtel DOive VehIcl.s  (H-0114
EdooOIol-)                                       -               6.6                                 -                     -              -                    -              -               -             -                         6.6
1.7  Too-Wheel Drib  Vehiclet (He-lit
PlenInig P l. isiol)                             -               6.6                                 -              -             -             -               -             -              -                                         6.6
1.e Ooo-Wheel Driv Vehicles (Sup-rvionio
FP)                                              -               6.6           -              -            -               -              -             -             -                             - -                               6.6
Spb-Total B.11.1                -              92.4         185.5            -            -              75.1         102.6            -             -              42.3                           -               497.9
2. S-ecill EguiP-ent
2.1  Provincill 6lt01h. O..i.es                       -               -             56.3           -             -               -             -              -            -                -             -               -                56.3
2.2  Provincial H-ospitls                             -               -             54.6           -             -              -              -              -            -                _             _               _                54.6
2.3  District HoepItels (30 BldO)                     -                            47.6            -             -              -              -              -            -                -             _               _                42.6
2.4  District Hospielo (10 Nodt)                      -               -            62.3                           -                     -             -                    -                -             -               -                62.3
2.5  Health . loooiog and Evaluetio                   -               -            S8.7            -             -                             -              -g-i8                                                       -                88.7
Sub-Total B.TT.2                -               -           304.5                   -                     -              -             -             -                -            -                               304.5
Sub-Tutel B.II                  -             92.4          490.0            -            -              75.1         102.6            -             -              42.3           -                               8- 02.4
T.101   ProviOclal Lovel        -             161.5       2,478.8          743.0      2,375.3         1,166.3          788.4          63.6      1,821.0          1,292.3         920.6            55.9          11,887.3
To011 6000 Coot                                     400.6           591.6       5,916.8        2,171.7      4,180.4         3,024.8        1,278.8         318.4       1,828.9          1,300.6         928.4            63.7          22,004.7
Physir-l Con-tiog-ciov                                 -              9.0         482.4          216.5         409.6          269.3          104.9           31.2        182.0            125.2          92.0             5.5           1,927.6
Price Cootingencis                                   24.0            65.0         712.5          284.2      1,122.9           746.8          314.2           68.5        802.5            533.0         362.0            23.6          5,259.2
Allocatio- for Innovativ- Altiliti=s                  -               5.0           15.0          306.0         50.0           55.0           65.(1          80.0        100.0            150.0         200.0           250.0           1,010.0
GRA0D TOTAL                                         424.6           650.6       7,126.7        2,702.4      5,762.9         4,095.9        1,762.9          518.1      2,913.4          2,108.8      1,582.4            342.8         29,991.5
Abbreviatio-s:
AV - A,diovi-ool
FRD - Family H-leth Dioiijon
FP - Pooily Planning
HED - Healtb Ed--aion Division
RHD - Rorol HelIth Divisi-o
ISO



THAILAND
PROTOSED POPULATION PROJECT CONTRIBUTION:  ROYAL ChAI GOVERhlfENT (RTY)
(US$ '00(l)
Year 1                 IV                              Year 2                                                         Year 3          __       IV ___
Conpooco                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Tore
1             TI             IRI           IV             I             II              III            IT            I               II            III             IT
A. National Level
A.1 Civil Works
1. ocaitucLiona sod Sire Invelopnleot
1.1  Expansive Nursing Schoo--1                                                   143.1           21.6           21.6          71.A6                                                                                                        357.9
I.2  Pracic_R N`r_e-lIdsif-yr Schools0-                                           360.9          100.4         180.3          125               -                                                                                          803.1
1.3  Mideifary School and MCH Ccntev                                  -           199.0           95.4           95.4          95.4            95.4           95.4           -               -             -               -                6760.
1.4  N'PP TraivioR Center                             -               -            45.5           36.3           24.3            -              -                            -               -             -               -               106.1
1.5 EYpa.si.n 2 Midtif-ry Schoola and
MCR Coaler                                       -               -           144.0           68.9          69.R           00.0            23,0            -             -               -             -              -                373.9
1.6  Enpension 2 MildwiEnrY Shools                     -              -           142.5           79.5           66.3          26.5             -              -             -               -             -               -               314.0
Sob-Total A.1.1                 -               -         1,035.0          540.1         514.9          388.0           118.4          95.4            _               _            _               _              2,691.8
2. F-iternre
2.1 'I pEanion Nuirsig Schnol                          -              -              7.7           2.8            -            10.5             -              -             -               -             -               -                 21.0
2.2  Practical N.r-nldifWi yer  Schools                -              -              -             -             21.1          19.5             -              -             -               _             _               _                40.6
2.3  Midwiflyr School and MCII Cntir                   -              -              -             -              -            13.8            12.7            -             -               -             -               -                 26.5
2.4  NFPP Trainic C.enter                             -               -               .8            .3            -              1.2            -              -             -               -             _               -                  2.3
2.5 Exp-neio- 2 Midwifery Schonls and
MCICenter                                        -               -             --                            6.2           5.o             -                            -               -             -              -                  11.9
2.6  Eapa..sian 2 Midviry Srhols                       -              --                           -                7             .6                                                                                                           13
Sob-Tnotl A.1.2                 -               -             8.5            3.1          28.0           51.3            12.7            -             -               -            -               -                103.6
3.1  iopann lorsioR Schnnl                             -              -            19.0            -              -            19.0             _              -             -               -                             -                 30.0
3.12 'Pranninal Noe-idnRfn-p Rc'.l:ol                                                       -                    50.1            -              ----                                                                                         500,1
3.3 Midifer-y School ai d MCE  C-tr                    -    o                                                     -            63.8                                                                                                          63 ,
3.4  SFPP Traioig Crter                                                            47                                                                                                              -                      -                  9.3
3.5 Enpeesinn 2 Midnifnry Schoolt snd
MCHCenter                                        -               -             -              -             6.0            -               -                            -               -            _               -                  6.0
3.6  Etpoosios 2 Midwifery Schnnln                     -              -              -             _              4.7            -                                           -               -             - _                                4.7
Sub-Tntal A.1.3                 -               -            23.7            -            60.8           87.4                    -                     -               -             -                               171,9
5. Land
2.2  Prattinal Nove.-Mideif-ry Schonle               22.3             -              -                                                  -                      -             -               -             -               -                 22.3
RRb-To-ol A.1                  22.3             -         1,067.2          34/,3.2       603.7          526.7          131.1           95.4                                                                        2,909.6
A.11  Non-Civil W1kor
1. Vehitles
1.1  Motorcycnes (oooilioro OLdoivel)                -              120.2          28.5            -              -             -               28.5                                        -                                              177.7
1.2  V..s (Steril53velon Reeve)                      -                 93.9
1.3 Toe-Whenl Drive Vehivler
(Sup-rvieinv FP)                                               56.2            -             -              -              -               -             -             -               -             -                                 56.2
1.4 Traesprt ..oven Seodenes
a.  Mlinibusea                                  -                9.4          16.8                          -                                                                                                                          26.2
h.  Oc teton)                                 -               -.2            -             -             12.1            -2-                                                                                       -                 12.1
1.6  Tno-Whnel Drtie Vehice(s
a.  Project Amintratioelne, RHD                 -                2.2                  -              -              -              -                     -              -              -             -               -                  2.2
b,.PAFU                                         -                2.2           -              -             -              -                -            -              -              -             -               -                  2.2
c.  Project Odlnietraticn, PHD5                 -                3.3           -              -             -              -                -            -              -              -             -               -                  3.3
1.7  Miinibses (FP Traivi  Ceer)                     -                3.8            -             -              -             -                -             _             _               -            _                -                  3.8
Oub-Tonal A.11.1               -             253.4           45.3            -            17.1                            2g.5          -              -               -            -               -                344.3



TIIAILAND
PROPOSED POPULATION PROJECT CONTRIBITTION: ROYAL TOAl GOVERhMENT (RTG)
(US, '000)
Ye.er I                                                   Year z2                                                   Yr 3
I             II            III           IV             L             00             III           IV             I              II           III             IV
2,  Special Eqalpment
2,1 AV Prod-ction Eq.ipm-at (FHD)
a.  ElPeptri  Addr-s-ing M-ahi-e                 -             -             -             -               .6           -              -             _              _              _            _               _                 .6
b. Piling CRabinets Por AddressinR
Ranhinop Platna                             _              _                                          ._  _                        - _                            1 _   I_               
El                                                                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.2
p.  Audio Passelte poptttater                    -             _             _             _                            -7__                                   
d.  AV ioppiDes                                  1.4           1.4           1.4           1.4            1.2           1.1            1.1           1.1            1.4            1.4          1.4             1.4             15,7
2.2  A4  Pr-doatio  Eq,oipm-ot (HED)
a,   P           iSntno Iqol-omt                 -             -            16.7           -              -             _              _             _              _              _                                           16.7
6.  YilraRio gEqu ipme-t                         -             _            14.0                                                                                                                                                1 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  04.0
Equipoa-t fEr Preteasi.g and
T_tining Activiti-s                         -             _              3.8           -             -             -               _             -             _               _            _              _                3.8
2.3 IltilitIIt on Equipmcnt
a.  P_r_oicSal RelH.h Offices
(Sl provinceas                                                   -              - 23.1                                                                                                                                     23.1
b.  Provincal ald Di,strit
Hnspitals (51 prov_inct)                    -             -            36.5            -             -             -               -             -             _               -            _               _              36.5
2.4  AV Snpplie- (N-rnti.o1 Division)                  .2            .2            .1             .2            .1            .1             .2             .9            .4              .4           .4              .4             2.9
2.5  AV SuppIies (EAolalooREereO                       .2            .2             .1            .2           _              .1             -              .1           -                .1          -                .0             1.1
Sub-Tothl A.01.2                1.8            1.8          05.7           1.8           2.7           1.3             1.3           1.4           1.9             1.9          1.8             1.9           115.3
5.  SEC Prod, ctaoo/1                                46.9          46.9          47.1           47.1          29.6          82.2          248.4          1904.          51.3            57.9         32.9           3.1             974.4
7.1  Popolati-n Awareness (Colouloe0kore5             -             2.5            -             2.5           -             2.5            _              2.5           _               2.5          -              2.5             15.0
8.  SDleriee & Al-o.an.ep/E                           0.2          33.3          35.7           35.7          41.0          41.0           41.0           41.0          43.3            43.3         4.3.3          43.3            450.1
Sub-To-t1 A.0                  56.9         337.9          223.8          87.1          90.3         127.0           319.2         240.0         102.5           lO.6        103.0          104.0          1,000.1
Intal NQti-onl l,evel          79.2         337.9       1,291.0          630.3         694.1         653.7           450.3         336.3         11)2.5          105.4        103.0           104.0        4,088.7
B.  Proven- -l Level
B.I. Civil Work
1.  ConOttuRtioe A Ott  Delopment
l.l  OldneEtty Centers                                 -           02.3          20.339 9                    301.9         109.7                                       301.0          109,7            _               -         1,231.8
5.2  ScaleDl Co.tsrt                                   -           70.0         279.9             _          256.6          93.3              -             -          256.6            93.3           -               -         1,049.7
1.3  Si_trort Hospitals(10 btds)                       -           10.5         109.4           00.4         2108.         109.4          109.4             -          170.3           107.4        127.6              -         1,154.9
1.4  0i41  IOCriEio  Centers                           -           14.6          114.6          14.6          14.6            4             14.6          14.6          14.6            14.6         14.6           10.2           156.2
I.5  Upg-ada-g Midwifery Ceettra to ReDlbh C-tnrer  -               8.0          32.4             -           29.7          10.6                                        29.7           10.8            -               -           120.4
1.6  Upg-ad1,g District HRipita-l(10 te 30 beds)   -                5.0         127.3          127.3         141.5          42.5           42.5             _          113.1            85.1)        65.0              -           849.2
So1b-To.al B.I.1                 -          332.9          892.9         25L.3         963.1         380.3           166.5          14.6         886.2           441.0        277.2            10.2        4,566.2
2. Prirnl ture
2.1  MRdiif-ey Ce-ttrs                                 -             -           15.4           10.2            -           25.7              _             -                           I 25.7         -               -            77.0
2.2  Ilolet  Ceet et i                                              -           10.2            6.9            -           17.             7 4            2                            17.1          8-               -            51.3
2.3  Iteneict SoepSeDle (10 bode)  -      -             -             -           ~~~~      ~     ~       ~     ~~~~          ~~~      ~      ~       ~         ~~~000  -  7.4  2.7  -  -  .5  3.1       3.
2.4  Child Ntrit,,io   Ce-t-re                         -             1.4           0.4           1.4           1.4            1.4            i,.           1,4           1.4             1.4          1.4             1.1           10.0
2.5  UptOdSiRg MiOOeltry Coatcr  te  il0t0h (-enL-re -               -              .7            .S            -            1.1              - I                         _              1,]           -               -             3.4
2.6  Upg_ra ing Ditt llospitals(LO to 30 beds)   -                   -              -                         14.6            -              3.6           1.3            -               _           7.1             2 6           29.2
S,b-Tetal 0.0.2                  -             1.4          27.7          19.0          26.0          45.3            12.4           5.4            1.4           45.3         17.11            6.8          207.7
3. Rvnie,oO-t
3.1  MidEifery Cntoers                                 _             -           10.3             -             _           11.4                     -                     -            [1.0           -                            324.1
3.2  lealth Centers                                    -              -            7.7            -             -             7.6             -                                                      407.6             -           12.0
3.3  District  lospital 000 beds)                      -             -              -             -           39.4                          39.4                                          -          46.0 .                        024.0
3.4  Child Nutritio- Centtrs                           _              .3            .6            .6            .6              6             .6             6              5              5            5               5            5.9
3.5  Ulp'gdi,g Mid.if-ey Centers tR llealth Ceet=ra-                  -             .. _                        _              ,                                                          .1 2                         -              7.0
3.6  UpgradiNg Dittrlict  Hspitala (10 te 30 beds ).5                                                                         -              6.2            -             - _12.3                                      -            37.0
Sob-TotaI  B.I.3                                 .3          20.4             .6         58.5           20.4           46.2            .6             .5           20.3          50.8             .5           227.1
mo |O



AOI$EX 10
Page 12
0                     0
0                     2                                                  a
0$ I
8  o   '0                                                                       0
8
O                 j                  0
2   7.Kt00  taOOO                                              a-
00$o
o.a    -  0         0 t oa-                    0  000  0  aF ol -  0
00    0  t          toOtO                          820$
*            -a toOt                    Co
0         a  00    a  a           0-a-aO-aOOOOt                        0  0  0  a  a          a          a           az-to
0-a    0  o  t      00000               0   I            0      t  o  a         a          o               a-
o         a- 00--         0       ta tOto    at a                         0  -               -a                  ---tO   0
a         ct-ta-a          t     0000   cot c-a'         agaaaaa              0              0           a-          0000
a         cotta            c     -a'--at-aoa-  -at-a   aF coot.          a  a              a  a        a-      a  co----
a-        attoc            0         0  a-ca-ca-a-       0$ ott0          a                 a  -a       a           -tO-ta
o         OatOO                   aa.attoo   000         a      tat          0              0  a                -  -atat
cacoot  a-              a a-,-.OOt      0  a            0  0  a                    ta-to
0     a-Otaaaaa000                              a  a           a  --  a       0        a  0  0
00-a-at         a-  a  a-attctaooooo                             a  a              c.0                 0$   co
-to a-to            0  a- 00c000000                              c-a            0000           a        a-
0.aOa 0 a Otto *0 0 a- a a 0000
OI 0 taCO           000000           cacao          F cotta            oF          a  -  a        -a       0  0000
0$ooo--             a  ooooa                                    8                   a          a



ThAILAND
PROPOSED POPULATION PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(DII 0003
Project Cot                                                           Canada                      No y                        Unitod St.Dnes                        IDA                               Thailend
Tota1         Fornign         Local        Amount           7.          Amount                          . Amount      7             Amount           7.           Amount               7.             Amount                7.
of Total                      of Total                    of Total                       of Tontl                          of Total                            of Totol
A.  National Lev-l
A.I Clvil Works
1.  Con-tutution and Sit. D-velnp=nnt             9,613.7        2,307.3        7,306.4            -            -               -              -             -             -                -             -          6,921.9               72.0          2,691.8               28.0
2.  Putit.t.                                        545.1           103.5         301.6            --------441.3                                                                                                                          01.0              103.0              19.0
3.  Equipuat                                        904.5           542.7         361 6                          -                                                                                                     4732.6              01.0             171.0              19.0
4.  Protroa-onal Derviona                            96,1             -             96.1           -             -               -             -              -            -                -             -              96.1             100.0               -
5.  Land                                             22.3             -            22.3            -             -              -              -             .             -                -             -               -                 -                22.3             100.0
Sub-Total Civil Woeko   11,181.7           3,013.5       8,168.2             -            -               -                                                                                    8,192.1              73.3           2,989.6               26.7
A.11 Non-Coill Wo-ko
1.  Vohiul-n                                      1,635.0         1,144.5         490.5          790.0         48.3             -              -             -             -               53.9           3.3          446.8               27.3             344.3              21.1
2.  Sptctol iquip_nni                               606.8           606.8           -             13.0           2.1            -              -              -            -                -             -            478.5               78.9             115.3              19.0
3.  Tnohniu.l Ansintanon                            221.2           165.9          55.3            -             -             71.2           32.2         150.0          67.8                                            -                 -
4.  Conitracptivn Supplies                        6,356.3        6,356.3             -                                      5,356.3           84.3            -            -                _             -          1,000.0               15.7
5.  I   Producifon                                  974.4             -           974.4            --                                                                               -                                                       -               974.4             100.0
6.  Evoluotion and Reseanhn                         345.0                         34.-                           -            345.0          100.0                                                                                                            -
7.  T-Otino                                         445.1             -           445.1 t                                                      -             -                            430.1          90.06                                               10.0               3.14
8.  Salatin  and Allo..an.a                         450.1             -           450.1                           -             _ -            -              -            -                -             -               -                 -               430.1             100
Dub-Totol Don-Civil Works   11,033.9            8,273.5       2,760.4          803.0           7.3        5,772.5           52.3          150.0          1.4            484.0           4.4        1,925.3               17.4           19899.1              17.2
Total National Lovni Bl.o  Coat   22,215.6          11,287.0       10,928.6          003.0          3.6         5,772.5           26.0         150.0            .7            484.0           2.2       10,117.4               45.5          4,888.7               22.0
B.  Pruvinoial Levol
B.0 Civil Works
1.   vun-touttiun and Sito D-lonp-ont            16,306.5        3,913.5       12,393.0          628.7           3.8            _              _         2,099.1          12.9              -             -          9,012.5               55.3          4,566.2               28.0
2.  Furnituto                                     1,092.7           327.8         764.9            5.5            .5                                          -            -                - _                         879.5              80.5             207.7              19.0
3.  iquipRent                                     1,193.5           716.1         477.4            1.6            .1            -              -              -            -                              _            964.8               80.9             227.1              19.0
4.  Pr_fn_oino.l Dorvi_no                           244.6             -           244.6           16.5           6.7            -              -              _                                                         228.1              93.3               -                 -
5.  L-od                                            8090.7            -           00.7             -             -              -              -              -            -                -             -               -                 -               890.7             100.0
Dub-Total Civil Works   19,728.0           4,957.4       14,770.6          652.3          3.3             _              -         2,099.1         30.6               -            -          11,084.9              56.2           5,891.7               29.9
0.2l N5n-Civil Wo-ka
1.  Takiclea                                      2,326.0        1,628.2          697.8        1,227.4         52.8                                           -            -               98.0           4.2          497.9               21.4             502.7              21.6
2.  Speciol Rquip=onI                               376.7           376.0            -             -             -              -              -              -            -                -             -            304.5               81.0              71.6              19.0
3.  Tcohniool A-niutouvo                             79.2            59.4           19.8           -             -               -             -              -            -               79.2         100.0             -                 -                 -                  -
4.  IEC Production                                   30.0             -            30.0            -             -              -              -              -            -                -             -               -                 -                30.0             000.0
5.  Ivuluotion aod RO-nuclh                         700.7             -           710.7            -             -              -              -              -            -              718.7         100.0                                                 -
6.  Trolotog                                      3,536.4                         3.4              -             -                                                                      3,536.4         100.0                                                 -                  -
7.  SDlo-i-n aod Allovances                       5,229.9             -         53229.9            -             -                                                                          -                             -                 -             5,229.9              0(70.
SDob-Tiol Nou-Clvil W-oko    12,296.3           2,063.7      10,232.4        1,227.4          1(0.0                                         -             -           4,432.3          36.0           802.4               6.5           5,034.2              47.5
T-ol Provincial Levo  B:so CoCt    32,024.3             7,021.1      25,003.2        1,979.7           5.9             -                       2,099.1           6.6          3,732.3          13.8       11,807.3               37.0          11,725.9              36.6
Boon Cunt Estimatn                               54,23959        18,308.1      35,931.8        2,682.7           4.9        5,772.5           10.6       2,249.1           4.1         4,916.3            9.1       22,004.7               40.7          16,614.6              301.6
Phyoicol Contingoncies                            3,090.9           797.0       2,293.9           65.2           2.1             -             -            209.9          6.0              -             -          10927.6               62.4             888.2               28.7
Ptica Coallugooolou                              10,269.2         2,871.3       7,397.9          248.3           2.4          526.1            5.1          626.0          6.1            589.8           5.7        5,059.2               49.3           3,219.8               31.4
All-otioo fto  Inoovoi-vo Activitieo             1,000.0           250.0          750.0            -            -               -             -              -            -                -             -          0,000.0              100.(               -
TOrAL ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS                    68,600.0       22,226.4       46,373.6        2,996.2           4.4        6,298.6            9.2       3,085.0           4.5          .5036.  P1        8.0       29,991.5               43.7          20,722.6               30.2
/1  Ilio total con.tiribution iludd       0 U0AID ouppoct or rural h-altacriv-Ditios and fCu v-h-cloa fSo  thi  NTUPP.  (So  Anun.  10, ppu. 5 and 6).



ANNEX 11
THiAILAND
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
CUMULATIVE
IDA FISCAL YEAR         AMOUNT         DISBURSEMENT        % OF
AND QUARTER                          AT END OF           TOTAL
QUARTER
FY79
September 30, 1978         292.1             292.1            .9
December 31, 1978          703.6             995.7           3.0
March 31, 1979           5,498.8           6,494.5          19.6
June 30, 1979            4,420.6         10,915.1           33.0
Total                 10,915.1
FY80
September 30, 1979       3,487.3         14,402.4           43.5
December 31, 1979        3,435.6         17,838.0           53.9
March 31, 1980           3,383.7         21,221.7           64.1
June 30, 1980            2,641.4         23,863.1           72.1
Total                 12,948.0
FY81
September 30, 1980         947.6         24,810.7           75.0
December 31, 1980        2,657.2         27,467.9           83.0
March 31, 1981           2,847.8         30,315.7           91.6
June 30, 1981            1,869.4         32,185.1           97.2
Total                  8,322.0
FY82
September 30, 1981         771.8         32,956.9           99.6
December 31, 1981          143.1         33,100.0          100.0
Total                      914.9



ANNEX 12
Page 1
DEMOGRAPHIC BACKGROUND AND PROJECTED IMPACT OF NFPP
A. The Current Situation
1.        The first population census of Thailand, in 1911, reported a total
population of about eight million. Nothing can be said with certainty about
the size of Thailand's population at earlier dates, but it seems clear that
by historical standards it had grown substantially during the preceding half-
century. It is reasonably estimated that the population in 1850 was between
five and six million. Of the increase of about 50% during the next 60-year
period (well under 1% a year), about two-fifths consisted of Chinese immigra-
tion, which continued at a high rate until the 1930s. At the time of the
1937 census, the population had grown to more than 14 million; the popula-
tion growth rate had evidently doubled (to 2.2%) compared with the 1850-1911
period.  During the Second World War, the growth rate decelerated, averag-
ing slightly less than 2% per year from 1937 to 1947. Thereafter, rapidly
falling death rates led to renewed acceleration of population growth, now
based almost exclusively on natural increase, that is, an excess of births
over deaths. Official census data are summarized in Table 1. Evaluation
studies of the 1970 census have led to an upward revision of the 1970 figure
to about 36 million. The revised annual growth rate for 1960 to 1970 is
about 3%. In 1977 Thailand's population was estimated at around 44 million
and the annual growth rate was estimated at about 2.5%.
Table 1:  CENSUS COUNTS OF POPULATION AND INTER-CENSAL INCREASES, 1911-1970
Census              Total            Inter-Censal       Annual Percentage
Year             Population           Increase              Increase
1911              8,266,408           -                     -
1919              9,207,355             940,447             1.4
1929             11,506,207           2,298,952             2.2
1937             14,464,105           2,957,898             3.0
1947             17,442,689           2,978,584             1.9
1960             26,257,916          11,467,727             3.2
1970             34,397,374          11,860,542             2.7
Fertility
2.        With the exception of the war years of the 1940s, fertility has
remained at traditionally high levels during most of the twentieth century.
In view of the high level of mortality, this was in large measure a condi-
tion of survival. Up to the early years of the century, it is clear that
fertility must have been only slightly higher than mortality. But mortality
appears to have started downwards about the time of World War I, leading to



ANNEX 12
Page 2
the sharp increase in the rate of natural increase recorded for the 1920s
and 1930s, which was resumed after the interruption of the Second World
War. Fertility remained high (by international standards) as is indicated
by a gross reproduction rate of 3.2 estimated for 1950-55 and of 3.1 for
1964-65.
3.        Other evidence of recent high fertility can be found both in the
1960 estimate that the average number of children ever-born to ever-married
women past the childbearing age was about 6.5 and to the fact that some esti-
mates for 1970 put the crude birth rate at between 42 and 45 per thousand
population.
4.        However, in recent years there is growing, if still somewhat impre-
cise, evidence to the effect that a significant overall fertility decline
has commenced. This conclusion has been reached in part from the results of
the 1975 World Fertility Survey which showed a downward trend in the total
fertility rate from 6.6 in 1960-64 to 4.8 in 1970-74, representing a decline
of 27% (Appendix 1). Some unpublished work of the National Economic and
Social Development Board on the basis of a comparative analysis of data from
registration statistics, censuses, sample surveys and other studies also sug-
gest that a fertility decline has been under way for some 10-15 years and has
possibly been accelerating during the last five years. This conclusion can
draw support from the fact that urbanization is proceeding rapidly and that
marked urban-rural differentials exist. The fertility of the metropolitan
area of Bangkok-Thonburi is on the average 30% below the national average,
while that of provincial towns seems to be about 20% below the level of the
country as a whole. It also appears that regional differentials in fertility
are widening. Fertility in the Central Region, including Bangkok, and in the
North appears to be falling significantly.
5.        Thailand in both rural and urban sectors is notable for a relatively
high age at marriage. The census shows that between 1947 and 1960 the propor-
tion of women married by ages 20-24 declined by almost one third. In 1970
half of all females were married by about age 21, males by age 24. lWhile
late marriages tend to depress overall fertility, the traditional Thai pattern
of continuing child bearing into the late 40s has compensated to maintain high
crude birth rates.
6.        The results of the mosit recent demographic work of the National
Economic and Social Development ]3oard and the National Statistical Office
indicate that the crude birth ralte has fallen to around 34.5 per thousand
by 1977 and that the death rate has fallen to around nine per thousand. It
is therefore estimated that the declared population growth rate target of
2.5% in 1977 has been achieved. These declines parallel evidence of sharply
rising levels of contraceptive usage, including sterilization, as seen in
survey measurements of proportions using acceptance figures for the National
Family Planning Program as estimates of private sector distribution.



ANNEX 12
Page 3
Mortality
7.        Until recently mortality in Thailand was high.  An estimate by
Bourgeois-Pichat (1960) presents a crude death rate of 50 per thousand for
the early part of the twentieth century. This would suggest that the expec-
tation of life at birth was only a little over 20 years. Life expectancy
in 1937 has been estimated at 35 years, implying a death rate of about 25
per thousand. A more rapid decline in mortality began after the Second World
War, leading to an increase in life expectancy to 50 years in 1947 and to 56
years for males and 64 years for females in 1964-65. The crude death rate
had by the mid-1950s fallen to below 20 per thousand and by the mid-1960s to
about 11 per thousand. The crude death rate can still fall modestly below
its present level of nine per thousand, but for future growth the dynamic
factor will be fertility.
8.        From various sources, infant and maternal mortality rates are esti-
mated to have decreased by two-thirds over the three decades between 1940
and 1970, but they remain at serious levels, with infant mortality probably
at about 70 per thousand live births and maternal mortality about four per
thousand live births as of the early 1970s.
Population Distribution and Internal Migration
9.        By Asian standards, Thailand is still a relatively sparsely popu-
lated country, although it will not long remain so if present growth rates
continue. In 1970 average density was about 70 persons per square kilometer.
Because of the high rate of population growth, this figure may now
be expected to have risen to approximately 85 per square kilometer. Density
per unit of cultivable land is of course much higher and varies significantly
from region to region. Average density is highest in the Central Region,
which includes the most fertile agricultural land in the country, as well as
the Bangkok metropolitan area. The population of the Central Region, com-
prises about 30% of the total population, one-third of which is accounted for
by the Bangkok metropolitan area alone. Next in terms of density comes the
North East Region, which has the poorest soil. Nevertheless, the North East
remains predominantly agricultural and supports about 35% of the total popula-
tion. The North and the South have more favorable agricultural conditions,
but the North is also developing considerable pressure on cultivable land.
These two regions hold about 22 and 13% respectively, of the total population.
10.       Urban growth is proceeding at a high rate.  It has been estimated
at 6.5% per year, or more than twice the rate of natural increase during the
1960s. The proportion of population residing in urban areas has increased
from 10% in 1947 to nearly 17% in 1976. Since the designation of an area
as urban is in part a matter of administrative considerations (it alters
the services that must be provided, for example), these figures most likely
understate the degree of urbanization that has actually taken place. The
extent of underenumeration is not known.



ANNEX 12
Page 4
11.       The outstanding feature of the pattern of urbanization in Thailand
is the dominance of the Bangkok metropolitan area. Thailand's capital has
approximately four million people, about one-tenth of the country's population,
and constitutes the most extreme example of a "primate city" anywhere in the
world, exceeding the size of the second largest city, Chiang Mai in the North,
by a multiple of more than 40. This figure is, however, likely to be some-
what exaggerated by the just-mentioned problem of definition of urban areas.
The degree of dominance of Bangkok, in terms of relative numbers, has in-
creased significantly in recent decades.
12.       As ,elsewhere, it appears that the main motivation for migration
is economic, as urban areas offer the prospect of better incomes and better
social services. Additionally, migration occurs in connection with marriage
and other family-related changes. Apart from rural-urban migration, movements
from less to more promising rural areas are relatively common, in particular
when settlement schemes or other new or improved facilities offer good pros-
pects for cash income.
Population Structure and Composition
13.       As might be inferred from its high level of fertility, the rela-
tively low and declining level of mortality, and insignificant external migra-
tion, Thailand has a young population. In 1970 slightly more than 45% of the
population was below 15 years of age and only about 3% was 65 years of age or
older (Appendix 2). If the working-age population is defined as those between
ages 15 and 64, it follows that the dependency burden was 93 dependents per
100 persons of working age. This represents an increase from 85 per 100 in
1960, when the population below ][5 years of age was somewhat lower. Due to
the concentration of rural-urban migration in the working ages, the dependency
burden is significantly lower in urban than in rural areas, about 72 versus 93
per hundred for the country as a whole.
B.  Demographic Impact of the National Family Planning Program
14.       Overpopulation means essentially too much pressure on a country's
available resources to permit generating those improvements in social and
economic standards which are called "development." The forms which demo-
graphic pressure takes are many--e.g., the demand for more school places,
increasing competition for the available employment opportunities, downward
pressure on wage levels, less and less arable land area per farm family and
per consumer, more pressure on available food supplies, on energy resources,
on forestry, on dumping-spaces for human and industrial wastes, etc. While
population size is only one source of this growing pressure on resources (the
other major source being rising living standards themselves), it is the base
to which all other aspects of the problem must ultimately be referred. Thus
population size, and its rate of growth, are basic determinants of human
welfare.



ANNEX 12
Page 5
15.       The table on p. 3 of this report's main text shows the estimated
size of Thailand's population over a 30-year period, 1970-2000, under three
different assumptions concerning fertility trends. Two main conclusions are
evident:  even if Thailand should succeed in achieving a net reproduction rate
of 1.0 by 1990 the built-in momentum of the country's young age-structure would
cause population to continue increasing to around 66 million in the year 2000
and through the middle of the next century, when it would be over 90 million.
The second conclusion, obvious but dramatic, is that the ultimate total popu-
lation would be much larger than 90 million people if a net reproduction rate
of 1.0 is reached only some years after 1990. Thus these overall numbers
strongly support the Government's attempt to slow population growth. This
conclusion gains in force when one examines some aspects of the demographic
structure under the three different growth-rates that underlie the projections.
The following provide estimated differences in the dependency burden, in the
size of the school-age population, and the size of the working age population
under the three assumptions used about future fertility trends.
Table 2: AGE DISTRIBUTION, 1970 AND 2000, UNDER VARYING FERTILITY ASSUMPTIONIS
Population                     Percentage          Dependency
(OOOs)                                             Ratio
0 - 14    15 - 64    64 +        0 - 14      15 - 64   65 +
1970      16,444    18,644       1,093       45.4       51.5       3.0      .94
2000
Constant  51,726    53,165       3,079       47.9        49.2      2.9    1.03
Medium    34,797    51,747       3,079       38.8        57.7       3.4     .73
Target    17,823    44,803       3,102       27.1        68.2      4.7      .47
16.       Table 2 shows the effects of varying fertility assumptions on the
age distribution of the population in the year 2000.  It can be seen that
the proportion of the population not of working age declines sharply with
the level of fertility, resulting in dependency ratios which vary between
1.03 and .47. The absolute number of persons under the age of 15 shows an
even more striking disparity. If the target fall in fertility is achieved,
this group will be little more than one-third the number occurring with
constant fertility or one half the figure for the medium projection. The
potential for resource savings in education and other social sectors oriented
toward the young is easily apparent. With the target fall in fertility, the
population under 15 increases to about 20 million in 1980 but then falls
slowly again before becoming almost stationary at approximately its current
level.



ANNEX 12
Page 6
Table 3:  PROJECTIONS OF THE SCHOOL-AGE POPULATION, 1970-2000
(OOOs)
6-12                               13-17
Year       Constant   Medium   Target         Constant   Medium   Target
1970         7,076      7,076    7,076          4,132      4,132    4,132
1980        9,948      9,921    9,544           5,626     5,626    5,626
1990        14,813    13,825    8,942           8,292      8,147    6,965
2000        21,766    16,061    7,905          12,304    10,775    6,007
17.       Table 3 gives figures for two school-age groups for the constant
variant, medium variant, and the Thai target projections.  The table clearly
illustrates the effects of lowering fertility on these two age groups.  With
the higher fertility, the school-age population will increase rapidly over
the next 30 years, doubling even under the conditions of the medium variant
projection. If the target projection goals are achieved, however, future
increases in school-age population will be significantly more modest and
some decline might actually take place after the mid-1980s for the 6-12
age group and in the older age group around the mid-1990s. Under the more
favorable conditions of the Thai target projection, it should be possible
to devote an increasing proportion of educational investment to expanding
enrollment ratios and improving educational quality. The wide variations
between the target projection and the other projections point to the diffi-
culties which will rise if fertility is not greatly reduced.
18.       Forecasts of the labor force are especially difficult to estimate
given the number of volatile economic and social factors involved. Using
the assumption that recent (1970) labor-force participation rates of 52% for
males and 46% for females remain unchanged, the projections indicate a nearly
three-fold increase in the labor force by the year 2000 (Table 4), an increase
which will undoubtedly be difficult to absorb into the overall economic situa-
tion.
Table 4: PROJECTIONS OF THE LABOR FORCE, 1970-2000
(OOOs)
____       Fertility Assumption
Year                Constant           Hedium        Thai Target
1970                  9,135             9,135           9,135
1980                 12,688            12,688          12,688
1990                 17,946            17,922          17,699
2000                 26,044            25,349          21,941



ANNEX 12
Page 7
Table 4 also indicates that the level of decline in fertility, as indicated
by the different projections, will have only a slight effect on the size of
the labor force up to 1990. This is because the working-age population from
which the labor-force is drawn (those 15 to 64 years of age) will not be
affected for the next 15 years regardless of the change in fertility, and
then only gradually will these changes have an effect. By the year 2000,
the Thai target projection results in a labor force approximately 16% below
the constant fertility projection and 14% below the medium variant projection.



THAILAND
Age-Specific Fertility Rate.s in Thailand
Comparison of Survey of Fertility in Thailand data and various sources
(1)        (2)           (3)          (4)           (5)          (6)           (7)           (8)
Age               1960       1960-64      1964-65       1965-69      1968-69       1971-72       1970-74      1974-75
Groups           Census    SOFT/WFS         SPC        SOFT/WFS        LS 1         ES 11      SOFT/WFS         SPC
15-19              .07         07           .07          .07           .07          .08           .07           .08
20-24              .22         .26           .27          .25           .26          .21           .22           .25
25-29              .31         .31          .31           .29           .29          .23           .22           .25
30-34               .30        .29           .28          .26           .23          .19           .18          .20
35-39              .24         .24           .22          .21           .20          .18           .17           .15
40-44              .13        (.13)          .11          .15           .15          .08           .08          .08
45-49               .05       (.02)          .02         (.02)          .03           .04          .03           .01
TOTAL             6.60        6.60         6.40          6.25          6.15         5.05          4.85         5.10
Sources:  (1) A. Das Gupta, and Others, "Population Perspective on Thailand" Sandhya (Indian Journal of Statistics)
Series B. Vol. 27, 1965. (Also reprinted as IPS Paper No. 11),
(2) SOFT/WFS (Survey of Fertility in Thailand) conducted in 1975; the same source is used for (4) and (7).
Figures enclosed in parenthesis have been interpolated from other data in this table.
(3) Report of the Survey of Population Change 1964-67, National Statistical Office. The data exclude
Bangkok-Thonburi, so that the figures for the whole cmmtry would have been slightly lower than those
indicated above.
(5) JoHn Knodel and Pichit Pitaktepsembati, "Fertility and Family Planning in Thailand",
(6) Rbunds I and II of the Longitudinal Study of Social, Economic and Demographic Change in Thailand,
Institute of Population Studies, Chulalongkorn University, Paper No. 19, May, 1975 (the age-specific
fertility rates are derived frora the marital fertility rates during the year prior to interview among
currently married women, age 15-49; Table 13).
(8) The second SPC includes Bangkok-Thonburi.
(D  :r



THAILAND
Population of Thailand, by Five-Year Age Groups and Sex, 1970
(Percentage breakdown in parentheses)
Both Sexes                              Male                                  Femalc                    %Fealesr 100
Age Group                                                                                                                                    IL!ni-
Total         Municipal Area           Total          Municipal Atea           Total          Municinal Area  Total   ci-al
A rcea
Total      34,397,374 (100.0)  4,553,100 (100.0)  17,123,862(1).0)  2,257,068 (100.()  17,273.512 (100.0)  2,296,(.2 (10).0)   99.1    98.3
00-04        5,659,170  (16.5)   573,0()3  (12.()   2,862,938 (16.7)    292,476  (13.0)   2,796,232 (16.2)   280,527  (12.2)  102.4  l01.3
05-09        5,284,R91  (15.4)   601,116  (13.2)   2679,' 168 (15.6)    305,733  (13.5)   2(605)723  (15.1)    295.3S.3  (12.9)  102.8   103.5
10-14       4.562,199  (13.3)   604.857  (13.3)   2,3(9 549 (3.)    304.1,352  (13.5)   2,252.650  (13.0)   30^,)05  (13.1)  1t02.5   1ol.3
15-19       3,717,548  (10.b)   579,274  (12.7)   1i832,177 (10.7)    2S2,273  (12.5)   1,885.371  (1).9)    27,,(Y)  11,2.9)   9?7.2    9'.0
20-24       2,683,358   (7.8)   445,109)  (9.8)   1,32)6f1i  (7.7)    216,655   (9.6)   1,361.717   (7.')    2.5 -1'! ).0)   97.1    94.8
25-29       2,241,460   (6.5)   349,031   (7.7)   1,098,W03  (6.4)    171,532   (7.6)   1,143.377   (6.6)    177,4,)  ,7.7)   96.01   96(,
30-34       2.12?4,411   16.2)   318,206  (7.03   1,047.323  (6.1)    158.3(4   (7.0 )   1,077.088   )f.2.    16)62   (7.0) '97.2  31.0
35-39        1 910,566   (5.6)   265,376   (5.b)    952,959  (5.6)    132,7 ili  (5.9) - 957,(t07   (5.5)   1-2,66   (i.8)   99.5   100.I
40-,4        1,540,60 ' (4.5)   207,673   (4.")      774,328  (4.5)    104.966   (4.7)      766.332   (4.4)    1(2,707   (4 5)  101.0  102.2
45-49       1,19),,572   (3.5)   154,209   (3.4)     599,118  (3.5)      77,069   (3.4)     597,454   (3.5)     77.14')  (3.4)  10.1.3    99.9
50-54         961.979   (2.8)    130,657   (2.9)    472,185  (2.8)       64,427   (2.9)    489,)94   (2.8)      66,271   (2.9)   9,6. 4    97.3
55-59         790,5)9   (2 .3    104,187   (2.3)    38X.328  (2.3)       50,453   (2.2)    401,731   (2.3)      53,7C4  (2.3)   96,7   93.9
60-64         625,024   11.8)  .... 79,590   (1.7)   30).S01  (1.8)      37,410   (1.7)     324,223   (1.9)     42,!S0 (,1.8)   92.8    88.7
65-69         451,858   (1.3)     56,092   (1.2)    212,957  (1.2)       25,205   (1.1)     238,90i  (1.4)      30,8t7   () 3)   89 .1    31.6
70 and over      604,142   (1.8)    79,014   (1.7)      250,656   1.5)      30,573   (1.4)     353.4X6   (2.0)     48v441   (2.1)   70.9    03.1
Unknown          43,477   (0.1)      5,646   (0.1)      21,651  (0.1)       2,910  (0.1)       21,826   (0.1)       2,736   (0,1)   99.2  106.4
Source:  Na:ional Statistical Office, 1970 IPopulation and I iousing Ccnsus, Whole Kingdom, National Statistical Office, Oifice of thc Primc Minister
Bangkok. 1973.






.~~~~~~~~~~~ Bl 104                                           R MC W<NA< ;
-20,                                                                                                             20-1zt2-4                lLAh   
,   '          t-                 .   ~~~~~LAO  PEOPLE'S                    dmn  /   _8CABDA              (
ID 'M- Horg '  \     )I'tsd3                '            DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                         J   /d   6l=         ZrT
ch-ag M,l O'   !         }         -phun I  P N , ei-i:f
80   0  0                                      ., /   .  . a                  A               NDON:; A < tA >                0~~irf~ 77~~57
M\   8'  K-`  t                                                  $Xl-
t   /   ,      <   >- ' '  ' i;a>>  >;    - -  i             /   ....           t       hSakhJ    IND XGAPORF
/  ;i    l)5   :  T 2 k   t _19K           {  ;  9           <        t t  i Kalasm h  
I    <  kX                              f0\Z0iSW ' ,V,                                                        ' ' 
I f   4X t  S  L                                                                    g   AX;'''''1'' 14.~~~~~~Y 
2  t  ='.r=  =  '  1 '1   !           -t!-b ib            rur>'                               CAMBODIA~~1.s 
,:       == ,    V :\         rheLhaURIJ ) =  Di  k    rT        ( 
0~~~~~~~~~~r                                                  J tS tt50w       =005tX:-                                         -4=- t-jTALN
X~~~~~~~~~                          ~~~~ =Vp B:                      kh..1  1    :-;-:-f            ;       -   E-PFLAINPO3C
0 0 !    ;     ;1R      ?  k2ha=      ~   =;         =;i =   t  NATh=  AlTRAINbJ  SND=SEVIE   ACIITESAN
: ::;;; f  :=;   =  j   p  >    - = f ! - f  ;q)- 4s ;~) f Q=lhAE               A tYPhN             GADHAT    RVNE
' E ' 0   =    4,   Ranphg  :  i ~~~~t~ :  4  ,   :    =0     ,=0                             RATCL  REM=lEYSHOS3
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T   2ttS/|g/~;=X.<     ;:'=f.ii; i &=iwFR E skoLDH Mc                                                     14hrE-
ia i _ ; 0 of = ;,,@, \' ~~~l                   00'-       '- ' '--  3tC U OSHL1)- 
4 t t i : t ; i : wh z 5 /@ig;ff$ 0 :; = i'; 04 '; - : i i ; t t t i ;; ^ EXPANDED lli)lDE IFERY SCHOOLS . . . ..12)
Q f  ;  , ZSllat ram  A 0| 0g |  0 T?<|,E,; FCEkATDFMBOVDIGANHELMRNEk
. 0 > a >  =Th  z /a d = .um.eGuBU JRE 
;    ;graif;  0:;   TENTENL3IEAQ _ t  a
66t-  t    00:  ]Ang  e;; ;;00,5;:}T;0:,:0i  
f          :      X    f          t,                                  ;0              tt    oerS   410      ^            273;      +  
12'               i                 t           5      9        -                    ;1       uf       j     j0        Wi         1i43            2-t-
t hi hp ashs qWh  bWDVWI T 3> f avwekfa FQF0Ea P"   
ZoE/BwsfwMewWuhD uSZnN hdw/tpbwddtk,j-/s=       
= b kheba hgw/aa hikWWbdg =t #ws y Fa pw f h eYw  Fw, A  ew q  S s            THAILAND                                    P 
0 6 e,"2 oib WgW^,         vf s,E wh Et w    =,              v    t                                                                            < 
:te 3 , 7 5 9rF _ Q;5; ; 100 !LATO    P     09\ ROJEC==T=q



