Doculment of
The World Bank                    FILE CrOX
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
epot Nb.P-2851-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR AN
INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
June 12, 1980
This docment h* a rsricted distibutin ad may be wed by recipient only in the pednorume of
thir oflr dtis. its contet my not otherwis be dibelod withou Wod Bawk  todzare.



CURRENCY EQUIIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Baht (B)
B 1          -  US$0.05
B 1 million = US$50,000
US$ 1        -  B 20
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)           -  3.28 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (cu m) = 1.307 cubic yards
1 metric ton (mt)    =  0.98 long ton
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB             -    Asian Development Bank
BCEOM           -    Bureau Central pour les Equipements d'Outre Mer
dwt             -    dead weight ton
EGAT           -    Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
ETO             -    Express Transport Organization
FMO             -    Fish Marketing Organization
LWOST           -    Low Water Ordinary Spring Tides
MOC             -    Ministry of Communications
RID             -    Royal Irrigation Department
TPU             -    Transport Planning Unit
THAI FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE OiNLY
THAILAND
INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Kingdom of Thailand
Beneficiary:       Harbour/i Department, Ministry of Communications
Amount:            $53 million equivalent
Term:              20 years including 5 years of grace, with interest at
8.25% per annum.
Project
Description:    The proposed project aims at developing the inland
waterways and coastal ports subsectors which at present
perform below attainable output and efficiency levels, and
at utilizing their inherent capacity for energy and cost
efficient transportation. Technical assistance and
training would help strengthen the Harbour Department
which is responsible for these subsectors.
The Inland Waterways component of the project consists of:
(a) increasing the width and depth of the navigation
channels in the rivers Chao Phrya/2 and Nan; (b) construct-
ing two river ports at Nakhon Sawan and Taphan Hin; (c)
providing a demonstration barge convoy of steel barges and
a pusher tug; and (d) consultancy services and training.
On completion of the project, the two rivers will be
navigable year round with a minimum water depth of 1.7 m,
which would help increase the low-cost barge traffic of
bulk commodities. About 60-65% of all benefits will
accrue from transport of rice and maize, the principal
export produce of the project region covering 20 changwats
and including about 11 million people.
The Coastal Ports component consists of: (a) dredging
the entrance channels of two of the more important ports,
Bandon and Pattani; (b) technical assistance and procure-
ment of a trailing hopper dredger; (c) geophysical and
hydrographic studies of the channels including borings and
tracer studies to determine spoil dumping areas; and (d)
/1 As spelt in Thailand.
/2  Also spelt as Chao Phya.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
consultancy services and training. Improvement of
maintenance dredging capacity and procedures will benefit
about 40 coastal ports and their hinterland where shipping
and fishing remain principal economic activities. The
capital dredging operations in Bandon and Pattani ports
will remove the present constraints of ship movements
being limited to high tides. Both the inland waterways
and coastal ports project components are economically
justified.
No undue risks or technical difficulties are expected in
respect to the proposed project.
Estimated Cost:                                  Local  Foreign   Total
------($ million)-----
A. Inland Waterways
Civil works                                15.40   17.00    32.40
Mechanical and floating equipment           0.60    6.70       7.30
Technical assistance and training              -    3.00       3.00
Land costs                                  1.10        -      1.10
Subtotal                                 17.10   26.70    43.80
Contingencies
Price                                     5.00    8.35    13.35
Physical                                  2.20    2.75      4.95
Total                                  24.30   37.80    62.10
B. Coastal Ports
Dredging works                              1.55    4.50       6.05
Hopper dredger                              0.50    5.00       5.50
Technical assistance and training              -    1.80       1.80
Subtotal                                  2.05   11.30    13.35
Contingencies
Price                                     0.75    2.50      3.25
Physical                                  0.30    1.40       1.70
Total                                   3.10   15.20    18.30
Total Project Costs                    27.40   53.00    80.40
Financing Plan:                                  Local  Foreign   Total
------($ million)------
IBRD                                           -   53-00    53-00
Government                                 27.40        -    27.40
Total                                    27.40   53.00    80.40



- iii -
Estimated
Disbursements:         Bank FY        1981      1982      1983       1984
----------- ($ million)-----------
Annual         5.72      20.14    19.66        7.48
Cumulative    5.72       25.86    45.52       53.00
Rate of Return:          20%
Staff Appraisal          No. 2940-TH, dated June 3, 1980
Report:






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR AN INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Kingdom of Thailand for the equivalent of $53 million to help
finance the Inland Waterways and Coastal Ports Project. The loan would have a
term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 8.25% per
annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Thailand - Toward a Strategy of
Full Participation" (2059-TH) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
September 18, 1978. The Report concludes that Thailand's rapid economic
growth over the past 15 years has led to a significant reduction in absolute
poverty, but that certain income groups have lagged behind this progress. It
identifies the essential characteristics of these groups and points to the
need for continued overall development as well as the initiation of specific
measures to deal with the poverty problem, particularly in rural areas. It
further discusses the constraints on the successful implementation of these
policies. Country data are given in Annex I.
Recent Political Developments
3.        The frequent changes at the top levels of government, which have
characterized recent political developments in Thailand, have mainly reflected
differences in view about Thailand's external relations and about the politi-
cal decision-making process within the country. The Government, formed in
November 1977 under the prime ministership of General Kriangsak Chomanan,
moved to strengthen relations with Thailand's ASEAN partners and tried to
stabilize and improve relations with its Indochinese neighbors. Progress in
the latter was, however, affected by Viet Nam's involvement in Kampuchea and
the flood of Khmer refugees into Thailand. These developments and the
necessary actions related to caring for the refugees have diverted a consi-
derable amount of high-level government attention and led to significant
increases in military and other expenditures. General Kriangsak formed his
second administration in April 1979 but came under mounting criticism in the
National Assembly for his economic policies, particularly the petroleum price
increases and his handling of the refugee problem. Faced with waning
political support and increasing public criticism, General Kriangsak under-
took an extensive cabinet reorganization in February 1980. However, this
failed to engender the necessary political stability and, facing a no
confidence vote precipitated by petroleum price and electricity tariff
increases, his government resigned on February 29, 1980.
/1 Parts I and II are substantially the same as those presented in the
President's Report for the Mae Moh Lignite Project (P-2800-TH) dated
May 1, 1980, submitted to the Executive Directors under cover of
Secretary's Memorandum, R80-107.



- 2 -
4.        General Prem Tinsulanonda was elected by the/National Assembly to
succeed Kriangsak as Prime Minister after receiving the support of nearly all
major political parties. General Prem's new government, formed on March 14,
1980 included leaders from the political parties which supported him. On
March 28, 1980, General Prem announced his government's policies on a number
of issues including economic and social development. The statement places
high and immediate priority on accelerating rural development, raising rural
incomes and on measures to improve health and education. Particular emphasis
is given to generating more jobs and it is expected that a rural public works
program similar to the 1975/76 Tambon Program will be a major element in this
strategy. The Government also intends to exert efforts to contain inflation
and a more gradual adjustment of energy prices is foreseen at the same time
that domestic energy resources are being developed. Reforms in monetary and
fiscal policy and efforts to improve the trade balance through improved export
performance are also called for. As discussed below these reforms are
critical to increasing resource mobilization (especially in the public sector)
and reducing the current account deficit.
Past Trends and Recent Changes
5.        Thailand's economic performance since 1960 has been good.  The
average annual growth of real GDP from 1960 to 1979 was 7.9%, or about 4.8%
per capita. Real agricultural growth of nearly 5% was a leading factor
sustaining this expansion. The cultivated area increased by about 4% a year,
water control was improved, irrigation was expanded and the cultivation of
relatively new crops, including maize, cassava, kenaf, sugar and rubber, grew
rapidly. Agriculture has also been a major contributor to export growth. As
a share of GDP, domestic savings fluctuated between 19% and 24%, and total
investment between 20% and 27%. The high level of private investment
contributed to a real industrial growth of 10% per year since 1970. All this
was achieved with a limited inflow of external resources and, until recently,
the debt service gap remained quite low.
6.        The rate of GDP growth declined in the 1970s to 7.6% p.a from 8.1%
in the 1960s. In addition to external factors (the oil price increase of 1973
and its aftermath), the major domestic factor responsible for this decline has
been the increasing scarcity of land. Production has been pushed into less
fertile soils causing a decline in the rate of agricultural growth to about
4.6% p.a. since 1970 compared to 5.7% in the 1960s. In recent years,
inflation has accelerated, amounting to 7% in 1977, 8% in 1978 and 10% in
1979. The inflation in the last half of 1979 was more than 14% and the
expected rates are 14% in 1980, 13% in 1981 and 12% in 1982. Substantial
growth of the agricultural sector contributed to rapid expansion of 11.7% of
the economy in 1978, but a combination of poor agricultural output and adverse
effects of external factors, primarily the oil price increase, reduced 1979
growth to an estimated 6.7%, with little improvement expected for 1980. The
budget deficit is expected to exceed $1.0 billion in FY80 as a result of
increased military expenditures, an increase in civil service pay, and
increased subsidies to public enterprises as a result of the failure to raise
electricity tariffs sufficiently to offset fully oil price increases.



- 3 -
7.        Thailand's terms of trade and prospects for agricultural exports are
now less favorable than in the early 1970s. Thailand is facing restrictions
on some of its exports to the European Economic Community, including cassava
and canned pineapple, and its sugar exports are limited by the International
Sugar Agreement. The balance of payments, which recorded surpluses in
1973-74, has since been running large deficits. The current account deficit
reached $1.1 billion, or 5% of GDP in 1978 and is estimated to be $2.2 billion
in 1979, or about 8.0% of GDP. The overall balance-of-payments deficit for
1979 is estimated at nearly $600 million. The Government has significantly
increased its foreign borrowing from traditional sources, from the Eurodollar
market and from IMF to finance these deficits. Foreign exchange reserves have
also been used extensively. To contain the balance-of-payments deficit, the
Government, in March 1978, raised tariffs on 141 "nonessential" imports and
increased excise taxes on a number of items, most notably gasoline. The
prices of petroleum products were raised in January 1979, July 1979, and
February 1980, for a cumulative increase of about 100% for gasoline. The
current price of gasoline is the equivalent of about $1.80 per gallon (US).
After a proposed power tariff increase of about 55% was rejected in November
1979, a lesser tariff increase of about 38% was finally implemented in
February 1980. This is insufficient to cover the increased cost of fuel, and
subsidies from the oil fund (partly funded by revenues from other petroleum
products) continue. Apart from raising prices, the Government has also taken
some energy conservation measures to contain the oil import bill which is
expected to jump by $1.0 billion in 1980 despite the fact that there will be
only a small increase in the volume of imports. In recent years, government
usury laws limiting borrowing and lending rates have become binding as
inflation has exerted upward pressure on interest rates. The combination of
high inflation rates and the interest ceilings has reduced real interest rates
to near zero or negative levels in the past few years which has led to a sharp
drop in marginal savings rates and high investment demand for funds. Until
January 1980 term deposit rates were limited to 7% for maturities less than
one year and 8% for more than one year. Lending rate limits were fixed at
12.5% and 15%. Liquidity constraints prevented all the demand from being
satisfied and led to de facto credit allocation by the financial sector. With
a view to encouraging domestic savings and curtailing the flight of capital
abroad, the Government raised interest rate limits by 3 percentage points for
both borrowing and lending at the beginning of 1980. The response to this
change has been favorable on saving, the domestic demand for funds, and
external capital flows. It is too soon to tell whether the adjustment is
sufficient, but currently market lending rates are slightly below the limits.
8.        The large growth in incomes over the last two decades has not
been equitably distributed throughout the country, and at present there are
very significant regional differentials in incomes and access to economic and
social infrastructure. The regions are very different in terms of topography,
climate, soils, urbanization, etc., and present quite distinct problems for
future development. The Central Region, including Bangkok, has the highest
per capita income and is better served by roads, telecommunications, schools,
public health and other services than the other three regions, the North,
Northeast and South. Within the regions also there is considerable variation:



- 4 -
farmers who have diversified into cash crops have generally enjoyed sub-
stantial growth in real incomes while the incomes of those who have been
unable or unwilling to shift out of subsistence rice culture have stagnated.
Recent research has shown that inappropriate cropping patterns and agri-
cultural techniques are major factors in much of the rural poverty. This
is most conspicuously the case of the rainfed rice farmers in the Northeast
and North. Since there is a well functioning labor market, the low incomes of
this large group have tended to depress unskilled wages throughout the
economy.
9.        Real concern over the plight of the poor is growing, and observable
improvements in rural living standards is being seen as a major factor in
promoting political stability. In the past several years the Government has
initiated efforts to increase the flow of public resources to the poor rural
areas, including the Tambon program of direct transfers to villages in 1976,
the drought relief program in 1977, the flood relief program in 1978, and the
new village development program in 1979. These programs have been designed to
produce quick and tangible political as well as economic results, but consid-
erably more attention and resources need to be devoted to rural development if
these programs are to have lasting impact. The Government is strongly
committed to rural development and raising rural incomes and is expected to
launch a major public works program in the near future. While the absorptive
capacity in rural areas has increased since the Tambon program of 1975-76,
there is some concern about the efficacy of crash programs in view of the
resource constraints facing the budget and the limitations of implementation
capacity at various levels of government.
Development Prospects and Constraints
10.       In the coming decade, many of the positive features which helped
sustain rapid economic growth over the past two decades will continue to
contribute to future growth. These factors include a relatively equitable
distribution of rural land, responsiveness of Thai farmers to improved
technology, provision of infrastructure by the Government, and the dynamism of
the private sector in both industry and agriculture. Also major gains have
been made in family planning in recent years, slowing the annual rate of
population growth from about 3% during the 1960s to an estimated 2.2% in 1979.
The target for 1981 is 2.1%.
11.       Some less favorable domestic factors are emerging, however.  As a
result of very rapid population growth in the 1960s, projected labor force
growth of 3% p.a. necessitates a high rate of job creation.  Past growth has
benefited households unevenly and created further income disparities that
could threaten the social cohesion of the country. At the same time,
additional fertile land, which has supported the growth of agricultural
production and exports in the past, is becoming increasingly scarce. In view
of these factors, continued reliance on the past pattern of development may
lead to a deceleration of agricultural and overall growth in the next
decade, persistently large balance-of-payments deficits; higher rates of
unemployment or underemployment; and stagnating or declining real incomes of



- 5 -
the poorer segments of the population, especially in rural areas and among
unskilled workers. These internal factors are complicated by the external
factors of rapid oil price increases and recession in developed countries.
The oil price increase alone will add about $1 billion to the 1980 import
bill, even with no increase in volume, and the current account deficit is
estimated to be at least 9% of GDP. The unfavorable external situation will
require major domestic adjustments and it is unlikely that the overall
growth rate will exceed about 6% in the coming years.
12.       Thailand must shift its economy from a pattern of growth based on
the extension of land under cultivation and on import-substituting industries
to one based on increasingly intensive use of land and on industries producing
for domestic and export markets under competitive conditions.  At the same
time it must reduce its current account deficit and increase public savings.
Effective policies and programs will be necessary to ensure that economic
growth is maintained and income disparities reduced, or at least not widened
during this period of transition. In the past, the Government's role has
focused primarily on short-term economic management and the provision of basic
economic and social services. In order to achieve a relatively smooth
transition, the Government will now have to undertake more coordinated
long-term policies and actions in areas of resource management and balanced
regional development.
13.       Agriculture will continue to be the dominant sector since it
directly generates 30% of GDP, provides about 60% of total exports, and
employs 75% of the labor force. However, future growth of the sector will
require more intensive utilization of cultivated areas, continued diversifica-
tion of crops, improved cropping patterns and farming practices, and easier
access to agricultural inputs including credit. All of these imply an
increased government role in the rural sector. But while growth in the
agricultural sector may be expected to remain fairly rapid for some time to
come, the burden of sustaining future growth will have to shift progressively
to the industrial sector. Industry, construction and services will have to
provide an increasing share of employment for the growing labor force. In
1979, industrial production accounted for about one-fourth of GDP and about
one-third of total exports. Manufactured output, which accounted for 90% of
industrial production, achieved an export growth of 24% in 1979, almost double
the growth rate of total exports. While continued growth of manufactured
exports is essential, the large domestic market also offers opportunities for
a balanced industrial growth based on production of consumer goods, agri-
cultural inputs and processing of agricultural outputs for urban consumption.
Our policy dialogue will concentrate on efforts to reduce price distortions,
increase availability of credit, and eliminate impediments to efficient
production for domestic and foreign markets so that the dynamic private sector
can realize its potential for spurring growth and creating jobs.
14.       The principal objectives of the Government's Fourth Plan (1977-81)
are to achieve 7% real growth, equitable distribution of income, reduction in
the rate of population growth, faster generation of employment opportunities



-6-
and balanced regional development. Public sector development expenditures
were to double in real terms in relation to the Third Plan. However, the
Plan addresses sectoral issues and strategies only in broad terms, and
concrete policies and programs to meet the Plan's economic and social
objectives are also not spelled out in any detail. The Government has now
embarked on the preparation of the Fifth Plan (1982-86) and the agencies of
tihe Government are undertaking a number of studies to help ensure that the
Fifth Plan provides an unambiguous basis for the allocation of resources
and the formulation of development policies and program. These studies may
help identify possible areas of Bank lending for structural adjustment.
Financing Requirements
15.       The implementation of policies needed for a satisfactory rate of
economic and social progress will necessitate a steady increase in public
expenditures over the next few years. This will require much greater efforts
to mobilize both domestic and external resources than in the past. Government
domestic revenue as a percentage of GDP (13.5% for 1975-79) is low compared to
other developing countries at similar levels of development due to low tax
rates, high exemptions and a somewhat below-average rate of compliance. With
expenditures rising, the overall budgetary deficit in fiscal year 1979/80 is
estimated at above $1.0 billion, or over 4% of GDP. The Government has
achieved a modest improvement in resource mobilization through revision of the
tax structure and improved collections. Much greater efforts will be needed
in the future if the reliance on foreign financing - and thereby the deficit
on the current account of the balance of payments - are to be reduced in
relation to the size of the economy.
16.       During the coming years, the demand for external resources will
increase. Despite an average real growth of exports of over 10% and increased
domestic production of primary energy, the projected rise in the price of
imports - led by the price of petroleum - implies that large trade and current
account deficits are expected to persist through the mid-1980s. It is esti-
mated that a 6% overall growth rate can be maintained and the current account
deficit reduced to 4-5% of GDP by 1985 if appropriate policies are followed,
including greater efforts in implementating energy saving measures, promoting
agricultural growth and exports, reducing distortions and excessive protection
in industry, promoting more labor-intensive exports, and postponing major
capital intensive investments until the economy can afford them. This implies
an average current deficit of $3 billion per year in 1980-85, which will
require very large amounts of external borrowing totalling about $18 billion
net over the period.
17.       Official donors, particularly Japan and the development banks, have
been expanding their programs to meet a part of the growing resource require-
ments. The rest has been financed in the Eurodollar market and bond markets,
and by the utilization of IMF resources for 1978/79 totalling about $200 mil-
lion, and Thailand is considering even larger drawings under standby arrange-
ments. The Government has established a Foreign Loan Policy Committee to



- 7 -
coordinate and approve all foreign borrowing by the public sector. The Bank
of Thailand is establishing procedures for recording private borrowing abroad
in order to keep track of total foreign debt. Current estimates of Thailand's
external borrowing requirements exceed those discussed at the last Consulta-
tive Group, and the need for continued concessional aid is perhaps now more
acute. In addition, external agencies, including the Bank Group, have in
recent years increasingly concentrated project lending to Thailand in the
agricultural and social sectors that have high social benefits, but low
foreign exchange savings or earnings. To achieve the level of external
resource transfer that is now required, it is necessary, in selected projects
where the foreign exchange component is low, to finance some local currency
expenditures. Program and structural-adjustment lending should also be
considered.
18.       By 1985, net disbursements will more than double in current terms
for both public and publicly guaranteed borrowing and private borrowing. The
debt service ratio on public debt (4.6% in 1979) will exceed 10% by 1985, but
should decline thereafter. Assuming a significant level of concessional
assistance, the debt service ratio on total public and private civilian
borrowing (currently about 15%) will rise to about 25% before declining.
Given the diversification of Thai commodity exports and the rapid expansion of
manufactured exports, these debt service requirements should be sustainable if
rapid export growth continues, more domestic resources are mobilized, and
economic stability is maintained.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
19.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank Group in 1950 for a railway
project and, as of March 31,1980 had received 53 loans amounting to about
$1,600 million, net of cancellations. The sectoral distribution of these
loans has been as follows: $311.5 million for transportation; $316.4 million
for irrigation; $494 million for power/energy and rural electrification
$153.0 million for telecommunications; $144.2 million for agricultural and
rural development; $79.6 million for urban development; $52.3 million for
education; and $42.5 million for industry. In addition, Thailand has
received six IDA credits: two credits totalling $54.5 million for education;
one credit of $25.0 million for rural development; two credits totalling
$12.5 million for irrigation improvement; and one credit of $33.1 million for
a population project. In general, Bank Group-financed projects have been
carried out satisfactorily and in accordance with expectations. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as
well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects as of March 31, 1980.
20.       Over the past five years, the Bank has shifted its lending to
Thailand from a program dominated by investments in traditional infrastruc-
ture projects (accounting for over 80% of the lending through FY74) to a



- 8 -
program which places increasing emphasis on assisting the Government's efforts
to reach the poorer segments of its population more directly.  Since FY75,
investments in transportation, power, water supply, telecommunications and
industry have accounted for only about 50% of Bank Group lending and more
than half of these, in dollar terms, were for projects specifically designed
to benefit the rural population. The proportion of Bank lending to the
agricultural/rural development sector has trebled, accounting for about 35%
of lending operations since FY75. The design of projects in this sector has
also changed, from exclusively large irrigation projects to a more balanced
program covering irrigation (including land development and support services
to the farmer) and a variety of innovative projects to assist farmers outside
the central flood plain (rubber replanting, livestock, agricultural exten-
sion, and rural development). Projects in the social sectors which prior to
FY75 were limited to three in education, accounting for 6% of the program,
have both diversified and grown. In recent years education, population and
low-income housing projects have accounted for about 15% of the program.
21.       The findings of the recent Basic Economic Report verify the
appropriateness of the shift mentioned above, and underscore the need to
move even further in designing programs which help the rural population,
particularly those farmers in rainfed areas who have been largely bypassed by
recent economic growth. In the agricultural sector, therefore, the Bank is
redoubling its efforts to develop an approach which will help to lift the
rainfed farmers out of a subsistence existence. A combination of education,
agricultural research and extension, credit and improved infrastructure is
foreseen. However, the major problem is the absence so far of a viable
package for the poorest and most remote farmers. Expansion and improvement
of irrigation systems will continue, with increased emphasis on reaching
those farmers with irrigation potential in the northern, northeastern and
southern regions. The program of transportation, electrification, water
supply and telecommunications projects will also continue to have a rural
focus. A key element of the strategy outlined in the Basic Economic Report
is the creation of jobs and stimulation of increased economic activity
outside of Bangkok. The bulk of the Bank Group's urban and industrial
lending will, therefore, be directed to projects which enhance the
attractiveness of regional cities as service centers for the agricultural
economy of those regions. Selected projects in Bangkok will be aimed at
strengthening agencies providing essential services to the urban population
and the development of low cost, replicable programs to meet the demands of
the urban sector, particularly the urban poor, without diverting scarce
resources from other high-priority development needs.
22.       The Bank's strategy of placing an increasing share of its program
into projects alleviating poverty and promoting rural development will be
difficult to execute without considerable technical assistance toward project
preparation. The Bank's regional mission in Bangkok will continue to play
a vital role in helping to identify and prepare such projects. Promoting
overall growth also has a high priority in Thailand and is a necessary element



- 9 -
in the poverty alleviation strategy. The resource requirements for infra-
structure development, particularly for developing energy and its domestic
primary sources, are large, and the Bank is concentrating its remaining
funds in projects where it can have a catalytic role in effecting policy
changes, mobilizing other resources, and directly facilitating growth in
rural areas. The Bank is also expanding its support of the industrial sector
through its economic and sector work as well as selected projects in order
to help promote industrial policy which favors more labor-intensive and
dispersed activities to complement Thailand's efforts in poverty alleviation.
23.       Bank loans and IDA credits, disbursed and outstanding, amounted to
$459.3 million, as of December 31, 1978, representing about 26% of public
external debt (disbursed and outstanding). The Bank Group's share of
public debt service payments in 1978 was 29.7% or 7.1% of total debt service
including private debt. This is not excessive in view of Thailand's modest
overall public external debt (8.3% of GDP in 1978). In addition, although the
level of Bank commitments is expected to increase over the next five years,
the Bank Group's share is below 30% of total public external debt as Thailand
has diversified its borrowing program. The Bank Group's share in total debt
outstanding is expected to fall below 20%, and its share of total debt service
would not exceed 10%.
24.       As of March 31, 1980, IFC had made commitments totalling about
$83 million in nine projects in Thailand. IFC's investments have been
primarily in industry and in the development of financial institutions aimed
at mobilizing domestic resources and providing financing to smaller
enterprises. Prospects for increased IFC operations in Thailand have been
enhanced by expanding private sector investment activity; consultations with
the Government have identified several areas where IFC's assistance may be
needed.
PART III - TRANSPORT SECTOR
General
25.       During the last 10-15 years, the Thai economy grew at a rapid pace
and annual transport growth was about 8% for freight and 12% for passenger
traffic. This growth was supported by large government investments for
transport, mostly in roads, and generally liberal transport policies which
stimulated a competitive transport industry, particularly the privately owned
road transport. Today, virtually the entire primary (national) roads system
serving interprovincial trade is complete, and significant progress has been
made toward the build-up of the secondary (provincial) system. Railways,
inland waterways and coastal shipping, confined to specific locations and
handling mostly bulk commodities, have also grown, but at a modest rate.



- 10 -
26.       With the progress made in developing primary and secondary roads,
future transport requirements are shifting toward:  first, an extension of
roads to the tertiary level in support of the needs of rural communities;
second, to the upgrading of the performance of other modes of transport; and
third, to the removal of specific capacity bottlenecks in the national
transport system such as the Port of Bangkok.  Tertiary roads are under-
developed and inadequately maintained. The railways, inland waterwiays and
coastal shipping, for their part, perform at below attainable output and
efficiency levels, and their capacity for energy-efficient transport is
underutilized. The Port of Bangkok, where ship waiting time is rapidly
building up, will soon be critically congested.
27.       Transport Demand.  All modes combined, freight transport in Thailand
is in the order of over 50 million tons and 14 billion ton-km per annum.
Roads generate about 70% of ton-km, followed by the railways with 20% and
inland waterways with about 10%. An estimated 30-50% of all freight is
agricultural produce, of which about one half is exported, most of it through
the Port of Bangkok and the eastern seaboard port facilities. The direction,
composition and size of traffic flows reflect the country's generally rural
character, the agricultural strength of the Central Region and Bangkok's
central location and dominance as the country's principal port and consumption
center.
28.       Transport Investments.  During the Third Five-Year Development Plan
(1972-76), Thailand's public sector investments in transport were about
B 21 billion in current prices, and under the current Fourth Plan (1977-81),
capital expenditures are estimated at B 28 billion. Transport's share of
public development expenditures, 20% in 1972-76, is ex,pected to drop to about
11% in 1977-81 mainly due to the primary road system now being virtually
complete. In both Plan periods, road infrastructure received nearly 80% of
all funds allocated for the transport sector. However, within the roads
sector, tertiary roads are expected to gradually increase their share from
10% in 1972-76 to 25% in 1977-81.
29.       Transport Planning and Coordination.  The Ministry of Communications
(MOC) is responsible for transport policy, coordination and planning. The
1982-86 Transport Plan is currently under preparation. With increasing
interest in rural development, the Government is expected to continue raising
investments on roads benefitting agricultural production and the rural
population. Moreover, given the worsening energy situation, the Plan is
expected to pay greater attention to the development of energy-efficient
modes, such as the inland waterways and coastal shipping. On the recommenda-
tion of the Bank, a Transport Planning Unit (TPU) was set up in 1974 in MOC to
act as the focal point of transport planning, coordination, and policy review.
The Unit, with technical assistance provided under the Bank-financed Sixth
Highway Project (Loan 1519TH), is currently participating in preparing the
Fifth Five-Year Transport Development Plan (1982-86). Among the main issues
it will address are the transport policy implications of rising fuel costs.
TPU is also engaged in studying road user taxation.



Transport Infrastructure
30.       National Roads.  By traffic volumes, network length, area coverage
and capital expenditures, roads are Thailand's most important transport
infrastructure. The Department of Highways (DOH) competently administers and
maintains the national as well as the provincial roads systems. National
highways, the primary roads system, total nearly 14,000 km. They radiate from
Bangkok to the national borders, and are mostly paved. Built or reconstructed
to present standards in the last 20 years, many of these roads, however, will
soon reach full capacity or require reconstruction as a result of uninter-
rupted traffic growth.
31.       Provincial Roads.  The secondary roads system, totalling about
30,000 km, serves provincial needs in linking changwat capitals to transport
systems and other changwat towns. The length of roads under this category
increases several thousand km each year as roads under the jurisdiction of
other agencies are classified and transferred to DOH. About 15,000 km of
the provincial roads have had some improvement and about 8,000 kms of them
are paved; the rest are tracks or substandard earth and gravel roads, some
impassable in the rainy season.
32.       Rural Roads.  Thailand has an estimated 40,000-50,000 km of
tertiary roads based on inventories which are incomplete and generally
out-of-date. Standards vary between tracks and engineered roads of various
levels. Planning is deficient and maintenance, on average, poor or
nonexistent. The responsibility for tertiary roads is being shared with
little coordination by several Government agencies, of which the most
important is the Office of Accelerated Rural Development (ARD). Planning,
construction methods and maintenance of tertiary roads need to be improved,
and the jurisdiction of rural roads agencies needs to be redefined. To deal
with these issues, the Government is undertaking a study by consultants
under the Bank-financed Sixth Highway Project (Loan 1519-TH).
33.       Railways.  The railway system, comprising mainly meter gauge
single track, totals 3,800 route-km, of which 600 km are branchlines. This
system, radiating from Bangkok to outlying provinces, is of primary
importance for carrying long haul, bulk commodities, including rice. The
State Railway of Thailand (SRT) is an operationally efficient and well-
managed state enterprise but its finances are weak because of inadequate
and infrequent adjustments in passenger and freight tariffs. Under the
current Five-Year Plan, and with Bank assistance (Fifth Railway Project,
Loan 1662-TH), SRT is rehabilitating plant and equipment and expanding
line and rolling stock capacity. An engineering study for extending the
railway from Chacheonsao, near Bangkok, to the deep-water port at Sattahip is
being completed and construction is scheduled to start by late 1980.



- 12 -
34.       Aviation.  Thailand's international and domestic air transport is
centered at Don Muang airport in the vicinity of Bangkok. Airport capacity
is now being used close to its maximum and plans are under study for further
expansion. Two other international airports, Had Yai near the Malaysian
border and Chieng Mai in the north, are receiving jet planes. There are
another 40 airfields of various sizes, of which about half receive scheduled
flights. Domestic air transport is provided by Thai Airways, and the Thai
International Airways is the international carrier. Both airlines are
government-owned.
35.       Ports.  Thailand has at present two deep-water ports - Bangkok and
Sattahip. Two other potential deep-water ports, Songkhla and Phuket, are
located in the south and, on the basis of a study now in progress, the Asian
Development Bank (ADB) is expected to finance construction of these ports
starting in 1983. Virtually all of Thailand's commercial traffic is handled
through the Port of Bangkok, except that petroleum products are handled at
Sri Racha, and agricultural bulk exports at Mah Boon Krong and the deep-
water anchorage of Ko Sichang. These loading and unloading facilities are
located on the eastern shore. During the last 10 years, annual trade growth
has been about 10% on average. In 1979, imports totalled 6.4 million tons
and exports 12.7 million tons. The present capacity of the Port of Bangkok
would not be able to handle the projected increases in external trade during
1980-85. A proposed Bank project is under preparation to improve the
handling capacity of the existing berths at Klong Toei (Bangkok) and to
convert the naval port of Sattahip into a commercial port for container
traffic and agricultural bulk exports. There are about 40 shallow draft
ports and inlets handling about 3.3 million tons annually of petroleum
products and fish (see para. 43).
36.       Inland Waterways.  Thailand has a comprehensive and developed
inland waterways system which covers well over one-third of the country and
extends over some 1,300 km of navigable waterways. Most of this length is
in the Northern Corridor between Bangkok and Uttaradit along the rivers Chao
Phrya and Nan, and the remainder along the Mekong river on the Thai-Laotian
border. River levels and flows and navigation are seasonally influenced.
With the arrival of the monsoon in May, water levels rise until they peak in
August, thereafter declining to December followed by the dry season from
January to May when water levels are low; these influences are to some
extent modified by a system of irrigation canals and single or multipurpose
dams. More than 100 larger terminals and a large number of minor loading
points are located along the waterways. Their density is highest near
population centers and in the rice-exporting areas. All are privately owned
and operated and most handle only one commodity. In the rice and maize-
exporting areas, a considerable number of rice mills and covered storage
facilities are located on the riverbanks. Two of the larger existing
loading points on the Chao Phrya-Nan rivers are Nakhon Sawan and Taphan Hin.
However, their present capacity is inadequate to handle expected traffic
increases resulting from improvement of the waterways, and new construction
is proposed under the proposed project.



- 13 -
37.       In 1976, barge traffic in the entire Northern corridor totalled
about 8.6 million tons, of which 6 million tons were sand, 1.3 million tons
rice, maize and other crops, and 0.7 million tons cement. Average barge
haul is 200 km. Thailand's inland waterways transport industry is highly
competitive and free from regulation. The barge fleet consists of some
4,000 units with individual capacities of between 40 and over 300 dwt with a
total capacity of 350,000 dwt, which compares to an annual sector output of
8.6 million tons. There are also about 2,000-3,000 smaller units. The
barges are of traditional design and those below 100 dwt capacity are made
of wood whereas the larger vessels are steel hulled. All barges are moved
by towboats using the pull-towing astern method which requires the following
barges to be crewed for steering and stopping the convoy. The proposed
inland waterways and ports project is designed to help (a) develop the
transport potential of inland waterways; and (b) develop more efficient
barge design and methods of operation.
Bank Lending to the Sector
38.       The Bank has been involved in all transport modes (except civil
aviation) and has helped finance 13 transportation projects in Thailand.
Three loans, totalling $20.3 million, have been made for port development.
The first two port projects were completed on schedule, and the third
project was completed in May 1976, about two years behind schedule, largely
because of delays in awarding civil works contracts. The Bank has made five
loans totalling $68.7 million to help implement SRT's development plans.
Four projects have been completed satisfactorily; about $7.5 million of the
loan amount for the third project was cancelled when the Government chose to
purchase the locomotives through direct negotiations. The Bank has made six
loans, the first in 1963 and the most recent in 1978, totalling $261.6 mil-
lion, for construction and maintenance of national and provincial roads. In
addition, about 1,300 km of village access roads are being constructed by the
Office of Accelerated Rural Development under the Northeast Thailand Rural
Development Project (Loan 1198T-TH). The five completed roads projects were
executed efficiently and the quality of construction throughout was good.
On the first four projects there were savings in cost. Domestic prices
remained stable and there was strong competition among contractors. However,
on the fifth project there were cost overruns and delays caused by sharp
increases in prices which required rebidding of several contracts. The
sixth project helped to strengthen planning in the Department of Highways
and thru TPU in MOC. It included studies leading to the preparation of
projects for rural roads, provincial roads, and the now proposed inland
waterways and coastal ports. The last operations evaluation report on Loan
626-TH (Fourth Highway Project) commented that the project had achieved its
objectives; road construction costs had been overestimated as the inflation
rate was slower than anticipated and traffic had grown at a rate higher than
projected.



- 14 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       The proposed project was prepared by the Harbour Department with
the assistance of its consultants financed by the Bank under the Sixth
Highway Project (Loan 1519-TH). The Inland Waterways component is based
upon a feasibility study undertaken by Bureau Central pour les Equipments
d'Outre Mer (BCEOM, France). The Coastal Ports component is based on a
study undertaken by consultants Maunsell and Partners (UK) in association
with Sindhu Pulsirivong and Associates (Thailand) and Coopers and Lybrand
Associates (UK). The project was appraised in November 1979. A Staff
Appraisal Report entitled, "Inland Waterways and Coastal Ports Project" (No.
2940-TH dated June 3, 1980) is being distributed separately. Supplementary
data are provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C.
from May 12 to 16, 1980. The Thai delegation was headed by H.E. Nai Nikorn
Praisaengpetch, Charge d' Affaires a.i., Royal Thai Embassy and included
M.L. Jeongjan Kambhu, Deputy Under Secretary of State, Ministry of
Communications and Khun Amphon Tiyabhorn, Deputy Director General, Harbour
Department.
Project Objectives
40.       The Government has, in the past, concentrated on roads to develop
the transport system required for the rapidly growing national economy.
This policy has been successful in linking virtually all provinces and
concurrently, an efficient road transport industry has developed. The
Government is now giving closer attention to tertiary roads, waterways and
other modes, which have development potential. The project's main
objectives are to: (a) improve the inland waterways system, so that it can
function as a major carrier of import and export commodities throughout the
year for the central and northern regions; (b) improve channel maintenance
of all coastal ports and undertake capital dredging for two of the more
important ports, so that loss of ship time in waiting for tides is reduced
and larger vessels could navigate the channels; and (c) strengthen the Harbour
Department's capability to perform its development and maintenance functions
for the inland waterways and coastal ports.
Description of the Project
41.       Inland Waterways.  Thailand's comprehensive inland waterways
system (Map 14857R) extends about 1,300 km from Bangkok to Uttaradit in the
central region and comprises: (a) the Chao Phrya river from the Gulf of
Thailand to Nakhon Sawan (305 km); (b) the Nan river from Nakhon Sawan to
Taphan Hin (78 km) and from there to Uttaradit (274 km); (c) the Pasak river
from Ayutthya, where it enters the Chao Phrya river, up to the Rama IV dam
(45 km); and (d) the sections of the Noi and Suphan Tha Chin rivers (about
100 km), which offer a bypass of a difficult section of the Chao Phrya
river. Except for the section from the Gulf to Ayutthya, navigation in the
Nan and Chao Phrya rivers is restricted by shallow water during the low



- 15 -
water season from January to May. As a result, barge traffic is forced to
reduce payloads (on the upper Chao Phrya and Nan rivers), or detour on slow
and more costly routes on the lower Chao Phrya river (via the Noi or Suphan
Tha Chin rivers), or cease operations. Waterways traffic is greatly reduced
on the upstream section and large quantities of agricultural bulk
commodities, which are better suited to barge traffic, have to be carried by
road.
42.       The Inland Waterways component of the project includes: (a) dredging
a channel 40 meters wide and 2.2 meters deep (1.7 meters available depth)
through each of the shoal areas on the upper and lower sections of the Chao
Phrya and Nan rivers; (b) providing river flow works comprising bottom
panels and/or groins and low dikes at each of the dredged shoal areas to
help concentrate the available dry season flow in the reduced width of the
river, thus reducing the maintenance dredging required for the new channel;
(c) construction of river ports at Nakhon Sawan and Taphan Hin with both
alongside and dolphin type berths, cargo-handling facilities, mechanical
equipment and survey and miscellaneous maintenance equipment; (d) procurement
of a demonstration set of four 700 ton, 45 meter steel barges and one 550 hp
pusher tug; maintenance and dredging equipment comprising three cutter
suction dredgers complete with floating delivery pipes for maintenance
dredging, and three dredger attendant tugs; (e) engineering services for
final engineering of the Nan River works, procurement of equipment, and
supervision of contracts; and (f) technical assistance and training to
strengthen the Harbour Department.
43.       Coastal Ports.  Despite recent improvements in land transport,
coastal ports and shipping remain essential parts of the transport and
economic system in Southern Thailand. There are about 40 shallow draft
seaports and inlets ranging from small fishing and cargo wharves of purely
local importance to larger regional ports with annual volumes of several
hundred thousand tons of cargo (Map 14856R).  Most of these ports are
located on the southern peninsula and are owned and managed by local
governments or private operators. These ports also serve as bases for
marine fishing on which the economic well-being of coastal communities
depends. About 2.5 million tons of cargo and petroleum products and over
1.0 million tons of fish are annually loaded or discharged at these ports.
The shallow depth of the port access channels is the principal constraint
under which coastal shipping operates.
44.       The Coastal Ports component of the project includes:  (a) dredging
the entrance channel of the port at Bandon to a depth of 4 meters at low
water ordinary spring tide (LWOST) with a channel 60 meters wide and 20 km
long; (b) dredging the entrance channel of the port of Pattani to a depth
of 2.5 meters (LWOST) with a channel 60 meters wide and 5 km long; (c)
geophysical and hydrographic studies of the channels at Bandon and Pattani
including borings and tracer studies to determine dumping areas for dredged
soil; (d) provision of a shallow draft (2 m) self-propelled trailing hopper



- 16 -
maintenance dredger with a capacity of 400 cu meter; (e) engineering
services for final engineering, bid evaluation and supervision of contracts;
and (f) technical assistance and training for the Harbour Department.
45.       Technical Assistance and Training.  By March 31, 1981, a program
of technical assistance and training will be prepared and implemented in
consultation with the Bank to help strengthen the Harbour Department s
management and improve its waterways and coastal ports operations.
(Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement.) Consultants services provided
for the Inland Waterways component include: (a) dredging and river works
maintenance operations and hydrographic surveying; (b) port operations and
documentation; and (c) river maintenance planning and statistical records.
Similar services for Coastal Ports component will be provided for: (a)
planning and management of maintenance, economic selection of channel depths
and statistical records; (b) dredger operations and maintenance; and (c)
channel surveys. The staff training programs for both inland waterways and
coastal ports components include training overseas for 12 staff members in
planning, dredging management, collection of statistics and management
information.
46.       Navigable Depths in Sections of Inland Waterways.  The design of
civil works to achieve 1.7 m navigable depth during the dry season is
based upon a given minimum flow in each river section. Assurances have been
received that these requirements are consistent with the normal releases
from the controlling dams during the low water season by the Royal
Irrigation Department (RID) and the Electricity Generating Authority of
Thailand (EGAT), except in an abnormally dry year. The Government will
require the above agencies, controlling release of water from the various
dams, to ensure that minimum water flow is assured in lower and upper Chao
Phrya and Nan rivers during the low water season (Section 4.04 of the draft
Loan Agreement). Such water releases would not adversely affect other users
of water. Large volumes of sand are dredged from the lower Chao Phrya river
and delivered by barge for use by the construction industry in Bangkok. The
considerable enlargement of the river section thus created lowers the water
surface level in that area and jeopardizes the available water depth in
shoal areas upstream of the dredged area during the dry season flow. To
ensure 1.7 m available depth in the low water season, commercial dredgers
must be licensed and controlled to operate either downstream of Ayutthya or
upstream of the Chainat Dam. During negotiations assurances were obtained
that commercial sand dredging will not be permitted in the Chao Phrya river
between Ayutthya and Chainat Dam (Section 4.05 of the draft Loan
Agreement), unless there is excessive accumulation of sand in the section.
47.       Land for River Ports.  Land required for construction of the two
river ports, about 26 ha at Nakhon Sawan and 10 ha at Taphan Hin, should be
acquired by the Government so that construction can start not later than
April 1, 1982. During negotiations assurances were obtained that the
acquisition of required land will be completed not later than December 31,
1981 (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 17 -
48.       Leasing Tug and Barges.  The pusher tug and steel barges are being
provided to demonstrate their advantages in load capacity and cost
efficiency to promote large-scale use. To ensure maximum exposure, the
demonstration set will be leased to an efficient private river craft
operator and the proposed terms and conditions for leasing the craft were
agreed during negotiations (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Adoption of the use of pusher tugs and the heavier load carrying steel
barges will be a major improvement in waterways operations. Once
demonstrated to be successful, ample local capital is expected to be
available to introduce these craft on a larger scale.
49.        Future Maintenance Costs.  The project's capital costs include the
cost of river and port works and port equipment and the costs of the pusher
tug and steel barges. At present, about Baht 25 m is being expended annually
for the maintenance of the waterways included in the project. This amount
will have to be increased substantially (to Baht 55 m in 1979 prices) to
meet the necessary maintenance expenditures, safeguard the project's
investment and to realize the expected benefits. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the Harbour Department will draw up a suitable
annual maintenance program not later than June 30, 1983 and satisfactory
arrangements will be made for funding the increased annual maintenance
requirements (Section 3.09 of the draft Loan Agreement). Nevertheless,
sections of waterways completed earlier would be properly maintained.
Harbour Department
50.        The Harbour Department, under the Ministry of Communications, is
the government agency responsible for planning, construction and maintenance
of inland waterways and maintenance and improvement of coastal ports and
approach channels in Thailand. The Department was reorganized in 1974 and
is headed by a Director General with two deputies, one for administration
and the other for technical matters. There are ten divisions of which the
two more important ones are the Technical Division (project planning) and
the Dredging and Maintenance Division (maintenance of coastal ports'
channels and the inland waterways). The Department's expenditure budget for
FY79 was about Baht 157 million, 60% of which was used for dredging and
maintenance. Revenues amounted to Baht 45 million, mainly from vessel
licensing and piloting. The Department has about 600 officers and about
1,000 personnel and labor. A fair proportion of approved positions are
vacant because of unattractive employment conditions and lack of budget
appropriation. The Department needs to be strengthened in planning, project
appraisal, and managing and executing its works programs, particularly those
related to coastal ports. Expenditure accounting needs to be streamlined
for effective works control. The most important function of the Department
is to carry out dredging, particularly for coastal ports channels; however,
performance has been below attainable output levels and explicit and
objective works programming criteria need to be introduced. The proposed
technical assistance and training (para. 45) for the Harbour Department are
devised to meet these needs.



- 18 -
51.       Management and Maintenance of the Waterways.  Under the project a
new Waterways Management Division will be established, not later than
December 31, 1981, (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement). It will
assume responsibility for all dredging and maintenance works on the Chao
Phrya and Nan rivers and the two inland ports of Nakhon Sawan and Taphan
Hin, to control operations on the waterways and calibrate all water level
gauges on the river to provide an appropriate reference base. Appropriate
technical assistance will be provided to enable this Division to program and
control maintenance dredging and maintenance of the river training works,
setting up the required data base for future planning by hydrograhic
surveying and of a comprehensive statistical system for traffic and
hydrological information. Hydrographic sur-veys will be carried out annually
prior to the dry season using the survey boat purchased with the study funds
(Section 3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement). The Management Division will
have to maintain close coordination with other administrative authorities on
the river, mainly RID and EGAT.
Project Cost and Financing
52.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $80.4 million
(including local duties and taxes) with a foreign exchange component of
US$53 million equivalent which would be covered by the proposed loan.
The local currency cost of $27.4 million will be financed by the Government.
53.       Total contingenices amount to $23 million, about 35% of base cost.
Eighty percent of the cost estimates for civil works on the inland waterways
are based upon final engineering for which 10% physical contingencies are
allowed. Dredging cost estimates for the coastal ports are based on "
preliminary engineering and 20% physical contingencies have been included
for these works. The estimates for mechanical and floating equipment are
based upon recent quotations. Estimates are based on 1979 prices and
include price escalation contingencies; assumed price increases for civil
works are 15% for 1980, 12% for 1981 and 10% for 1982 and 1983; those for
mechanical equipment and other direct foreign exchange costs are 10.5% for
1980, 9% for 1981, 8% for 1982 and 7% for 1983. Technical assistance is
expected to involve 107 expatriate man-months, with average man-month costs
estimated at $12,000 equivalent (including fees, international travel and
the local subsistence cost of about $2,000); a total of 11 man-years of
overseas training courses are also included at an average cost of $20,000
per man-year.
Procurement and Disbursement
54.       The project's civil and dredging works will be executed under
three contracts and procurement of mechanical and floating equipment, under
not more than five. All contracts financed by the Bank will be awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank
guidelines. The Government intends to levy customs duty on items procured



- 19 -
under the project. A preference not exceeding 15% of the c.i.f. price, or
customs duties, whichever is less, will be granted to local manufacturers
for procurement of mechanical and floating equipment financed by the Bank.
55.       The basis for disbursement for the project items financed by the
Bank would be (as a percentage of total costs excluding taxes) 50% for civil
works on the inland waterways, 80% for dredging the coastal ports, and 100%
for mechanical and floating equipment. For all consulting services and
training, disbursement would be on the basis of 100% of total costs.
It is expected that the Harbour Department will incur expenditures on final
engineering for Nan river prior to loan signature and retroactive financing
of these services in an amount not exceeding $100,000 is recommended for
expenditures incurred after June 1, 1980.
User Charges
56.        Based on the 1979 tax system, rates and prices and on projected
traffic, tax revenues, mainly from licensing of barges, are estimated at
about B 23 million in 1985 and B 38 million in the year 2000. These esti-
mates are in 1979 prices. By comparison, the river maintenance cost will be
about B 55 million per annum in 1979 prices of which about B 45 m are for
the Chao Phyra river and B 10 m for the Nan river. To determine the
necessary adjustments in the inland waterways and ports charges, the
Ministry of Communications has agreed that TPU will extend its ongoing study
of road user taxation (financed under Loan 1519-TH) to the inland waterways
sector. Terms of reference for inland waterways and ports will generally
follow those for roads agreed between the Government and the Bank. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that this study will be completed and
its recommendations furnished to the Bank not later than October 31, 1981,
and that the recommendations satisfactory to the Bank and the Government
will be implemented promptly thereafter (Section 3.11 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Ecology
57.       None of the proposed works will significantly affect the ecologies
of the rivers or ports concerned. Dredging material from the river works
will be disposed of behind the river training works and that from the
entrance channel, at approved locations following tracer studies in the area.
Justification, Benefits and Risks
58.       The inland waterways project will serve an area with a population of
about 11 million people in the north and central corridor between the Gulf
of Thailand and the north. It would help provide cheaper transport for the
main export commodities, rice and maize, and for import commodities,
primarily petroleum products. Largely, as a result of the project's
investments, river transport in the project area is expected to increase to
about 2.2 million tons of dry cargo and 0.3 million cu m of petroleum in
1985 from the current annual traffic level of about 0.6 million tons.



- 20 -
59.        The benefits of cheaper transport are attributable to the diver-
sion of traffic to waterways, mostly from roads, and to the increase in barge
payloads because .of the conversion of the existing barges to larger steel
units. The share of agricultural produce, primarily rice and maize, of
total benefits is about 60-65%, followed by petroleum with a benefit share
of about 10-20%.
60.       The rate of return on the Chao Phrya river investments is 26%, and
the preliminary return on the Nan river investments, based on benefits of
normal traffic, excluding generated or diverted traffic, is 12%. The
return on the Nan river investments, to be calculated in conjunction with
the final engineering, is expected to be higher with the inclusion of
benefits from diverted traffic. The Chao Phrya capital costs are based
on final design, and the overall transport demand, the modal split and unit
transport cost are well established. A reduction in project benefits by 20%
and a simultaneous increase in capital costs of 20% for all the project
components, except the Nan river, would not lower the rate of return on the
Chao Phrya to below 18%, thus indicating that the investments are fairly
risk-free.
61.       The coastal ports project will benefit about 40 coastal ports and
their hinterland, through improvements to their approach channels. Most of
the ports are riverine and subject to continuous siltation, and frequent
maintenance dredging or capital dredging, in some cases, is required to permit
passage of cargo and fishing vessels. The dominant cargo landed is fish and
fuel, and the outgoing cargo consists largely of export goods, such as timber,
sent to Bangkok for shipment to final destinations.
62.       The Harbour Department's dredging capacity, which is inadequate for
channel maintenance, will be increased under the project through technical
assistance and purchase of a hopper dredger. With the project, there will
still be a capacity shortfall, but before committing further capital and
expanding the dredging organization, the scope and nature of needs will be
established under the project. To evaluate the economics of the new hopper
dredger, a comparison was made with cutter suction dredgers which are the
predominant equipment type currently in use. Under conservative assumptions,
the proposed new dredger represents the least cost solution and has a rate
of return of 20%.
63.       The economics of capital dredging for Bandon and Pattani ports was
established on the basis of detailed analyses taking into account existing and
projected traffic and regional transport development. Bandon port is pri-
marily of importance for petroleum, general cargo and timber traffic, while
Pattani has significance as a regional fishing port. The economic rate of
return for Bandon, calculated without benefits from potential palm oil, rubber
and baryte traffic, is 16%, and that for Pattani, calculated without any
benefits to general cargo traffic, is 17%. In a sensitivity analysis, under
which benefits are lowered by 20% and capital costs simultaneously raised by
20%, the returns are 10% and 9% for the respective ports and are considered



- 21 -
adequate. The weighted average economic rate of return, on the investments
under the project is 20%. No undue risks or technical difficulties are
expected in the implementation of the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately. Special
features of the proposed project are listed in Annex III.
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 12, 1980
Washington, D.C.






- 22 -                                        ANNEX I
TUnAND - SOCL4L UMICATOUS DATA SErT                   Page  1  of  5
LAND Kau(   SAND 5. UnLUD  wRUQErCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AjAGES
LAND (TROUSUD SQ. E.3 - 9DST   CEST                                      TE
TOTAL            514.0                                                  saM        SAKE      NEIT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     179.6                               MOST RCENT      GEOGRAPIC   INCOME         INCOHE
1960 Lk    1970 Lk *STITE lb        REGION       GctoUP I    GROUP /
GNP Pr  CAPITA (US$)                 100.0       210.0    490.0            528.9      467.5      1097.7
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(xILOGRAMS OF COAL. EIQUIVALET)    64.0       247.0    308.0            371.1      262.1        730.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, NiD-YEA  (MILLIONS)     26.4        35.7      43.3
URDU POPULATION (PEUCZT O0 TOTAL) 12.0          13.0      14.0            27.4       24.6        49.0
POPULATION POJECTIONS
POPULATION IN TEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      69.0
STATIONARY POPULATIOU (MILLIONS)                       105.0
YER STATIOMARY POPULAION IS REACHED                   2095
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. IM.                       51.0        69.0      84.0           154.8      45.3         44.6
PQ SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    204.0        251.0    244.0            566.7      149.0       140.7
POPULATION AGZ STR0CrURZ (PUCENT)
0-14 nS.                         44.7        46.2      45.0            41.3       45.2        41.3
15-64 YaS.                        52.6        50.8      52.0            54.9       51.9        55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.7         3.0       3.0            3. 3       2.8         3.5
POPULATION GROUT RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.8         3.0       2.8             Z.4        2.7         2.4
UN                                 5.1         3.6       3. 5            4.3        4.3        4.5
CRUDME BIH RATE (PER TYOSAND)       46.0        42.0      32.0            30.2       39.4        31.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TEOUSAND)     17.0        12.0       8.0             8.3       11.7         9.2
GROSS UPRODUCTION RATE                ..         3.2       2.2             2.1        2.7         2.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TEOUSANDS)      ..        203.0k  527.0
USERS (PERCENT OF  UIED WOMEN)    ..          27.4      32.3            34.1       13.2       34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
NDuEX OF F0OD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         68.0        100.0     113.0           106.2       99.6       104.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT Of
REQUIRZHENTS)                   96.0       103.0     107.0           104.1       94.7       105.0
PROTEINS (GRAMS PEU DAY)          43.5        52.2      50.0            57.4       54.3       64.4
OF VWICN ANIMAL AND PULSE        8.4         ..       14.6            16.9       17.4        23.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     15.0         9.0       6.0             4.8       11.4         8.6
HEALTh
LIFE EXPCTANCY AT sIYRH (TEARS)    51.0         57.0      61.0            61.1      54.7        60.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..         86.0/1    68.0            46.6      68.1        46.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               .         17.0      22.0           21.9        34.4       60.8
URBAN                               .           ..      49.0            46.2       57.9       75.7
RURAL                              ..          ..      12.0            12.8       21.2        40.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PEMCENT
OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        17.0      40.0            28.4      40.8        46.0
URLAN                               ..       65.0       58.0           65.0        71.3       46.0
RURAL                               ..         8.0      36.0           14.7        27.7       22.5
POPULATION PER PrsIcIAN           7800.0     8420.0    8370.0          3790.5     6799.4      2262.4
POPULATION PER  MURSING PERSON    4900.0     3340.0    1510.0           1107.4    1522.1       1195.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL RED
TTAL                            1340.01f     890.0     800.0          613.3      726.5       453.4
LAN                                 ..       280.0     240.0           203.6      272.7      253.1
RURAL                              ..       1380.0    1290.0          1110.3     1404.4     2732.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..         31.0      33.0            23.9       27.3        22.1
ROUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.5/f       5.8       5.5            5.2        5.4         5.3
URbAN                              s.3/f       5.9       5.3             *-        5.1         5.2
RURAL                              5.6/f       5.8       5.5              .         5.5        5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOK
TOTAL                              ..          ..        2.4              .          ..        1.9
L8-AN                               ..         ..        2.2             ..          .1
RURAL                               * -*                 2.4             * *                   2.5
NCCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..         ..       24.6             ..       .3.1        30.0
LMBAN                              ..         63.O        ..  .t                  45.1        71.7
RURANL                             ..         13.30       .                        9.9        17.3



- 23 -                                        ANNEX I
TAtLAND - SOCUIL NDICATOtS DATA SUET                 Page  2  of  5
TSAILAND                  REFERNCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED Ar MAGES
- MDST RECENT E5TIYATE) -
SAME        SAME     NETT HIGHER
M05T RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGION /I   GROUP /d   GROUP /*
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                83.0        81.0      83.0             97.9       82.7       102.5
MALU                 88.0        85.0      86.0            96.7        87.3       106.6
FDZLE                79.0        77.0      79.0            97.4        75.8        97.1
SECONDAIIY:   TOTAL               12.0        18.0      26.0             42.2       21.4        33.5
MALE                 15.0        21.0      29.0            46.7        33.0        38.4
FZHALE                9.0        15.0      22.0            40.9        15.5        30.7
VOCATIONAL ERROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)    19.0        24.0       13.0            12.5        9.8        11.5
PUPIL-TZACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           36.0        35.0      30.0            32.5        34.1        35.8
SECONDARY                         20.0        16.0      21.0            25.8        23.4        22.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCECT)       68.0        79.0       82.0            84.1       54.0        64.0
CONSUNRTIONq
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         2.0         5.0       6.4             6.1         9.3        13.5
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         6.0        78.0     131.0            84.4        76.9       122.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         2.3         7.0      17.0            22.4        13.5        38.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENRAL
nTMEUST") CIRCULATION PER
TROUSAND POPULATION                 11.0        24.0        ..            24.2        18.3        40.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE P8R CAPITA   ..          ..        1.7             3.6        2.5         3.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    12757.0     16163.0   18514.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  48.3        47.3      46.9            36.7        29.2        25.0
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)             83.7        79.9      77.0             54.6       62.7        43.5
INDUSTRT (PERCENT)                 4.4         6.0        8.0           16.3        11.9        21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               51.3        46.6      45.6            40.7        37.1        33.5
MALE                                52.7        49.3      48.6            49.9        48.8        48.0
FEMALE                              49.8        43.9      42.6             31.0       20.4        16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.0          1.1       1.1             1.1        1.4         1.4
INCOME DISTRIRUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED SY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   21.8/h      23.8/i    14. O/           14.9       15.2        20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  50.97W      49.'7    42.2/            46.8        48.2        52.1
IOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.2/b       6.1/i     7.6/j           6.2         6.3         3.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.97iW     15.97i    19.I17          16.8        16.3        12.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     126.0           193.1       241.3       270.0
RURAL                               ..          ..      94.0            128.7      136.6       183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     115.0            136.8      179.7       282.5
RURAL                               ..          ..     108.0            96.8       103.7       248.9
EST.MATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCECT)
RBAN                               ..          ..      15.0             32.0       24.8        20.5
RURAL                               ..          ..      34.0             52.5       37.5        35.3
Not available
INot applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are populacion-weighted geometric means, *xcluding the estreame
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c   Fast Asia & Pacific;   /d  Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita 1976);  /e  Intermediate Middle
Income (5551-1ll5 per capita, 1976);  if  1962;   /i Percent of population in Bangkok metropolitan
area;   /h  1962-63;   /i  1968;   /i Preliminary data for 1975/76, due to lack of data on national
basis. the methodology for aggregating the available regional data overstates incomes of low income
groups and understates income of higher income groups.  Thus. this data is not suitable for any
analytical zomparisons;  /k  Governmenc;   '1  1964-1965.
Most Rceso Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



- 24 -
ANNEX I
DIII IT OF  nCDAL MDICATORI                                                              Paee   3   of   5
Iotes   klthough the data  -  draw   f- ro -sure  geneeIlly ,7cdged the mst at-oitnti-e and reliable, it should misc be sated that theymap not be inte-ns
tic..nlly copr bieb -w  of the lnk of  t-ndrdi-ed definitions sad concpts used by differet coutries in  -o1letig the data. The data  r,nntees
usful t,i-do-ibe order  of magntude, indioaIte treds, and oharsteine owhin mao  differe-e  betwee  ocustr-e.
m    djuse  groP   -versge  foe each  nitotoao  arcpcpoation-wigsteu geometric ne-, esoludiog tie e-te-   -sue  of the Indicator at the moot popeslatd
co-cty Iceno  gr-ou.  D_i to 1rk of datn,'- gronasne  of aIndcaor  for Capital lurplu  Oiil Esp-ters sd of indicators of Acces  to Water and Ecreta
Disposl " IH_ning,  ocIws Dintrohotioc and Pkcerty for other co-try gr-uo   ar  poplatie-teighted geomtric nean  without enlsa    f the ectre-  oluew  ad
ti Xot ppoIslted coutry.  iaethecvrg  ofcontriesaogteidosandnnao  noalalit  ofdisnd in not uniform, caution aunt he eeied
indicator at a etis  amog the country nod reference gupa.
LAN5D AREA (thousad nq.hm.                                                                 Acces  to Sloorta Disposl(pecomnt of Pusltion      toa             -sIne, and rura  -
Total - Total sufceae  comprising land urns and inland enters.                                 bee of peopl(ta, uran ndrrl  sevd  yeseta diapsasi a
~7Eotun   -  most recnt estimate of agriculturalare  ond temporaily                         peroeIntages of their repective pcpsltion. En-rta disposal amy  -Inlde
orp-r-setly for crops, paut-es, maket nod kitchen garden  or to                        the collection nod diapoal, with orsithoat  .tesatasIt OPOsma  e--ee
lie  als.-                                                                             nod wants-eater by waterb-h          systems or thet une of pit privie  and noilar
laP PER CAPITA (U10$) -.GiP Per c-pst  -tlmaten at curret maket prices                      PoulatIon ner Pti"non             upitl dicided by nuber of pratIcing phyn-iIann
caIrulated by can  cove ceathod at acrid  oBI  Atlas (197k-l8 banis);                      qulfiedlro   a              -eiclshool at uni-erity le-e.
Iwo 17.  n  1174 data.
ouatcpePrsNg- Peraca - Population divided by outer of pr-coicg nale
piNildY  ,ONSitfTfIOs  PER CAPoTA - Moon.' --nuptica of --meriajI nry                          o   el  graduate              p-ns,yati-I nuss,ad  sc tnohuss
(ca   n inte,perleog, naur l ga   odhdr-  ncea   ndgc                                -duato -, er dinpitd by d         p otl  ur-.no%    ua - posslabtidc (totl.l ura
10710, and 197f unit.                                                                       iuilic and p--cte genra  and specs-liced h-stpita1 and -hbatlatation  _entr__
Hoopotal  are establishments Perantiy staffed by at least on  phpsici-c
POPti,ATION AND dITAL STATIiTICS                                                               otai.ih-nets Provding prlaiyaiply cus todial car  areno  included. Pra
Total Popslatio-. Stid-Yr (mIllions  - is of July 1; 19id, 1970, and                       hospitals, however, include  ea1tb and medical center   ohPermnetly otafful
1977 data.                                                                               by a physiia  (bu  by a medicl1 as.sintat, can, a1idof, etc.) wic  offer
Urbn  Popultion (Per-et of totn1) - Patio of orhan to total popaltios;                      i-patlet  -o      ndatiot and proide a limited rage o            f mdia   ailitiec
dffere..s defdiotio   of urban arI w.ad y affect c.cspara.I:ity of data               AdmIsions ,lpee ifspital led - Totalnuber ofd admission  to o  diachngn-         Pro
sogocte 'cc  196,1971, and 1975 data.boptl    id,vid by the noisie  of hdu
Populot ion P-oj-tioo-
Poplaltioni  ya  Did  . Curret population projetion  are has-d  s                    HOUdINi
1975 total  poi.Ntio- by nor no1  -o  and thei  mortality and fetlo,Ity              Acerago ho    f houshoId (persons1 pee bounhold  - tota,ubnadres-
cate_  Iro.jepti_  paant-r  foe nociality eaten copris  of three                       A h-uchold    nst   of arop of inEdIviual  abc sar  living  usaIrrto an
Ieoclo  -sooing USe1  opeotnooy nt tirth increasig mithi-outryc                        their enin meal.  A hoarder or lodger mayo   bath   -icdod in the
oc_o_pitnn _o   i_e   nodn  f-mlc lif  v-pe-tany stailli-ng at                         hooshil  foe statistical pip-se.
77.0 pec.Thy P-oter  for fe-tiliop  pate also hav  thre  lees1oeg-un1                                  fpesn   erro    tona ~l,uban  andrra  -'Ace-ge ouni-
toco :iogdec inei  fertility acoding toiincom  level and past                      of pocos  pe  roo  Inalut,ad   raocpidcve'.~a  dulst.
V al   loIlepefoc,so-    Oaob coutry  a then  _sigeed o- ofthese                       rrpeti-1y.   -Inllongs  -sludenon-p-rasint ottr-oue  aIond nl-P- d Pt-o
tine  -oninatio-  of motality nod fertility trends fcc projectIon                    Acesto fEctriity (cercet of dwellins   total, urban. Indppl  .j
puc~~~~~vors.                                                    ven~~~~~~~~tion..l om-llings moth electricity in lIvng qurtera   P no -prcetage
cIta'tucr  pcpIi~     -in I octioctry  popltion there is     g-tmh                       otal uId ,      Inod rura  d-ellingsre-peticly.
tdope the hicth into is eqa  to the death rt,adas   i g
otutueceas  ccunn   his  - arhiecd Icn  afte  fertilIty  -atos                    hiYCATIdN
ecive to tieceld eet lec  of unI Ine  reproducio  cas  we                           dju-td Enrollment Ratics
eah genreti-n ofmotcPlar tnf   __ntly.  The  tatiocar  pop,.                           Irn     sho  -  totl  mal and frl-uo-  total, male arc fettle rorcil-
Istico  iup  -n  eatiuted I. ths  -aic of thy prjeted  h-cateri tio                      sent of all ages at the yinac  leelaoprcnoge               f c-proti-n prisay
of thc poplatio- In thy Y-nc 2000, and thr  otc of  ei-n Of fertilbit                    cool-_ pplain;  -Isolly iolo de  children agd Ijifne   u
cane to cepincoceot  ci.7                                                                adjusted for differnt lengths of priar  odu-aioc; Ic-  ---- rionti
YerI ttocr  pouat             . is-eibhd - Tc pou  sh.c stnts..a.y population              uniecale Iaio-  -noletny emcee~d lid p--ec  sicc  sta pstIbo
01cr has be n    -cnhec.                                                                 tI_ llow  cc Moor the officil -ohooIage.
P-suIItic- les,ty                                                                          S-conuty  -oi-;. - total, male nl femle - foaputed  caI., i,ic.;,c
fc  o.  ds - Mid-year poploissin Pr oquac  iclnt-c (190 heotae) of                         ed-ontioc reqire  an leat four year  of approve  pc;o
t<tal uraprovides genreal coaioa,rte-hbe  triing   arisc.cPop ic
crs.cmnciul-t-rol land - o-puted no ab-  for agricultura  lund                      us ly uf 12 to 17 pear  ofag;            rep-adenc- oso...     ae.  tocolly
PopultionAge deui urc  ~erort('- fhiIert (0-lu y-aco),  -oriog-age                  uc-ti-nal en-lmel  pecet  of-t       oeodary( - Vocatoc...l i-,,tiOtiinc  -o i..i
(is-I  peao I   nd rtired lb Iync  Ian  I.e.  noI percetages of aid-yea               technical, induotial, or othee, pcogrm   skid  operte indpe-dootly I, so
rpltioc_  l9%Iu  17P  and 1977 data.                                                     dPartaetn oft. sonPda,y ins 'tittins
piclnonIort   ae  pcet) -6total - Aoua1 crosth -nte  Of total mid-                         Puns l-ta _s rai -. _riaao tnod secodary  - Tonl1 atadent  s-cecli,d
peso poplation   for 1950-hI, lpo-70,-ar  19T0-77.                                          primay and secodary 1evel  dicided by anirr-  of teah- e          -Ic  d   ccc
PoPulaticno Irceth Rate (P--oeti - ~..rr- soc ia  groeth cato  of ocha                        oponding level.
pPoInItive   fo  I950-ku, 1960-70, ad 190-795.                                           idolt iit-ay rate  (P--et~ - Litects adults Iable so read and -cit,)t
Prude birth Pate (per thousan)   A- o.al 11cc  Itim   -e thousand of mid-                      I perorngo of total adult popolatio- aged 15 yec  and. ore
yea  populutioc;  *0' 19,7d, and       7 lOiuta.
Irudo  Math Into (pee thuo-di  A-  ca  do-nic Per ths.-o  oI -ia-year                  fPfiiOfkPtOiI
populatoac; 1960, 1970, and 1977 unta.                                                 Paege fr  (pec thouad  poplationI    Pnsaecoas -tpeie 
IccocPepeouotiO  onte- Aoegc tber of diughtnrs I o...o mlii  c-                   stating les  than cight pe--os; eacld-  abul-res  h---o  clmAtr
ic ,  --I  ...a elcd-t,v- pociod  If coo  -ope-i--r  p-t are-                           -h-1oe.
pc fi-fet;ln    ote;u     yal  fi-ep        vcgsrdios it 1I60,                    Padulo Poeoe   per thbc-d population) - ill types of rei--cc   f-n   -1.i
I970, and i975.                                                                          he_d_nut  to gene.nIl phic Per thouaad of popint..s caIot  ulne
sul    ioug-Aoc-pt-r. itoni  tiooant)- Aoeatl combe  of                             -eci-ectInou...teiroadi   ee   he   eita  o   f eu'r si
o-cpton of biri-vuttci devce  odec_u_pmceof antion-   fndly'                             offect; data for recent year   -y cot be  c-pa-ale  in- eat  -ti
pann pogom                                                                         abolished hy-mning
PuiyPlanig -Iscr- (percent of  --oiducn    P-PPeetIgo  cf maried                     TVOb deciver  (ore thouan 1ptpultio_ ( - T  roice  for ircua-t tIger--
omnochl-lenig ag   1-44 yeao  who our tielth-cotrl d-oicr                         phspetbuadPoplto;.                    nue    nirndT   reoc
Il nl steno0 scr- n i. no ng grou.                                                      an d in year  wire regi ot_tico  f TV sets mnieffevi.
FOGh AND NUTRITIONTPS                                                                         of'dailgera  interest oup e,defined a p-iodi-I publication
do-r ofPo     -Tcutio   t   Caia(997-i)-liro. ci Per cPtyt                                 ae-td prienily to  --ood-g gear.a.nems.  It is coniderdt-                 c  diy
an-1a p-d-oti lo   of alfoocsdiisPodtioeldssednd                                         if it  npenes at leat fou  tomsues
feed a 0 Icon naondacyear  ias.  C-soditi-  cvrPriaary goods                    Cicema Annual Atte-d-n   pe   nit. s PearY    - hated in tbhneo  o  int
(v.5. ougacosneccsc.rnd of Ougne) uhich ace eolhieacdvonttiocueitett      cld during thr yea, 10udlag ndmb-oclna  to drive-incioaadnl;e
c.g  cofftc  nod ts-       -1ccolded).  Aggregate produt-u  if ..,h con-y                 _jioo
do b-d itn             --oslnegr produce  price  eughts
Ir   aiaspplyofcoir  (percnt of requiremets)  C-Copuod from                    LAWRf FiPCE
ce_Rgy equiart        fP te  fco.d suoplico nniahll     is coutry Per caPita         Total Labur force  (tuad,) - .oE-n-ionLyj soti-  person, iiui -gtv
Pee day.  A-ilbhle iupLi- -cconeine domestic p-od-o,-, imports  e-                     force  andueplyd hut eclding hos--uh-, studeet, et-. yefimt-_
c_potta. ar  changes -o otoob.  Nct isppli-  -colud   siml feed  seds,                 imc ct  onresaect o-p-baIe.
ujnttms  ac  c  fodpeoncig,an   <ue,  t  ioriotcs  Rqure       Iwaelb-ort(-femleIn                       Idfocesppet-taga of tit1 labor force.
eto cctisthed by Phi Is..od 00pyitgoiceofr-oaa                                glaupjret( -Lbue cIrc        amig  forestry, bunting and
sctmomty and health c-ncuoc't .0ccih vantal tcasp-rta-,, bAy  -nghts,                  fiobig as pe--ntnr of tota1l th- firce
aI  Pod  _00  Ii_cbti_t      pouai          -ad al1o-iog 10 p-coet for              sudustr  (prcnt) -LhIP- force  io minin,d. ot-tro-io    ascfapou..ag mod
-ntuII h--hoonbc.d lco1.                                                               elct ict, onteead Iga             perceatge of total labor fore
coanit  ouppl  .f prtest  deans  cr dsp  - ivt-u   clo   spc              atcpn -ate(prceo) -tota    mI,nd femle - 'rticipation c
capita nct supyiy offoI      r   b    e  upyofnfodIsocieaati-ity rates se   -puted an total, wale, nod fn-ir  uIc.  force as Pee
abov.-  hequi-cts foeal   ute   o easiaei  h  LOydA p-oior foe a                                 Iein  f ttl  maead Peale popuitlnt   of all age   sapenticely
mhnosau  allamnve  ihi grat of ttal prtei OPee day and 20 gear  cf          1b  197, and I95unt~.  These ar  ILl's pcticip.ti.c  raesrflecise
avwlnd pulsepr-i-c, of shch ii ge-s  ohold he animal p-tteit.                       M--sot-utor   of the population, nod long t-a ieeed.  A few  _sti_e
Thc-  utandado ar  lose  then those of 75 groa  0f total protin end                    tee fro  nucnti s..uII   cs -
25 genoah oP  nima  protein asaI- ge Poe the  -1ed, propened by Pit                  Ononemla needenly Iat iv -  atis of population under 15 and hi and ove  to
W-te  Iedaed rood Ourey.                                                        th  Ia__foc  in ag  geop of 19-64 years
Peronis pntcn  uELY Peo  -cima  and p51st - leti.i supply of fo-d
inc-vd Peo  -somlaan  pue_tgra                      day.                           INCOSE DISTIPP I3CTi
Child (noe  1-) mortlity    eloetouad  - Moal sa-tun pee tnosan                           Percentage of Private Income1  lot~h! itcah and kind) - iseceloedby ciohtes           -
ioaegop 1-  pec,to child;ee is this age grop; for moat d-v-                        5 Per-st, richs-      bpcet   ues   0pert, and pooes 0i perosnt
.plo,  -oht.i.. dstn decicr  feo I   i-ife tIbl-c                                        of ho-heblds.
HALATH                                                                                   PoobfTY TARGET iRGPSir
lif  lorotnoyat  rB-L  (petrol - iAroctce  fpsoEflieitiwated Absolute Povety Income leve  (US4  -e yta) - urbannd rurl
_,,alti   a2t bsrth;  I960, 1970, and 19~77. daIta,                                      Abouepvryiifeivlh   bs  noelvlhe                                hc      u
lofant Mortlity kate  m    thna         -so l  -th  oP infants under on-ntritionally adequate diet plus  setial ton-food  -equi-eesto  i sot
yer'fage per thousad lice bictho.                                                     aff-rdblt.
booms_to ife Wa,tter  percent I-f  ec tico  - total, uban  and  ural -                    Eltimted RIftaice Povert  Intonel=evel(P4 per capita) - urban nod rurl
seofpeopl  (totl  urban, Iad    iur ll mteaable ac-esoto                          Rrl  eltive pe-rt  acm    ee  I                    lnetie  oP averag  Per capita
onf  stee supply (icldes treted suf. acat-e  or untreted but                           peeronal incoe of the coutry. leban leve  Is de-iod f..a the rural 1-ce
dooctsi,ictedsaicu_-   a   -that .Peo      . peotmr  b-reiles, spniugs,                   ihajntmtfrhigr-  -it of living in urban area.
no   aitary melIs  pereetage  of thi..r. repe-ti- popultion    It                    Eatimatd PopuaItisal Bs1- Absslte PoestyIom    eeA1rez3h\,d
an urban area a pbhli  foutain Or  tnodps~t locatedntwr  ht                              rural- Pert of Population  rbrI     and rura)si.rd              asliepn
200mters fecesuos h       s.. y be coniderd so being ai tbin  -sa-bnle
Io-aso  that h-ne   Ina        I      . rural ...a resnble aroma  would imply
tbat the hueIfe or  -eber  of the ho-shbld do not hav  to spend a                                                                inoacic and Iscial hata Di-oa
disproportionteptrt o~f tie day in fetch Ing the fanily's water seeds                                                      fE-oic Analysis and Projections Depa           ntme
August 1979



-25-                                                                          ANNEX I
Paee 4 of .5
tC0OM1C OCZWWITUNT DATA SHUT
1965        1900         1976         1977         1978 /a        1979          98,01       1993       196S- 77      1877791, '197 ,8   I9Is -90             of co5   a,
lmi   Jo I-  [I t 71 975 prir-tl
I.   00.0 do.o.iic Orodoot  6,863.8    10.313,9   3.~Is7122,6    76,885.3   18,138.        99.         20:11.699    29,2561.7          7.7           1.9         7.1           7.0         10.8
2.  laIn. Ito. tel,. Of 20.4.   -66.3 I        2.       -50.          97.           10.          .235.4    -.      0     -1.92.8                                                                  3.
...   d-wa599al, Int.-                6,79.5    10,385.1        5,204.       5,0.          1000          1.158        9l,279.9    27,293.9          7.2           70.07.0                                 99.
4.  :ot.1,659.9                                       2,999.8      0.699.       6,6:760 .8    4,896.ft      5002.5       I...          ,0.              .6           6.           6.I.8                      2.
~~. ~Apoot9.. ~~~lo..     .7,593.0 ~~  -2.04.       -0:,90.      -4,50.         5,5.         -5:,077.4        '! ,12.  -_..040.          5.             6.1         8.0           8.7          20.2
N.  iopoota-,dloat.6  tot TOT  .1 ~~~.54.  -217.      -33007    -1,528.          -4,009        -.9.0   -4.039. 1    -6.081.5               7.7           4.3          8.0.8                      20
7. ---no  o.p    dj-ta7.d9
lot TT                               110.0       671.9        398.6        932.7         87.9      -.238        -403-1,489.30                                                                          2.3
A.   Total cnn.aaopt lot,      5~~~,002.2   9.007,0    11,709.15   12, 3790.3     13.062,6      I I01.        5,9.        1,2.              7. 3            .2         6561                       76.5
I.  In,eCi..ei   1.608,0      3,000.6     3,893.9      4,269,2       4,015.3       5,787.2      5,500.8      8,062.5,0.5                   10.2           7.6          7.5006.8
7.  Nation. 7 ..,ioR.        ~     ~~~~.576.  250.      3,677.7      37.5          39.!          3, 901.5     4,011.1      6.125.8          6.S.5                       ,8           9.6          22.1
fni TOT                           :19,972      2,358.7       :11:       I  6S  313.2   3::.967,      0,963,4     4:,M19.      6,52,             6.            87           09.9                      22.2
12.  illS 95 roroent  040      6,0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~52.9    6,5633  6,286.3    1.156,  281.8       25,181    29,590.9         9,76.6          133             7.         155           1.
S. Seto  Oo.uo
56o    f   P5)
I.  A~~~~ ri~~oltor.            0.~~~~392    0.366       0.301        0.281         0.~211        0,206        0.253        0.229
2.  Inda,.try                   ~~~~~~      ~~~~0.20  0.22  0.260      0.428         0.29          0.304        0.300       0.3335
3.  Sotoi-r0 4 601,                                     0.2          0.630         .3            .3           0.432        0.432       0.637
C.ti.   1975 - 100)
u. -:9P00   polo . 709                    6.63        68.56       91.65        89.33         96.I5         11.1.6I5 125.0           171.            5.6          12.7          7.2           3.1
T.'---oo   p"-ld.29..                  67.76       6715        13.5          161 1111  1  12.05,        16.6         19           0.72            I. .7                      6.             .0
. Ttaoftrod    4.9722                           a0.          86.6         7.0           7.0           756i          16           06            1.             .                          .
4.  .10  d.Ha.to   (002                    59.22        62.39       103.64       108.82        116.27       120.00       143.00       206.32           5.2          6.8          7.3           6.0
5.  do-oO   -n.a8090A00   .                20.8n        23.8    2.60              706           20.39
D. S.1.-td I92.dl--                                        1963-77     1977-79      1979-85       1983-90.
11  IC                                                   3.96         3.3          3.8           3.9
2    1.pneo a19.tioln7                    ~~~~~       ~~~~~~~~1.09  0.07  0.5      .8
3.   6oct93. n.tIotial unloS. oat.        ~~~        ~~0.2  0.21    0.1           02
4.  1.p-Hta/09                                           0.27         0,2          0.26          0.26
6.   1-92.s/COP                                     2.27         0.26        0.27           0 .2
7.O.or.gp/COP                                     0.04        0.0,6        0.05          0'.03
Va1s    69d  A                  La~~~~~~~~bor tfrt  1o                    0.,a    .9.   b j
F.          Lboo.   .96   Oo-A.  d4 ftg04.l90 t190 21975               IUin            ..j                           500                                                 S  sO9v0
a.Atli-oto.1                                                      6,339         31.3                       13,6         70.7                              30         6.
2  .,Idoatr                                                          6,62          38.6                        i.            .                            3'170"       356.7
1.  Scooloca                                       ~~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~5,58  33.3      2.           6.                              ,910       225.4
ToOalI.n                                    26 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,99  10-               07.7        700.0                              330       100.0
F. 00bI20 71.i 0.7000  00   XCat-l                             I",r..2     1975        2976           2975        2976         1977         197..L
C..Cutt..    9A2352.8 ..5                                                                      1 3. 6      13.6         790           6.
2.  Ta. ten....                            22.~~~~~~~~~~~~103  22.  23.            22.0        12.7          29          2.
3.  Cr.-.ot95.4 p      ort...                            20.          22.6         20.7          12.          13.0         12,.        23.2
4.  BdA45...ry 990109.                                    2.9          1.2          3.7           1.5          0.6          1,2         1.6
5.  Tot-   5.002,.t.6.5                                                7.7          3.8           6.9          5,3          5.4         5.3
C. P612.r.   ICOet009110165.0                                             112.        628.          702.7        833.7        9 22.0     1,216.0
72 ni tot.7  l~~~~~ort9  1900. IWIi   9.2          8.0         18.6~~~~~I    20.0        21.1         I9.7          9.1
/b  At  -ooa-i  .90.2  polo..



88970 t
- 26  -                                                          Pe. 5 "
BALANCE OF PAYMFNTS, 7FItFAI.L ASILSTAN706 . nr8T AND CREDITWOR4THINESS
(Co-t t US$ 0 Illon.)
Actu l                                               Profeited
1973     1974     1975      1976     1977       1978/s   1979       1980       1985      t990
Son-ary of W.fence of F-ments
Upo.ts Ofocloding NFS)                               2,084.7  3,025.4  2,796.5  3,490.6  4,029.3   4.930.7   6,300.0   7,660.0  12,835.0  24,967.7
I.port. (inclodl.g NFS)                              2,258.3  3,353.2  3,687.3  3,911.9  5,093.8   5,919.2   8,140.0   9,460.0  13,904.5  24,650.4
I.e.o.roc blan-n                                      -173.6  -327.8   .609.8  -421.3 -1,064.4    -969.2  -1,840.0   1,800.0  -1,069.5           317.3
Net fsrtoer  -rvIre Inco-.                             -20.8     -0.7       5.4    -41.6   -72.5    -154.5   -210.0   -300.0    -925.0  -1.412.5
Net Interent povo-nts                                  7.0     36.0      69.0     26.1     -4.0      -69.4   -100.0   -210.0    -766.9  -1,170.7
Of bOl,h on public 1 4 LT l-o.n                    -25.1    -28.1    -34.5    -44.3    -64.5    -101.8   -133.1   -174.5    -487.1    -882.0
Direct  -vent..ent  -ncote                           -28.0   -37.0   -64.0    -66.1    -68.5         -72.8     -75.5      -80.0    -192.5    -290.0
1orkebrtr -fttoo-e  (net)                              0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      22.9       24.5      34.4       48.2
Cortest traaafers (net)                                145.5    241.0      80.1     22.8      39.3      40.4      60.0       80.0     100.0      110.0
3.1-00  on -orrent mc  oot                             -48.9   -87.5   -605.3  -440.0 -1.097.6  -1,103.4  -1,990.0  -2,020.0  -1,894.5    -985.1
Private dIrect tivrotf.ent                              67.0    135.6      85.5     79.1    106.1       50.0      60.0       75.0     276.3      487.0
Crtn.s & gtaat-like f:ons                                0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Pobilo H 6 LT o....
Disb.r.e.entt                                         69.0     95.9    149.2    241.7    362.6       739.5     900.0   1,010.8   1,960.4   2,697.6
A-etI.attot                                          -28.9   -32.3   -38.7    -43.4    -07.8         -90.7   -164.1   -222.1    -620.1  -1,092.7
Net dl.b.tee.e-ts                                     39.2     63.5    110.3    198.3    274.8       640.8     735.9      788.7   1,340.3   1,604.9
Other M 4 LT lo.n.
DOlb.ere-ents                                        178.9    326.2    399.6    279.7    311.8       501.3     900.0   1,150.0   1,393.0      462.2
A.ortlati.on                                        -223.1   -197.2  -235.1   -245.9  -264.2   -467.2   -520.0   -600.0    -050.6  -1,167.8
Not d.bhr -e-ts                                     -44.2    129.3       64.5     33.8     47.6       34.1     380.0      550.0     542.4   -705.6
OUe of IMF re.o rces                                     0.0      0.0       0.0     77.1       1.8     181.4     200.0      200.0     -30.0        0.0
Short-tr. copit.l ttan-nctio.s                          42.0     55.5    127.5    136.2    256.2        84.0     120.0      250.0     180.1      252.6
Capita1 tr-- ..ctfons 8EI                               57.9     96.3      77.2   -11.4    136.2   -371.9          0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Change J. r-ner.es (-   lotOCone)                     -113.0  -392.7    140.1    -73.0    275.0        476.9     494.1      176.3   -414.0    -654.5
Net foreign e-ch..&. reserven L
( -d of period)                                   1,306.0  1,599.0  1,406.0  1,444.0  1,135.8       659.9      166.0      10.0   2,634.5   5,320.9
Grant and Lon. Co.Itnents
Offtietl Sr-ots                                          0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Tnt.l pcblie M 4 LT Io-                                 87.1    436.5    223.4    372.3    633.0   1,220.0
188D                                                  15.0    142.0     95.0    158.0    137.8       256.0
IDA                                                   25.0      7.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       33.1
Other ..ltllater-l                                     6.4     77.2      62.7     92.1     47.0      194.7
Goveenrmeoto                                          24.0    200.5     47.7      22.2    106.4      312.0
Of  bhioh cmtrrlly plb,.d econosee  c               0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Suppllera                                              0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
finootial institotlons                                16.7      9.7     18.0    100.0    341.9       423.7
Other X 4 LT l..ts (         .et  Orv-labl.)           178.9    415.9    392.5    360.2    348.9       531.8
l..orandam Items
Crtnt tgl-ent of tot-l coniten-ts (2)                 44.600   31.400   16.700   11.500   10.200    14.869
Aver.ge Intorent (2)                                   0.044    0,057    0.076    0.081    0.080       0.072
Avertge et.rity (years)                               29.100   23.800   23.500   18.500   14.000    12.832
Osedbos,- sod LonP-lerr Debt (DOslbrsed only)
T0t.1 debt o.t.t.ndltg (DOD  nd of priod)              903.9  1,160.7  1,345.6  1,606.8  1,931.9   2,691.0
In.lodlng  odl.sb.r..d                               1,182.4  1,770.0  2,009.5  2,404.0  3,145.9   4,594.3
Pablie debt rcrvlce                                    -54.9    -60.4    -73.2    -87.7   -152.3    -202.9
Intoe-at                                               -25.1    -28.1    -34.5    -44.3    -64.5    -100.7
Other M 4 LT debt seevlce                             -255.8   -266.8   -314.5   -245.9   -338.3    -590.8
Into1 debt -reri-                                     -310.7   -327.2  -387.7   -333.6   -490.6    -796.7
Debt Borden (2)
Debt servIce rtor                                       14.9     10.8      13.9      9.6    12.2        16.1
Debt eervlte rotio /d                                   16.2     1:.0      16.2     11.5    13.9        17.6
Debt servcft/vP                                          2.9      2.5       2.7      2.0     2.7         3.6
Public debt  -re..ce.ovsrnrent rnne                      4.3      2.5       3.5      3.7     4.4         6.3
7etr (I)
I.terest or total DOD/tot.l dlsborn-oent.                5.7      5.5      5.6      5.4       5.7       5.6
lorsi debt acrv1c/Coveenrrrvrtoe                        12.0     11.8     11.9      10.7     12.0       19.6
Denendenry -.,tjlq for M & LT Dcbt (2)
Gen.  dl.b- -r-cnt-/lrport  (in-10d1   NFS)             11.0     12.6     12.9      13.3     10.9       21.0
Not tr.nsfnt/1sportt  (lnctlodIog NFS)                  -2.8      2.8       1.8      4.8      2.0       10.2
* t ttannfer/gro-  dlborne-rt-                        -25.3     22.5     13.6      36.0     18.4       48.7
RtI o-- (21
168D dibnrn-ent/gr... tntol dl.h-.se.ent.               14.8      8.0      9.1      8.3      12.0       9.3
B.nk Cro-p dinb--rneotn/Or.s. tntol di.be.--ent.    14.8          8.3      9. 7     9.5      13.6       9.9
11RD boo/toto1 tOD                                     24.2      20.8     20.0     18.6      17.9      20.2
8e,k Ce..p DOD/tntl DOD                               24.2      20.9     20.4     19.2      18.9      21.3
1D8D dbt servlte/tnt.l debt rero-re                     8.0       8.5      8.3     10.9       9.8       7.8
g.ek Cr-t-P debt ."-lte/ 1tol svltO                     8.0       8.5      8.3     10.9       9.8       7.8
titorsssl Debt (Olsb--nod only)                       fttat.ndfsc  12/31/78
tCurrent  S8$ s1llio1n)                              Afo.mot       2
IBRD                                                   634.8     24.5
Bank Cronp                                             459.3      25.8
Other -nltllote-ol                                     257.5      14.5
Gnvern-enot                                            549.2      30.9
Of nhlrh .n.tr-lly planned ec-ns,fren /r               0.0      0.0
Sopplie.t                                                9.0      0.5
Fln-nriol Iontittl.on.                                 502.1      28.2
8Bnds                                                    0.0       0.0
Ttt.l pblflc n & LT debt                             1,777.1    100.0
Other 0 4 LT debt                                      913.9     51.4
Tota1 publIc debt (-codlung ordlsb .r.ed)            3,680.4    207.1
Tot1 H S LT debt (inc1-dln.  -ndlob-rsed)           4,594.3    258.5
9 Ptell.laary.
Lb  N't forelgn ... ts.  V55 eqUvSlert of Line 31.                                                                                         October, 1979
r  l-l1de. f3FA  pouottles. Peoplen ORpablic of Chln, North K-e., North Viet
/d  Intluding not direct i-evnsent Inco- e.



-- 27 -
AHtEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND la
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CPREDITS
(As of March 31, 1980)
Loan or                                                                  Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                   Less Cancellations
Number Year         Borrower                           Purpose      Bank       IDA  Undisbursed
Twenty-four loans and one credit fully disbursed                    388.87    5.50         -
822   1972   Kingdom of Thailand                      Education      15.40        -    2.61
864   1972   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom            37.00        -    0.72
870   1972   Kingdom of Thailand                      Highways       27.81        -       -
369   1973   Kingdom of Thailand                      Education          -   19.50    2.21
461   1974   Kingdom of Thailand                      Irrigation         -    7.00    0.95
977   1974   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power           75.00        -    5.99
992   1974   Industrial Finance Corporation
Thailand                              Industry       11.70        -    0.20
1021  1974   Metropolitan Water Works Authority   Water              55.00        -    0.03
1149  1975   Kingdon of Thailand                      Irrigation    95.00         -   66.87
1198  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                      Rural Dev.    21.00(TW)   -    8.78
1199  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                      Livestock       5.00(TW)   -    2.96
1243  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Rubber          50.00        -   27.89
1253  1976   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom            26.00        -    4.29
1271  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                      Education      31.00        -   19.74
1327  1976   Industrial Finance Corporation of
Thailand                              Industry       25.00        -    6.59
1393  1977   Kingdom of Thailand                     Ag. Exten.    28.00          -   19.73
1468  1977   Kingdom of Thailand                      Irrigation    55.00         -   36.77
1485  1977   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power           50.00        -   24.70
1492  1977   Industrial Estates Authority of
Thailand                              Industry        4.75        -    2.91
767   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                      Population         -   33.10/b 32.99
1519  1978   Kingdom of Thailand                      Highways      110.00        -   61.28
1527  1978   Provincial Electricity Authority         Rural Elect.  25.00         -   21.69
1556  1978   Kingdom of Thailand                      Housing         8.60        -    7.64
S-10  1978   Natural Gas Organization of
Thailand                             Natural Gas    4.90          -    0.21
1620  1978   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom            90-00        -   90.00
1630  1978   Kingdom of Thailand                      Irrigation    17.50         -   17.15
1638  1979   Kingdom of Thailand                      Urban          16.00        -   13.75
1662  1979   State Railway of Thailand                Railways       16.70        -   16.70
1690  1979   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power           80.00        -   80.00



- 28 -
A.1TNEX II
Page 2 of 12
Loan or                                                                  Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                   Less Cancellations
Number   Year          Borrower                    Purpose            Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
913       1979   Kingdom of Thailand             Education               -    35.00   35.0
929       1979   Kingdom of Thailand             Agriculture             -    25.00   25.0
1752     1979   Kingdom of Thailand              Ag. Extension        40.00      -    39.87
1773      1980   Petroleum Authority of          Natural Gas
Thailand                       Pipeline          107.00/d         107.0
1787     1980   Kingdom of Thailand              Irrigation          80.00             80.0
Total                                                         1,597.23  125.10  862.22
of which has been repaid                                      216.19    0.11
Total now outstanding                                         1,381.04  124.98
Amount sold /c                        68.63
of which has been repaid            43.21                      25.42
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                1,355.62  124.98
Total undisbursed                                               766.07   96.15
/a This summary includes Bank Group loans/credits signed as of March 31, 1980.
/b Of which $3.1 million is Norway grant participation.
/c Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.
/d Includes refinancing of Loan S-10-TH ($4.9 million).



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1980)
Amounts ($ million)
Year        Company               Type of Business           Loan    Equity    Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Cement and Construction
Aggregate Co., Ltd.       Materials                 0.30        -      0.30
1964/  Industrial                Development                     -    0.38       0.38
1970     Finance Corporation       Finance Company
of Thailand (IFCT)
1969/  Siam Cement Group         Cement and
1975/                              Construction
1978/1979                          Materials                28.33    4.24       32.57
1977   Mutual Fund Company       Money and Capital
Limited                   Market                       -    0.29       0.29
1977   United Sugar Terminal   Food and Food
Limited                   Processing                2.50    0.20       2.70
1978   Siam Commercial Bank    Small and Medium
Scale Industries          2.00       -       2.00
1979   Bangkok Glass Industry
Company, Limited       Class Containers             4.35    0.25       5.10
1979   Siam City Cement          Cement and Construc-
Company, Limited          tion Materials           36.00    4.00      40.00
1979   Thai Orient Leasing
Co. Ltd.               Capital liarket                 -    0.15       0.15
Total gross commitments                              73.98    9.51      83.49
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                           48.86    2.56       51.42
Net held by the Corporation                          25.12    6.95      32.07
Total undisbursed                                    34.00        -     34.00



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
(As of March 31, 1980)
Loan No. 822 Second Education Project (Kasetsart University); $15.4
Mfillion Loan of May 24, 1972; Effective Date: August 22,
1972; Original Closing Date: June 30, 1978; Current
Closing Date: July 31, 1980
Although the technical assistance and educational aspects of
the project are largely on schedule, civil works are about three years
behind schedule with consequent delays in furniture and equipment procure-
ment. The delays in civil works are due to delays in contracting archi-
tectural consultants, completing tender documents, and awarding contracts.
These delays also reflected ineffective management which has begun to improve
after the recent fcrmation of a commission of senior officials to coordinate
project implementation. Consequently, civil works are expected to be
completed by June 1980 and equipment procurement, by September 1980. The
specialist services program under the project is nearly completed.
Recommendations of experts for improvement of teaching, research and
extension activities are considered worthwhile and have been implemented by
the university staff. All the fellowships have been awarded; nearly all
recipients have completed their training. Total project cost will exceed
appraisal estimates by about 35%.
Credit No. 369 Third Education Project; $19.5 Million Credit of April 11,
1973; Effective Date: August 8, 1973; Original Closing
Date: June 30. 1978; Current Closing Date: September 30,
1980
All project components are virtually completed except the Teacher
Training Colleges (TTC) component which is about three years behind schedule.
Good progress is generally being made in the pedagogical development of
project components except at Songkla University where the attraction of
teaching at Bangkok universities is causing high staff turnover.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project implementation.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
Loan No. 1271 Fourth Education Project: $31 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: February 9, 1977: Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Progress in project implementation follows approximately the
appraisal estimate. There have been no significant delays in civil works
or procurement of furniture and equipment.  Nearly all fellowships have been
awarded. Staff training programs are on schedule but need to be improved, as
does supervision by the Ministry of Education of its nonformal education
programs.
Credit No. 913 Fifth Education Project; $35 Million Credit of June 28, 1979;
Effective Date: October 12, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1985
Good progress is being made in project implementation: (i) the
Central Procurement Unit has been established; (ii) sites for all first phase
institutions have been acquired, and expected to be completed by mid-1981;
(iii) Phase I sketch plans and lists of furniture and equipment have been
prepared; and (iv) technical assistance contractors have been identified and
partly contracted.
Loan No. 864 First Telecommunications Project; $37 Million Loan of December
5, 1972: Effective Date: March 1, 1973: Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1977: Current Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project is lagging a few months behind the revised time schedule
established in 1975 due to delays in procurement. The Bank loan is fully
committed and as of March 31, 1980, $0.7 million remains to be disbursed.
Nearly all of the local telephone network expansion has been completed. After
a year's delay in procurement under a bilateral loan, the installation of the
long distance transmission equipment is now progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1253 Second Telecommunications Project; $26 Million Loan of June 11,
1976: Effective Date:  August 25, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Procurement action on
all Bank-financed items is complete. The Bank loan is fully committed and
$21.7 (83%) had been disbursed as of bMarch 31, 1980. Local telephone
network expansion is a few months behind schedule. After a year's delay in
procurement under a bilateral loan, the installation of long distance
transmission equipment is progressing satisfactorily.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Loan No. 1620 Third Telecommunications Project; $90 Million Loan of
October 4, 1978; Effective Date: January 3, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Due to review of management decision on standardization of switch-
ing equipment and cables, action on procurement has been delayed by about 9-12
months. Waiting lists have been introduced in all telephone areas and
procedures for giving new connections revised. Progress on implementation of
other project components is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1519 Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project: $110 Million
Loan of March 23, 1978; Effective Date: June 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Progress is generally satisfactory. Procurement of maintenance
equipment is under way, and most contracts have been awarded. Construction
of project roads is well under way, with most contracts on schedule.
Loan No. 1662 Fifth Railway Project; $16.7 Million Loan of April 23, 1979;
Effective Date: August 22, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Progress on project implementaton is satisfactory.
Credit No. 461 Northeast Irrigation Improvement Project: $7 Million Credit
of February 19, 1974; Effective Date: October 7, 1974;
Original Closing Date: June 30, 1979; Current Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
The project will be completed two years behind schedule as a result
of initial delays in appointing consultants and in procuring earthmoving
equipment. Work on rehabilitation of main canal systems has been completed
and the pace of construction of tertiary canals has improved. The current
estimate of project cost is $30.3 million, compared with $12.5 million at
appraisal. This increase is due to inflation being higher than foreseen at
appraisal, the decision to provide new tertiary canals over an area of 34,700
ha rather than the 21,500 ha assumed at appraisal, and the adoption of higher
standards for tertiary development than euisioned at appraisal. The higher
costs are compensated by increases in projected commodity prices and the
economic rate of return is now estimated at 24% compared to 22% at appraisal.
Progress on the rainfed rice component has been affected by management
difficulty in integrating the work of several disciplinary groups.



- 33         ~       ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
Loan No. 1630 Second Northeast Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project:
$17.5 Million of December 4, 1978; Effective Date: Mlay 9,
1979: Closing Date: September 30, 1985
Consultant contract was signed in March 1979. Design by contract
is delayed but "force account" work began in early 1980. Procurement of
vehicles and equipment is delayed due to difficulties in reconciling the
drainage used in existing bidding documents with recently introduced
government regulations on procurement.
Loan No. 1149 Phitsanulok Irrigation Project: $95 Million Loan of July 25,
1975: Effective Date: October 31, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Major civil works are behind schedule, but project completion is
still expected by mid-1984. Construction work on the diversion dam is
progressing well and RID expects to award a third canal contract in
time to commence construction during the next dry season. About 4,500 ha of
on-farm development was completed in 1979. Thus, total area provided with
on-farm development is now 9,000 ha or 10% of the project area. All studies
financed under the project are proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1468 Second Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project: $55 Million
Loan of September 23, 1977: Effective Date: December 23, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Equipment procurement is progressing satisfactorily. Rehabilitation
and on-farm development works on about 15,500 ha were completed in the 1979
construction season bringing the total area developed to 22,000 ha, which
is in accordance with the appraisal estimate. A project monitoring system is
being set up and the Project area is now served by the National Agricultural
Extension Project.
Loan No. 1787 Eleventh Irrigation Project; $80 Million Loan of
February 17, 1980; Effective Date: April 2, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
This loan becomes effective on April 2, 1980.
Loan No. 1198T Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project; $21 Million
Loan of February 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 29, 1976;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1981
After a delay of one year in appointing consultants, satisfactory
progress is being made on the engineering of village roads. The first con-
tract for construction of 114 km has been completed and work has begun on
two contracts for a total of some 250 km. Procurement problems have
delayed the water supply components, but most of the drilling equipment has
now been delivered, drilling crews have been recruited and are being trained.
The rural electrification component has been completed, and progress on
agricultural extension and land settlements is satisfactory. After a slow
start-up, the Upland Crop Improvement Component is progressing satisfactorily.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
The program management, with the assistance of a recently appointed program
advisor, has undertaken a critical review of past work and is gradually intro-
ducing an innovative program of research to help solve the problems of upland-
crop farmers in the Northeast.
Credit No. 929 Northern Agricultural Development Project: $25 Million
Credit of June 28, 1979; Effective Date: October 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Preparation for the first year of project implementation have been
satisfactory, particularly in view of the fact that the implementing agencies
have no prior experience with Bank-supported projects.
Loan No. 1199T Livestock Development Project; $5.0 Million Loan of February
27, 1976; Effective Date: May 25, 1976; Closing Date: June
30, 1981
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily but disburse-
ments remain about eighteen months behind appraisal estimates. The appraisal
target of 50,000 ha seems to have been reached in FY1979. The seed production
and pasture development programs are progressing well and the loaned-bull and
artificial insemination program, hitherto hindered by the delay in importation
of cattle, are improving.
Loan No. 1243 Rubber Replanting Project; $50 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1977; Closing date: June
30, 1981
The project is one year behind schedule due to procurement diffi-
culties and initial delay in loan signing as well as in agreeing on the
formula of fertilizers to be procured through ICB. Implementation is
improving, however. Staff constraints have delayed completion of the
socio-economic survey of rubber smallholders.
Loan No. 1393 National Agricultural Extension Project; $28 Million Loan
of May 17, 1977; Effective Date: September 1, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Supervisory staff have been appointed in all 33 project provinces,
and remaining vacancies are expected to be filled by end-1980. Staffing is
almost complete in 20 of the possible 25 provinces. The quality of training,
particularly that for subject matter specialists, can be further improved.
Efforts to rectify shortcomings in the quality of leadership and technical
support are being made in the weaker provinces. Excellent extension results
have already been achieved, in particular through the extensive use of small
pumps for dry-season cropping by small farmer groups, in rubber quality
improvement and in improvements in home gardens. The civil works program is
about two years behind schedule because of high



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
inflation and, until recently, the low unit-cost ceilings for civil works
set by the Budget Bureau. It is expected that contracts for all remaining
civil works will be awarded before during 1980. Procurement of vehicles,
equipment and materials is on schedule.
Loan No. 1752 Second National Agricultural Extension Project; $40 Million
Loan of September 18. 1979; Effective Date: December 18, 1979
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This loan became effective on December 18, 1979, and implementation
progress to date is satisfactory.
Loan No. 977 Srinagarind (Ban Chao Nen) Hydroelectric Project: $75 Million
Loan of April 15, 1974; Effective Date: June 14, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Civil works under the project are completed. The installation of
the turbine generating units is completed and tested as scheduled.
Project costs are about 28% higher than appraisal estimates (6% due to
design changes for civil works, 12.5% due to higher cost for equipment than
appraisal estimate, and 9% do to changes in currency parities). The progress
on resettlement has been satisfactory, and all of the families affected have
now been resettled.
Loan No. 1485 Pattani Hydroelectric Project; $50 Million Loan of
September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The construction of the main civil works is proceeding satis-
factorily. Implementation is on schedule and project costs are close to
appraisal estimates. Orders for all major equipment (financed by the Kuwait
Fund) have been placed. Construction for the resettlement component is
progressing according to schedule.
Loan No. 1527 The Accelerated Rural Electrification Project: $25 Million
Loan of March 9, 1978; Effective Date:  June 7, 1978;
Closing Date: June-30, 1983.
By the end of March 1980, work was proceeding in 1,065 villages of
which 437 have already been electrified. The project is about 6 months
behind schedule due to initial delays in procurement.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
S-10            Natural Gas Development Engineering Project, $4.9 Million Loan
of July 28, 1978; Effective Date:  September 25, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980.
All the project preparation activities and preliminary engineering
have been completed. In July 1979, the Borrower, the National Gas Organiza-
tion of Thailand, was taken over by the Petroleum Authority of Thailand who
is the Borrower for a loan of $107 million for the Second Gas Pipeline
project.
Loan No. 1690 Bang Pakong Thermal Power Project; $80 Million Loan of
August 9, 1979; Effective Date: Mtay 23, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
[This loan was made effective on May 23, 1980].
Loan No. 1773  Second Natural Gas Development Project; $107 Million Loan of
February 15, 1980; Effective Date:
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
This loan is expected to become effective on July 15, 1980.
Loan No. 1021  Bangkok Water Supply Project; $55 Million Loan of June 28,
1974: Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Original Closing
Date: June 30, 1979; Current Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Physical work on the project is proceeding satisfactorily. The
quality of construction and the performance of consultants on supervision
of construction of the IBRD portion of the project is good. Because of the
initial delays in contract awards, the project is expected to be completed
by the end of 1980. Due to inadequate tariffs, which were last revised in May
1972, MWWA's financial performance continues to be poor. The Government
approved MWWA's proposals for raising the water tariffs in line with increased
operating costs were recently approved by Cabinet; parliamentary opposition
has put these tariff increases in abeyance.
Loan No. 1556 Bangkok Sites and Services Project; $8.6 Million Loan of
June 15, 1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Progress is generally good with only minor delays in implement-
ation. Current cost estimates for civil works are below appraisal esti-
mates. In order to minimize resistance to beneficiary charges, cost
recovery in improved slums is expected to be introduced as physical works
are completed.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Loan No. 1638 Bangkok Traffic Management Project; $16 Million Loan of
January 25, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Implementation of the project is satisfactory. Signal equipment has
been installed, earlier than expected, as a result of the consulting and
procurement work done under contracts for which the Bank provided retroactiv"
financing.
Loan No. 1492 The Minburi (Lat Krabang) Industrial Estate Project; $4.75
Million Loan of December 5, 1977; Effective Date: March 24,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
On-site infrastructure has been progressing. Bunding, drainage, and
three of the four deep wells have been completed. Substantial progress is
being achieved in road construction, sewerage, and water distribution. Land
sales have been ahead of appraisal estimates with nearly all of available
plots either firmly committed or being negotiated. These sales have been
achieved at an average sales price of B 300,000 per rai, as compared to
projected sales price of B 250,000 per rai in the appraisal. In order to
accommodate substantial demand for the Export Processing Zone, the estate area
has been enlarged to 30 ha.
Loan No. 992 Second Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT)
Project; $11.7 Million Loan of June 4, 1974; Effective
Date:  September 4, 1974:  Original Closing Date:  September 30,
1978; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Since June 1974 when the loan was made, IFCT's financial condition
continued to be good. The loan is fully committed and nearly disbursed.
Loan No. 1327 Third IFCT Project; $25 Million Loan of December 8, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: December
31, 1980
The loan commitment rate was initially slower than expected
because of sharply depressed investment climate in 1976. The IFCT's capital
structure and liquidity position have improved, however, with successful share
capital increases. Satisfactory progress has been made on the
institution building aspects of the project.



- 38 -                 ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Credit No. 767 Population Project; $33.1 Million Credit of February 27, 1978:
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
Due to initial staffing problems, key project activities were held
up and major elements of the project are behind schedule. Appropriate
action is being taken to strengthen project management, improve coordination
and remove impediments to implementation. In accordance with the Credit
Agreement the Government has (a) established and staffed the Project
Coordinating Committee, which has met frequently; (b) established and
staffed the Project Administration and Financing Unit (PAFU); (c) appointed
a project director, deputy director and two assistant project directors and
a health planner/economist; and (d) initiated most of the key project
activities at the national level and in the delivery of improved family
planning and health services in 20 disadvantaged provinces.



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
THAILAND
INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare the project: About 18 months;
May 1978 to October 1979.
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:  the Harbour Department
and consultants (BCEOM, Maunsell, Sindhu and Cooper Lybrand)
financed under the Bank Loan 1519-TH.
(c) First presentation to the Bank: February, 1978
First mission to consider the project: June 1978
(d) Departure of the Appraisal mission: November 1979
(d) Completion of Negotiations: May 16, 1980
(e) Planned Date of Effectiveness: October 1980
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) a program of technical assistance and training will be
established for the Harbour Department (para. 45);
(b) The agencies controlling release of water from the various dams,
shall ensure that, except in abnormally dry years, the agreed
minimum flow in each section of upper and lower Chao Phrya and
Nan rivers will be maintained (para. 46);
(c) commercial sand dredging in the Chao Phrya river will be restricted
to the sections downstream of Ayutthya or upstream of Chainat
dam (para. 46);
(d) land at Nakhon Sawan and Taphan Hin will be procured not
later than December 31, 1981 for construction of the ports
(para. 47);



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(e) the demonstration barges and pusher tug will be leased to an
efficient private river craft operator on terms and conditions
agreed with the Bank (para. 48);
(f) an annual budget of B 55 million in 1979 prices will be funded
for the annual maintenance program for the waterways and ports
(para. 49);
(g) a new Waterways Management Division will be established
in the Harbour Department (para. 51); and
(h) the recommendations of the Transport Planning Unit's study on user
charges for the inland waterways and ports will be implemented
in consultation with the Bank (para. 56).






C:HINA. : - :-             :-J                                                       NAKHON NAYOK
KANCHANABUR                *A.         PR  H IN B
IET NAMONHALJI 
RATCHABURI                             N
THAILAND  '                                                        AI~J4,R 
Bangkok-7T"                                 ..--    A         SO7HRAM  RAK          HON
r~'MUCHEADC:]                              BAN LAT
Andama
Sea       /   G(lf ot
Thai/on    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~c2                                  SATTAH-I                             HNH
AMAP
9zst 4 ? X %,<. )W~~HIRt KHAN  
g j :- -- //THAILAND
d.                                                           2   p         RA
INLAND WATERWAYS AND
COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
Coastal Ports
HUCI-'MPHON                       PATTANI   PROJECT PORTS
t/ .fgY  )                                  .47,    COASTAL PORTS
10        R }  CJPANONG           p                         a       CHANGWAT CENTERS             10-
O 2fJr0 C" ........ /   Longsuon                                     ROADS
-4i--s-   RAILWAYS
-   CHANGWAT BOUNDARIES
-S  y- -    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Ar,i\ d a4 m  a                          k Phonnng
Mc  ltKRABI *Tu \I
87                                                                                          Gulf  of   Thai/and                         8
18              TF    1  HTHALUN    t
t                        > C NGK~~~~~~~~~~OGHLA
~~< tJ-- :. ng.esr  \         _       t *N HIWAT
MILES
MILES :.:'2 ~~~~~~T .......... -- ::-:\ 1 \ ~~~~~~~~~. . . .. . .. ... . . 9B
0           50            10                                a     \:: .::.:-:: :O      
-6'                       '       0                                                               )                        -             6
KILOMETERS
)~~~~~~~~~~.. .. ... . ;
Th,o,ssyhe.h prb wsi  by tht Wsh h,,k.,staff ooshsiwiy fofr th ocones,nco-J-                                          
of  ith regdW  of the .pofl to  ,dCh a /s ftthd   r   d e tis  d und thu                                                      .......
bou-de.is.    wO s Slls ,-sep do .ot isyaly on th. ps Of .te W d0 8*k sod It$        . . .    ......
affiliates. teyjudgotos,t 055 h  loegalstate  of oy tres*oy corny eodorOseo, 1eaiv t:"1:'. or.t "".' 5'' %,',, '=,h-
.coptc  of such bodee-. .                                                                                                   . .....
980                  ,,                                 ...: :. . ..: :






9 .      //0                                                                                            H.   N A
BRU8MA
S D)SIR/KIT DAM
ET\    R NAM
U TTA RAD IT
I                              70/                          ,2\ SJHTI            THALAYI7 ND
, ~~    .                                                                                               6?X\ !
(    k>KAMPHENG  PHET              <        t      t    -1/(        /          Soq\
AM                                            J /,z  P HIA DAM
INLAND WATERWAYS AN    \  X  JJr                               %~~~~~~~~~~~~A ASI
/                S~~~~~UKHOTHAI  AHQ   1/A  A                                       AASA~
COASTAKO)
PITSANULOK
AMPHAENG PHET
16  I  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~om~~~~~~~,vejK   Topho,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1'
TH| RAILROANDSAN~'                 BHAINATAo PHRYA              \              /J-g Mol-k 387 K,
INLAND WATERWAYS AN
COASTAL PORTS PROJECT   NAHN
Chao  Phrya  Waterway                    SWN         3
DEPTH OVER 2 METERS            ~h. K 2  K\
tEiojmIIE DEPTH LIMIT I 7 METERS     TH ANI
1   CHANGWAT CENTERS
-   ROADS
- RAILROADS                    CHAIA             PH-YTA DAMA
DAMS
.  -         \(CHANGWAT BOUNDARIES                                                                                    15'
;2 n,Th OO .dBn,fl, e
INTERHNMTIONALF BUUNDARIES
0               25          RATCHA BURLO BURI '                             U       75-
,AMOT SONG KHRAM   -CHON BUR)
sNJ






'        H I   A.tf M.   <T       
CHN --E>a',  
F ,} gttVIETTNAM                            INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
r   Z \ THAILANDA                                                                                 C     S          
Typical   Use  of  Groins, Low   Dikes  and   Bottom   Panels
\\1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a   Bg  CrH,Eg 
dt;/~ ~ ~ ~ ~~P A                         9                                          GRIN  TOBrE   NTERGTBN
Se,,,    hlaee 
Bon  Bong  Cha
P L A N                   ,                  ~~~~~~~~~~9 GROINS TO BE SET ON THE RIGHT BANK
E
  CLT OTT GROINS AND LOW GlEES Q<) -}                                                       ST  GAUGE  
20+                  won  TC N                                                                              D DI                             Bon T N
i  4  ROIS TOBE ET               LW  DKE AD GOIN  EL-AO t~ jl5j
ON ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~IT                                          40E LEFTNBANK
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ET                         200  BELO  LOW WATER
20A m   M S L                                                                           ALIGNMENT
l2j7~~~~~-  ~~~~  CNANNC-TDT TG STLIGMET 
LONGITUDINAL PROFILE
VATER SURFACE LEVEL FOR QI 300m3/s AT NAKHON SAWAN
da~~  2,E:':g;i M h 0
TE1TH    U      EWL WATO BE DREDGEDER
4 GROINS TO BE SETTO_BE____    DGWDIK   N   RISEEAIN 55
10                                               .                                                                                                             1
5                                                                                                                                                                 5
P%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
s-)          Th00m0f0h0 beev, 0eeh*4 r dOer Wrob Sboot s St o friC   f ohtod f rr, the,rvmmov
toof 00ho,oodoo,lotthe,mpon tootho-0,, otoC-C Ts:  ce    he dv00'or  a,,ons,,ede,aOn,  o-e                                                                          So.r 
e   bOmdo,o rhm,., vmum on     do not hWY. v 000 phn . 0 the Wood SB-. exits
otnno-.& vyr47mv o.  ofv   . .o  ...err1tryodoooeoe           y                                                                                     F3



