Document of
The World Bank   FILE ce2
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2940-TH
THAILAND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
June 3, 1980
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Thailand Baht (B)
B 1          =  US$0.05
B 1 million  =  US$50,000
US$1          =  B 20
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)            =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (cu m)  =  1.307 cubic yards
1 metric ton           =  0.98 long ton
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB     =  Asian Development Bank
BCEOM   =  Bureau Central pour les Equipements d'Outre Mer
c.f.s.  =  container freight station
dwt     =  dead weight ton
ETO     =  Express Transport Organization
FMO     =  Fish Marketing Organization
LWOST   =  Low Water Ordinary Spring Tides
L/HWST  =  Low to High Water Spring Tides
MOC     =  Ministry of Connunications
PAT     =  Port Authority of Thailand
R.I.D.  =  Royal Thai Irrigation Department



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
APPRAISAL OF INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1.  TRANSPORT SECTOR  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            1
A.  Transport System 1. . . . . ... 
General               . . . .                . . . . .         1
Road Infrastructure .     . . ..     . . ..      .  ....       1
Railways           . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
Deepsea Ports . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .             3
Airports* . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            4
B.  Transport Demand                                .    .         4
C.  Transport Planning and Investments  . . . . .   . .            4
2.  INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS SUBSECTORS   .  . .             5
A.  Inland Waterways        . . . . .       ..  .                  5
Syste   r .ati   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  5
Administration  ........   .                  .                7
Traffic . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            7
Waterways Transport Industry. . . . . . . . . . . .            8
B.  Coastal Ports               . . ...                            8
Inventory . . . . . . . . o . . . . . . . . . . . .           8
Administration  . . . . . . . g  . . . . . . . . . .           9
Traffic   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           9
Coastal Fleet    . . . ...                     .10
Development Planning  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  10
3.  HARBOR DEPARTMENT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           11
A.  Functions and Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . .           11
B.      Staff   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .         .  .  .  .  .  .  11
C.  Revenues and Expenditures . . . . . . . . . .   .             12
4.  PROJECT CONCEPT AND COMPOSITION   . . . . . . . . . . .           12
A.  Inland Waterways  .........  .......                          13
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission which visited
Thailand in November 1979, comprising Messrs. Higginbottom (Mission
leader) and Weckerle (Economist).
This document has a restricted ditribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
Description of Subproject . . . . . . . . . . . . .      13
Cost  Estimate   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  15
Subproject Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . .      16
Management and Maintenance of the Waterways . . . .      17
B.  Coastal Ports  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  18
Description of Subproject . . . . . . . . . . . . .      18
Cost Estimate   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     -20
Subproject Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . .     21
Management and Operation of Maintenance Dredging         21
5.  PROJECT FINANCING, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT
AND ECOLOGY   . . . . . . . . . . ..             . . .      22
A.  Financing   . . . . .     . .  .  . .    . . . . . .     22
B.  Procurement   . . . . . . . . . .  .  .  .  .   .....   23
C.  Disbursement  . . . . . .       .   .  .        .       23
D. Ecology  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..     . .    . . . .  24
E.  Completion Report . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . .     24
6.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     24
A.  Inland Waterways  * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *      24
Traffic and Modal Split . . . . . . . . . .. . ..       24
River Craft . * . . . ..  .  . . . . . . . . . .         25
Investment Alternatives . . . . . . . . . .  . . .      25
Project Benefits, Costs and Returns . . . . . . . .     26
User Charges  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  . .  . . .  27
B.  Coastal Ports . s . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . .      27
Port Channel Maintenance  . . . . . . . . . . . . .     27
Bandon Port Channel .   . ... .. . . . . . . ..         28
Pattani Port Channel  .  . . . . . .. . . .  . ..       29
C.  Overall Project Return  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     30
7.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ..........   o ....  30
TABLES
1.  Indicative Inland Freight Traffic of Thailand by Modes
2.  Government Investments in Transport During Third and
Fourth Five-Year Development Plan
3.  River Water Depth Availability
4.  Water Depth Availability and Payload by Type of Barge
5.  Inland Waterways Commodity Flows to Capital Area in 1976
6.  Inland Waterways Fleet, 1976



-3-
TABLES
7.   Estimated Cargo Tonnages at Coastal Ports, 1977
8.   Estimated Fish Landings at Coastal Ports, 1976
9.   Budget Expenditures of Harbor Department
10.   Revenues of Harbor Department
11.   Shallow Reaches on River Chao Phrya and Summary of Proposed
Works
12.   Inland Waterways Subproject - Detailed Costs
13.   Construction Schedule
14.   Coastal Ports Subproject - Detailed Costs
15.   Estimated Disbursement Schedule
16.  M4odal Split of Traffic in Inland Waterways Project Area
17.   Estimated Transport Costs of Shipments Through Nakhon Sawan Port
18.   Inland Waterways Traffic to Bangkok from Singburi or North, 1976
19.   Projected Nakhon Sawan (NS) and Taphan Hin (TH) Ports Traffic
20.   Barge Fleet Composition and Comparative Rice and Maize
Transport Cost
21.   Chao Phrya River Improvement and Nakhon Sawan Port Construction-
Commodity Distribution of Benefits
22.   Projected Government Revenues from Inland Waterways Transport,
1985-2000
23.   Economics of Channel Maintenance Dredging for Harbor Department
Ports
24.   Capacity of Harbor Department Dredging Fleet Deployed on
Coastal Ports, 1979
25.   Bandon Port Traffic
ANNEXES
1.   Technical Assistance and Training
2.   Use of Groines, Low Dikes and Bottom Panels
3.   Pusher Tug and Barge Convoy
4.   Specification for Procurement of the Trailing Hopper Dredger
CHARTS
1.   Organization of Harbor Department
2.   Organization of Technical Division in Harbor Department
3.   Organization of Dredging and Maintenance Division in
Harbor Department
MAPS
IBRD 14856R
14857R
14861R



THAILAND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
1. TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Transport System
General
1.01      During the last 10-15 years, the Thai economy, as a result of the
strong showing of the primary sector, grew at a rapid pace and generated a
high demand for transport. Transport growth in this period was about 8%
p.a. for freight and 12% p.a. for passenger traffic; it was supported by
large Government investments for transport and generally liberal transport
policies which stimulated a competitive transport industry. tIost of the
transport growth was in the roads sector because of the Government's stra-
tegy of building a comprehensive network of primary (national) and secondary
(provincial) roads. Today, virtually the entire primary roads system
serving interprovincial trade is complete, and significant progress has been
made towards the build-up of the secondary system. Railways, inland
waterways and coastal shipping, confined to specific locations and handling
mostly bulk-commodities, have also grown, but at a much more modest rate.
1.02      With the progress made in developing primary and secondary roads,
future transport requirements are gradually shifting towards: first, an
extension of roads to the tertiary level in support of the needs of local
communities; second, to the upgrading of the performance of other modes of
transport; and third, to the removal of specific capacity bottlenecks in the
national transport system such as the Port of Bangkok. The tertiary roads
system is underdeveloped and suffers from an overlap of weak institutions
and inadequate maintenance. The railways, inland waterways and coastal
shipping, for their part, perform at below attainable output or efficiency
levels, and their capacity for energy-efficient transport is underutilized.
The Port of Bangkok, where ship waiting time is rapidly building up, will
soon reach critical congestion levels. A brief discussion of the various
components of the Thai transport system follows.
Road Infrastructure
1.03      By traffic volumes, network length, area coverage and capital
expenditures, roads are Thailand's most important transport infrastructure.
The Department of Highways (DOH) competently administers and maintains the
national as well as the provincial roads systems. National highways, the



-2-
primary roads system, total about 14,000 km.  They radiate from Bangkok to
the national borders, and most are paved. Built or reconstructed to present
standards in the last 20 years, many of these roads are soon to reach full
capacity or to require reconstruction as a result of uninterrupted traffic
growth.
1.04      Provincial roads, the secondary roads system, total about
30,000 km. They serve provincial needs in linking changwat capitals with
larger changwat towns. The length is currently increasing at a rate of
several thousand km per year since roads which have been under the
jurisdiction of other agencies are now being classified and transferred to
DOH which has an established record in roads planning, construction and
maintenance. About 50% (15,000 km) of the provincial roads have had some
improvement, including about 27% (8,000 km), which are paved. About 50%
(15,000 km) are tracks or substandard earth and gravel roads, some of them
impassable in the rainy season.
1.05      In addition to the primary and secondary roads system of
44,000 km, Thailand has an estimated 40,000-50,000 km of tertiary roads.
The exact number is difficult to assess since inventories are incomplete and
generally out-of-date. Standards vary between tracks and engineered roads
of various levels. Planning is deficient and maintenance, on average, poor
or nonexistent. Tertiary roads responsibilities are being shared with
little coordination by several Government agencies, of which the most
important is the Office of Accelerated Rural Development (ARD). Planning,
construction methods and maintenance of tertiary roads need therefore to be
improved, and the jurisdiction of rural roads agencies need to be redefined.
To deal with these issues, the Government is to launch a consultants' study
under Bank financing (Sixth Highway Project, Loan 1519-TH) in the near
future.
Railways
1.06      The railways mainly serve as a trunk line carrier with 3,800
route-km of which 600 km are branchlines. The meter gauge lines are single
track except for some 90 km near Bangkok. Four lines radiate from Bangkok:
north to Chieng Mai, northeast to the Laotian border near Vientiane, east to
the Kampuchean border and south to the Malaysian border. Following its
decision to develop Sattahip as a commercial deep-sea port, the Government
commissioned an engineering study for an extension of the railway from
Chachoengsao on the Eastern Line to the new port. The study is about to be
completed and construction, under Government financing, is to start by late
1980 for completion within two years.
1.07      The State Railways of Thailand (SRT) are an operationally
efficient and well-managed state enterprise with weak finances due to tight
Government control over its tariffs. Under the current Five-Year Plan, and
with Bank assistance (Fifth Railway Project, Loan 1662-TH), SRT are engaged
in rehabilitation of deteriorated and obsolete plant and equipment and line



-3-
and rolling stock capacity extension. Faced with stiff competition from
road and inland waterways transport, the railways are, within the framework
of existing Government regulation, gradually converting into a market-
oriented enterprise. Deregulation, in particular of tariff policies would
enable SRT to achieve this conversion and inject a stimulant into the
transport market benefitting the entire economy.
Deep-sea Ports
1.08      Thailand has presently two deep-sea ports:  first, the Port of
Bangkok consisting of the Klong Toei wharves on the Chao Phrya river, which
are operated by the Port Authority of Thailand (PAT), and other facilities
on the same river, mainly private wharves; and second, the Sattahip port.
Two other potential deep-sea ports, Songkhla and Phuket, located on the
southern peninsula, are under study. If found feasible the construction of
these ports would tentatively start by 1983 financed by the Asian
Development Bank.
1.09      Virtually all of Thailand's import and export traffic presently
passes through the Port of Bangkok, except petroleum products handled at Sri
Racha, and agricultural bulk export loaded through a jetty at Mah Boon Krong
and the deepsea anchorage of Ko Sichang, both of them on the Eastern
Seaboard. In the Port of Bangkok, Klong Toei is primarily of importance for
the import of breakbulk and the import and export of containerized cargo.
The other facilities handle specialized imports like steel and fertilizer as
well as most of Thailand's agricultural exports, except tapioca and some
maize which are handled at Mah Boon Krong and Ko Sichang.
1.10      During the last ten years, Thailand's dry imports, in tons, grew
at the high rate of about 11% p.a., and exports increased at 9-10% p.a.
Total 1979 import trade was 6.4 million tons and export trade, 12.7 million
tons. For the 1980-85 period, the foreign trade outlook is one of
continuing growth though at a somewhat reduced rate. The capacity of the
Port of Bangkok to handle these increases in external trade is now
approaching its maximum, and port congestion cost are soon to reach critical
levels. To avoid burdening the country's import bill with congestion
charges and constraining its export potential, port improvements are needed.
The improvements, which are under consideration, comprise: expansion of
port capacity at Klong Toei, mainly through introduction of more efficient
cargo handling methods and reallocation of berths between conventional cargo
and container ships; construction of a new inland container freight station
(c.f.s.) in the vicinity of Bangkok; conversion of the naval port of
Sattahip into a commercial port for containers and agricultural bulk
exports; and construction of a new railway line to link the new c.f.s. with
Sattahip port. All these improvements are scheduled for implementation in
1981-83 as part of a Bank project which is currently being prepared.



-4-
Airports
1.11      Thailand's international and domestic air transport are centered
at Don Muang airport in the vicinity of Bangkok. Airport capacity is now
being used at close to its maximum, and plans are under study for dealing
with the need for further expansion. Two other international airports, Hat
Yai near the Malaysian border and Chieng Mai in the north, are capable of
receiving medium-sized jet planes. There are another 40 air fields of
various sizes of which about half receive scheduled flights. Domestic
public air transport is being provided by Thai Airways, and Thai
International Airway is the international carrier. Both companies are
Government-owned.
B. Transport Demand
1.12      All modes combined, freight transport in Thailand is in the order
of over 50 million tons and 14 billion ton-km per annum.   Roads generate
about 70% of ton-km, followed by the railways with close to 20% and inland
waterways with about 10%. Freight is geographically concentrated in the
Northern Corridor between the Gulf of Thailand and the North and along the
traffic axes radiating from Bangkok to the south and northeast. Direction,
composition and size of traffic flows reflect (a) Bangkok's central location
and dominance as the country's principal port and consumption center, (b)
Thailand's generally rural character, and (c) the agricultural strength of
the Central Region. An estimated 30-50% of all freight is agricultural
produce, of which about one half is exported, most of it through the Port of
Bangkok and the Eastern Seaboard port facilities.
C. Transport Planning and Investments
1.13      The Ministry of Communications (MOC) is responsible for transport
policy and planning. Through its own departments, or through supervising
transport enterprises, it is concerned with all transport planning
operations. During the last 10-15 years, the Government has been able to
keep transport investments generally in line with the needs of the growing
economy. These investments by themselves have in turn helped to stimulate
economic development. An efficient and competitive privately owned road
transport industry has evolved, The railways have tried to meet the
challenge of road competition, but deregulation is needed to make them
effective competitors.
1.14      At the recommendation of the Bank, a Transport Planning Unit (TPU)
was set up in 1974 in the MOC to act as the focal point of transport
planning and policy review. The Unit, with technical assistance provided
under Bank financing (Sixth Highway Project, Loan 1519-TH), is currently



- 5 -
engaged in the formulation of the Fifth Five-Year Transport Development Plan
(1982-86). Among the main issues it will address are the transport policy
implications of rising fuel cost.
1.15      During the Third Five-Year Development Plan in 1972-76, Thailand's
public sector investments in transport were about B 21 billion in current
prices, and under the ongoing Fourth Plan for 1977-81, capital expenditures
are estimated at B 28 billion. Transport's share of public development
expenditures, 20% in 1972-76, are expected to drop to about 11% in 1977-81,
mainly due to the primary road system now being virtually completed. In
both Plan periods, road infrastructure received between 75% and 80% of all
funds allocated. However within the roads sector, some shifts are taking
place, since tertiary roads have gradually increased their share of the
roads' budget from 10% in 1972-76 to 25% in 1977-81. The 1982-86 Transport
Plan is currently under preparation. With an intensified interest in rural
development the Government is expected to continue raising the investment
shares of roads identified with primary sector and local community develop-
ment. Moreover, with its concern about the energy situation the Plan is
also anticipated to emphasize the fuller development of energy efficient
modes.
2. INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS SUBSECTORS
A. Inland Waterways
System
2.01      Thailand has a comprehensive and developed inland waterways system
which covers well over one-third of the country and extends over some 1,300
km of navigable waterways.  Most of this length is in the Northern Corridor
(Map No. 14857R) between Bangkok and Uttaradit along the rivers Chao Phrya
and Ilan, and the remainder along the Mekong river on the Thai-Laotian
border. The following discussions refer exclusively to the waterways in the
Northern Corridor which are the subject of the proposed project. The
principal navigable rivers are:
(a)  the Chao Phrya from the Gulf of Thailand up to 2Uakhon Sawan (365
km),/l where its two main tributaries, the Nan and Ping rivers,
meet; the Chao Phrya river is divided into upper and lower
sections by the Chainat Dam (240 km);
/1 All distances referred to on the Rivers Chao Phrya and Nan are measured
from Bangkok Klong Toei wharves.



(b)  the Nan from Nakhon Sawan to Taphan Hin (433 km) and continuing
to Uttaradit (707 km);
(c)  the Pasak from Ayutthya (110 km), where it enters the Chao Phrya,
up to the Rama IV dam; and
(d)  sections of the tNoi and Suphan Tha Chin rivers, including connect-
ing canals, which offer a bypass of the Chao Phrya below the
Chainat Dam (240 km) to the Singburi-Anthong (150 km) area.
2.02      River levels and flows and navigation are seasonally influenced.
With the arrival of the monsoon in May, water levels rise until they peak in
August, thereafter declining to December followed by the dry season from
January to May when water levels are low; these influences are to some
extent modified by a system of irrigation canals and single or multipurpose
dams. Nevertheless there are navigation problems in the dry season (para.
2.03). The dams of primary interest to navigation in the Northern Corridor
are the multipurpose Sirikit dam on the Nan river about 60 km north of
Uttaradit, the multipurpose Phumiphol dam on the Ping river, the Chao Phrya
diversion dam near Chainat and the Rama IV diversion dam at Tha Reua. The
multipurpose dams are used for electricity generation, and all dams serve   X
irrigation. Other water management considerations are domestic and
industrial water supply and water salinity control in the lower Chao Phrya
which is affected by ocean tides. The future balancing of the diverse water
needs is the subject of an ongoing study commissioned by the Royal Thai
Irrigation Department (R.I.D.) and its preliminary findings and recommenda-
tions are incorporated in the design of this project.
2.03      The principal navigation problems arising from the low water
levels in the dry season, exist on a stretch of the Nlan south of Taphan Hin,
a stretch of the upper Chao Phrya between Nakhon Sawan and Phayuha Khiri and
a stretch on the lower Chao Phrya between Chainat and Angthong. During some
50 days of this period, available water depths in the first two sections
falls to about 1.5 m, forcing barges to reduce payloads; and on the latter
section, water depths drops as low as 0.9 m (Table 3), effectively
preventing nagivation. When the lower Chao Phrya between Chainat and
Angthong is closed for navigation, barges detour on a bypass consisting of
sections of the Noi and Suphan Tha Chin rivers (para. 2.01,d), but these
routes with a total of ten locks are narrow, winding, slow and costly.
Further, the locks permit the passage of only traditional wooden barges
(50-80 tons deadweight). Deepening of all critical Chao Phrya and Nan river
sections up to Taphan Hin to a minimum water depth of 1.7 m, which
involves dredging to 2.2 m depth to allow for clearance and some siltation
between maintenance dredging operations, is envisaged under this project.
2.04      More than 100 larger terminals and a large number of minor loading
points are located along the waterways. Their density is highest near
population centers and in the rice-exporting areas. All are privately owned
and operated and most handle only one commodity. Terminals on the lower and



- 7 -
upper Chao Phrya and Nan are relatively primitive. Some have a floating
raft to bring the barge alongside, others not. Some mechanical equipment is
being used, primarily for handling of sand and cement, and a few rice
terminals are equipped with loading chutes. Otherwise loading or unloading
is with baskets and bags, by hand. In the rice and maize-exporting areas, a
considerable number of rice mills and covered storage facilities are located
on the riverbanks. Two of the larger existing loading points on the Chao
Phrya-Nan rivers are Nakhon Sawan and Taphan Hin. However their present
capacity is inadequate to handle expected traffic increases resulting from
improvement of the waterways, and new construction is proposed under the
project.
Administration
2.05      The Harbor Department, a Government agency (Chapter 3), is charged
with the administration of water transport in the country, including sea and
inland waterways transport and coastal ports. Its specific responsibilitie6
for inland waterways are regulation and control of navigation, improvement
and maintenance of navigation channels, inspection and registration of
waterway transport companies and vessels, waterway development planning and
licensing of companies for sand dredging in riverbeds.
Traffic
2.06      Agricultural production and yields in the river influence areas
are high as a result of large-scale irrigation; moreover new programs are
being developed to extend irrigation schemes to areas not yet sufficiently
covered, in particular those in the Northern and upper Central Regions.
This will further increase production and increase transport demand. Rice
is the most important cash crop followed by maize and other produce.
Forestry products and timber were also of importance to the Northern Region
until recently, but dwindling reserves and changes in government forestry
policies have led to a sharp curtailment of logging. Northern Thailand is
also rich in mineral ores whose exploitation has been initiated in the last
few years.
2.07      In 1976, barge traffic in the entire Northern corridor totalled
about 8.6 million tons, of which 6 million tons were sand, 1.3 million tons
rice, maize and other crops, and 0.7 million tons cement (Table 5). Sand
originates from dredging sites in the lower Chao Phrya between Singburi and
Angthong and is destined to metropolitan Bangkok for use in construction.
It is a captive commodity for river transport because its source is the
river; it is recovered by high volume and low cost dredging, but the removal
of the large quantities involved can create a problem for navigation (para.
4.06). Most of the maize is being loaded at Tha Reua on the Pasak river for
export, and rice and the remainder of maize originate from along the
Nan-Chao Phrya route north of Ayutthya.  Cement is being shipped from a
plant at Tha Luang on the Pasak river mostly to Bangkok. Average barge haul
is 200 km. Traffic density is highest on the Chao Phrya from Ayutthya



- 8 -
southbound and on the Pasak. Leaving sand aside, inland waterways handle at
present a relatively small share of bulk commodities suitable for barge
transport, a situation largely explained by the lack of public sector
waterway investments, even though some 10-15 years ago the R.I.D. had
embarked on a program of navigation channel dredging. The transport
potential of inland waterways goes well beyond current traffic levels, and
this project is designed to help develop that potential.
Waterways Transport Industry
2.08      Thailand's inland waterways transport industry is highly com-
petitive and free from regulation. The barge fleet consists of some
4,000 units with individual capacities of between 40 and over 300 dwt
(Table 6), and an estimated 2,000-3,000 smaller units. About 3,300 of the
4,000 barges are of traditional design, made of wood and with a capacity of
below 100 dwt each. The larger vessels over 100 dwt are steel-hulled.
Construction of wooden barges has been discontinued. The total capacity of
the 4,000-unit fleet is 350,000 dwt, which compares to an annual sector
output of 8.6 million tons. All barges are moved by towboats using the
pull-towing astern method which requires the following barges to be crewed
for steering and stopping the convoy. A barge train can consist of more
than ten units. Development of more efficient barge designs and methods of
operation are part of this project. A requirement for some new barge types
will be the capability to sail on open waters of the Gulf of Thailand on
journeys between upcountry and the Ko Sichang, Mah Boon Krong and Sattahip
loading terminals/anchorages for agricultural exports.
2.09      The inland waterways fleet of barges and towboats is in private
hands except for a few units owned and operated by the Express Transport
Organization (ETO), a government enterprise. The traditional wooden barges
are generally operated by the owner who lives on them with his family. Most
of these boats are engaged in rice transport. A few owner-operators have
been able to enter the transport markets for sand, cement and maize, but
these trades are dominated by companies with modern steel barges. Several
of these transport firms own between 50 and 100 steel barges and towboats.
B. Coastal Ports
Inventory
2.10      In addition to its two existing and two planned deepsea ports,
Thailand has an estimated 40 shallow draft "coastal" ports. Coastal ports
vary greatly in size and consist in some case of little more than wooden
wharves or jetties for landing fish and small volumes of cargo. Some
coastal ports serve merely local needs, while others are of regional
importance. While virtually all were developed by private initiative at a
time when land transport was difficult, costly or unavailable, many retain



-9-
their importance for regional development. The majority of coastal ports
are located on the east and west coasts of the southern peninsula and the
remainder at the northern fringe of the Gulf of Thailand from west of
Bangkok eastwards toward the Cambodian border (Mlap No. 14856R).
2.11      Hfost coastal ports are riverine and subject to severe draft
restrictions at the channel entrance; and many have a channel depth of only
0.5 m or less below Low Water Ordinary Spring Tide (LWOST). The more
and not sea because of Government regulations designed to prevent smuggling.
exposed east-coast ports on the southern peninsula face also operational
restrictions due to the north-east monsoon. Because of the shallow entrance
channels, lighterage is required for a substantial part of the export and
some of the domestic trade, and the movements of small cargo and larger
fishing vessels in and out of the ports is generally limited to high tide.
Continuous siltation from riverborne and littoral sources aggravates these
problems and necessitates frequent channel maintenance dredging.
Administration
2.12     IHfost coastal ports are privately owned and operated.  In some
cases, municipalities and provincial Governments manage wharves and jetties,
and the Fish Marketing Organization (FMO), a Government organization, has
constructed fishing wharves in more than ten locations as well as a number
of cold storage plants. The Harbor Department's role with respect to
coastal ports is generally limited to maintenance or improvement dredging of
navigation channels, which are the principal problems of the coastal ports.
The Customs Department maintains customs posts in a number of the coastal
ports.
Traffic
2.13      Ships' manifests, surrendered to Customs Department when ships
enter or leave a port, are the primary cargo data source for estimating
coastal ports' traffic. Traffic statistics for 1977 covering some 20 ports
accounting for 75% to 80% of total estimated traffic are summarized in
Table 7, showing a domestic and foreign cargo volume of about 2 million
tons, fish landings excluded. Cargo movements in all Thai coastal ports are
therefore in the range of 2.0-2.5 million tons annually. Domestic cargo
alone in the same 20 ports amounts to about 1.2 million tons annually,
equivalent to a range of 1.2-1.5 million tons for all Thai coastal ports
combined. Fish landings at coastal ports were estimated at about 1.6 mil-
lion tons in 1976 (Table 8). Total combined volumes of domestic cargo and
fish are thus in the neighborhood of 3 million tons annually.
2.14      At least half of the cargo in the domestic trade, over 0.7 million
tons in 1977 (Table 7), consists of bulk petroleum products from Thailand's
oil refineries at Sri Racha, southeast of Bangkok. Transport of petroleum
products to southern Thailand's depots is almost exclusively by sea, and
distribution from the depots to final markets is by road. Domestic dry



- 10 -
cargo consists of a variety of consumer goods, fertilizers, cement and other
construction materials, most of them originating from the Bangkok area, and
of primary products such as timber, fish meal and palm oil generally with
Bangkok as transit or final destination. Rice in bulk is carried by rail
and not sea because of Government regulations designed to prevent smuggling.
2.15      Despite high terminal cost, shipping has been able to defend its
share of long-distance, coast-to-coast and bulk traffic because of very low
movement cost. In the future, coastal shipping is likely to maintain, if
not improve, its competitive position on account of oil price increases,
which will put strong upward pressure on road transport cost. Institutional
and operational improvements of the Harbor Department under this project,
resulting in more frequent and efficient channel dredging, will be a further
stimulant for the coastal shipping sector.
Coastal Fleet
2.16      The coastal shipping fleet is privately owned by individual
operators and shipping companies.  Most vessels on medium-distance routes
fall into the category of wooden and single-hold boats with a carrying
capacity of 100-400 dwt and drafts up to 3.5 m fully loaded. Other larger
vessels in the 700-1,000 dwt range-are steel-hulled. Domestic dry cargo on
short journeys between coastal ports is generally carried in wooden boats of
50 dwt or less. The tankers operating out of Sri Racha are made up of units
of between 300 and over 2,000 dwt. Of the six east-coast ports on the
southern peninsula with oil depots, all but one (Songkhla) require tankers
to be well below the 2,000 dwt size if they are to enter the ports fully
laden. A rational program for port development including capital and
maintenance dredging of ports channels, will permit the use of larger
vessels and generate substantial economies of scale.
Development Planning
2.17      The coastal ports and shipping sector has received relatively lit-
tle Government attention and support. The reasons for this are many, in-
cluding (a) the predominance of private or local interests in the management
and ownership of coastal ports, (b) the fact that Government's main emphasis
has been land transport, (c) lack of a clear-cut mandate of a particular
Government agency for port development, and (d) a Harbor Department which is
only gradually acquiring development planning expertise. It is only lately,
that regional policy considerations and rising energy costs have led the
Government to pay more attention to coastal shipping needs and resulted in
such studies as those to develop Phuket and Songkhla ports. Also the
Coastal Ports Study financed by the Bank (para. 4.18) has stimulated further
interest in the future role of domestic waterborne transport. Future
planning requirements falling on the Harbor Department will be (a) the
extension of development studies for ports not yet fully reviewed, and (b)
the development of a rational program for capital and maintenance dredging
of port channels and sections of the inland waterways. The department's
ability to meet these requirements will be improved under this project.



- 11 -
3. HARBOR DEPARTIENT
A. Functions and Organization
3.01      The Harbor Department is a Government agency forming part of the
Ministry of Communications (IIOC). It is responsible for planning, under-
taking and controlling, maintenance, improvements and navigation for inland
waterways and coastal ports in Thailand as detailed in paras. 2.05 and 2.12.
Presently it has no responsibilities for ports management and operations
but will assume these functions for the two inland waterways ports proposed
under this project.
3.02      The department has most recently been reorganized in 1974.
It is headed by a Director General and two deputies, one for Administration
and one for Technical Miatters, and divided into ten Divisions which are
subdivided into Sections (Charts 1-3). The two most important divisions
are (a) the Technical Division (Chart 2), which is in charge of project
planning, and (b) the Dredging and Maintenance Division (Chart 3), which is
responsible for dredging of navigation channels on the coast and inland
waterways.
3.03      The Harbor Department's planning and management of works is weak
and operation of the dredgers it controls needs improvement, mainly because
of lack of qualified staff. Limited expertise in planning has been acquired
from participation in the consultants' studies for this project and from the
studies undertaken for the proposed Phuket and Songkhla deep-sea ports but
needs to be further strengthened.
3.04      Capital and maintenance dredging of navigation channels is
organized around four regional centers, at Songkhla on the east and Kantang
on the west coast of the southern peninsula, at Chanta Buri southeast of
Bangkok and at Ayutthya on the Chao Phrya river. Despite the fact that
dredging is, by far, the department's most important function on which the
largest percentage of its manpower and budget are focused, it is weak in
planning, management and execution of such works. Further, control of works
is difficult due to poor measurement and accounting techniques and lack of
surveys of completed work.
B. Staff
3.05      The Department's total approved staff is about 600 officers with
civil service status, 830 permanent and 160 temporary subordinate personnel
and labor. About 50 officers' posts are vacant because of unattractive
public service employment conditions and lack of budget appropriation. The
Dredging and Maintenance Division has a total of 570 approved positions of



- 12 -
which 10% are unfilled , and the Technical Division has an approved staff
strength of 210 with 15% vacancies. The Harbor Department's management,
which has had difficulties attracting qualified technical staff, expects
improvement of its employment image and status through a more active role in
the inland waterways and coastal ports sectors and implementation of this
project.
C. Revenues and Expenditures
3.06      The Harbor Department's budget expenditures in FY 1979 were about
B 157 million, steeply up from B 106 and B 114 million in 1977 and 1978
largely due to expenditure increases for general administration, dredging
and maintenance (Table 9). Between 50% and 60% of expenditures were for
dredging and maintenance and between 10% and 20% were for general
administration. Capital dredging for coastal ports, negligible in 1977,
accounted for 5% in 1978 and 7% in 1979. Revenues collected by the Harbor
Department amounted to B 45 million annually (Table 10), virtually all from
service charges such as vessel licensing and piloting. All revenues are
being collected for Treasury accounts.
4. PROJECT CONCEPT AND COIIPOSITION
4.01      The Government has in the past concentrated on roads to develop
the transport system required for the rapidly growing economy, and this
policy has been successsful in interlinking provinces; concurrently, an
efficient road transport industry has developed. The Government is now
giving closer attention to other modes which have development potential, and
this project reflects this broader focus.
4.02      The project's main objectives are physical improvements to the
inland waterways and coastal ports sectors and strengthening of the Harbor
Department, by (a) improving the inland waterways system, so that it can
function as a major carrier of import and export commodities between
northern Thailand and the Gulf of Thailand ports and anchorages throughout
the year; (b) introducing improved channel maintenance for all coastal ports
and undertaking capital dredging for two of the more important ports, so
that loss of ship time in waiting for tides will be reduced and larger
vessels can navigate the channels; and (c) improving the Harbor Department's
ability to perform its development and maintenance functions for the inland
waterways and coastal ports. To this end, the project will comprise two
main subprojects, Inland Waterways and Coastal Ports, each having a
technical assistance training component. Details of specific objectives and
proposals of each subproject are given below.



- 13 -
A. Inland Waterways
4.03      This subproject is designed to develop the potential of the inland
waterways in the Northern corridor, specifically the Chao Phrya and Nan
rivers, from Bangkok to Taphan Hin, to carry bulk commodities cheaply and
efficiently all year. The project includes: (a) dredging of a 2.2 m deep
(1.7 m available depth) channel through the shallow reaches and constructing
appropriate river training works; (b) constructing of two new river ports at
Nakhon Sawan and Taphan Hin; (c) procurement of four barges and a pusher tug
to demonstrate the operational efficiency of new barge designs and the
feasibility of moving barges between Bangkok and the deep water facilities
at Ko Sichang, Mah Boon Krong and the port of Sattahip; and (d) provision of
technical assistance and training for the Harbor Department (Annex 1) and
the creation of a new Waterways Management Division. The project is based
upon a feasibility study undertaken by Bureau Central pour les Equipments
d'Outre Mer (BCEOM, France) and financed by the Bank which included final
engineering except for the river Nan works and the port of Taphan Hin, for
which final designs will be undertaken under this project. It is expected
that after the proposed project the Harbor Department will be able to
determine the need and viability of any proposed improvements as well as
improving its maintenance efficiency.
Description of the Subproject
4.04      The subproject items are:
(a) Civil Works
(i) Dredging a channel 40 m wide at the bottom and 2.2 m deep
(1.7 m available depth) through each of the shoal areas on
the upper and lower sections of the rivers Chao Phrya and
Nan. Eighteen separate shoals on the lower Chao Phrya will
require dredging of 50.2 km total length of channel involving
removal of 1.6 million cu m spoil; 9 separate shoals on the
upper Chao Phrya will require dredging of 12.3 km of channel
involving 0.37 million cu m spoil; and about 8 km of channel
on the river Nan will require dredging. Details are at Table
11.
(ii) Provision of river training work comprising bottom panels,
and/ or groins and low dikes (Annex 2 and Map No. 14861R) at
each of the dredged shoal areas. The different types of
structure are located each side of the channel between river
bed level and low water level to reduce the width of the
river and concentrate the available dry season flow in the
reduced width, thus reducing the amount of maintenance
dredging required.



- 14 -
(iii) Construction of river ports at Nakhon Sawan and Taphan Hin.
Two berths, a transit shed and open storage for break bulk
general cargo will be provided at Nakhon Sawan, and one berth
with similar back up facilities at Taphan Hin. Berthing
dolphins for handling bulk barge traffic will also be
provided at Nakhon Sawan. Both ports will have rail and road
access.
(b) Procurement of Mechanical Equipment
(i) Cargo handling equipment for the river ports;
(ii) two pile driving units for maintenance of river structures;
and
(iii) survey and miscellaneous maintenance equipment.
(c) Procurement of Floating Craft
(i) One 550 HP pusher tug and four 45 m, 700 ton, steel barges
for bulk or general cargo (Annex 3);
(ii)  Three 250 cu m/hour cutter section dredgers complete with
floating delivery pipes for maintenance dredging; and
(iii) three dredger attendant tugs to serve also as work boats
for each maintenance section.
(d) Consultant Engineering Services
Provision of engineering services for:
(i) Final engineering of river Nan works;
(ii) supervision of civil works construction; and
(iii) floating craft and mechanical equipment procurement.
(e) Technical Assistance and Training
(i) Provision of technical assistance to improve: maintenance
organization and equipment usage; port operations;
statistical information available to Harbor Department; and
dredging operation and management (Annex 1); and
(ii) overseas training for Harbor Department staff in transport
planning and engineering.



- 15 -
4.05      The design of the civil works to achieve 1.7 m navigable depth
during the dry season is based upon minimum flows in each section of the
river which are essential to achieve that depth. The design flows are:
(a) Lower Chao Phrya (below Chainat Dam), 80 cu m/sec;
(b) Upper Chao Phrya (below confluence of rivers Ping and Nan),
200 cu m/sec; and
(c)  River Nan (below Phrom Phiram Dam), 70 cu m/sec.
Assurances have been received that these requirements are consistent with
the normal releases from the different controlling dams during the low water
season by the Royal Irrigation Department and the Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand, except in an abnormally dry year (statistically one
in ten), and would not adversely affect other users of water. During
negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government that, except in
abnormally dry years, it will require the agencies controlling release of
water from the various dams to ensure the above amounts are available during
the low water season.
4.06      For many years large volumes of sand have been dredged from the
lower Chao Phrya river and delivered by barge for use by the construction
industry in Bangkok. The considerable enlargement of the river section thus
created lowers the water surface level in that area (although the depth is
increased) and this in turn affects the level of the water surface upstream
of the dredged area. The effect is to jeopardize the available water depth
in shoal areas upstream of the dredged area, during the dry season flow. To
guarantee 1.7 m available depth in the low water season, commercial dredging
must therefore be controlled and commercial dredgers must operate only
downstream of Ayutthya (110 km) or upstream of the Chainat Dam (240 km), in
the area of the pool formed by the dam. The problem is recognized by the
Government and can be controlled through licensing. During negotiations
assurance were obtained that commercial sand dredging will not be permitted
between Ayutthya and Chainat Dam, unless there is excessive accumulation of
sand in the section which requires removal.
4.07      The selection of Nakhon Sawan and Taphan Hin as the locations for
constructing port facilities reflects their importance and strategic
location vis-a-vis the agricultural growing areas, and their long associa-
tion with river transport. Both are currently used as river ports, but lack
adequate capacity.
Cost Estimate
4.08      The estimated costs of the proposed subproject are:



- 16 -
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign Total
--- (B million ) ----        --  (US$'000) ----
Civil works                          308     340      648   15,400  17,000  32,400
Mechanical equipment                   5       26      31       250   1,300   1,550
Floating craft                         7     108      115       350   5,400   5,750
Engineering consulting services        -      45       45         -   2,250   2,250
Technical assistance & training        -      15       15         -     750      750
Physical contingencies (12%           44      55       99    2,200   2,750   4,950
Base cost)
Price contingencies (31% Base        100     167      267    5,000   8,350  13,350
cost)
Subtotal                       464      756   1,220   23,200  37,800  61,000
Procurement of land for
river ports                        22        -       22    1,100        -   1,100
Total                          484      756   1.242   24,300  37,800  62,100
Detailed costs are given in Table 12.
4.09      About 80% of the total estimated cost of civil works is based upon
final engineering. Physical contingencies are calculated as 10% on the
value of civil works for which final engineering is completed and 20% on the
remainder; the allowance for floating craft is 10%. Unit prices for the
estimate are September 1979 prices for similar work in Thailand. Mechanical
equipment and floating equipment prices are based upon recent quotations.
Price contingencies for civil works are calculated using inflation rates of
15% for 1980, 12% for 1981 and 10% for 1982 and 1983 based upon anticipated
increases in construction costs and oil prices in Thailand; those for
mechanical equipment and other direct foreign costs are based upon 10.5%
for 1980, 9% for 1981, 8% for 1982 and 7% for 1983. The average man-month
cost for the 32 man-months of technical assistance proposed in this
subproject inclusive of man-month rate, fee and international travel is
expected to be about US$10,000, and the additional local allowance is about
US$2,000 equivalent per man-month.
Subprolect Implementation
4.10      The subproject will be carried out by the Harbor Department.  It
will be assisted by consultants acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, to
be appointed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. This was
confirmed during negotiations.
4.11      The works are expected to be completed by December 31, 1983; the
construction schedule is at Table 13. The river works will be carried out



- 17 -
by sections and spread over three low water seasons to enable the river to
adapt itself to the physical changes. However, as each section is completed
it will come into use. The completion dates given assume effectiveness of
the proposed loan no later than August 1980 and appointment of consultants
by that date.
4.12      Land required for construction of the two river ports, about 26 ha
at Nakhon Sawan and 10 ha at Taphan Hin, should be procured by the Govern-
ment so that construction can start not later than April 1, 1982. During
negotiations the procurement of this land not later than December 31, 1981,
was confirmed.
4.13      The pusher tug and barges are being provided under the proposed
subproject to demonstrate their advantages in load capacity (Table 4) and
cost efficiency.  To ensure maximum exposure, the demonstration set will be
leased to an existing efficient private river craft operator on terms and
conditions to be agreed with the Borrower and the Bank; the lease terms were
discussed and agreed in outline during negotiations. Adoption of the use of
pusher tugs and the heavier load carrying pusher type barges, will be a
major improvement in waterways operations. Once demonstrated to be
successful, there will be ample local capital available to gradually
introduce them on a larger scale.
4.14      General cargo operations at Nakhon Sawan and Taphan Hin and
general port administration will be the responsibility of the Harbor
Department.  However, provision and operation of the required storage
facilities and loading equipment for bulk agricultural cargo, mineral ore,
and petroleum products, behind the dolphin berths provided in this
subproject, will be the responsibility of private enterprise. Technical
assistance for the Harbor Department in port operations and preparation of
suitable documentation will be provided under the project.
Management and Maintenance of the Waterways
4.15      To facilitate waterway planning and operations after the improve-
ments are completed, improved collection and dissemination of hydrographic
information is essential. This involves developing a satisfactory system of
calibrated water level gauges on the river. This task will be assumed by
the new Waterways Management Division to be created not later than December
31, 1981; it will also (a) assume responsibility for all dredging and
maintenance works on the Rivers Chao Phrya and Nan with sections to cover
the upper Chao Phrya and Nan from Nakhon Sawan and the lower Chao Phrya from
Ayutthaya; and (b) control operations on the waterway. Appropriate
technical assistance will be provided to enable the Harbor Department to
program and control maintenance dredging and maintenance of the river
training works, with increased efficiency and to set up the required data
base for future planning by hydrographic surveying and the setting up of a
comprehensive statistical system for traffic and hydrological information
(Annex 1). Hydrographic surveys will be carried out annually prior to the



- 18 -
dry season using the survey boat purchased with the study funds. The
Management Division will have to maintain close coordination with other
administrative authorities on the river, mainly the Royal Thai Irrigation
Department and the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand.
4.16      Physical maintenance of the section of the waterway covered by the
subproject will involve about 450,000 cu m dredging annually and repairing
or replacing of some 4,500 m of river training groins/bottom panels/low
dikes (Annex 2), as well as maintenance of buoys and navigation aids (see
also para. 6.07).
4.17      During negotiations the proposed reorganization and a program of
technical assistance and training acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank,
in accordance with the above outline and as detailed in Annex 1, was agreed;
it was also agreed that a suitable annual program covering the requirements
of paras. 4.15 and 4.16 will be drawn up and funded by the Harbor Department
not later than June 30, 1983, and that the program and results of the
hydrographic surveys would be sumitted to the Bank for information annually
for five years after completion of the works.
B. Coastal Ports
4.18      This subproject is designed to improve the capacity and efficiency
of coastal shipping and fishing through better maintenance of all coastal
ports' entrance channels and deepening of two specific channels.
Specifically, the project includes: (i) deepening the entrance channels to
the ports of Bandon and Pattani for access by general cargo, fishing and
logging vessels at all states of the tide; (ii) improving the Harbor
Department's capability for the maintenance dredging of existing ports by
provision of better equipment; and (iii) technical assistance and training
for the Harbor Department in dredging operations and procedures./l The
improvements under this subproject are based upon a study of 22 of
Thailand's coastal ports on the Gulf of Thailand and the Andaman Sea (Map
14856) undertaken by consultants Maunsell & Partners (UK) in association
with Sindhu Pulsirivong & Associates (Thailand) and Coopers and Lybrand
Associates (UK). It is expected that after the proposed technical
assistance and training the Harbor Department will be able to determine
future development requirements as well as the need for and extent of
maintenance dredging.
Description of the Subproject
4.19      The subproject items are:
/1 The 22 ports originally included Songkla and Phuket.



- 19 -
(a) Civil Works
(i) Dredging the entrance channel to the port of Bandon to 4 m
depth (LWOST) from the confluence of the Tapi river and
Khlong Tatong to the 4 m depth contour in Bandon bay and
within the Tapi river to the Summit oil depot. Channel width
will be 60 m and length about 20 km. The volume of material
to be dredged is approximately 2.25 million cu m.
(ii) Dredging the entrance channel to the port of Pattani to 2.5 m
depth (LWOST) from the 2.5 m depth contour seaward of the bar
at the mouth of the Pattani river and inside the river for
about 2 km. Channel width will be 60 m and total length
approximately 5 km. Volume of material to be dredged is
approximately 310,000 cu m.
(iii) Geophysical and hydrographic studies including borings and
tracer studies to determine spoil dumping areas, will be
conducted at both Bandon and Pattani.
(b)  Procurement of Floating Craft
One self-propelled twin screw, twin rudder, trailing hopper
dredger with 400 cu m hopper capacity. A brief description of its
main characteristics is given at Annex 4.
(c)  Consulting Engineering Services
Provision of engineering services for:
(i) Final engineering and supervision of the dredging works; and
(ii) preparation of an outline specification for the dredger with
appropriate inspection during construction.
(d) Technical Assistance and Training
(i) Provision of technical assistance to improve planning and
management of maintenance dredging; methods for selecting
economic channel depths; statistical records; dredger
operation and maintenance; and channel surveying; and
(ii) overseas training for Harbor Department staff in dredging
management, economic planning and statistics.
4.20      The new general cargo wharf being built by the Government at outer
Bandon is located at the confluence of the Tapi river and Khlong Tatong
about 1 km from the mouth of the estuary formed by the confluence of the two
rivers. Seaward the 4 m depth contour in Bandon Bay is about 15 km



20- 0-
offshore. The existing entrance channel has a limiting depth of about 1.9 m
(LWOST). The main oil company's depots are located on the Khlong Tatong
(5 m depth) and the Tapi river (2 m depth); the new channel will therefore
be continued to the oil depot in the Tapi river. The new 60 m channel with
a depth of 4 m (LWOST) will have an overall length of some 19 kn; it will
enable 400 dwt cargo ships, 1,000 dwt tankers and 700 dwt log carriers to be
used. The existing depth of 2 m from the oil depot on the the Tapi river to
inner Bandon will be adequate for some 95% of the fishing vessels. Tidal
range, Low to High Water Spring Tides (L/HWST) is 2.2 m, and the annual
siltation rate is about 0.1 m.
4.21      At Pattani, a riverine port, the existing channel has a limiting
depth of about 0.8 m (LWOST) at the entrance bar and about 2 m inside the
river; seaward the 2 m depth contour is about 3 km from the entrance bar.
The average annual siltation rate in the seaward end is about 0.3 m. The
new 60 m wide channel with a depth of 2.5 m (LWOST) has an overall length of
5 km; it will permit about 95% of the vessels using the port, mostly fishing
vessels, to use the channel at all states of the tide. The tidal range
(L/HWST) is 1.6 m.
4.22      The Harbor Department's current fleet of dredgers for coastal port
maintenance comprises six cutter suction dredgers with under 2 m draft and
two trailing suction hopper dredgers (3.5 m draft 400 cu m hopper capacity);
it also has two survey boats. The annual maintenance requirements
of the entrance channels for the 14 ports with 2 m draft, excluding those
which have between 2.5 and 4 m deep channels, amounts to about 1.1 million
cu m.  The pumping range of the cutter suction dredgers is only about 400 m,
with the result that spoil is being washed back into the dredged channels;
the fallback rate is probably as high as 40%. Provision of the smaller
draft hopper dredger will improve the efficiency of maintenance dredging on
the 2 m draft entrance channels.
Cost Estimate
4.23      The estimated costs of the proposed subproject are:



- 21 -
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total
--- (B million )----  ----- (US$'000)
Dredging entrance channels            31      90      121   1,550   4,500   6,050
Provision of hopper dredger           10     100      110      500   5,000   5,500
Engineering consulting services        -      16       16        -     800      800
Technical assistance & training        -      20       20        -   1,000   1,000
Physical contingencies (13%            5      20       25      300   1,400   1,700
Base Cost)
Price contingencies (24% Base         15      50       65      750   2,500   3,250
Cost)
Total                           61      296     357   3,100  15,200  18,300
Detailed costs are given in Table 14.
4.24      Dredging quantities are based on channel surveys undertaken in
September 1978 at Pattani and in June 1978 at Bandon with field checks in
1979. Physical contingencies are calculated as 20% of the value of these
works. The cost of the hopper dredger is based on a quotation obtained by
the consultant. Price contingencies are calculated on the same inflation
rates as for the Inland Waterways subproject.
Subproject Implementation
4.25      The subproject will be carried out by the Harbor Department with
the assistance of consultants acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. This was confirmed during
negotiations. The works are expected to be completed by September 30, 1982
on the assumption that the proposed loan will be effective by August 1980.
Management and Operation of Maintenance Dredging
4.26      As referred to above (para. 4.19) and in Annex 1, 75 man-months of
technical assistance and 4-1/2 man-years of overseas training, to assist the
Harbor Department in improving all the above procedures, are included in the
project. The Harbor Department's ability to plan the annual dredging
program and make best use of available equipment will be improved on
completion of the technical assistance and training. Furthermore the
Department will be able to complete the survey of the remaining coastal
ports not yet fully covered. Full details are in Annex 1. During negotia-
tions the proposed technical assistance and training was agreed. It was
also agreed that an annual program for all the Department's dredging
activities, with details of the budget allocation, will be drawn up and



- 22 -
submitted to the Bank for information annually for a period of five years
after completion of the project. The program shall take into account the
findings of the Coastal Ports Study completed in April 1980 if dredging to
deepen a channel is proposed. Details of dredging surveys undertaken in the
previous year, quantities dredged and cost thereof would also be included in
the submission.
5. PROJECT FINANCING, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND ECOLOGY
A. Financing
5.01      The overall cost of the proposed project, including contingencies,
is US$80.4 million equivalent with a foreign exchange component of US$53
million, thus:
Local     Foreign         Total
------- (US$ million) -------
Inland waterways             24.3        37.8          62.1
Coastal ports                 3.1        15.2          18.3
Total                   27.4       53.0          80.4
5.02      The proposed financing of the total and foreign exchange costs of
the project will be met as follows:
Finance source              Local        Foreign       Total
-- (S$ million equivalent) --
IBRD                         -             53          53
Government                  27.4            -          27.4
Total                       27.4           53          80.4



- 23 -
B. Procurement
5.03      Execution of the civil works to be carried out under the project
will be by three separate contracts:
(a) river dredging and improvement works;
(b) construction of the ports of Nakhon Sawan and Taphan Hin; and
(c) dredging works at Bandon and Pattani.
Mechanical equipment and floating craft will be procured under five separate
contracts as follows, but suppliers may bid for more than one contract:
(a) mechanical equipment for the river ports;
(b) river maintenance and survey equipment;
(c) cutter suction dredgers and tugs for river maintenance;
(d) trailing suction hopper dredger; and
(e) barge train and pusher tug.
All civil works, equipment, and materials financed under the proposed Bank
loan will be let in accordance with international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank guidelines. A preference not exceeding 15% of the
c.i.f. price, or the customs duty whichever is less, will be granted to
local manufacturers for the procurement of mechanical and floating equipment
financed by the Bank. During negotiations, the above procurement procedures
were agreed. The Government intends to levy import taxes on all items
procured for the project.
C. Disbursement
5.04      Disbursement of funds from the Bank Loan for the various
works to be executed under the loan, will be on the basis of a percentage
of total costs, excluding taxes, as follows:
(a)  River dredging and improvement works and inland ports           50%
(b)  Dredging for coastal ports                                      80%
(c)  Mechanical and floating equipment                              100%
(d) Engineering consulting services and technical
assistance and training                                     100%



- 24 -
Retroactive financing in an amount not exceeding the equivalent of
US$100,000 for some final engineering prior to loan signature is proposed
providing expenditure is not incurred prior to June 1, 1980. An estimated
schedule of disbursements is given at Table 15. Disbursement is estimated
to be completed by the third quarter of FY84.
D. Ecology
5.05      None of the proposed works will affect the ecologies of the rivers
or harbors concerned; dredged material from the river works will be disposed
of behind the river structures, and that from the port entrances channels at
approved locations following tracer studies of currents in the area.
E. Completion Report
5.06       Promptly after completion of the project the Harbor Department
shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report on the execution and intitial
operation of the project, its costs, and the benefits derived and to be
derived from it.
6. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Inland Waterways
Traffic and Modal Split
6.01      Projections of future traffic in the project area, which comprises
20 changwats including Lopburi along the lower Chao Phrya and Chieng Mai and
Chieng Rai in the north were based on detailed assessments of production and
local consumption of agricultural produce, mining and construction
activities and fuel consumption. Total 1977 population of the 20 changwats,
which are predominantly engaged in primary sector activities, was about 11
million out of 44 million for the entire country. Taking into account only
bulk, nonperishable and low-value commodities, for which barge traffic can
effectively compete, the project's influence zone will generate about 8
million tons of dry cargo and 2 million cu m of petroleum in 1985, and about
12 million tons and over 4 million cu m, respectively, in the year 2000
(Table 16). In addition, there are about 6 million tons p.a. of sand
dredged from the lower Chao Phrya which are captive to waterway transport.



- 25 -
6.02      To determine the modal split of traffic in the project zone, the
following factors had to be taken into account: location of freight origins
or destinations within the changwats; availability of storage and processing
facilities along the transport route; the planned improvement of Sattahip
port; road and rail investment plans; actual and projected :-ansport charges
including storage, transhipment and feeder transport cost; and development
plans of shippers and transport companies. The results of a transport cost
comparison for selected commodities and origins and destinations are
summarized in Table 17. Overall, river transport in the project area is
projected at about 2.2 million tons of dry cargo in 1985 and 3.9 million
tons in the year 2000 as compared to about 0.6 million tons in 1976 (Table
18), and petroleum traffic is estimated at somewhat less than 0.3 million cu
m in 1985 and 1.5 million cu m in the year 2000.  Most of this traffic,
about 80%-90% of dry cargo and 100% of petroleum, is expected to pass
through the new Nakhon Sawan and Taphan Hin river ports (Table 19).  They
are included in the project to provide the needed port capacity, which is
currently lacking.
River Craft
6.03      The all-year round minimum water depth to be achieved under the
project between Taphan Hin and the mouth of the Chao Phrya will allow
operation of considerably larger and more cost-efficient craft than the
units presently in use. In the calculation of project benefits, these
assumptions were therefore made: that the share of 300 dwt towed and 700 dwt
pushed barges carrying rice and maize from Nakhon Sawan and Taphan Hin would
reach about 50% of total barge volumes (tons) in 1985 and 100% in the year
2000 (Table 20); and that a similar though slower barge conversion would
take place for petroleum transport between Sri Racha in the Siam Gulf and
Nakhon Sawan. The cost advantages from the fleet conversion are substantial
(Table 20), and a number of local shipping and trading companies have
already expressed keen interest in the new barge types. Successful
operation of the pilot push convoy financed under the project will be a
strong factor in the expected fleet conversion.
Investment Alternatives
6.04      For the purpose of defining the most appropriate waterway routes,
the Chao Phrya was divided into two sections, the upper Chao Phrya upstream
and the lower Chao Phrya downstream from Chainat dam. North of Chainat,
there are no alternative routes. South of it, the Noi and Suphan Tha Chin
rivers serve as a bypass of the critical section on the Chao Phrya from
Chainat to Angthong during the low water season; passage of these
alternative rivers however, is slow and 30-40% more costly than navigation'
on the Chao Phrya when water depth is sufficient; also, none of the ten
locks on the bypass permits passage of the steel barges already in use, or
the barges proposed under the project. Further, investments to widen the
river beds, canals and locks would be well in excess of those under the
project. The Noi and Suphan Tha Chin river improvements were therefore
rejected as a feasible alternative to a deepened Chao Phrya.



- 26 -
6.05      The choice of the 1.7 m minimum water depth for the Chao Phrya to
be achieved under the project was made after a comparison of 1.5, 1.7 and
2.0 m. While a depth of 1.5 m would have been a feasible proposition, it
was rejected, since the additional capital and maintenance costs incurred
under the 1.7 m alternative were more than offset by the additional
benefits. By contrast, the additional costs of going to 2.0 m instead of
1.7 m were not supportable by the additional benefits involved. Further,
the operational burden on the Harbor Department from maintaining a 2.0 m
depth would have been excessive, as dredging quantities would have doubled.
Project Benefits, Costs and Returns
6.06      The project benefits are savings in transport costs, resulting
from traffic diversion to waterways mostly from road, the increase of barge
payloads due to the deepening of navigation channels, and the conversion of
the existing barges to larger and more cost efficient units. Agricultural
produce, primarily rice and maize, will be the commodities benefitting the
most with a share of about 60-65% of total yearly benefits (Table 21),
followed by petroleum with a benefit share of about 10-20%.
6.07      The project's capital cost include the costs of river and port
works and port equipment and the costs of the pilot push convoy. There will
be additional costs to the project from annual maintenance of the river and
ports. At present, about B 25 m annually are already being expended for the
river sections which are in the project, of which about B 5 m are for the
river Nan, but this amount will have to be increased to B 55 m in 1979
prices, to safeguard the project's investments and realize the expected
benefits.
6.08      On the basis of above data and assumptions and a time horizon of
up to the year 2000, the rate of return on the combined Chao Phrya river,
Nakhon Sawan port and pilot convoy investments is 26%. The investments are
timely with first year benefits of 23% of the initial capital costs. For
the Nan river and Taphan Hin port investments, a preliminary computation of
the return based on benefits from normal traffic only, yields 12%; the
definite return, to be established in conjunction with the final design
will, however, be much higher with the inclusion of benefits from diverted
traffic, which for the Chao Phrya investments represent the major benefits.
6.09      The inland waterways project component has been competently
prepared in a three stage approach terminating with the feasibility study of
the Chao Phrya. Particular care has been taken in assessing the overall
transport demand, the modal split and unit transport cost, and the capital
cost of the Chao Phrya river and Nakhon Sawan port investments are well
established on the basis of final design. Simultaneous reduction in project
benefits by 20% and increase in capital cost of 20% for all the project
components except the Nan river, which taken together would result in an
unusual degree of investment risk, would result in the rate of return on the
Chao Phrya not falling below 18%.



- 27 -
User Charges
6.10      Based on the 1979 tax system, rates and prices and on traffic
projected, tax revenues from inland waterways traffic in the project area
are tentati-rely estimated at B 23 million in 1985 and B 38 million in the
year 2000 (Table 22). By comparison, the river maintenance cost will be
about B 55 million per annum in 1979 prices of which about B 45 m are for
the Chao Phrya and B 10 m for the Nan. To assess the economic effects of
this cost coverage on the inland waterways and competing modes, the
Transport Planning Unit (TPU) in the Mfinistry of Communications has agreed
to extend its ongoing study of road user taxation to the inland waterways
and ports. Terms of reference for inland waterways and ports will generally
follow those for roads agreed between the Government and the Bank, and the
review of inland waterways taxation is expected to be completed by late
1981. During negotiations, the Bank obtained assurances from the Government
that the recommendations from TPU's waterways analysis will be submitted to
the Bank for review and implemented in agreement with the Bank.
B. Coastal Ports
Port Channel Maintenance
6.11      Most of Thailand's coastal ports are riverine with severe draft
restrictions at the rivers' mouth and subject to continuous siltation from
riverborne and littoral sources. Frequent maintenance dredging is required
but the Harbor Department's dreding capacity is limited. Annual maintenance
requirements for example for the 22 ports studied under the Coastal Ports
Study, are 3.1 million cu m (Table 23), whereas the effective maintenance
capacity of the existing dredging fleet is only in the range of 1.5-2.2
million cu m after the retirement of obsolete equipment, and even below that
range, if the equipment is also engaged for capital works (Table 14).
6.12      The project provides for technical assistance to improve main-
tenance planning, organization and operation of plant, and for the purchase
of a shallow draft hopper dredger with an annual capacity of 0.9 million cu
m. Jointly, these project items will increase the capacity and efficiency
of existing plant and replace capacity lost through retiring of deteriorated
equipment. With the annual dredging capacity after project implementation
amounting to between 2.5 and 3.3 million cu m, the maintenance needs of the
22 surveyed ports can possibly be met, but there will still be a capacity
shortfall of presently unknown magnitude, if all coastal ports are taken
into account. Before, however, further plant is purchased and the
maintenance organization suitably expanded, the total needs will be
established and evaluated under this project.
6.13      Maintenance dredging is being undertaken on economic and social
grounds. While no comprehensive analysis has yet been conducted on main-



- 28 -
tenance dredging of all coastal ports, analyses of six selected port
channels indicate that dredging has a strong economic rationale (Table 23).
In all six cases, the maintenance benefits justify the maintenance costs.
Similar analyses for the other ports will be undertaken as part of this
project.
6.14      To evaluate the economics of the new trailing hopper dredger, a
comparison was made with cutter suction dredgers which are the predominant
equipment type currently in use and whose efficiency level is expected to be
raised under the project (Table 24).  Assuming a fallback rate of material
(para. 4.22) of 25% only, which is most likely to be exceeded, under con-
servative assumption the proposed new dredger represents the least cost
solution and has a rate of return of 20%.
Bandon Port Channel
6.15      Bandon is the principal port of Surat Thani changwat which is
located on the east coast of Thailand's southern peninsula about halfway
between the Central Region and Malaysia. With increasing rubber
plantations, flourishing logging activities, oil palm estates, potential
mineral resources and the second most important oil depot on the gulf coast
of southern Thailand, the changwat and Bandon port have good potential for
economic growth. At present, most traffic is being handled at private port
facilities in the center of Surat Thani town, but the Government is building
a new municipal port downstream of the Tapi river to replace the old
municipal wharf with greater quay length and increased water depth. With
the new municipal wharf, port facilities will be adquate for some 10 years
to meet projected traffic but the cost of landing or loading cargo or
petroleum would remain high due to insufficient depth of the 20 km long
access channel in Bandon Bay.  The limiting channel depth, presently 1.6 m
below LWOST, will therefore be increased under the project to 4.0 m below
T,WOST.
6.16      Present and projected port traffic are given in Table 25.  With
over 200,000 tons in 1979, petroleum was by volume the most important
commodity, followed by general cargo, sawn timber and logs. Over the next
15 years, traffic of the last three commodities will increase by at least
70%, and the petroleum traffic is expected to grow at least by 30%. There
is also the potential for palm oil, rubber and baryte traffic, however this
traffic has not been included in the economic analysis. Channel deepening
to 4.0 m below LWOST will eliminate or reduce tidal delays and result in a
gradual substitution of the typical 240 dwt general cargo vessel by 400-600
dwt coasters, in the replacement of the 500 dwt oil tanker by 1,000 and
2,000 dwt units and in more frequent use of 700 dwt ships for log transport.
With the introduction of larger vessels, economies of scale will be
realized, and in cases where existing vessel types will continue port calls,
average load factors will increase, thus also reducing shipping cost. Based
on these assessments and on a traffic forecast halfway between the low and
high estimate, the economic rate of return is estimated at 16%. A summary



- 29 -
sensitivity analysis based on a 20% increase in capital costs and a
simultaneous 20% decrease in benefits which taken together would result in
an unusual degree of investment risk, yields a return of 10%; in view of the
base case assumptions, this is adequate.
Pattani Port Channel
6.17      Pattani changwat, with its capital bearing the same name, is
located on the e'ast coast of Thailand's southern peninsula less than 150 km
from the Malaysian border. Changwat population is about three quarters of a
million people, and the population density is over 200 per km, one of the
highest in the south. Pattani town has a population of about 30,000 people.
The provincial economy is based on agriculture, primarily rice and rubber,
and to a growing extent on marine fishing. The changwat has good transport
connections with the Yala railway center about 40 km south of Pattani town
and road links to the north, west and south. Songkhla port, under study for
conversion into a deepsea facility, is 70 km to the north by road.
6.18      About 160,000 tons of cargo moved through the Pattani port in
1977, of which rubber destined for export represented about 60%. With the
opening of a deepsea port at Songkhla, general cargo activities in Pattani
are expected to decrease sharply. By contrast, Pattani is expected to
remain a leading regional port for landings of fish from Thai and Malaysian
waters even after Songkla has been built, because of the location of fishing
grounds and availability in Pattani of marketing and supply facilities. The
fish, currently about 70,000 tons per year, are destined to consumer markets
in Bangkok, Hat Yai, Malaysia, Pattani changwat and local fish meal
factories. Local processing capacity of trash fish is 20,000 tons p.a.
Fish landings have rapidly increased since the Fish Marketing Organization
(FMO) in 1972 constructed a wharf with fish sorting space, and a cold
storage plant, to be built by the Cold Storage Organization (CSO) in the
near future, will make Pattani even more attractive as a fishing port.
6.19      Limiting waterdepth in the present port channel is 0.8 m below
LWOST, requiring the laden fishing vessels with a draft of 2 m or more,
which constitute 50-60% of the fleet, to restrict their movements to high
tide. Average waiting time for these vessels is 4-6 hrs per port call.
Under the project, the channel depth is to be increased to 2.5 m below LWOST
which would eliminate the delays. To evaluate the project feasibility, it
was assumed that only fishing activities would benefit from the investment,
fish landings would stabilize at about 80,000 tons annually and that channel
maintenance requirements would not significantly increase due to the
project. With these assumptions, the economic rate of return is 17%; and
the return in a sensitivity analysis, under which capital costs are
increased by 20% and benefits decreased by the same percentage, is 9%, which
is satisfactory considering that only benefits from fishing are included in
the analysis.



- 30 -
Overall Project Return
6.20       The weighted average economic rate of return on the investments
under the project is 20%.
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Agreement has been reached with the Government that it will:
(a) require the agencies controlling release of water from the
various dams, to ensure that except in abnormally dry years the
following amounts of water are available downstream:
below Chainat Dam, 80 cu m/sec;
below confluence of rivers Nan and Ping, 200 cu m/sec; and
below Phrom Phiram Dam, 70 cu m/sec (para. 4.05);
(b) restrict commercial sand dredging on the Chao Phrya river
to the sections downstream of Ayutthya or upstream of Chainat
dam within the pool formed by the dam unless there is an excessive
accumulation of sand in the-section which requires removal (para.
4.06);
(c) appoint consultants acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank for
the additional required final engineering, and the supervision of
procurement and of the civil works, on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank (paras. 4.10 and 4.25);
(d) obtain land at Nakhon Sawan and Taphan Hin for construction of the
ports not later than December 31, 1981 (para. 4.12);
(e) lease the demonstration barges and pusher tug to an efficient
private river craft operator agreed by the Bank on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.13);
(f) create the new Waterways Management Division in the Harbor
Department by December 31, 1981 (para. 4.15);
(g) approve a program of technical assistance and training for the
Harbor Department generally in accordance with that outlined
(paras. 4.17 and 4.26 and Annex 1) to this report;
(h) fund an annual budget of B 55 million in 1979 prices for the
maintenance of the Chao Phrya river from Angthong to Nakhon
Sawan and of the Nan river from N4akhon Sawan to Taphan Hin
(paras  4.17 and 6.07);    -



- 31 -
(i) draw up a system for disseminating hydrographic information
concerning the waterways and submit these and the maintenance
program to the Bank for information, for five years after
completing the civil works on the waterways (para. 4.17);
(j) draw up and fund an annual program for all the Harbor Department's
dredging activities, taking into account the findings of the
Coastal Ports Study completed in April 1980 and annually submit
details of the program and funding to the Bank, together with
details of channel survey undertaken in the previous year, for
information for five years after completing the dredging works
(para. 4.26);
(k) let the proposed number of contracts for carrying out civil works
and procuring mechanical and floating equipment and to let these
contracts by ICB in accordance with Bank Guidelines (para.
5.03); and
(1) implement the recommendations of the Transport Planning Unit's
study on user charges for the inland waterways and ports as agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank (para. 6.10).
7.02      The proposed project is suitable for a Bank Loan of US$53 million
equivalent to the Government for a term of 20 years, including a grace
period of 5 years.



- 32 -                                 Table 1
THAILAND
INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
Indicative Inland Freight Traffic of Thailand by Modes /a
Inland
Year      Rail /b               Road               waterways              Total
A. Tons (million)
1968        5.0                 14.0                  8.0                 27.0
1973        5.0                 25.0                  8.0                 38.0
1976        5.4                 37.0 /c               8.5                 50.9
1981        8.2              59.0- 66.0               8.5               75.7- 82.7
1986       10.5              91.0-113.0              11.5              113.0-135.0
1991       13.3             139.0-190.0              13.7              166.0-217.0
B. Ton-km (million)
1968      2,000               3,500                 1,300                6,800
1973      2,000               6,500                 1,300                9,800
1976      2,500               9,700 /c              1,400               13,600
1981      3,500           15,200-17,100             1,400            20,100-22,000
1986      4,500           23,400-29,300             1,950            29,850-35,750
1991      5,700           35,600-49,300             2,400            43,700-57,400
/a  Based on 1978 World Bank draft.  Assumes implementation of Inland Waterways
Project in 1981-83. Estimates exclude coastal shipping which in 1977 is
estimated at 1.2-1.5 million tons.
/b 1968-76 actuals, 1981-1991 projections. Assumed growth rate after 1981
5% p.a.
/c  In an independent assessment, consultants Louis Berger Int., Inc. arrived at
the following tentative estimates for 1978: 61 million tons and 7,800 mil-
lion ton-km.
June 1980



Table 2
- 33 -
THAILAND
INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
Government Investments in Transport During Third and Fourth
Five-Year Development Plan
(B million)/a
Third Development    Fourth Development
Mode                                     Plan 1972-76/b        Plan 1977-81/b
Roads
National                                   8,200                 7,689
Provincial                                 6,800                 7,906
Local                                      1,600                 5,125
Subtotal                              16,600                20,720
Railways                                     2,470                  1,750
Inland waterways and ports                     920                  1,224
Civil aviation (including airports)            890                 4,348
Total                                 20,880                28,042
Transport as percentage of
development expenditures                      20                     11
/a In current prices.
/b Actual expenditures for 1972-76 and projected expenditures for 1977-81.
Source: National Economic and Social Development Board (NESDB).
June 1980



Table 3
- 34 -
THAILAND
INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
River Water Depth Availability
Average number of days per year
Water depth    Lower Chao Phrya  Upper Chao Phrya         Lower Nan
available (m)   without project   without project    Without project /a
0.9              49                   -
1.1              44
1.3              43
1.5              23                  49                  49
1.7              15                 44                   44
1.9              14                 43                   43
2.1               14                 23                  23
2.3               14                 15                  15
2.5               14                 14                  14
2.7               14                 14                  14
2.9              14                  14                  14
3.1
and over           107                149                 149
/a Estimates.
Source: BCEOM.
June 1980



Table 4
- 35 -
THAILAND
INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
Water Depth Availability and Payload by Type of Barge
Water depth    50 tons deadweight    80 tons deadweight   300 tons deadweight
available (m)           (tons)                   (tons)                  (tons)
1.5                  27                       27                    120
1.7                   34                      34                    167
1.9                  42                       48                    200
2.1                   50                      59                    233
2.3                   50                      69                    267
2.5
and over                50                      80                    300
B 45/a                 B45 T/a                B 45 M/a
(tons)                  (tons)                 (tons)
1.5                 260                      250                    240
1.7                 323                      311                    297
1.9                 381                      369                    355
2.1                 439                      427                    413
2.3                 439                      427                    471
2.5                 555                      543                    529
2.7                 613                      601                    587
2.9                 672                      660                    646
3.1
and over               702                     690                    676
/a  Demonstration barge types supplied by the project.
Source: BCEOM.
June 1980



Table 5
- 36 -
THAILAND
INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
Inland Waterways Commodity Flows to Capital Area in 1976
('000 tons)
Origin                                 Paddy and                       All
(Changwat)                 Rice  Maize  other crops  Sand  Cement  Commodities /a
Singburi and northern
Changwats                 118   192       151       3,989       -      4,552
Angthong                     4     -         -      1,745       -       1,574
Tha Reua                   22   664         35        251    676       1,736
Nakhon Luang               46      2         1          -       2          65
Ayutthya                    53    12         4         60       5         273
Other                       -      9         6         14       3          38
Total              243   879       197       6.059    686       8,638
/a Includes commodities not listed separately.
Source: Harbor Department and BCEOM.
April 1980



Table 6
- 37 -
THAILAND
INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
Inland Waterways Fleet 1976 /a
Capacity
Type of vessel         range /b              No. of units           Total capacity /b
Wooden Barges          40 -  60 dwt              1,500                70,000 dwt
61 -  80                 1,300                87,000
81 - 100                   500                43,000
Subtotal I                                3,300               200,000
Steel Barges          100 - 150                    150                20,000
151 - 200                   250                45,000
201 - 300                   350                85,000
Subtotal I                                  750               150.000
Total                                     4,050               350,000
Tow Boats              50 - 100 hp                 700                50,000 hp
101 - 200                   250                38,000
over 200                    50                12,000
Total                                     1,000                100,000
/a Excludes about 2,000-3,000 units with a capacity of below 40 dwt each.
/b Capacity measured in dwt for barges and hp for tow boats.
Source: Harbor Department and BCEOM.
June 1980



- 38 -                                Table 7
THAILAND
INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
Estimated Cargo Tonnages at Coastal Ports, 1977 /a
('000 tons)
Domestic cargo          Foreign cargo
Port                              In         Out          In       Out         Total
Klong Yai                                      -            5        -              5
Tha Chalap                         3           -            -         -             3
Samut Songkhram                  215 (195)    5            2         -            222
Ban Laem                           5           5            -       71             81
Total Bangkok & East           233          10           7        71           311
Chunphon                          39 (14)      2            -         -            41
Langsuan                           -           -            -        -              -
Bandon                           202 (160)   81             -        -            283
Ko Samui                          14          20           -         -             34
Sichon                             1           4           -        46             51
Nakhon Si Thammarat                3           -           -        59             62
Pak Phanang                      129 (126)   13            -         -            142
Songkhla                         317 (245)   26           68       184            595
Pattani                           36          25            -      101            162
Narathiwat                                     -           -        21             21
Tak Bai                            -           -            -         2             2
Total East Coast of
Southern Region             741          171          68       413         1,393
Ranong                             -           -            1        -              1
Khura Buri                         -           -           -         -              -
Takua Pa                           -           -           -         2              2
Pang-Nga                           -           -           -         4              4
Phuket                             -           -          97 (82)  60             157
Krabi                              -           3            -        5              8
Kantang                            8           -          34 (34)  72             114
Pak Bara                           -           -           -          1             1
Total West Coast of
Southern Region                8           3         132       144           287
Overall Total            972         184          207       628         1,991
/a  Figures in parentheses show bulk oil discharged.  Fish landings are excluded
from cargo tonnages.  Port listing is incomplete because of lack of compre-
hensive and consistent statistical summary of coastal ports activities.
Source: Customs Department and Sindhu Maunsell.
June 1980



Table 8
- 39 -
THAILAND
INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
Estimated Fish Landings at Coastal Ports, 1976
('000 tons)
Province                              Ports                            Volume
Trat                          Klong Yai, Wang Krajee                     31
Chanthaburi                   Laem Sing, Chalaeb                         86
Rayong                        Ban Pe, Prasae                             77
Chonburi                      Chonburi, Angsila                         135
Chachoeng Sao                 Chachoeng Sao                              47
Samut Prakarn                 Samut Prakarn, Klong Daen                 139
Samut Sakhon                  Samut Sakhon                              219
Samut Songkhram               Samut Songkhram                            71
Petchaburi                    Ban Laem                                   44
Prachuap Khiri Khan           Hau Hin, Pranburi, Prachuap Khiri Khon   61
Chumphon                      Chumphon, Langsuan                         69
Surat Thani                   Surat Thani, Ko Pangan                     38
Nakhon Si Thammarat           Sichon, Pak Phanang                        59
Songkhla                      Songkhla                                  168
Pattani                       Pattani                                    50
Narathiwat                    Narathiwat                                  1
Ranong                        Ranong                                    104
Phang-Nga                     Phang-Nga, Tai Muang                        9
Phuket                        Phuket                                     31
Krabi                         Krabi                                       5
Trang                         Kantang                                    79
Satun                         Pak Bara                                   27
Total                                                          1,550
Source: Fisheries Record of Thailand and Sindhu Maunsell.
June 1980



Table 9
- 4Qi-
THAILAND
INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
Budget Expenditures of Harbor Department
(B million)
Expenditure items                                     1977      1978      1979
A.  General administration                            10.8      18.4      28.0
B.  Harbor Department services
1.  Pilot services                                 7.9       9.1      7.1
2.  Ship surveys and registration                  2.4       2.6      2.8
3.  Harbor master                                  2.6       2.5      2.6
4.  Port engineering and surveys                   8.8       9.3      8.2
5.  Navigation aids                                7.7       0.2        -
6. Dredging & maintenance - recurrent
activities /a                               64.7     64.8      82.4
7.  Navigation channel dredging projects           1.8       5.7     10.2
8.  Port projects                                    -       1.4      6.3
9.  Miscellaneous                                    -         -      9.3
Total                                 106.7    114.0    156.9
/a Coastal ports and inland waterways combined.
Source: Harbor Department
June 1980



Table 10
- 41 -
THAILAND
INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
Revenues of Harbor Department
(B million)
Revenue categories                          1976      1977     1978      1979
Transportation services /a                  29.2      43.4     41.1      42.0
Miscellaneous service charges                0.7       1.2      2.4       2.1
Compensations                                0.4       0.8      1.1       1.0
Miscellaneous                                0.2       0.2      0.4       0.3
Total                                 30.5     45.6      45.0     45.4
/a  Included are:  vessel licensing and engine surveys, dredger licensing,
pilot services.
Source: Harbor Department
June 1980



THAILAN'
INLAND WATERWAYS AND CO.      'ORTS PROJECT
Shallow Reaches on River Chao Phrya and Summary of the Proposed Works
Reach              Km          Plan No.               Description                                Cause                                      Remedy
KOH KLANG NAM    321.2 - 316.7   CP 107,       Long straight stretch and island         Wide section (400 m) involving              30 groins (2,500 m)
CP 108,     dividing the flow in two branches        decrease of velocity and spreading          10 bottom panels (230 m)
CP 109      14 existing bottom panels almost         of the flow in minor channels.               1 closing off groin (240 m)
successful closing secondary                                                          I low dike (300 m)
branch.                                                                              dredging:
length - 4,500 m
Minimum depth - 0.80 m                                                                . volume = 131,000 m
KOH TA NIU       315.7 - 313.2   CP 110,       Long straight stretch and island        Wide section (350 m)                         22 groins (1,520 m)
CP 111      dividing the flow in two branches.       decrease of velocity and spre.. ing          1 low dike (550 m)
of the flow in minor channels.               4 closing off groins (400 m)
Minimum depth = 0.80 m                                                               dredging:
. length = 2,500 m                         a
. volume - 93,000 cu m
HAD YANG KHAO    311.3 - 308.7   CP 112        Long straight stretch and island         Very wide bed (350 m) involving             11 groins (920 m)
dividing the flow in two branches.       decrease of velocity and spreading           1 low dike (320 m)
of the flow in minor channels.               2 closing off groins (220 m)
Minimuta depth = 0.80 m                                                               7 botton panels (160 m)
dredging:
lengtht  2,000 in
volume   51,000 cu m
BAN BANG PRAB    306.7 - 306.2   CP 113        Short shoal between two deeps near      Channel shifting from one side to            12 bottom panels (280 m)
opposite banks.                          the other and widening of the river         dredging:
bed.                                         . length = 500 m*
11inimum depth = 1.40 n                                                               . volume - 12,000 cu m
UPSTREAM LIMIT
CHAO PHRAYA      303              -            -
DAM POOL
Source: BCEOM.
June 1980                                                                                                                                                                       " |
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .-



Reach              Ku          Plan No.               Description                                Cause                                      Remedy
KOH YUAN         338.2 - 337.5   CP 101,       Straight shoal downstream of Ping        Important bed load coming from              19 groins (1,050 m)
and Nan junction, at Nakhon Sawan,      Ping river and decrease of                   dredging:
including Port Area.                    velocities.                                   . length - 700 m
8 existing bottom panels success-                                                     . volume = 25,000 cu m
fully closing secondary channel on
right side, in low water season.
Minimum depth = 0.8 m.
NAKHON SAWON     337
PORT
DETCIIATIWONG    336.4 - 335.5   CP 102        Short shoal between two deeps near       Too wide bed at the beginning of            19 bottom panels (440 m)
opposite banks in a curve.              the curve, as the channel shifts             dredging:
from left to right.                            length - 500 m
N inimum depth = 1.0 m.                                                               . volume = 16,000 cu m
WAT THU NAM      332.6 - 331.7   CP 103        Channel shifting from left to            Shifting af channel between two              7 bottom panels (160 m)
right.                                   consecutive and slight curves.              dredging:
length - 100 m
Minimum depth (1.70 m) is enough                                                      . volume - 2,000 cu m
but this channel is too narrow and
should be smoothed.
KOH KLANG DAET   321.7 - 324.7   CP 105        Island separating the channel in         Part of the discharge in low water          Improvement of the closure of
two branches.                            season still goes through the main          the main channel by means of a
10 existing bottom panels almost        channel.                                     closing groin located at the
successful closing main channel on                                                   downstream end of the main
left side.                                                                           branch, total length = 250 m.
Navigable channel with enough depth                                                  dredging:
(1.80 m) but narrow in some places                                                    . length = 800 m
and to be smoothed.                                                                   . volume = 10,000 cu m
BANG llA FO      32.7 - 22.7      CP 106       Short shoal between two deeps near       Shifting of channel between two              9 bottom panels on the inner
opposite banks in a curve.              consecutive curves and important                site (210 m)
8 existing bottom panels on right       widening of the river.                       11 groins on the outer side
side, not effective.                    Angle of existing alignment of                  (500 m)
bottom panels with main flow lines          dredging:
Minimum depth e 1.0 m                    too large.  No maintenance on                . length - 700 m
these panels.                                . volume - 29.000 cu m
mo'



Reach              Km          Plan No.               Description                                Cause                                       Remedy
WAT SRI MONGHON  229.7 - 226.2   CP 203,       Straight reach.                          Decreasing velocities in wide               16 groins (1,760 m)
CP 204      Former existing panels (14) removed    section (350 m).                               16 bottom panels (370 m)
by RID.                                                                              dredging:.
. length - 2,800 m
Minimum depth = 0.80 m                                                                . volume = 66,000 cu m
SAPPHAYA         225.7 - 225.2   CP 205        Short shoal between two deeps near       Channel shifting from left side             10 groins (500 m)
opposite banks.                         to right side in a curve.                     I low dike (520 m)
Former existing panels (8) removed                                                    8 bottom panels (180 m)
by RID.                                                                              dredging:
. length - 500 m
Minimum depth = 0.90 m                                                                . volume = 22,000 cu m
WAT KAMPAIIG     224.2 - 219.2   CP 205,       Long straight stretch                    Low velocities in wide section              37 groins (4,140 m)
CP 206,     Former existing panels (13) removed    (350 m).                                        6 bottom panels (140 m)
CP 207      by RID.                                                                               dredging:
length = 5,600 m
Minimum depth = 0.80 m                                                                . volume - 192,000 cu m
J>
WAT KONGKARAM    218.3 - 215.2   CP 207,       Long straight stretch                    Wide section (300 m).                       15 groins (1,700 m)
CP 208      Minimum depth - 1.10 m                                                                11 bottom panels (250 m)
Former existing panels (12) removed                                                  dredging:
by RID.                                                                               . length - 3,200 m
volume - 92,000 cu m
BAN CHI NAM RAI  213.7 - 211.7   CP 209        Meander with sharp curves.               Channel shifting from one side to           19 bottom panels (440 m)
Minimum depth = 1.30 m                   the other in curves and widening            dredging:
Narrow channel.                          of the river between two narrow              . length = 2,000 m
sections.                                    . volume - 44,000 cu m
BANG CHOM SI     210.4 - 207.2   CP 210,       Long straight stretch with existing    Too wide channel, RID groins do not           28 groins (2,860 m)
CP 211      groins installed by RID.                 seem sufficient (permeable groins             7 bottom panels (160 m)
Former existing bottom panels (39)      leaving too wide channel).                   dredging:
removed by RID.                                                                       . length - 3,100 m
volume - 112,000 cu m
Mlinimum depth = 1.00 m
aQ r
a H



Reach               Km          Plan No.               Description                                 Cause                                       Remedy
WAT PHRA SUK      206.7 - 206.3   CP 211        Short shoal between two consecutive    Channel shifting from right side                8 bottom panels (180 m)
curves.                                  to left side between consecutive             dredging:
curves.                                       . length = 400 m
Minimum depth = 1.20 m                                                                  . volupe - 10,000 cu m
WAT PHRA NON -   204.3 - 197.8   CP 214        Long shoal in a straight stretch.         Wide and straight section, with              49 groins (4,770 m)
WAT YANG                                       l{inimum depth - 0.80 m                   wandering channels.                          13 bottom panels (300 m)
28 existing bottom panels removed                                                     dredging:
by RID.                                                                                 . length = 6,500 m
volume = 255,000 cu m
YAN SAMAK         195.3 - 190.2   CP 215,      Long straight stretch, wide river         Wide (300 m) and straight section,           49 groins (3,950 m)
CP 216      bed.                                      wandering minor channels.                    11 bottom panels 9250 m)
14 existing bottom panels removed                                                     dredging:
by RID.                                                                                 . length - 6,000 m
volume = 192,000 cu m
I1inimum depth = 0.80 m
a.
BAN BANG MAN      189.7 - 188.7   CF 217       Short shoal in a meander, between         Channel shifting from right side             12 bottom panels (280 m)
consecutive curves/                      to left side between consecutive             dredging:
curves.                                       . length = 1,000 m
Minimum depth = 1.40 m                                                                  . volume = 35,000 cu m
WAT SI SAKHON    186.2 - 178.7   CP 218        Long straight stretch.                    Wandering channels in wide section           65 groins (4,250 m)
CP 219                                                with low velocities.                          4 bottom panels (70 m)
CP 220      Minimum depth = 0.80 m                                                                 dredging:
length - 7,200 m
volume = 265,000 cu m
BAN HUA PA        177.7 - 175.2   CP 221       Straight stretch between two curves    Wandering channels shifting from                15 groins (880 m)
one side to the other in a section           13 bottom panels (300 m)
Minimum depth = 1.30 m                   with low velocities.                          dredging:
length = 2,000 m-
volume = 61,000 cu m
Im 
a- 
4 {



Reach               Km          Plan No.                Description                                 Cause                                        Remedy
WAT PAKAI         174.7 - 173.7   CP 222,       Shoal (narrow channel) between            Channel shifting from left side               17 bottom panels (390 m)
consecutive curves.                       to right side between curves.                dredging:
length = 1,000 m
Minimum depth = 1.60 m                                                                   . volume - 32,000 cu m
BAN SAI           170.7 - 168.2   CP 223,       Straight shoal between two curves.        Channel wandering and shifting                15 groins (770 m)
CP 224      Deep holes due to private sand             from one side to the other.                    1 low dike (500 m)
dredging.                                                                               10 bottom panels (230 m)
dredging:
Minimum depth = 1.20 m                                                                   . length = 2,500 m
volume = 70,000 cu m
WAT PRASAT        167.2 - 165.9   CP 224,       Shoal in a wide curve.  Deep holes        Too wide channel (decrease of                  9 groins (780 m)
CP 225      due to private sand dredging.             velocity).                                    dredging:
. length = 1,300 m
Minimum depth = 1.30 m                                                                   . volume = 31,000 cu m
WAT KHO PUN       164.1 - 161.7   CP 226        Straight and wide stretch.                Too wide channel.                             20 groins (1,230 m)
CP 227                                                                                              dredging:                                     4
Minimum depth = 1.00 n                                                                   . length = 2,300 m
volume - 62,000 cu m
WAT MAHANAM       161.0 - 158.7   CP 226,       Straight and wide stretch.                Too wide channel.                             20 groins (1,250 m)
CP 227                                                                                              dredging:
Minimum depth = 1.20 m                                                                   . length = 1,800 m
volume = 32,000 cu m
WAT SAKET         157.9 - 156.5   CP 227,       Straight and wide stretch.                Too wide channel.                             11 groins (790 m)
CP 228      Minimum depth (1.70 m) enough but                                                       dredging:
the channel is too narrow and must                                                       . length = 1,000 m
be smoothed.                                                                             . volume = 35,000 cu m
ANTHONG           150              -            -                                                                                       dredging:
length - 9,900 m
volume - 262,000 cu m
Total Upper + Lower Chao Phraya:
Length of groins           -     37,000 m approx.
Length of low dikes        -      2,000 m approx.
Length of bottom panels  -        5,000 m approx.
Dredged quantity           -  2,000,000 cu m approx.                                                                                                    e l
a 'n



- 47 -                                       Table 12
THAILAND
INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
Inland Waterways Subproject - Detailed Costs
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total
Item                                      --- (Baht million) --    ------ (US$'OOO) ------
Civil Works
River Works
Site mobilization                                 16       4        20       800      200   1,000
Dredging                                          26       80      106    1,300   4,000   5,300
Bank rehabilitation                               70       30      100    3,500   1,500   5,000
River structures                                  84       81      165    4,200   4,050   8,250
Navigation aids                                    9       10       19       450      500     950
Subtotal                                   205      205       410   10.250  10.250  20.500
Port Works
Nakhon Sawan
Mobilization & site clearance                   22        5       27    1,100       250   1,350
Dredging & filling                              15      22        37       750   1,100   1,850
Berth construction & bank protection             6      15        21       300      750   1,050
Yard surfacing & building                       12      11        23       600      550   1,150
Rail & road access                               6      30        36       300   1,500   1,800
Utilities & ancillary works                      7       12       19       350      600     950
Subtotal                                    68       95       163    3,400   4,750   8,150
Taphan Hin
Miobilization & site clearance                   9        3       12       450      150     600
Filling                                          2       2         4       100      100     200
Berth construction & bank protection             2       8        10       100     400      500
Yard surfacing & building                        6       5         1       300      250     550
Rail & road access                              12       16       28       600      800   1,400
Utilities & ancillary works                      4       6        10       200      300     500
Subtotal                                    35       40        /5    1,750   2,000   3,750
Land acquisition                                22       -        22    1,100         -   1,100
Mechanical Equipment
Cargo-handling Equipment
3 Mobile cranes 12/14 tons                         1        9       10        50      450     500
6 Fork lift trucks 1-1/2 ton & 3 ton               -       4         4         -      200     200
3 Tractors                                      0.5      0.5         1        25       25      50
6 Trailers                                       0.5     0.5         1        25       25      50
Subtotal                                     2       14        16      100      700      800
2 Maintenance P.C. pile driving rigs                 2        8       10       100      400     500
Survey & miscellaneous maintenance equipment         1        4        5        50      200     250
Subtotal                                     5       26        31      250   1,300   1,550
Floating Equipment
3 Maintenance dredgers & tugs (work boats)           5      100      105       250   5,000   5,250
4 River- barges & 1 pusher tug                       2        8       10       100      400     500
Subtotal                                     7      108       115      350   5.400   5,750
Consultant Services for Supervision of Works           -       45        45        -   2,250   2,250
Technical Assistance & Training
Technical assistance for Harbor Dept.                1        7         8       50      350     350
Overseas training                                    -        3         3        -      150      150
Nan River & Taphan Hin port final engineering    -            4         4        -      200      200
Subtotal                                     1       15        15       50      750      750
Base Project Cost                          325      529       854   16,300  26.700  42,700
Physical contingencies (12% Base Cost)                44       55        99    2,200   2,750   4,950
Price contingencies (31% Base Cost)                  101      166       267    5,000   8,350  13,350
Total                                      486      756    1.242   24.300  37.800  62.100
Source: Bank staff & BCEOM.
June 1980



THAILAND
INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
Construction Schedule
I ___     -       1 9 8 1 9                                    l_ _1 9 8 2                                 1 9 8 3
Item a                           J.F.M. I  A.M.J.    J.A.S.    O.N.D.    J.F.M.    A.M.J. I  J.A.S. I  O.N.D. I  J.F.M. I  A.M.J. I  J.A.S. I  O.N.D. |
Inland Water Transport                                   I                     I          I                      I          I
River works                                            I                                           I                      I          i
Nakhon Sawan Port                i          I                     I          I          I         I           I _ |
IIIIIII                                     I                                           I           I          I          I     
Taphan Hin Port                  I          I          i          i                               I                              _  1        _  4                      I
Mechanical equipment             I          i          I          I            _          _          _          _          4         I
I          I          I          I          r          I          I11                              1           1          1          1
Floating equipment                                     I _         I _        I      _                                               I                     I
Supervision                                 1          1          1          1          1          1          1           1          1    _     1          1 
I    i  i          i          i    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~i i        i          i           i          i          i I I
Technical assistance
& training                                 _         1  1       1          1          1          1          1
I          I          iiiii' I                                                     I                     . I        I           I
Coastal Ports                                            I          I                                           I           I          I                      I
Dredging at Bandon & surveys  I-Survey/Documents--I---Bid-----               4          4    -                            )                     j                      I
I    I         ~~~~~II                                      IIIIIII
Dredging at Pattani              I-Sur-ey/Documents--I---Bid---I    -                              I _                   I           I          I          I           I
Procurement of dredger           I-Spec.-I-- Bid -I-                                    J..._  L ....4  I                I|I                    I
Supervision                      I          i         I i                     _         I _          ___i___
Technical assistance                                                         I          I          I          I                      I                     I
& training                                          _ _          [ _        I                    i__   - --| _                     I          i          i          i
Source:  Bank staff, BECOH, and Maunsell.
June 1980.



Table 14
- 49 -
THAILAND
APPRAISAL OF INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
Coastal Ports Subpro_Ject - Detailed Costs
Local  Foreign  Total       Local  Foreign  Total
Item                                               --- (Baht million) --       ----- (US$'000) ----
1. Dredging Works
Entrance channel at Bandon                     23       79      102      1,150   3,950   5,100
Entrance channel at Pattani                     4       10       14        200     500      700
Geophysical & hydrographic surveys
including borings & tracer studies            4       1         5        200      50      250
Subtotal                          31       90      121      1,550   4,500   6,050
2. Floating Craft
Provision of 400 cu m self-propelled
trailing hopper dredger                      10     100       110        500   5,000   5,500
3. Consultant Services
For final engineering & supervision
of dredging works; preparation of
outline specification & inspection
for dredger procurement                         -      16        16          -     800      800
4.  Technical Assistance & Training                   -       20        20         -   1,000   1,000
Base Cost                         41      226      267      2,050  11,300  13,350
Physical contingencies
(13% of Base Cost)                              6      28        34       300   1,400   1,700
Price contingencies (24% Base Cost)              15       50       65        750   2,500   3,250
Total                             62      304      366      3,100  15,200  18,300
Source:  Bank staff and Sindhu Maunsell.
June 1980



Table 15
- 50 -
THAILAND
INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
Estimated IBRD Disbursement Schedule
(US$'000)
IBRD
fiscal year
and quarter              Quarter                Cumulative
1981
II                    400                      400
III                  2,010                    2,410
IV                   3,310                    5,720
1982
I                    4,310                   10,030
II                   4,510                   14,540
III                  5,060                   19,600
IV                   6,260                   25,860
1983
I                    6,500                  32,360
II                   6,260                   38,620
III                  3,900                  42,520
IV                   3,000                  45,520
1984
I                    2,900                  48,420
II                    2,500                   50,920
III                    2,080                   53,000
Source: Bank Staff.
June 1980



THAILAND
INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
Modal Split of Traffic in Inland Waterways Project Area /a
Split
without                                             Split (%) with Project
Origin (o) or           project              1985                      1990                     1995                      2000
Traffic                   destination (d)         T    R   B  '000 tons   T   R   B  '000 tons   T   R   B  '000 tons   T   R   B  '000 tons   T   R   B
----% -----               ----%----                 ---- %-_ _               ----%----                 ---- %----
Rice                  Phra Pradaeng (d) /b         79   7  14    2,031    67   5  28    2,378    63   5  32    2,515    57   5  38    2,638    50   5  45
Maize                 Same                         84   2  14    2,301    76   2  22    2,324    72   3  25    2,201            70   3  27    1,994      67   3  30
Maize                 Sattahip (d)                 68  32   -       577    65  15  20         993    62  17  21    1,466    58  18  24    1,984    56  18  26
Tapioca               Koh Si Chang (d)            100   -   -       157    78   -  22         166    78   -  22         179    78   -  22        190    78   -  22
Raw sugar             Phra Pradaeng (d)           100   -   -       108    80   -  20         117    77   -  23         126    74   -  26        134    71   -  29
Barite, fluorite    Klong Toei or
and manganese         Phra Pradaeng (d) /c    49  51   -          648      5  30  65        686     5  29  66        618      5  28  67        525      5  27  68
Sattahip (d) /c             44  56   -        810      4  40  56        980      3  39  58    1,030       3  35  62    1,050        2  28  70
Gypsum                Three destinations (d)    80  20   -          236    74  13  13         266    71  13  16         303    67  13  20        352    63  13  24
Zinc                  Klong Toei (d)               80  20   -        60    25  20  55          60    20  20  60          60    15  20  65         60    10  20  70
Petroleum products  Klong Toei (o) /d              36  64   -    2,026    29  58  13    2,795    27  51  22    3,563    22  49  29    4,330    20  46  34
Cement                Tha Reua (o) /e              72  28   -       640    55  27  18         939    54  27  19    1,320    52  25  23    1,849    50  25  25
Other construction  Tha Reua or
materials /f          Phra Pradaeng (o)         77  23   -        327    69  23   8         480    68  23   9        671    67  22  11         943    67  22  11
Total excluding petroleum products                           7,895              28    9,389              30   10,489               31   11,719               33
/a  Traffic originating in or destined to project's area of influence (about 20 changwats between and including Chieng Rai and Lopburi changwats).
/b Phra Pradaeng is located in Bangkok area.
Ic  Transport by truck or rail to Nakhon Sawan river port, and thereafter by barge to Bangkok area or Sattahip.
/d Volumes expressed in '000 cu m, not tons.
/e  Site of cement factory on Pasak river.  Barge traffic up to Nakhon Sawan river port; transport from there to final destination mostly by truck.
If Fxcluding sand.
Legend: T - truck, R - rail, B - barge
Source: BCEOM
June 1980
H



Table 17
- 52 -
THAILAND
INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
Estimated Transport Costs of Shipments Through Nakhon Sawan Port /a
(B/ton)
Year/
Mode          period    Rice /b  lIaize /b  Maize /c  Petroleum /d  Cement Ye
Without Project
Truck /f        1985-2000    257       235      324,280        178           167
Rail If         1985-2000    272       222      226,267        129           159
Barge           1985-2000    258       222         -             -            -
With Project
Truck]a         1985-2000    257    220-208   259-241
Rail            1985-2000    272    114-195   246-228            -            -
Barge Ih        1985-2000  152-123  170-125   191-159           66         131-103
/a  Economic costs in 1979 prices of shipments from or to Nakhon Sawan changwat.
Feeder transport and transshipment included, as appropriate.
/b Rice or maize shipped to Phra Pradaeng.
/c lIaize shipped to Sattahip.
/d Petroleum products originating from Klong Toei (Bangkok).
/e Cement shipped from Tha Reua (on Pasak river).
/f Maize destined to Sattahip: direct road or rail shipment to destination; or
road or rail transport to Tha Reua silos and barge transport from there to
final destination.
/g  Maize shipments to Phra Pradaeng and Sattahip:  road or rail transport to
Tha Reua and water transport to final destination.
/h Costs declining over time due to fleet conversion to larger barges and
pushed convoys.
Source:  BCEOM.
June 1980



Table 18
- 53 -
THAILAND
INLA21D WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
Inland Waterways Traffic to Bangkok from Singburi or North, 1976 Ia
('000 tons)
Origin                                      Commodities
(southbound                             Other
traffic /b)        Rice  Paddy  Maize  crops  Subtotal  Logs  Sand  Other  Total
Upper North           1       -       3      -        4       5        -    5       14
Phichit              10       2     27       1       40       -        -    2       42
Taphan Hin           11       5    107       1      124       -        -    1      125
Bang Mun Nak         39       2       7      2       50       -        -    2       52
Chumsaeng            27       2      8       2       39       1        -    3       43
Nakhon Sawan          5       8      16      1       30      37        -   20       87
Phayuha Khiri         8    114      21       2      145        1       -    3      149
Uthai Thani           1       5       2      1        9       4        4    1       18
Chainat               6       1      1       1        9       1        -    9       19
Singburi             10       -      -       1       11       2   3,985    5   4,003
Total          118    139    192       12     461       51   3.989   51   4.552
/a  Singburi is located in southern section of Chao Phrya river project.  1976
is most recent year in which complete traffic survey was undertaken.
/b Recorded 1976 northbound traffic was about 10,000 tons.
Source: Harbor Department and BCEOM.
June 1980



Table 19
- 54 -
THAILAND
INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
Projected Nakhon Sawan (NS) and Taphan Hin (TH) Ports Traffic
('000 tons or cu m) /a
1985           1990            1995            2000
Traffic type              NS     TH       NS     TH       NS     TH       NS     TH
Rice                       215   148       298   200       396   252       479   310
Maize /b                   349 } 201       388 } 251       424 } 259       436 } 269
Maize Ic                    74 }           151 }           261 }           393 }
Tapioca                     35      -       37     -        40     -        42     -
Raw sugar                   22      -       27     -        33     -        39     -
Subtotal I            695   349       901   451    1,154   511    1,388   578
Barite, fluorite
and manganese ores       449     -       568     -       635     -       730     -
Gypsum                      31      -       43     -        60     -        83     -
Zinc                        33      -       36     -        39     -        42     -
Subtotal II           513     -       647     -       734     -      855      -
Cement                     116      -      174     -       304     -       449     -
Other construction
materials                 27     -        44     -        77     -       109     -
Subtotal III          143     -       218     -       381     -      558      -
Subtotal I-III      1,351   349    1,766   451    2,269   511    2,801   578
Petroleum products         260      -      619      -    1,029     -    1,462      -
/a  Petroleum products are measured in cu m; all other traffic is expressed in
tons.
/b  Maize destined to Phra Pradaeng (Bangkok).
/c Maize destined to Sattahip.
Source: BCEOM.
June 1980



Table 20
THAILAND
INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
Barge Fleet Composition and Comparative Rice and Maize Transport Cost /a
Nakhon Sawan Port        Taphan Hin Port
River craft /b       8 x80   4 x 300   4 x 700   8 x 80   4 x300
A.  Fleet Composition (%) /c
Without project                  100         0          0       100         0
With project        1985          50        40         10        60        40
1990          30       30         40         40       60
1995          10       20         70         20       80
2000           0        0        100          0      100
B. Comparative Cost (B/ton)
Without project                  155         -          -       190         -
With project                     101        66         36       143        91
/a  Economic cost (yearly average) in 1979 prices for river transport only to
Phra Pradaeng (Bangkok).
/b  Convoys consisting of eight towed 80-ton wooden barges, four towed 300-ton
steel barges or four pushed 700-ton steel barges.
/c Percentage figures refer to tonnages transported.
Source: BCEOM.
June 1980



Table 21
- 56 -
THAILAND
INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
Chao Phrya River Improvement and Nakhon Sawan Port Construction
Commodity Distribution of Benefits
(B nillion)/a
Product                                    1985       1990       1995      2000
Rice                                         45         72        105       141
liaize                                        71       104        140       179
Tapioca                                       5          6          8         9
Raw sugar                                     2          3          3         4
Barite, fluorite and manganese               34         47         54        67
Zinc                                          3          4          4         5
Petroleum products                            24        52         88       122
Cement                                         7        12         22        37
Other construction materials                   2         3          6         9
Total                                 193        302       430        573
Share of agricultural produce (%)            64         61         60        58
/a 1979 prices.
Source:  BCEONI.
June 1980



Table 22
- 57 -
THAILAND
INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
Projected Government Revenues from Inland Waterway Transport, 1985-2000 /a
A. Tax breakdown by cost categories /b
Total financial
Cost category     Unit             cost               Taxes
Depreciation      B/hr              243                 48
Fuel                                592                 90
License                                1                 1
Other                                195                21
Total        B/hr            1,031                160
%               100                 16
B.  Projected revenues (B million)
1985         1990          1995         2000
23           29            33            38
/a Based on 1979 tax rates and prices and projected traffic originating from or
terminating in project area.
/b Based on push-convoy consisting of one tug and four B45 barges.
Source: BCEOM
June 1980



Table 23
- 58 -
THAILAND
INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
Economics of Channel Maintenance Dredging for Harbor Department Ports
Annual
dredging             Annual costs /b and benefits /c
Port                     commitment ja          Costs        Benefits        Net
('000 cu m)            -----      (B million) ---------
Bandon (outer channel)            150                 8.1          47.9/d         39.8
Samut Songkram                    294                 6.5           6.6            0.1
Samut Sakhon                      115                 2.5           7.9            5.4
Pattani                           145                 2.2           8.7            6.5
Ranong                             70                 1.7           4.8            3.1
Khlong Tachin                      75                 1.7           3.8            2.1
Subtotal                     954               22.7          79.7           57.0
Additional 16
surveyed ports                2,185               -------- Not available ----
Total                      3,139
/a  Excluding proposed Phuket deep-sea port.  Commitment 1based on estimated rate
of accretion and zero fallback of excavated material due to disposal near
dredging site.
/b Includes cost of operating and depreciating equipment and interest on in-
vested capital (1979 prices).
/c Benefits primarily from reduction in ship waiting time and utilization of
larger vessels (1979 prices). Benefits calculated an assumption that
channels haave been dredged to recommended depth under capital program.
/d B 31 million of the benefits relate to oil tanker traffic.
Source: Sindhu Maunsell.
June 1980



Table 24
- 59 -
THAILAND
INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
Capacity of Harbor Department Dredging Fleet
Deployed on Coastal Ports, 1979
(million cu m p.a.)
Existing               Potential capacity /a
capacity at fallback of         at fallback /b of
Dredger type                  0%       25%     50%            0%      25%    50%
Core fleet |c
KH  2                        0.41
KH  4                        0.41
KH  5                        0.49
KH  7                        0.49
KH 15                        0.57
KH 17                        0.57
Subtotal I               2.94    2.20    1.47           3.09    2.41   1.61
Requiring replacement
KH 1                         0.20
KH 3                         0.27
Subtotal II              0.47    0.35    0.24
Total                    3.41    2.55    1.71
/a  Potential capacity to be achieved as result of improvements in planning,
organization and operations of maintenance activities of Harbor Department.
/b  Annual fallback of sand into channel after dredging due to sand disposal
near dredging site. The fallback volume is estimated at between 25% and
50% of excavated material on average.
/c  KH 2 and KH 4 are trailing hopper dredgers.  The remainder are cutter
suction dredgers.
Source: Sindhu Maunsell.
June 1980



THAILAND
INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
Bandon Port Traffic /a
('000 tons)
General cargo (In) and Sawn Timber (Out)                  Petroleum                          Logs
Normal         Diverted    Total          Normal    Diverted    Total   Normal   Diverted   Total
Year /b      In       Out      In   Out   In & out         In          In          In      Out         Out        Out
1975          32       29     -       -       61            93          -          93       56         -           56
1978          40       10     -       -       50           200          -         200       50         -           50
1979          31       21     -       -       52           210          -         210       42         -           42
1982 /c    36-30   23-20  16-10  31-8  106-68            243-200      72-65    315-265    46            10         56
1985       43-30   23-20  18-10  33-8  117-68            281-200    105-75    386-275    56            20          76
1990       48-30   24-20  23-10  38-8  133-68            359-200    144-80    503-280    62            20          82
1995        50-30   29-20  30-10  45-8  154-68           458-200    183-80    641-280    69            20          89
/a  Ranges indicate high and low estimates.
/b 1975-79 actual; 1982-95 projected traffic.
/c Dredging assumed to be completed in 1981.
Source: Sindhu Maunsell.
June 1980



ANNEX I
- 61 -                            Page 1
THAILAND
INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Training
1.        The Harbor Department will administer the Inland Waterways and
Coastal Ports components of the project with the help of consultants, but is
weak in management, organization of works and maintenance programs, economic
planning, statistical records, surveying of work undertaken, and operation of
its dredgers.
2.        These problems are recognized by the Department which is anxious
to obtain technical assistance to correct them, and to send appropriate
members of its staff for training overseas. Provision has accordingly been
made to finance appropriate technical assistance and training in both sub-
projects. For the proposed technical assistance, specialist consultants will
operate with the Harbor Department in Bangkok in accordance with terms of
reference and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank.
Overseas training will be for staff selected by the Harbor Department to
attend university or other courses, acceptable to the Department and the Bank,
in an overseas country.
3.        Provision in the two subprojects covers the following broad
categories of assistance:
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Inland Waterways                                Coastal Ports
Man-                                   Man-
Items                                months   Items                         months
1.  Dredging & rivers works main-              1.  Planning & management of
tenance operations &                           maintenance, economic
hydrographic surveying           18            selection of channel
depths & statistical
records                  45
2.  Port operations & documenta-               2.  Dredger operation &
tion                             6             maintenance              24
3.  River maintenance planning &               3.  Channel surveys              6
statistical records              8
Total                        32                Total                  75



ANNEX I
-62-                              Page 2
OVERSEAS TRAINING
Inland Waterways                             Coastal Ports
No. of                                      No. of
persons                           Years    persons                          Years
3  Economic planning             4-1/2       1 M4anagement                   1
3  Statistics, administrative                1 Economic planning           1-1/2
& management information   1-1/2
1 Dredging management              1/2       1  Statistics, administra-
tive & management
information                1/2
2  Dredging management          1
Total                    6-1/2                 Total               4-1/2
The average cost for each man-month of technical assistance inclusive of fees
and international travel is expected to be about US$10,000 equivalent plus
local allowances of about US$2,000 equivalent per man-month. Each man-year of
overseas training is expected to cost US$20,000 equivalent, including
international travel.
June 1980



ANNEX 2
Page 1
- 63 -
THAILATD
INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
Use of Groins, Low Dikes and Bottom Panels
A. General
1.        The improvement of the waterway characteristics calls for the use of
various techniques, some of which have already been successfully applied to
the rivers concerned in this project.
2.        Deepening and widening of the natural river channel with a view to
making it navigable, or creating a channel, is done by dredging. This simple
solution is only effective in the long run if backed up by other measures
aimed at preventing the channel from being filled up by sediment carried by
the river in flood and deposited as the flow drops, and stabilizing it by
preventing it from moving back to its original course.
3.        Narrowing of the cross section of the river where the bed is too
wide will concentrate the low-water flow in the dredged channel and thus
reduce the requirement to dredge by improving its self cleansing characteris-
tics. Experience has shown that the best results in the narrowing of wide
reaches are obtained by structures which create gentle meanders rather than
attempting to completely straighten the channel.
4.        The structures normally used to achieve these objectives are
groins, low dykes, and bottom panels.
B. Groins and Low Dikes (Map No. 14861)
5.        The structures used when perpendicular (or nearly so) to the river
bank are termed groins and when parallel to the river bank are termed low
dikes; they should not project very far above the low-water level so as to
avoid worsening flood flow conditions. These structures can be built of
quarried materials, but such structures are expensive, especially in regions
where no suitable rock outcrops exist in the vicinity of the river, as is the
case with almost the entire length of the Chao Phrya river.  However,
prefabricated structures are satisfactory. These comprise precast concrete
slabs 2.4 m, 3.2 m or 4.6 m long x 0.5 m high x 0.05 m thick with U shaped
steel inserts on one face which are looped over and held by. pairs of rails or
pile sections driven into the river bed at 1.5 m, 2.0 m or 3.1 m centers
respectively. The slabs are placed one above the other from the bed level to
about 0.5 m above low water to form a panel. The panels are not placed
adjacent to each other horizontally but are spaced with about 0.4 m interval
between adjacent panels.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
- 64 -
6.        Groins and low dikes are in general used for channel and bank
stabilization and for closing minor channels and are built to the required
length from a number of panels. The longer panels (slabs) are used nearer
the bank where water pressure is less. The total length of the successive
groynes spaced along the bank and the number thereof is determined by the
requirements of the particular reach under improvement.
C. Bottom Panels (Map No. 14861)
7.        The objective of bottom panels is to concentrate river flow in the
new channel alignment. They are constructed in the same manner as groins,
but are not built outwards from the river bank; instead they are of fixed
length and placed so that the end of the panel nearest mid river is placed
along an imaginary line which curves out from the bank and is tangential to
the line of flow at its outer (mid-river) end; the panels are placed at an
angle to this imaginary (setting out) line; the angle varies from about 200
to the setting out line for panels at the outer end to 700/800 for panels
adjacent to the bank. Bottom panels are all of the same length, in general
about 25 m, and composed of 2.4 m or 3.2 m panels.
8.        By locating the bottom panels at an angle to the flow as referred
to above, they also create eddies which tend to deepen in front (mid-
riverside) of the panel and deposit material behind (bankside) thus
narrowing the reach.
9.        Dredged material is placed between groins and behind bottom panels.
June 1980



ANNEX 3
Page 1
- 65 -
THAILAND
INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
Pusher Tug and Barge Convoy
A. Standard Pushed Convoy
1.        The proposed pusher type convoy has been designed to have maximum
payload, bearing in mind the restriction imposed by the lock at the Chainat
Dam. This lock has a length of 160 m and a width of 13.4 m with an
additional 30 cm clearance on each side.
2.        For variation in goods conveyed, it is better to have several
barges in a convoy rather than one big barge; four barges, two abreast, is
the best arrnagement. Barge width is therefore limited to 6.7 m.
3.        The pushed barge convoy needs a larger channel on bends than on
straight sections of the waterways; the extra width is dependent upon the
length and width of the convoy and the angle approach for the particular
bend radius (the drift angle). The channel width proposed in the project
will be adequate.
B. Types of Barges
4.        Three types of barges are proposed for eventual use all of which
will be 45 m long-x 6 m wide and 3 m deep.  The maximum draft will be
2.8 m. Draft of an empty barge is 0.35 m, and the air clearance is 4 m.
5.        The standard B.45 type barge proposed has a hold capacity of
750 cu m and will carry 700 tons on 2.8 m draft and 320 tons at 1.7 m draft.
The specialized B.45 T barge has the same dimensions and will carry liquid
bulk (petroleum products) with the tank, divided into eight compartments,
having 790 cu m capacity. It carries approximately the same tonnage as the
standard barge on the same draft, and has pumps to discharge the cargo. The
specialized B.45.M. barge is used for mixed dry and liquid cargos, which will
avoid empty return trips. It has eight wing tanks of 520 cu m liquid
capacity and 300 cu m dry hold space.
C. Pusher Tug
6.        The proposed pusher tug has been designed for a four barge convoy
and is 15 m long x 6.7 m wide x 1.25 m draft. Twin diesel engines give a
total of 550 hp available power.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Demonstration Convoy
7.        The demonstration convoy proposed in the project will comprise
one pusher tug and four standard B.45 type barges, all of which are
capable of operating in the Gulf of Thailand in moderate seas (1.2 m waves).
June 1980



ANNEX 4
- 67 -
THAILAND
INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
Specification for Procurement of the Trailing Hopper Dredger
Type: Self-propelled, twin screw, twin rudder
Length: 57 m
Breadth:  15 m
Depth:  4 m
Draft:  2 m (maximum)
Maximum dredging depth: 9 m
Steaming speed: 9 knots
Gross tonnage: 850 tons
Dead weight: 680 tons
Dredger pump capacity:  2,500 cu m/hour x 18 m x 2 sets
350 hp x 2
Propeller engine: 350 hp x 2
Generator: 100 KVA x 130 hp x 2
Hopper capacity: 400 cu m - time to fill 10-15 min
June 1980



Chart I
- 68 -
THAILAND
INLAND WIATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
Organization of Harbor Department
Divisions
Deputy              |
(Administration)         I    Office of the Secretary
I  |    Finance
Director General        l                  l    Technical
I  I              I    Pilot
l               l                 i    Harbor Master
i               j__________________ |    Ship Survey
Ship Registration
I                 l    Dredging and taintenance
I  |    Survey and Charts
I                 l    Local Harbor Master Office
Deputy
(Technical)            l
Source: Harbor Department
June 1980



Chart 2
- 69 -
THAILATD
INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
Organization of Technical Division in Harbor Department
Division                       Sections
Technical
: || Administrative
l___________________ | Transport Project and Planning
Port Planning
Legal
I   Training
Source: Harbor Department
June 1980



Chart 3
-70 -.
THAILAND
INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
Organization of Dredging and Maintenance Division in
Harbor Department
Division                          Sections
Administrativet
Planning
Dredging and                 |   Engineering
Maintenance                  |   Ships
l                      l   Aids to Navigation
l  l   Survey
|   Dredging Centers
I    Songkhla Port
|   Kangtang Port
I   River (Ayuthaya)
|   East Coast (Chanta Buri)
Source: Harbor Department
June 1980



C   ...A..                                                                                 N KHOrN  NAYOk
BURMA                                  k                       N~~~~~~~~~~~~~ONTIAU
ACHO            -/
VIET NAM      .                                               A......S
RATCHAE URI    .5K
THAILAN                ..                                                                                                        .......AM 
~   angko   gt.fe    AHO7PAAR :O
~~AMP1JCH~~~~A. ~BAN LAT
!Of MAP 
~~~~~  A                                                                              2         9    T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAT'
INOEI>MALAYSIA                  j1.-
THAi LAND
....                        INLAND WATERWAYS AND
COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
K                               ~~~~~~~~~~~coastal Ports
CHUMPHON                               ATN        PROJECT  PORTS
84
.4.      COASTAL PORTS
100                                                 IRN                                                                 CHANGWAT CENTERS
A,NG                                                                                          10,-
Langsuon                                             ROADS
I'                                          -s----   ~~~~~~~~~RAILWAYS
~~~~eei  -                                           - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHAINGWAT  BOUNDARIES
(                                     -.  -    ~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
PHANGI~
19.                        i~~~~~IAKHON SITIHAM RA
a~Phaonan
8.                                               Son~~~~~~~~~~~~a                          .   ~1
KILOMETERSON
TA HIN ~ ~ ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~        ~        >
Thra ap hs hos prparedby ro Wold Bnks saff xoloivel  HorAhehOlHALUNrC                                                                       -
of he  eadrs  t trereprt o od,Or i j ateohd  Te dttonjat,ttoose  notthng
boonharit shwn o ttn Slp dooot mply on he prt t th WordSOeNoKHdLt
efirbetos. ay judgment n the legalotatot of ay teost dryor day nodoonrroo1tt o
aoooptaooe of boot boorrdar,eo.   980                        100~~~~~~~~~~~~~s                         Sci 8.,



990 \o                                                ~                         (I3  .      -  .NiA 
(ER:     B uR P
\  '/  g       5 I2    4  SS/RIKIT DAM  2                           0 
\ \   /  |  V   h)   \              z                       )  @.   \    -         .   .\-xXtE1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~NAM
'''  //  X         t'     UTTARADITg/~N-                                                             K =..   mNAM
Kt 707    U     K     H     O                         THAIA IND
AKk                                 looho, (-"0
' ~     ~                 1\f557WSjq':  >                                %              1              1|55
.L'sA'?  / i 
(            Q\~~~~KAMPHAENCr PHET/                 S    \                                     //
r   f   <  :                          ,    <     \                         bJ~~~~~~~~~HETCH.ABIJN  _  
T H A I L A N D   \9    %   Ym 374^/9tSng MuI-A.-1 387 Km  ,  
THAILAND                A~R~                                 o  8  o 
INLAND WATERWAYS A
COASTAL PORTS PROJECT 
Choo Phrya Waterway                                K 337T
MZE  DEPTH OVER 2 METERS                    ->hoyuh, KhS,,275 Km         / 
EsMORES DEPTH LIMIT I 7 METERS        THAN/
    CHANGWAT CENTERS
-   ROADS                                                                                /
RAILOADS                             CHA      h AD PHRYA DAM                                          /
-o~o1  DAMS
o-   RIVERS
-15'
-15  _.  _CHANGWAT BOUNDARIES                                                                                           15\/
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES          -       SBUR        Kml9D
0              25              50                   OV-C           4)<5PBUR               
D         ~~~25            53
KILOMETERS                                                       R AMA I
00 0~0o~     SUPHAN
gesh-h                                   H           5O,mNt BUR  l0  K \ I ARAeBURI  A
\SAMUT SONOKHRAM(                       >NAKHON NAYOK
\ X < \4o \ / >t X ~~~~~~~~~~i  PAT H US 
- - 3 <f~~~~~~~~~A                               \        1wTHOMQi  ANGKI' 
.. ..... . ....H'  /  
. .  .>- -  .   \   RATCHA BURI,2       X SAKH ON>M/ ABURN                         i<-                                1
ffve~ ~      ~ ATH  BUR            100RiK'AN
0,
10~~~~~~~~~~~~:



THAIALAND
9 0;BU R M A t           ::r   
;,F;;;r g  \vNAM;                                  INLAND WATERWAYS AND COASTAL PORTS PROJECT
SHAILAND 
0 BgKoEt   t0      J:40  0:Typical  Use of Groins, Low  Dikes and  Bottom  Panels
Ban  Bang  Coo
P L A  N                                         >                    9 G20INS TO BE SET ON  THE RGHT BANK
E 
Ns                               CUT OFF GROINS AND LOW  D <ES iCIJ -                                                                          STAFF
!2                                                                                                                                             GAUGE
E                         U     T      N                                                                                       B  =  S      H      I E
20  '+~                                                                           +                               B -R~B C       ICEAR    =-3 m,                         11
C -D=STRAIGHTALIGNMENTALIGNMEN             T
4     GROINS TO BEST-OKGEAN>RI5eEAIO       70   
ON          ~            #L~   ~oi2oB   To  N u
/  T  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~            F ~~~~~ChUorcteristics Of ChaTnel to  be DIredged
A1'-         Jj                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~WIDTH-  4- U- MINIMUM
DEME- TER         BELOW  LOW  WATER
A   B      SERAOHS AL GNMENT
I20                                                                                       +                                B - C  -CIRCLE ARC  R- /T0UeI                          I  ,2
C - D     STRAIG HT ALIGNMENT
U GROTINS TO BE SET                           -LOW  D KE AND GROINS ELEVATION     17.50) 
ON TIE LF T BANKE
5       550    200      300      405
METERS
20                                                                                                                                                                                         ISSLM. , 2
LONGITUDINAL PROFILE
El                                                   UWATER SURFACE LEVEL FOR O  300            AT NAKHON SAWAN
S~~~~~~~~~~~ U  :                            :     :  :            :d   :f:fS:              Vf:4l             S0S;     :T  ;     
N                                                           N :Nf ::f:::    :;  f  D  ::00 f::   : f  A:; S: f  ;:e :49: ff k f DII:  ):II    II1
ro   f aeuear / e rne mvzhch/ows nxedThedeorxntims use Fn her
Fboundamessle,eo,,,-e&,re,,I  e,EtXo6ZmPVr,,epaatof,MWo,InoSle,kea,              E                                                                                      E FC



