Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY    FILE  COPY
Report No. 2406a-SO
SOMALIA
BAY REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
November 29, 1979
Eastern Africa Region
Northern Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              =      Somali Shilling (So.Sh.)
US$0.1589                  =      So.Sh. 1.00
US$1.00                    =      So.Sh. 6.295
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
2
1 hectare (ha)        2   =       10,000 m
1 square kilometer (km ) =        100 ha
1 metric ton (mt)          =      1,000 kg
ABBREVIATIONS
ADC    -   Agricultural Development Corporation
ADF    -   African Development Fund
CED    -   Civil Engineering Department (MPW)
DEO    -   District Extension Officer
DVO    -   District Veterinary Officer
ETC    -   Extension Training Center
FEA    -   Field Extension Agent
FRO    -   Field Research Officer
GDP    -   Gross National Product
GOS    -   Government of Somalia
ICB    -   International Competitive Bidding
IDA    -   International Development Association
IFAD   -   International Fund for Agricultural Development
LDA    -   Livestock Development Agency
MLFR   -   Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and Range
MOA    -   Ministry of Agriculture
MPW    -   Ministry of Public Works
NES    -   National Extension Service
NMEF   -   National Monitoring and Evaluation Facility
NRA    -   National Range Agency
ONAT   -   Tractor Hiring Agency
PADU   -   Pilot Agricultural Development Unit
PMU    -   Project Management Unit
REO    -   Regional Extension Officer
SMS    -   Subject Matter Specialist
WDA    -   Water Development Agency
USAID  -   United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SOMALIA
BAY REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR **************.************................................****  1
A.    Background ...................................................*.         1
B.   The Project Area .......... ........................                      3
C.    Present Constraints to Increased Production .......                      9
II.    THE PROJECT              ..........................................           10
A.    Project Concept . ......... .. ... . . . . .  ...................... .  10
B.    General Project Description .......................                     11
C.    Detailed Project Features  .........................                    12
III.    PROJECT COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT
AND DISBURSEMENT . ................................ . . .  .               24
A.    Project Cost Estimates ... ................. ......                     24
B.    Financing .....................................................         25
C.    Procurement ............... *.....**   ....O-*...                       27
D.   Disbursement  .............................................              27
E.   Accounts and Audit ..           ..............................           28
IV.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ...................             .........         28
V.    PRODUCTION, FARMERS' BENEFITS, MARKETING AND PRICES .....                     33
A.    Production and Farmers' Benefits ..................                     33
B.    Marketing and Prices . ..................... ....... .                  38
VI.    BENEFITS, ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND GOVERNMENT
CASH FLOW ..........           ...................................         41
A.    Benefits and Economic Justification ..............                      41
B.    Effect on Government Budget ..................  ....                    44
VII.    SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED   ....................                     45
This report is based on the findings of a mission which visited Somalia in
June-July, 1978, comprising S. Gafsi, J. Graves, J. Ball (IDA), V. Bakiewicz,
R. Long, H. Cook (Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
Of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                               Page No.
CHARTS
Chart 1   Project Organization (WB 20140) ..................     .       48
Chart 2   Implementation Schedule (WB 20141) ........ ........           49
TABLES
Table 1   EstiE        stimated Schedule o f   Disbursements             50
Table 2   Economic Rate of Return Calculations   .          .51
Table 3   Government Cash Flow                ........Government.Cash.Fl ow   52
IMPLEMENTATION VOLUME
Table of Contents .           ...       .................... .. .. . .   53
MAPS
Map 1 IBRD No. 14245   Roads - Physiography
Map 2 IBRD No. 13870   Project Location



SOMALIA
BAY REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Background
1.01      With a per capita GNP of $110 in 1978, Somalia is one of the poorest
countries in Africa. Total population in 1978 was estimated at 3.7 million
with an annual growth rate of 2.6%. The majority of Somalis live in rural
areas and engage in subsistence crop production and nomadic animal husbandry.
Livestock and livestock products account for about 80% of the country's
exports. Bananas are the second major export, but their relative importance
has been declining because of lower production and inefficient marketing.
Increased exports of bananas could be achieved mainly through a strengthened
marketing system. Somalia's imports are dominated by investment goods and
other essential items such as cereals, petroleum and medical products.
1.02      Somalia is located bitween the latitudes 11  30'N and 1 30'S.  It
has an area of over 638,000 km . The topography consists mainly of plateaus
sloping from the Ethiopian highlands to the Indian Ocean in the east and the
Gulf of Aden in the north. These plateaus are broken by chains of mountains
in the north and they end in a relatively broad coastal plain in the south.
Climatically, Somalia may be divided into (i) a northwest zone with semi-
mediterranean climate and an average rainfall of 400 mm per year, (ii) a
central and the northern sea coast zones with an arid, hot climate and an
annual precipitation ranging between 50 and 100 mm, and (iii) a southern zone
with precipitation of up to 600 mm per year.
1.03      Most of Somalia is, therefore, classified as arid to semi-arid and
the natural environment is on the whole rather harsh. Rainfall is not only
low but also irregular both with respect to total quantity and incidence.
This causes partial rainfed crop failures in two out of five years.  Ground-
water resources, although thought to be limited, remain substantially unex-
plored. The two major rivers, Shebelli and Juba, flow through the southern
part of the country. The Shebelli flows for about 7 months, while the Juba
flows throughout the year.
1.04      About 8 million ha, or 13% of the land area, were estimated as
potentially suitable for crop production, but only about 0.7 million ha or
1% of the total area are cultivated. Land use, as reflected by the existing
sketchy statistics, is as follows:



-2-
Land Use                      Area                % of Total
'000 ha
Presently cultivated:
Controlled Irrigation               50                 0.08
Flood Irrigation                   110                 0.17
Rainfed Farming                    540                 0.85
Total Cultivated                      700                 1.10
Potentially Cultivable:             7,500                11.75
Total Cultivable                    8,200                12.85
Rangeland                          28,800                45.15
Unusable                           26,800                42.00
Total Land Area         63,800                100.00
Two regions, Lower Shebelli and Bay, together contain over 40% of the total
cultivated area. About 70% of the irrigated area is along the Shebelli River,
27% is along the Juba River and 3% mainly in the Northwest. Out of a Govern-
ment estimated total area of 240,000 ha potentially suitable for irrigation,
about two thirds are located along the Shebelli River. Unfortunately, there
appears to be a shortage of water to meet the irrigation needs of available
good land along the Shebelli River and a shortage of good land for optimum use
of the water available in the Juba River.
1.05      Crop production engages about 195,000 families, most of them in
rainfed farming. Livestock production is Somalia's principal economic activ-
ity, engaging approximately two thirds of the population. Following the
1973-75 drought, Government has been attempting to expand irrigation and
thereby reduce the impact of future droughts. Although pre-drought levels
of production have not yet been reached, domestic output has been improving
colitinuously. Sorghum, maize and sesame are the three principal crops in
Somalia accounting for about 90% of the cultivated area. Sorghum, mostly
grown on small rainfed farms, covers approximately 55% of the total culti-
vated area. Bananas, sugarcane, vegetables and fruits, as well as small
amounts of groundnuts, sesame, cotton and pulses are grown under irrigation.
State farms growing maize, rice and other irrigated crops are slowly gaining
importance.
1.06      Cereal consumption in the country is about 350,000 tons per year,
of which about 15-30% has to be imported. Production trends are not keeping
pace with population increases, thus increasing the future reliance on im-
ports. Nevertheless, there is scope to increase the effectively cultivated
area both for rainfed and irrigated crops.  Most importantly, however, there
is room for increased productivity without substantial additional inputs and
with reliance on the present level of technological knowledge. In the medium
term, gains in productivity for the majority of farmers can be achieved by
eliminating elementary failures in the farming system such as unsatisfactory
land preparation, low quality seeds, poor seeding techniques and low seeding
rates. Effective crop yields can also be increased through improved post
harvest practices. On-farm animal production can be increased through



-3-
valorization of crop residues. In the long term, gains in productivity can
be achieved through the development and extension to farmers of moisture
conservation practices, improved crop varieties, pest control and fallow
management. A strong adaptive research program would be needed for developing
such technological packages within the framework of a viable farming system.
1.07      Bank group assistance to the agricultural sector in Somalia started
with the Trans-Juba Livestock Project (IDA Credit 462-SO) in FY 74. This was
followed by two Credits in FY 76, Drought Rehabilitation Project (IDA Credit
623-SO) and the Northwest Region Agricultural Development Project (IDA Credit
635-SO). An Agricultural Extension and Training Project (IDA Credit 905-SO),
and the Central Rangelands Development Project (IDA Credit 906-SO), followed
in FY 79. Currently there is the proposed Project (prepared by Government
with assistance from FAQ/World Bank Cooperative Program), an Agricultural
Sector Review (commenced in June, 1979), and Bank assistance for preparation
of a Livestock Marketing Project.
1.08      Implementation of on-going projects has met with difficulties.
These are mainly due to the scarcity of trained manpower which is further
aggravated by the continued migration of Somalis to the neighboring petroleum
exporting countries. To ease difficulties of this nature the FY 79 Projects
and the proposed Project emphasize technical assistance, institution building
and include comprehensive training programs.   More pervasive difficul-
ties, such as hiring consultants, procuring equipment and monitoring project
implementation have been addressed by setting up a Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) in the State Planning Commission (SPC); and including, in the proposed
Project, the funds to strengthen the national monitoring and evaluation facil-
ity (NMEF) of the SPC (Para. 2.02 (e)).
B. The Project Area
1.09      The proposed Project covers the Bay Region of about 4 million ha.
630,000 ha of this are arable (Lockwood Survey, 1968).   The remainder is
rangeland. The Bay Region is located in the inter-riverine area between the
Juba and the Shebelli Rivers. Its administrative capital, Baidoa, is 200 km
northwest of Mogadishu. The region is divided into four administrative
districts: Baidoa, Bur Akaba, Dinsor and Kansa Dere. Total population in
the Region was estimated in 1978 at about 350,000 people or 10% of the coun-
try's total population. About 20% of the families in the Baidoa township
and the majority of all others are rural families deriving their livelihood
from a combination of settled farming and pastoralism. These families are
distributed among districts, approximately as follows:



-4 -
Location                     Number of Rural Families
1975 Census 1/  1977 Estimate   1979 Estimate
District Baidoa             22,000             23,000           26,000
District Bur Akaba           14,000            15,000           17,000
District Dinsor               7,500             8,000            9,000
District Kansa Dere           6,500             7,000            8,000
Total                  50,000            53,000           60,000
1/   Assumes that 75% of the families listed as nomadic are basically
part of the rural settled households.
Members of these families move with their livestock outside of the Bay Region
during dry seasons in search of water and return to their villages of perma-
nent residence during the rainy seasons. An unknown number of pastoralists
from other regions utilize the rangelands in the Bay Region during their
movements to and from the Juba and Shebelli rivers.
Climate
1.10      The climate of the Project area is semi-arid.  There are two
seasons of monsoonal rains per year:  the major one referred to as "Gu" in
April-June, and the minor one referred to as "Der" in October-December.  The
region includes the highest rainfall area in Somalia.  The annual average for
Baidoa, based on a 41 year record, is 585 mm (FAO, 1977).  The length of
the rainy season varies from year to year along the following pattern:
Gu Season                     Der Season
Start:            1 year in 4 by 27 March        1 year in 4 by 2 October
Average           5 April     Average          10 October
3 years in 4 by 15 April      3 years in 4 by 19 October
Duration:         1 year in 4  55 days           1 year in 4  60 days
Average       43 days          Average       48 days
3 years in 4 30 days          3 years in 4 35 days
All the rainfall tends to occur in showers of high intensity and short dura-
tion.  Much of the rainfall, however, is effective since the median monthly
rainfall is seldom above 125 mm. Sufficient rain for germination of crops is
always received in April and the risk of extended drought is low, but total
rainfall per season is low and variable and the length of the rainy season is
short compared to the crop growing cycle. As a result, there is a significant
probability of partial crop failure in one out of five Gu seasons and in one
out of three Der seasons. To minimize the risk of crop failure, soil moisture
conservation should be practiced, and only drought resistant crops grown at
low plant densities.



-5-
Land Resources
1.11      The most important soil characteristic in the Project area is
moisture holding capacity which determines its suitability for rainfed cul-
tivation. The major soil groups in the region are grumosols (vertisols),
ferrosols, regosols, lithosols and latosols. The grumosols include all the
brown and grey soils suitable for rainfed cultivation, whereas the rest are
red soils and are most suitable for coarse grazing and browsing, though some
might support a crop such as groundnuts if there is a good rainfall season.
1.12      The Bay Region can be subdivided into three physiographic units with
varying agricultural potential:
Area ('000 ha)-/
Cleared and    Potentially    Unsuitable
Unit                     Under Crops    Cultivable   for Cultivation   Total
Limestone Plateau            220             230           2,050          2,500
Limestone Depression         -                60              40            100
Basement Complex             100              80           1,220          1,400
Total              320            370           3.310          4,000
1/   Hunting, 1977, based on Lockwood Survey, 1968.
These figures are based on aerial photography with only limited field check-
ing. The data on cultivable land availability have to be confirmed before any
realistic land use planning for the Bay Region as a whole can be undertaken.
Water Resources
1.13      Because of seasonal rainfall, absorbent ground surface, high evapora-
tion and generally small catchments, there are no perennial rivers or streams
in the Bay Region. Thus, perennial water supplies can only be obtained either
by storing the seasonal flows of streams or from groundwater sources.
Surface Water
1.14      A well developed drainage pattern exists only on the Basement Com-
plex, particularly in the western part of the Project area. On the Limestone
Plateau, there are very few drainage channels, except in the immediate vicinity
of the limestone escarpment. To augment the seasonal supplies from streams and
rivers, the local population has constructed many3small surface water reser-
voirs or "uars" with capacities of 100 to 1,500 m , using natural depressions
and intercepting minor runoff channels. These uars do not provide a reliable
year-round supply of water. In 1974, 40 uars lined with heavy- uty plastic
sheets were built with capacities ranging from 2,300 to 3,400 m . Each uar



-6 
is fenced and has a pumping system delivering water to troughs. They are
under the jurisdiction of the National Range Agency (NRA) and provide watering
points within the grazing areas and along stock routes leading from the Baidoa
- Bardera road to markets in Kismayo and Mogadishu. Fifteen of the forty uars
have partly or totally failed due to rupturing of the buried plastic lining
or insufficient inflows. In most cases, troughs are not in use because the
small hand pumps used to fill them have failed.
Groundwater
1.15      Basement Complex Area.  Groundwater, in exploitable quantities,
is mainly found in small isolated pockets, separated from each other by
impermeable rock. The permeabilities of fracture or weathered zones are
low and, consequently, basement wells normally produce low yields. Depth
to water table is normally between 5 and 15 meters. Recharge is from local
sources and in most cases can be expected to be low. Permanent depletion
of the aquifers does not appear to be a serious danger with the low extrac-
tion rates practiced or planned for the future.
1.16      Limestone Plateau Area:  The limestone formation contains ground-
water in karst features (particularly near ground level) and interstitial
openings in chalky and detrital limestones. The water table near Baidoa is
reported to be at about 70 m depth. However, above that level, there are many
perched water bodies, some of them sufficiently extensive to never go dry at
the low rates of extraction expected. Recharge of the aquifer is mainly by
direct infiltration of rainfall. Groundwater quality is generally moderate
to good.
1.17      Limestone Depression Area.  In the Limestone Depression, the shallow
water table, which is normally between 5 and 10 meters below ground level,
makes groundwater development for irrigation a possibility. The characteris-
tics of the aquifer are, however, not known. Groundwater quality is generally
good enough for domestic supply and livestock watering, and the limited avail-
able evidence, suggests its salinity and sodicity are also low enough to
irrigate most crops given good management.
Roads
1.18      With the exception of the Baidoa - Mogadishu road, the roads in
the Bay Region are in an appalling condition. Previously constructed roads
have deteriorated through inadequate maintenance to such an extent that
traffic diverts to animal tracks at the sides. The lack of roads has hindered
the movement of people and livestock and influenced the location and extent of
settlement. There is a concentration of villages around the roads and tracks
that radiate from Baidoa, while good soil areas away from these remain un-
cropped. Any servicing of villages (e.g. water supply, extension, education,
health, grain, livestock and charcoal marketing) is limited, as many of the
roads on the good cropping soils are not passable during the rainy seasons.
The lack of defined roads has also hindered livestock movement in cropped
areas and resulted in damage and wastage of crops due to trespassing. There



-7-
are about 475 km of main interregional roads in the Bay Region which need
rehabilitation, 50 km of which are currently being improved with existing
funds and about another 60 km will be the subject of a feasibility study
financed under IDA's Third Highway Project. The remaining 365 km are also
of vital importance for the development of agriculture in the Bay Region.
In addition, access tracks are lacking in major parts of the Region.
Range and Animal Resources
1.19      The Bay Region supports about 60,000 rural families and carries
about 700,000 livestock units. Traditionally, it has been inhabited by
pastoralists who, over the years, have taken to growing crops and become
more sedentary. Currently, the majority of the livestock in the Region
belongs to families who are growing crops and the proportion of traditionally
dominant nomadic pastoralists has fallen to insignificant levels. The live-
stock population in 1977 was estimated at about 196,000 head of cattle,
281,000 camels and 411,000 sheep and goats. In terms of livestock units,
this represents approximately 9% of the country's livestock population.
1.20      Rangelands cover about 3.7 million ha and can be broadly described
as bush and grass steppe. Much has been affected by continuous overgrazing.
As a result most of the previous grass cover has been depleted and replaced
by invading thorn bush. This is particularly so on the red soils which make
up the bulk of the region's rangelands, but less so on the drainage flood
plains where crop cultivation precludes grazing until after harvest. Conse-
quently, bush cover, estimated at 36% of total vegetative cover in 1963 is
currently estimated at 45 to 60%; and the present stocking rate estimated at
6 ha per livestock unit, is believed excessive relative to an estimated 1964
carrying capacity at 8 ha per livestock unit. The croplands produce stover
after both cropping seasons. The quantity varies from almost nothing to 1,000
kg per ha per year, depending on rainfall. Most of the stover is grazed by
cattle after harvest.
1.21      The Pan African JP 15 control program has brought rinderpest under
control in the area. Apart from the threat of reintroduction of this disease,
contagious bovine pleuro-pneumonia is known to occur and tick-borne diseases
are becoming more widespread in the region. Foot and mouth disease occurs
in cattle in mild form, but sheep and goats do not appear to be affected.
Contageous caprine pleuro-pneumonia causes serious losses through mortality
and emaciation.
Agriculture in the Bay Region
1.22      Croplands under cultivation, excluding fallow, are currently esti-
mated to average about 320,000 ha per year but this could vary from 200,000
to 450,000 ha due to climate. Government indicated that there is evidence
that suitable land is available to double that area. Development has been by
spontaneous settlement. Land is cleared, cultivated for several years until
yields become unsatisfactory and then allowed to revert to bush fallow for one
to three years. Practices to maintain soil fertility, conserve soil moisture,



avoid high wastages in crop residues and stored food grains are largely
unknown to farmers and a complete dichotomy exists between crop and animal
production. Only a small minority of farmers have adopted the use of animal
traction to increase their planted acreage or save labor. Within this minority
some have diversified their cropping pattern, intensified their on-farm animal
husbandry activities and even entered the market economy selling groundnuts,
and milk and/or purchasing seeds, and plant protection products. Overall,
however, the farming system now practiced by the average farmer is land-
intensive, exploitative and not very productive. It is characterized by
unsatisfactory land preparation, low quality seeds, inadequate seeding rates,
uneven plant coverage and inefficient weed control, and uses no other inputs
besides seeds and family labor.
1.23      The average family cultivates about 5 ha annually with sorghum
as the main crop often interplanted with pulses and small areas of millet,
maize and more recently, groundnuts. Sorghum is grown in the Gu season and
many farmers ratoon the Gu season crop or replant in the Der season. A simple
hoe is the only implement used, crop varieties are low yielding, and the low
average yields realized per ha per year of about 500 kg (sorghum) and 70 kg
(pulses) are further eroded by high post-harvest losses. As a result, access
to income derived from livestock is essential for survival and the average
farm family also owns about 12 livestock units, two of which are kept near
the homestead and the remainder on the rangelands. Average farm family income
from all sources is about So.Sh. 3,300 per year (US$520) representing a per
capita income of about US$95 per year.
Institutions Serving Agriculture
1.24      The Region is administered by a Governor located in Baidoa.  The
Governor is assisted by four District Commissioners and by the regional
coordinators of various ministries. Regional coordinators report to the
Governor for administrative matters and to their respective ministries for
their budgets, technical support and work program.
1.25      The regional office of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) is respon-
sible for serving all farmers through extension, research, training, seed
production, plant protection and cooperative organization. MOA also serves
farmers indirectly through the National Tractor Hiring Agency (ONAT) which
is responsible for the provision of all inputs except seeds and through the
Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC) which is responsible for the
marketing of food grains and seeds. All MOA's regional units operate under
conditions of low technical competence of staff, shortage of support facili-
ties and an absence of work programs. MOA also operates a Farmers' Training
Center at Bonka. This center is expected to become an Extension Training
Center (ETC) under the Agricultural Extension and Farm Management Training
Project. Part of the 200 ha seed farm is being cultivated under the super-
vision of the Director of the Farmers' Training Center, producing mainly
sorghum.



-9-
1.26      The regional office of the Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and
Range (MLFR) is concerned with providing veterinary services, maintaining
rangelands and promoting forestry development and conservation. MLFR com-
prises the relatively autonomous National Range Agency (NRA), the Livestock
Development Agency (LDA), the Veterinary Service, the Department of Animal
Production and the Institute of Animal Health. The regional office of the
NRA is responsible for management of range reserves, forest clearing, fodder
production and the management of water points within the rangelands, but has
neither the qualified staff nor the facilities to assume those responsibili-
ties. The main function of the regional Department of Veterinary Services
is vaccination against rinderpest with some treatment for ectoparasites,
trypanosomiasis and other diseases, and distribution of drugs to pastoralists.
The regional veterinary service is lacking both technical competence and work
means.
1.27      Water development is the responsibility of the Ministry of Minerals
and Water Resources through its Geological Survey Department for surveys and
geological mapping and through its semi-autonomous Water Development Agency
(WDA) for borehole construction, operation and maintenance and for the admin-
istration of water related regulations. WDA has a regional office in Baidoa
which lacks the physical and financial means and the qualified staff that
would allow it to assume responsibility for water development in the region.
1.28      With the exception of roads in the Baidoa municipality, the con-
struction and maintenance of roads in the region is the responsibility of
the Civil Engineering Department (CED) under the Ministry of Public Works
(MPW) in Mogadishu. The CED has a regional office with a Regional Director
at Baidoa. Due to the lack of current funds, there is no regular road main-
tenance program or even any maintenance equipment. Funds and equipment are
made available only for periodic maintenance and rehabilitation. An ongoing
rehabilitation program on the Baidoa - Audinle - Luk road is well equipped
and making good progress. The regional office has a useful nucleus of road
foremen, mechanics and equipment operators. The mechanical facilities for
equipment maintenance are run down and obsolete.
C. Present Constraints to Increased Production
1.29      Water:  The lack of permanent water for human and animal use during
the dry seasons is a major constraint. The traditional method of collecting
rainfall in small uars leaves farmers with the need to either transport the
barest minimum of water they require over long distances to their villages,
or to migrate with their animals and their subsistence food to places with
permanent sources of water, often outside the Bay Region, during at least
three months of a normal year. This has hindered the intensification of the
farming system and the integration of crop and livestock production. Moreover,
the need for livestock to walk long distances for water and the necessity
to gather around a few permanent water points with consequent lack of feed,
results in weight losses, reduced fertility and increases in diseases and
deaths.



- 10 
1.30      Road Access.  As a consequence of the unsatisfactory road condition
in the Project area, substantial quantities of surplus grain are not finding
their way to the urban centers and are wasted in ADC collection centers or in
inefficient storage facilities on farms. In addition, livestock being moved
on the hoof to main markets suffer considerable weight losses. The lack of
access tracks has also hindered the effective use of vast areas of rangeland.
Moreover, delivery of services such as extension and veterinary services to
farmers is quite difficult and in places, impossible.
1.31      Farming System.  The practice of shifting cultivation coupled with a
complete dichotomy between crop and animal production needs to be replaced by
a more permanent, sedentary farming system that returns adequate amounts of
organic matter to the soil, develop the potential for complementary relation-
ships between crop and livestock production, and preserve the carrying capacity
of the rangeland areas. Such practices could include the alternation of land
use between crop years and pasture years during which soil fertility is being
restored and animals utilize the herbage. To bring this about several
services would have to be provided simultaneously: (a) The research service
would have to study appropriate rotations for the area and develop appropriate
technological packages; (b) the extension service would have to bring the
technological packages to the farmer; (c) the animal health service would have
to control animal diseases; (d) assistance would have to be given in range
management; (e) inputs such as disease-free seeds, adequate tools for cultiva-
tion, drugs for the animals and - possibly - supplementary feeds would have to
be made available; (f) existing local communities, their structure, organization,
control and relationships with each other and the various district and regional
institutions would have to be identified, studied and strengthened.
1.32      Qualified Manpower.  The Bay Region lacks the qualified manpower
needed for its development. The existing institutions not only are short of
staff, but they also lack the facilities that would allow them to utilize
their existing staff effectively. All regional government agencies are short
of transport facilities, equipment and inputs. In addition, the absence of
clear lines of responsibility makes the implementation of any task difficult.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Concept
2.01      Despite the recognized potential for increased production, develop-
ment in the Bay Region would not be possible without major improvements in
infrastructure and the existing information base, which is at present in-
adequate to define and choose between alternative strategies. To accommodate
these deficiencies the proposed Project is conceived as the first of two phases
in which the first phase would provide the infrastructure, institutional
strength and information base, funds and facilities required to prepare a
second phase Project for implementation. In addition, because of the many



- 11 -
technical and institutional questions that remain unanswered the first phase
Project would be implemented in two stages. The first stage would last three
years and concentrate on procuring Project goods, staffing, training, gather-
ing information, extending assistance to farmers (within the limits of proven
region specific technology), and initiating applied research program to find
solutions to already identified farming problems. This first stage would
culminate in the preparation of a work plan that specifies the timing, ways
and means for completing the implementation of each phase I Project component
during the proposed second three-year stage. Disbursements of Credit funds
for each Project component following this mid-term review would be contingent
upon agreement between IDA and Government to continue with the implementation
of each component as originally defined or as modified as a result of the
review.
B. General Prolect Description
2.02      The Project would aim to increase crop and livestock production
in the Bay Region. Over a period of six years, it would improve the potable
water supply, upgrade the road network, support the development of an inte-
grated permanent and non-exploitative farming system, train Somalis and help
build institutions capable of carrying on the agricultural development task in
the Bay Region. Specifically, the Project would provide for:
(a) improving the supply of potable water in the region for
human and livestock consumption through (i) drilling and
developing about 60 deep boreholes on the Limestone Plateau
(of which six would serve selected pilot range improvement
units, and the remainder, crop producing areas); (ii) an
investigation/production drilling program in the Basement
Complex involving about 40 drilled boreholes, 10 dug wells
and 4 uars, and (iii) testing the availability of water for
irrigation in the Limestone Depression by drilling about 6
boreholes and 2 test production wells. Funds would be
provided for drilling equipment, transport facilities, staff
housing, surveys and studies, and incremental operating
costs;
(b) upgrading and maintaining all roads in the Bay Region to give
all-season access to areas where agricultural production is
presently or potentially significant, by (i) rehabilitating
about 350 km of 6 m wide low standard main roads (class II),
(ii) constructing about 210 km of 4 m wide feeder or
access roads (class III), and (iii) clearing about 250 km of
access tracks. The Project would provide for road construction
equipment, transport facilities, staff housing, a mechanical
workshop and incremental operating costs;
(c) intensifying the farming system in the Bay Region through
(i) introducing simple improved production practices and



12 
initiating a program of adaptive research and field
demonstration trials aimed at crop production, animal
husbandry and range management, (ii) creating four pilot
agricultural development units (PADU) to integrate crop
and livestock activities and test the technical and insti-
tutional means of integrating farm and range activities,
(iii) strengthening the veterinary service in the region,
(iv) strengthening the agricultural extension service in
the region (to be financed under the Agricultural Extension
and Farm Management Training Project), (v) producing quality
seeds, (vi) testing means to improve on-farm storage of
grains and fodder, and (vii) supporting the production and
diffusion of improved farm tools and animal-drawn implements.
The Project would provide for staff housing and office
space, machinery and equipment for the seed farm and the
research center, transport facilities, surveys and studies
and incremental operating costs;
(d)  technical assistance and training including   (i) training
abroad for key Somali staff, (ii) short term study trips abroad
for selected Somali staff, (iii) expatriates to fill key
positions during Project implementation, and (iv) consultancy
services. The Project would provide for the construction of
staff housing and office space, transport facilities and
operating costs; and
(e) strengthening the national monitoring and evaluation facility
(NMEF) of the State Planning Commission in Mogadishu which
would be responsible for the independent monitoring and
evaluation of, initially, agricultural development projects
and, ultimately, all development projects in the country.
The Project would provide for the construction of housing
facilities and office space, transport and incremental
operating costs for the Unit.
C. Detailed Project Features
Water Supply
2.03      During the first 3 year stage the Project would be concerned with
studies to obtain a better understanding of groundwater occurrence, and the
effective use of uars, dug and drilled wells. Geological maps (1:100,000)
would be compiled from existing air photos, satellite imagery and geological
maps, supplemented by field checks. Particular attention would be paid to
determining the size and form of the aquifer in the Limestone Depression,
mapping the alluvial outcrops of the major wadi beds in the region, and
compiling a full inventory of existing water points. Field work would be
confined to drilling or digging wells and other preliminary investigation
needed to identify the location and number of boreholes to be drilled on



- 13 -
the Limestone Plateau (where the chance of success is "high"), and the pre-
paration of a water development strategy for the Basement Complex and Lime-
stone Depression (where the chance of success is "low"). Once approved by
Government and IDA, these plans would then be implemented during the second 3
year stage of the Project investment period.
2.04      Water Development in the Basement Complex.  Work in the Basement
Complex aims at preparing rational guidelines for improving the efficacy with
which uars, dug and drilled wells can be located, designed and constructed to
supply water for domestic and livestock use. The validity of the resultant
guidelines and the criteria on which they are based would then be tested by
constructing four pilot uars and ten dug wells and drilling up to 40 8-inch
diameter boreholes to a maximum depth of 60 meters, monitoring the performance
of the uars and testing the wells and successful boreholes for yield and water
quality. Only half of the 40 boreholes are expected to be successful. At the
end of the Project period, a manual would be issued to serve as a guide for
further development of water supplies in this area.
2.05      Water Development in the Limestone Plateau.  The main item in the
Limestone Plateau area is the construction of about 60 deep boreholes for
domestic and livestock use, mainly in currently cropped areas. Six of these
boreholes would be located in the range areas of the PADUs. The available
evidence suggests that such drilling would result in successful boreholes.
Information gathered during the first 3 year stage would result in a well
based selection of sites. This coupled with sound design and good maintenance
would minimize failures. Upgrading of the data base would be emphasized in
the beginning of the drilling campaign. The first, say ten boreholes, would
be spaced widely throughout the area to study variations in aquifer properties
and groundwater quality. During the Project implementation period, all wells,
completed and fully equipped, would be operated and maintained by the regional
unit of WDA and would be carefully monitored. WDA would prepare an operation
and maintenance manual on the basis of this monitoring.
2.06      Water Development in the Limestone Depression.  The work in this
area would be largely concerned with investigating groundwater availability,
methods of exploiting this water and investigating the technical and economic
feasibility of establishing and running two 5 ha pilot irrigated farms during
the Project investment period. First, geophysical surveys (resistivity and
magnetometer) would be carried out to study the geometry of the aquifer and
determine the location of about six exploratory boreholes and two test pro-
duction wells. The wells would be about 70 m deep. They would be fully
tested with step drawdown, constant discharge and recovery tests. Investi-
gations would also be undertaken to identify ways of improving the use of
water along the escarpment and the feasibility of introducing alternative
lifting devices such as the "shaduf", animal drawn devices and possibly small
centrifugal pumps. At the end of the Project implementation period, a report
on the technical feasibility and economics of irrigation would be issued,
giving recommendations for the next stage of development.



- 14 -
2.07      The Project would provide technical assistance (consisting of six
internationally recruited specialists and middle level technicians), vehicles
and equipment, training of Somali staff and operating costs.
2.08      The time gap between ordering and commissioning the drilling equip-
ment would be used to carry out studies designed to upgrade the data base.
As soon as the equipment is available for use, the drilling investigations of
irrigation possibilities in the Limestone Depression would be carried out so
that, if feasible, the pilot irrigation farms could be established reasonably
early in the Project period. Drilling in both the Basement and Limestone
Plateau areas, would follow. Each drilling rig is expected to average about
ten complete wells per year. The dug wells to be constructed in the Basement
Complex would be done by directly hired labor. The experimental uars would
be designed by Project staff and contracted out to the central unit of WDA
for implementation.
Access Roads
2.09      The Project would provide all-season access to all parts of the Bay
Region where agricultural production is presently or potentially significant
(Map 1). The improvement of the main roads would also have beneficial effects
on regions to the north and west of the Bay Region, which send their produce
to Mogadishu through Baidoa. Currently, some of the existing main roads carry
over 50 vehicles per day, many of which are large trucks and trailer units. A
6 m wide gravel road (class II) would be needed for the size and weight of
vehicles presently using the roads and would provide a margin for traffic
growth. A 4 m gravel standard road (class III) would be appropriate for the
access/feeder roads which would be carrying less than 50 vehicles per day.
2.10      Road Construction.  Road construction costs are relatively low
because the country is flat to moderately undulating and laterite gravel
and limestone surfacing material is readily available in most districts.
There are no major river crossings and, because of the seasonal rainfall,
submersible paved fords would be adequate. Road construction and mainte-
nance would be by force account supported by Technical Assistance staff.
Since no tender documents are required for the construction of roads, the
extra costs of detailed engineering would not be justified, given the standard
of road envisaged.   Due to the year-round agricultural activities in the area
and the nomadic nature of part of the population, a labor-intensive approach
to the construction of Project roads would not be feasible and the use of
mechanical equipment provided for under the Project would be necessary
for the timely and proper achievement of the aims of the Project as a whole.
In order to service and maintain the equipment, a mechanical workshop would
be constructed and equipped. Internationally recruited technical staff would
also be provided to plan and execute the road component.  Due to the changing
and sometimes difficult soil conditions, the analysis and testing of sub-soils
and the selection of fill and surfacing materials would play an important part
in the design and quality control process. Provision is made, therefore, for
a mobile soils laboratory to be used at Baidoa for simple analyses, leaving
major analyses to be done at the soils laboratory in Mogadishu.



- 15 -
2.11      Road Maintenance.  Road maintenance would start from the beginning
of the Project period. New equipment would be used to make the existing main
roads more passable until they are upgraded under the Project. By the end
of the Project period, about 560 km of gravel roads would be under routine
maintenance.
2.12      The Project would provide equipment for road construction and
maintenance, mechanical workshop equipment, transport facilities, incremental
operating costs, technical assistance to the Regional Civil Engineering
Department of MPW, and training for Somali staff. Implementation of the
road program would be reviewed in conjunction with the review of progress
in implementing other Project components at the end of the first 3 year stage
and, where necessary, adjusted in accordance with the work plans adopted for
the water, research, veterinary and range components.
Intensification of the Farming System
2.13      Intensification of the Farming System would be undertaken through
two major efforts -- extension and adaptive research. The effectiveness of
both is heavily dependent on the availability of the infrastructures to be
provided in the road and water supply components of the Project. The physical
inputs required by farmers to implement the recommended extension packages
would be made available through the strengthened regional veterinary service
and the seed farm subcomponent of the adaptive demonstrative research com-
ponent. The PADUs would provide the means of identifying a practical way of
organizing farmers/pastoralists and their local communities into entities
capable of managing and policing their own resources. The range component
appears as an integral part of the PADUs.
2.14      The Regional Extension Service.  The Bay Region would be the first
major area to be strengthened as part of the National Extension Service (NES)
provided for under the Agricultural Extension and Farm Management Training
Project. The region would ultimately require about 106 Field Extension Agents
(FEAs), each initially serving about 500 families. FEAs would be supervised
by District Extension Officers (DEOs) who, in turn, would be supervised by the
Regional Extension Officer (REO) who, assisted by Subject Matter Specialists
(SMS), would head the regional extension program. It is expected that it
would take 3 - 4 years before enough FEAs are deployed in the field to cover
the four Districts in the Region. The initial FEA messages would concentrate
on the few important crops, a limited number of easily understood tasks and
practices that could produce substantial increases in output using existing
farmer resources without unduly adding to the risks inherent in the production
environment. These would include husbandry practices such as field prepara-
tion, sowing and weeding and methods of improving the post-harvest utilization
of food crops and crop residues. The introduction of more sophisticated
technologies and inputs such as pesticides, new seed and crop varieties, and
ox plows would follow as they are identified and developed by the strengthened
Regional Research Service and can be appropriately packaged for extension.
2.15      As the NES would be at its early stage of development when the
Bay Region Project is expected to start, the Project would provide for an



16 
additional internationally recruited extension specialist to work exclusively
in the Bay Region to establish the links between the Projects at the oper-
ational level, participate in the formulation of regional research programs,
and translate research findings into extension messages for the Bay Region.
2.16      The Reaional Veterinary Service.  The regional veterinary service
would be strengthened and made operational through the provision of technical
assistance, training, transport facilities, equipment and supplies to allow
vaccination campaigns and programs for parasite control and disease diagnosis
to cover the whole of the Bay Region. Specifically, the project would (i)
staff and equip two mobile vaccination teams, each covering two Districts,
(ii) train and equip resident veterinary staff in the Districts, (iii) esta-
blish and stock 13 new dispensaries and stock 17 existing dispensaries
at the village level, (iv) strengthen the headquarters of the veterinary
service at Baidoa and provide laboratory facilities, and (v) train Somali
staff and provide technical assistance.
2.17      Because of lack of qualified veterinarians in Somalia, the project
would provide for an internationally recruited veterinarian who would be
attached to the veterinary service headquarters at Baidoa and who would be
responsible for establishing and coordinating work programs and supervising
their implementation, both at headquarters and at the District level, and for
training Somali staff on the job. In addition, the project would provide for
transport facilities, staff housing, equipment, operating costs, training
abroad two Somali veterinarians and short term study trips.
2.18      Adaptive/Demonstrative Research.  The regional research service
would be broadened and adapted to meet the immediate needs of farmers. This
would be done by expanding the activities of the Bonka Research Station to
include the present varietal testing and screening, and add applied research
activities relating to: soil moisture conservation practices; the selection
and improvement of farm tools and implements; the use of animal-power for land
preparation, row seeding and intra-row cultivation; the production of better
quality seed; the integration of crop and animal production, both on-farm
and rangelands; and the identification of appropriate crop and crop/ pasture
rotations that emphasize crops already known to farmers such as sorghum,
pulses and groundnuts. The applied nature of this expanded program would be
reinforced by: introducing field trials on selected farmers' fields using the
Bonka Research Station staff to program and implement the work and actively
motivate farmers to participate by providing certain goods and services free
of charge and offering compensation at a previously agreed rate for any
unforeseen losses resulting from their participation; establishing four Pilot
Agricultural Develoment Units (PADUs) and including a range component, as an
integral part of each PADU; and staffing and equipping the existing 200 ha
seed farm near Bonka.
2.19      The four PADUs would be established to provide a workable answer to
the question of how to organize farmers and pastoralists in the Bay Region in
such a way that they would be motivated to preserve the productive potential
of crop and rangelands. Existing family and village structure would be the
starting point in identifying such an organizational set-up. The four PADUs



- 1/ -
would be located in areas that would reflect differences within the region as
to soils, rainfall and relative importance of crops and livestock as a source
of family income. Two would be located in the Limestone Plateau, one at Kansa
Dere and one at Malmaud. Two others would be located in the Basement Complex,
one at Bur Akaba and one at Dinsor. Each would have the potential to accom-
modate about 750 families with approximately 7,500 ha of cultivable land for
crop production and on-farm animal husbandry, and around 55,000 ha of range-
land to support off-farm livestock. Both crop and rangelands would be supplied
with potable water. Legal control of the water supply as well as the crop
and rangelands would lie with the villages' traditional authorities, techni-
cally assisted by the extension service, the regional unit of WDA and the
regional unit of NRA.
2.20      The 55,000 ha range component associated with each PADU are pilot
in nature and would be supervised and implemented by the regional unit of the
NRA to focus on both institutional and technical aspects of range utilization
and improvement. Each would be demarcated and subdivided for grazing in
rotation and establishing a limited program of range research primarily geared
to identifying efficient procedures for rehabilitation, including alternative
ways of bush clearing, the feasibility of reseeding using appropriate legumes
and grasses and the possibility of improving existing charcoal production
technology to make range improvement a more economically and financially
attractive proposition.
2.21      In addition to regular adaptive/demonstrative trials, research in
cropped areas of the PADUs would focus on testing practices with potential
for preserving soil fertility, providing sufficient fodder to maintain on-farm
livestock on a year-round basis, conserving moisture in the soil and increasing
productivity. For this purpose, an integrated rotation of crops and sown pas-
tures would be introduced by research staff on selected participating private
farms and would be closely monitored by the Bonka Research Station staff over
the Project period in order to generate sufficient farm management data to
serve as a basis for planning a more intensive agricultural development
program for the Bay Region and to provide the extension service with proven
practices to extend to crop and livestock producers.
2.22      The project would provide:  technical assistance to the Bonka
Research Station and the regional range service; the equipment necessary
for range demarcation and uar rehabilitation; research equipment, transport
facilities, staff housing, and operating costs; training abroad for two Somali
Range Management Specialists for NRA, and two Agricultural Research Officers
for the Bonka Research Station; and, short-term study trips.
2.23      The Seed Farm.  The existing 200 ha seed farm near Bonka would be
staffed and equipped to bulk up already screened improved sorghum, groundnut,
pulses, and some pasture seeds for general distribution to farmers. In an area
where most people tend to be self-employed for at least part of the year, the
farm would be equipped for mechanical production, cleaning, treatment and
storage of seeds. Moreover, a workshop would be established on the seed
farm to service both the seed farm's machinery, and that used on the Regional
Research Station. This workshop would also serve as a center for developing



prototypes of appropriate farm tools and implements that are identified by
the Regional Research Station, and would cooperate with the staff of the Bonka
Extenoion Training Center to train interested private blacksmiths in the
manufacture and repair of these tools and implements.
2024      Distribution of seeds is the responsibility of ADC.  The seed farm
would rely on the extension service to inform farmers of the merits of quality
seeds and of their availability, and on ADC to distribute seeds to farmers who
would be willing to buy them. Because farmers are not used to purchasing
inputs, a system would be established that would encourage them to exchange
their own seeds for quality seeds.
2.25      The Project would provide for an internationally recruited seed
production specialist as the Farm Manager and for the periodic services of a
consulting agricultural engineer, particularly to assist with the establish-
ment of the proposed workshop and the development of a program for improving
farm tools and implements. The project would also provide for farm machinery,
implements and seed handling equipment, the establishment of the workshop,
transport facilites, operating costs, training abroad of a Somali farm manager
and a seed production specialist, and study trips for Somali staff.
The Project Management Unit (PMU)
2.26      A PMU would be established at Baidoa.  It would implement the
Project on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture and would work closely with
the regional units of the Ministries involved in the Project. The PMU would
coordinate its activities with other development activities undertaken by
the Regional Government and assurances were obtained at negotiation that all
development activities in the Bay Region, which are not included in the Proj-
ect, shall be co-ordinated and consistent with the purpose of the Project.
In particular, it would be necessary that the PMU develop close working
relations with the Governor and the District Commissioners. The PMU would
consist of a Somali Project Director, an internationally recruited Project
Technical Manager and a Financial Controller, their deputies and technical and
administrative support staff. The PMU would be responsible for planning and
coordinating Project activities, procuring of Project financed goods and
services and for monitoring and evaluation of Project activities. The PMU
would require the services of a procurement agency to assist in drawing up
specifications, preparing tender documents and analyzing bids for all project
related procurement. It would also require the services of construction
specialists to supervise the construction of buildings on its behalf. Assur-
ances were obtained at negotiations that procurement and construction consul-
tants with qualifications acceptable to IDA would be appointed by February 29,
1980.
2.27      Internal Reporting.  A sound internal reporting system would be
established by PHU to provide essential information for the successful manage-
ment of the Project. Project staff in the field would keep diaries which
would be inspected by their immediate supervisors. These diaries would
reflect the progress in implementation of various Project components, the



- 19 -
problems encountered and possible suggestions for improvement. These diaries
would be discussed at regular intervals with supervisors who would submit
monthly written reports to the PMU based on discussions with the field staff.
2.28      Monitoring and Evaluation.  All Project components would be moni-
tored by the PMU to provide management with an assessment of the progress made
in achieving Project objectives. A monitoring and evaluation section would
be established within PMU and would consist of two services, one for data
collection and one for data processing. Data collection would be undertaken
by a team of investigators who would primarily monitor physical progress in
Project implementation. Such data would be handed over to the data processing
service to be put into a form usable by Project Management for assessing
whether schedules and targets set out in the program are being met, quantify-
ing changes from the baseline over the program period and introducing changes
in Project interventions, should this become necessary.
2.29      The ultimate test of the utility of the Project is the effect it
would have on increasing crop and animal production and farmers' incomes.
The Monitoring and Evaluation section would gradually build up a system for
gathering information on the variables affecting farmers' incomes. Such
variables include crop and animal husbandry practices and production, input
and output marketing channels available to farmers, yield levels, production
constraints and indicators of performance of the institutions serving farmers.
The Project Technical Manager would supervise the organization, collection
and analysis of the data for his own and his staff's use and would establish
a system for communicating results to various interested parties within the
Project area, to concerned Ministries, to IDA and to the NMEF in the State
Planning Commission (to be established under this Project for independent
monitoring and evaluation of development projects in Somalia).
2.30      The Project would provide for housing, office space, transport
facilities, training of Somali staff and operating expenditures for the
PMU.
The National Monitoring and Evaluation Facility (NMEF)
2.31      In addition to internal monitoring and evaluation of development
Projects by their respective PMUs, there is a need in Somalia for building a
capability for independent monitoring and evaluation of development projects
in the country. A NMEF would be established in the State Planning Commission
and would be responsible for evaluating the progress in achievement of objec-
tives in each development project and checking the consistency of such objec-
tives and the desirability of their aggregate effects. Monitoring by the NMEF
would draw heavily on the information gathered through monitoring at the level
of individual projects. Such information would, nevertheless, have to be
supplemented through special studies and surveys aimed, first, at checking,
supplementing and deepening the critical information signals received from
projects, and second, at making possible cross-project and cross-subsector
comparisons of objectives, performance and impact. The NMEF would be headed
by an internationally recruited monitoring and evaluation specialist assisted



- 20 -
by an internationally recruited sociologist, an internationally recruited
statistician/economist and Somali staff. The specific functions of the NMEF
would be to:
(i) provide technical, social and organizational assessement of
various project results and of the wisdom of the approaches
adopted for reaching such results;
(ii)  facilitate quick inter-project and inter-regional transfer
of experience in PMU level monitoring and evaluation and
experience in effective methods of Project implementation;
(iii) provide methodological guidance to the PMUs in the program-
ming of monitoring and evaluation work, in the design of
statistical data collection and in sampling procedures;
(iv)  standardize evaluation procedures so as to minimize
duplication of efforts in preparing investigation tools
(questionnaires, etc.) by PMUs;
(v) develop imaginative studies and innovative approaches to
evaluation work from which the PMUs can benefit;
(vi)  foster an interdisciplinary (economic, institutional,
sociological, etc.) approach to the integrated evaluation
of the impact of development projects;
(vii) periodically articulate the lessons derived from project
implementation and submitting possible alternative solu-
tions to policy making agencies;
(viii) organize under its direct responsibility, the ex-post
evaluation of the results of projects after completion
of the investments.
The Project would provide for housing, office space, transport facilities,
training of Somali personnel and operating expenditures to the NMEF. An
assurance was obtained from Government at negotiations that a work program
for the NMEF would be prepared by NMEF and submitted to IDA for review and
approval by February 29, 1981.
Technical Assistance and Training
2.32      Institution building is a major objective of the Project.  The
intention is that, by the time the 6-year investment period is over, the Bay
Region would have the manpower base and institutional strength to continue
developing its agriculture with a minimum of outside help. The manpower
capability for the Bay Region would be developed through on-the-job and formal
training.  Hence, although the Project proposals call for the provision of
internationally recruited staff for the implementation of given physical



- 21 -
tasks, training would be among their major responsibilities. Skills would be
brought into the Bay Region by 20 internationally recruited specialists
representing a total of 100 man-years, by 30 Somali graduates receiving long
term formal training abroad at the MSc level, normally taking 2 to 2 1/2
years, and by about 16 Somali field staff receiving short term in-service
training abroad in the form of organized study trips (Tables 2.1 and 2.2).
The training of all extension staff would be undertaken under the Extension
and Farm Management Training Project, at the Bonka Extension Training Center
for the Field Extension Agents, and at the Farm Management and Extension
Training Center at Afgoi for the District and Regional Extension Officers.
Because of their importance for the successful and timely implementation of
the Project, it would be a condition of negotiations that Government had
identified definite sources for recruiting technical assistance staff with
qualifications acceptable to IDA. The programming, location and nature of
training abroad would be determined by the Project Director assisted by the
Project Technical Manager and an overseas training program would be submitted
to IDA for approval by June 30, 1980. Assurances to that effect were obtained
at negotiations.
2.33      The Project would also provide for consultancy services to supple-
ment the resident manpower resources, particularly in agricultural engineering,
on-farm storage and research design and statistical analysis. These services
would be used to support the development of adequate farm implements, the
improvement of the present system of on-farm storage, and the generation of
statistically reliable research results that are transferable to farmers.
The extent of the need for consultancy services would be established by the
Project Director and the Project Technical Manager in consultation with the
technical staff. The Project would also require manpower support and facili-
ties to undertake studies and surveys needed for the implementation of this
Project and for the preparation of a second phase Project. In addition, the
PMU would require the services of a procurement agency to assist in drawing up
specifications, preparing tender documents and analyzing bids and the services
of consultants to supervise the construction of buildings on behalf of PMU
(para 2.27). The PMU would also employ 3 consultants, namely a hydrologist, a
research agronomist and a livestock specialist to assist in preparing a work
plan by February 28, 1983, specifying steps to be undertaken to complete the
implementation of the Project during the second three year stage. Assurances
to the above were obtained at negotiations.
2.34      The Project would provide for housing for the internationally re-
cruited staff, transport facilities, operating costs, the cost of and training
abroad of Somali staff.



-22 -
Table 2.1:   Technical Assistance Required
Total
Item                  Number  Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5  Year 6
  ------------ - --man years-----------
Water Supply
Hydrogeologist                    1       0.5      1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0
Water Engineer                    1        -        -      1.0      1.0       -       -
Drilling Superintendent           1       0.5      1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0
Chief Driller                     2        -      1.0      1.0      1.0      2.0     2.0
Chief Mechanic                    1        -      0.5      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0
Total                        6      1.0      3.5      5.0     5.0      5.0      5.0
Access Roads
Senior Highway Engineer           1       0.5      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0
Plant Superintendent              1        -       1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0
Mechanical Engineer               1       0.5      1.0     1.0      1.0    .1.0      1.0
Mechanical Superintendent         1        -       1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0
Total                        4      1.0      4.0      4.0     4.0      4.0      4.0
Intensification of the Farm-
ing System
Seed Farm Manager                 1        .5     1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0
Agr. Research Officer             1        .5      1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0
Ext. Specialist
(Training & Communication)      1        .5     1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0
Range Management Officer          1        .5      1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0
Veterinary Officer                1        .5      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0
Total                        5       2.5     5.0      5.0     5.0      5.0      5.0
Project Management Unit
Project Technical Manager         1       1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0
Financial Controller              1       1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0
Total                        2       2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0      2.0
National Monitoring &
Evaluation Facility
Monitoring & Evaluation
Specialist                      1        -      1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0
Sociologist                       1        -       1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0
Statistician/Economist            1        -      1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0
Total                        1       -       3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0
Grand Total                 20      6.5    17.5    19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0



- 23 -
Table 2.2:   Training Abroad of Somali Staff
Total
Item                   Number   Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5  Year 6
------- ---man year s-----------
Water Supply
Hydrogeologist                    2        -      1/2       1       1        1       1/2
Geophysicist                      2        -      1/2       1       1        1      1/2
Water Engineer                    2        -      1/2       1       1        1       1/2
Access Roads
Civil Engineer                    2       -       1/2       1       1        1      1/2
Mechanical Engineer               2        -      1/2       1        1       1       1/2
Intensification of the
Farming System
Seed Farm Manager (Seed
Production Specialist)          2       -       1/2      1        1        1      1/2
Agricultural Engineer             2        -      1/2       1       1        1      1/2
Agr. Research Officer             2        _      1/2       1       1        1      1/2
Extension Specialist              2        -      1/2       1       1        1      1/2
Range Management Officer          2        _      1/2       1       1        1      1/2
Veterinary Officer                2        _      1/2       1       1        1      1/2
Project Management Unit
Financial Controller              2        _      1/2       1       1        1      1/2
National Monitoring &
Evaluation Facility (NMEF)
Sociologist                       2       -       1/2       1       1        1      1/2
Statistician/Economist            2       -       1/2       1       1        1      1/2
Monitoring & Evaluation
Specialist                        2       -       1/2      1        1        1      1/2
Total                       30       -       7.5     15       15      15       7.5
Study Trips  1/                    16        -      1         1       1        1       -
1/ Study trips of 3 to 6 month duration for senior Project Management Officers and
technicians.



- 24 -
III. PROJECT COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
A. Project Cost Estimates
3.01      Total Project costs, including contingencies, are estimated at
So.Sh. 283.6 million (US$45.0 million). The foreign exchange component rep-
resents 76% of total costs, the equivalent of So.Sh. 216.3 million (US$34.4
million). Project cost estimates are summarized in Table 3.1 below:
Table 3.1: Project Cost Summary
Local    Foreign               Local    Foreign             Foreign
Currency  Exchange  Total    Currency  Exchange  Total   Exchange
------So.Sh.million  ---          - US$ million------           Z
Project Component
Water Supply                 8.9        21.9      30.8       1.4         3.5     4.9       71
Access Roads                13.7        44.0      57.7       2.2         7.0     9.2       76
Adaptive Research            2.7         3.0       5.7       0.4         0.5     0.9       53
Seed Farm                    3.9         5.7       9.6       0.6        0.9      1.5       60
Range Service                5.7         4.4      10.1       0.9         0.7     1.6       44
Veterinary Service           5.9         7.2      13.1       0.9         1.1     2.0       57
Technical Assistance
and Training               3.7        68.5      72.2      0.6        10.9    11.5        95
Project Management Unit    4.1           3.9       8.0       0.7         0.6     1.3       46
National Monitoring &
Evaluation Facility        1.8         3.6      5.4       0.3         0.6      0.9       66
Total Base Costs            50.4       162.2    212.6        8.0        25.8    33.8       76
Physical contingencies       2.8         8.9      11.7       0.4         1.4     1.8       76
Price contingencies         14.1        45.2      59.3       2.2         7.2     9.4       76
Total Costs              67.3       216.3    283.6      10.6        34.4    45.0        76
Type of Expenditure
Buildings                   11.6        10.1      21.7       1.9         1.6     3.5       45
Vehicles & Equipment         4.4        40.7      45.1       0.7         6.5     7.2       90
Local Salaries              28.6          -       28.6       4.5          -      4.5        -
Materials & Supplies         5.2        47.0      52.2       0.8         7.5     8.3       90
Technical Assistance          -         50.4      50.4        -          8.0     8.0      100
Training Abroad               -          6.1       6.1        -          1.0     1.0      100
Consultancy Services         0.6         7.9       8.5      0.1          1.2     1.3       90
Total Base Costs            50.4       162.2    212.6        8.0       25.8    33.8        76
Physical Contingencies       2.8         8.9      11.7       0.4         1.4     1.8       76
Price Contingencies         14.1        45.2      59.3       2.2         7.2     9.4       76
Total Costs              67.3       216.3    283.6      10.6        34.4    45.0        76



- 25 -
3.02      Costs were estimated on the basis of prices expected to prevail in
November 1979. Physical contingencies were allowed at the rate of 10% of
capital and operating cost items, except for personnel. Price contingencies
on all internationally procured goods and services have been allowed for by
compounding annual rates of 6.0% for all equipment and 7.0% for all civil
works in 1979 through 1985 and 5.0% and 6.0% respectively in 1986; and by
compounding annual rates of 10% in 1979 and 8% thereafter for all locally
procured goods and services. Physical and price contingencies combined
represent 33% of base costs. Price contingencies alone represent 28% of base
costs over the 6-year Project investment period. Technical assistance and
consultancy services were priced at US$6,600 per man month. A total of US$1.6
million is provided for consultancy services to undertake base studies, assist
PMU with the implementation of this Project, undertake a mid-investment period
review of the Project and prepare a phase II Project. The Government does not
levy import duties on inputs for the Agricultural Sector. Consequently, all
capital items are included without such duties. The estimated Project costs,
however, include local taxes on gasoline, oil and lubricants estimated at
about 40% of the fuel bill. These taxes would amount to about So.Sh. 10
million (US$1.6 million).
B. Financing
3.03      The financing of the Project would be shared in the following amounts
and proportions:
Amount
So.Sh.        % of Total         % of Net
US$ million    Million        Project Costs    ProJect Costs
IDA                  12.0         75.6                26               28
ADF                   8.9          56.0                20               21
USAID                10.5         66.2                 23               24
IFAD                  8.0         50.4                 18              18
GOS                   4.0         25.2                  9               9
Net Costs         43.4        273.4                 96             100
Taxes              1.6         10.2                 4
Total Costs       45.0        283.6               100
3.04      Under a joint financing arrangement, IDA would contribute a credit
of US$12 million, and IFAD a loan of US$8 million equivalent for financing
part of total Project expenditure for vehicles and equipment, local salaries,
materials and supplies, technical assistance, and training abroad and all
buildings, and consultancy services. Both contributions would be on IDA
and IFAD standard terms to the Government of Somalia. The joint IDA/IFAD
financing would consist of 74% foreign exchange and 26% of local costs. The
local cost financing is justified in view of the country's poverty. Assistance



- 26 -
from USAID and ADF would be under parallel financing arrangements. USAID
would finance vehicles and equipment, technical assistance and training
abroad for the following Project components: Water Supply, Adaptive Research,
Range Service, Veterinary Service and Seed Farm. ADF would finance the road
component jointly with Government except for the buildings, technical assis-
tance and training associated with the road component.
gable 3.2: Prolect Financing by Prolect Component and Type of Expenditure /1
GOS     IDA      IFAD     USAID      ADF     Total
------------------ US$ million -----------------
Project Component
Water Supply                  1.1     1.4       1.0      2.9        -       6.4
Access Roads                 3.0      0.4       0.3       -        8.9     12.6
Adaptive Research            0.4      0.3       0.3      0.2        -       1.2
Seed Farm                    0.5      0.7      0.4       0.3       -        1.9
Range Service                0.6      0.7      0.4       0.3        -       2.0
Veterinary Service            -       1.2      0.8       0.5        -       2.5
Technical Assistance and
Training                    -       4.5      3.0       6.3       -       13.8
Project Management Unit       -       0.9      0.6        -         -       1.5
National Monitoring and
Evaluation Facility         -       0.6      0.4        -        -        1.0
Unallocated                   -       1.3      0.8        -         -       2.1
Total                   5.6    12.0       8.0      10.5      8.9      45.0
Type of Expenditure
Buildings                     -       2.5       1.7       -         -       4.2
Vehicles and Equipment       0.5      0.2      0.1       4.2       4.0      9.0
Local Salaries               4.3      1.1      0.7        -         -       6.1
Materials and Supplies        0.8     3.3       2.3       -        4.9     11.3
Technical Assistance          -       2.5       1.6      5.6        -       9.7
Training Abroad               -       0.3      0.2       0.7        -       1.2
Consultancy Services          -       0.8      0.6        -         -       1.4
Unallocated                   -       1.3      0.8        -         -       2.1
Total                   5.6    12.0       8.0      10.5      8.9      45.0
/1   Including contingencies.
3.05      Funds for all Project expenditures financed by IDA would be chan-
neled by Government as a grant to the Project, which would be operated as
an identifiable separate entity within MOA, and would also have a separate
bank account. In order to ensure smooth Project implementation and continued
liquidity, the Government would establish a revolving fund, initially in the
amount of So.Sh. 4.0 million, to be paid into the Project account. This
amount would be increased to So.Sh. 5 million by the end of the first year
of the Project period. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that



- 27 -
Government would credit the Project account every six months with sufficient
funds to replenish the account and meet expenditures during the next six
months. The initial payment to the Project Account would be a condition of
Credit Effectiveness.
C. Procurement
3.06      Contracts for the supply of vehicles, machinery and equipment and
materials and supplies in excess of US$50,000 equivalent would be awarded
after international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with World Bank
Guidelines. Orders would be bulked whenever possible to attract the highest
possible number of bidders. Draft tender invitations and bid documents would
be submitted to IDA for review before issue. Contracts for less than US$50,000
but in aggregate totalling no more than US$300,000 equivalent would be awarded
after competitive bidding advertised locally and following Government procure-
ment procedures which were reviewed at appraisal and are satisfactory to
IDA.
3.07      The construction of housing and office facilities at Baidoa and
Bonka would be combined into a single contract and tendered under ICB. A
margin of preference would be granted to domestically manufactured goods of up
to 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of imported alternatives; and a margin of
preference of 7.5% would be granted to Somali contractors. Building con-
struction outside Baidoa and Bonka would not attract international bids due to
their small size and dispersed locations. These contracts would be awarded to
local contractors in accordance with Government procurement procedures which
are acceptable to IDA. No contract shall be effected once awarded if for any
reason its original price has been increased by more than 10% without prior
approval of the Association. Assurances on the above procedures would be
obtained from Government at negotiations. For goods purchased under ICB, PMU
would submit general procurement notices to IDA for insertion in the UN
publication "Development Forum."
3.08      Procurement of technical assistance services would be done in
consultation with IDA for all Project positions financed out of the IDA Credit
or IFAD loan. In addition, the terms of reference and qualifications of the
Project Technical Manager and the Financial Controller would be subject to IDA
approval. Government has requested and IDA has agreed to assist in recruiting
the Project Technical Manager and Financial Controller. Training abroad would
be planned and organized by the Project Director and Project Technical Manager.
Its nature and location would be subject to approval by IDA (para. 2.32).
D. Disbursement
3.09      The disbursement of the IFAD Loan would be administered by IDA.
Disbursements against the Project expenditures would be disbursed on a pari
passu basis in the ratio of about 3 for IDA to 2 for IFAD against the following



28 
categories: (a) 100% of building construction costs; (b) 100% of cost of
vehicles and equipment up to US$400,000; (c) 32% of local salaries; (d) 100%
of materials and supplies up to US$6.2 million; (e) 100% of technical assis-
tance, consultants services, and training abroad. Disbursements against all
categories except local salaries would be fully documented. Disbursements
against local salaries would be made against appropriate certificates of
expenditures, certified by the Project Manager. The documentation for these
certificates would be retained by the Borrower and made available for inspec-
tion by IDA during the course of supervision missions. An advance of US$0.4
million under the IDA Project Preparation Facility (PPF) has been granted to
the Government for early recruitment of key staff to activate the PMU and
provide the logistic support to speed up project implementation. This amount
would be repaid to the Association from the IDA Credit Account after Credit
Effectiveness. A schedule of estimated disbursements is shown in Table 1.
Any funds remaining in the Credit account upon completion of the Project would
be available for reallocation to Project-related expenditures at the discre-
tion of IDA.
E. Accounts and Audit
3.10      Separate accounts would be kept reflecting the expenditures funded
by each co-financier. Project related accounts would be audited by indepen-
dent auditors. The Magistrate of Accounts is an independent auditing agency
in Somalia. Although the auditing capability of this agency is presently
.less than optimum, IDA is considering measures for strengthening it under the
Technical Assistance Credit. In view of this consideration, the Magistrate
of Accounts would be an acceptable independent auditor for Project accounts.
Government would submit audited accounts to IDA within six months of the end
of each fiscal year. Assurances to the above would be obtained at negotia-
tions. The PMU would emphasize the introduction of accurate accounting pro-
cedures within each of the units participating in the Project and would train
enough accountants to ensure the continuity of proper accounting practices at
the end of the Project's six-year investment period.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01      The organization selected for this Project was dictated by its
regional character, the complementarity between its components and the fact
that each Project intervention was defined in such a way that it meets the
needs of the whole region during the six-year investment period. The interna-
tionally recruited staff would work in line positions and when Somali staff,
who ultimately would replace them, are trained, the internationally recruited
staff would devote progressively more of their time to on-the-job training
and ultimately assume the functions of advisors towards the end of the six-
year Project investment period. A high degree of cooperation between central
and regional Government agencies, a clear definition of responsibilities and



- 29 -
well defined lines of authority would be prerequisites for the proper imple-
mentation of the Project. MOA was chosen by Government as the implementing
agency for this Project.
4.02      The PMU  set up in the Bay Region to implement the Project during
the investment period on behalf of.MOA, would maintain close contacts with
the Regional Government, the Regional Governor and the District Commissioners.
A Bay Region Development Coordination Committee would be established as a
condition of Credit Effectiveness to ensure adequate cooperation at the
regional level and provide policy making level support for the PMU. It
would consist of the Regional Governor, the Ministers of Finance, Agriculture,
Livestock Forestry and Range, Water and Mineral Resources, Public Works, the
Chairman of the State Planning Commission and the Project Director. The
Committee would meet once a year or as needed at the request of the Project
Director.
4.03      The PMU would have full control over all resources provided under
the Project, and would be given the mandate to oversee the strengthening
of the regional institutions directly involved in the Project. These include
the regional departments, units, or services of MOA MLFR, NRA, WDA, AND MPW's
Department of Civil Engineering. These would be brought under the direction
of the PMU during the Project investment period. Their staff would be directly
responsible to the Project Director (Chart 1). Although seconded to the PMU,
these units would retain their identity as the regional extension of their
respective ministries, agencies or departments. This would facilitate their
administrative reintegration to their original institutions at the end of the
Project investment period and would allow the PMU to develop clear lines of
authority and cooperation within and between these well defined units, thus,
creating an environment for continued interagency cooperation after the PMU
is dissolved.
4.04      The principle of staff secondment from MLFR, NRA, MOA, WDA and MPW
to PMU was suggested by MOA and concurred to by the other ministries involved.
Because of its importance for the proper and timely implementation of the
Project, Government would prepare and present for review during negotiations
a draft legal document establishing the PMU and describing procedures for
bringing staff and facilities of MLFR, NRA, WDA and MNW under the direction of
the PMU during the investment period. This draft document was presented at
negotiations and found satisfactory. The execution of the legal document and
the appointment of the Project Director, the Project Technical Manager and the
Financial Controller would be conditions of Credit Effectiveness.
The Project Management Unit (PMU)
4.05      The Project Director would be responsible for overseeing all Project
activities and ensuring that they complement other development efforts under-
taken by the Regional Government, Central Ministries and other Government
institutions. The Project Director would be an agriculturalist, preferably
with a good knowledge of the economy of the Bay Region. He would be appointed
on terms of reference and with qualifications satisfactory to IDA and after
consultation with IDA. The Project Technical Manager would be an experienced



- 30 -
agriculturalist or agricultural economist with a broad knowledge in semi-arid
agriculture and with experience in managing development projects in the
African context. He would be responsible for all technical aspects of Project
implementation and would answer to the Project Director. He would be the
leader of the team of internationally recruited staff and would assist the
Project Director in coordinating the implementation of the Project, including
the construction of facilities created under the Project, the coordination and
quality control of training programs, the proper use of Project funds and the
monitoring and evaluation of Project activities. The Financial Controller
would be responsible to the Project Director through the Project Technical
Manager and would assist them in organizing the procurement of Project related
goods and services and in establishing a system of financial control and
accountability for the constituent units of the Project. Recruitment of
technical assistance staff would follow the procedures outlined in para 3.08.
4.06      The Monitoring and Evaluation section of PMU would be headed by a
Somali agriculturalist or agricultural economist who would be responsible to
the Project Technical Manager. An internationally recruited Agricultural
Extension Specialist would assist the Project Technical Manager in establish-
ing a management oriented system of monitoring and evaluation of Project
activities and results.
4.07      GOS would submit annual and half yearly Project progress reports to
financing agencies. Within six months of completion of disbursements under the
IDA Credit, GOS would prepare a completion report on the implementation of the
Project, including actual costs, benefits and contribution towards the accom-
plishment of the country's development objectives. Assurances to this effect
were obtained from Government at negotiations.
Intensification of the Farming System
4.08      This component includes all aspects of the Project aimed
at intensifying crop and livestock production both in the cropped and in the
range areas and at preserving the productive potential of agriculture in the
Region. Thus five subcomponents - extension, service, veterinary service,
adaptive research, range management, and seed production - are brought
together to create the institutional environment under which it would become
feasible to adopt an integrated approach to agricultural development in the
region. The Project Technical Manager would assist the Project Director in
coordinating the implementation of these five subcomponents and for establish-
ing procedures for continuous cooperation among their staff at the working
level.
4.09      The Regional Extension Service.  The extension service would be
headed by the Regional Extension Officer (REO) who would be assisted by two
Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) at the regional headquarters and by about
11 District Extension Officers (DEOs), who in turn, would supervise about 106
Field Extension Agents (FEAs), each covering about 500 families. Extension
coverage of the Bay Region would follow the phasing proposed under the Agricul-
tural Extension and Farm Management Training Project. Coverage would proceed



- 31 -
one district at a time, starting with the Baidoa District and with the PADUs
and progressively covering the region as trained extension staff became
available. Because the NES would be at its early stages of development, an
internationally recruited Agricultural Extension Specialist would be recruited
to serve as a technical advisor to the REO and would assist him in getting the
regional extension service started. He would also represent the link between
this Project and the Agricultural Extension and Farm Management Training
Project. The Extension Specialist would be responsible to the Project Director
through the Project Technical Manager and would assist them in supervising
project activities aimed at intensifying the farming system, coordinating
crop, livestock and range research activities, establishing strong links
between research and extension and establishing a management-oriented system
of monitoring and evaluation. The Extension Specialist would work closely
with the headquarters staff of the NES at Afgoi and would follow the same
extension methodology being followed nationally.
4.10      The Regional Veterinary Service.  The existing veterinary unit in
Baidoa would be brought under the direction of the PMU for the six-year
Project investment period. The Project Technical Manager assisted by an
internationally recruited Project Veterinary Specialist, together with the
Project Director and in consultation with the Director of Veterinary Services
in the MLFR would prepare work and training programs for the regional vete-
rinary unit.  Somali staff would be trained to provide for a qualified Regional
Veterinary Officer (RVO) at headquarters along with his support staff and
laboratory technicians. The RVO would be the deputy of the internationally
recruited Project Veterinary Specialist and would take over responsibility for
the unit towards the end of the six-year investment period. The RVO would
supervise District Veterinary Officers (DVOs) who in turn would supervise
vaccination teams, veterinary store keepers and dispensary attendants. The
internationally recruited Project Veterinary Specialist would be a qualified
veterinarian with experience in low rainfall areas and in pastoral type animal
husbandry.
4.11      Adaptive Research and Field Trials.  An internationally recruited
Agricultural Research Specialist, assisted by the Extension Specialist, would
prepare a 2 to 3 year applied research program for the Bay Region covering
both crop and animal production. This program would be reviewed by IDA and
care would be taken to ensure that it fits within the national research
strategy (to be developed under the Agricultural Extension and Farm Management
Training Project). This program would have to be locally approved by a
committee consisting of the Project Director, the Project Technical Manager,
the Veterinary Specialist, the Range Management Specialist, the Director of
the Department of Animal Husbandry of the MLFR, the Director of Research
Training and Planning of NRA and the Director of the Research Institute of
MOA. Once enough reliable information about the Region is put together, this
short term research program would be expanded and modified as necessary into a
more comprehensive research program for the Region. The latter would be
submitted to IDA for review and approval as part of the mid-term review of the
overall work program. The internationally recruited Agricultural Research
Specialist would be stationed at the Bonka Research Station and would be
responsible to the Project Director through the Project Technical Manager. He



- 32 -
would assist them in developing a training program for Somali staff at the
research station, both on-the-job and abroad. He would supervise the work at
the Bonka Research Station and the adaptive/demonstrative trials in the
field, both within and outside of the PADUs.
4.12      A Somali Field Research Officer (FRO) would be stationed at each
cropping area of each PADU and would be given the physical means and technical
back-up to implement the on-farm research program and record its results. The
FROs would work closely with the Extension Service field staff to ensure that
the research program is well adapted to the needs of the farmers and to ensure
the uninterrupted flow of information to and from research.
4.13      Range Management.  To implement this subcomponent, which is an
integral part of the PADUs, the regional unit of NRA would be brought under
the direction of the PMU during the Project investment period, but would
retain its identity. It would be strengthened by an internationally recruited
Range Management Specialist who would be responsible to the Project Director
through the Project Technical Manager.
4.14      Seed Production.  The seed farm would be managed by an interna-
tionally recruited agriculturalist with experience in seed production. He
would be responsible to the Project Director through the Project Technical
Manager. He would supervise seed production activities and would cooperate
with the Agricultural Research Specialist and the Range Management Specialist
in producing quality seeds for food crops, ley pasture and experimental range
improvement. He would supervise the establishment of a workshop to service
farm machinery on the seed farm and to serve as a base for work related to the
development of farm hand tools and animal-drawn implements and possibly for
the construction of village and on-farm mobile grain storage facilities, if
found desirable for the region. He would also be responsible for developing a
training program for Somali staff working on the farm and would assist in
preparing the mid-term work plan.
Water Supply
4.15      The WDA regional offices and workshop at Baidoa would be strength-
ened by the provision of an internationally recruited team of technical staff
headed by a hydrologist who would be responsible to the Project Director
through the Project Technical Manager. Somali staff would be trained and
equipped to take over responsibility for further water development and mainte-
nance at the end of the Project investment period.
Access Roads
4.16      During the Project investment period, the regional unit of the
Civil Engineering Department of the MPW would be strengthened by a team of
internationally recruited technical staff headed by a civil engineer who would
be responsible to the Project Director through the Project Technical Manager.
Besides implementing Project works, the team would train the Somali staff in
numbers and at levels needed to ensure that the region acquires an on-going
road construction and maintenance capability.



-33 -
V. PRODUCTION, FARMERS' BENEFITS, MARKETING AND PRICES
A. Production and Farmers' Benefits
5.01      Crop and livestock production in the Bay Region would increase
as a result of the progressive adoption by producers of improved practices
and as a result of a more efficient use of resources to take fuller advantage
of the complementary production relationships between crops and livestock.
Increased production would mainly result from: (i) the adoption by farmers
of simple practices aimed at moisture conservation, at ensuring an adequate
plant population and an even plant distribution in the fields at harvest time,
at reducing grain waste through better storage and at increasing on-farm
fodder availability; (ii) improved animal health services; (iii) improved
water supply, and (iv) better access to the market through an improved road
system. The nature of improved practices that would benefit a given group of
farmers would depend on the level of technology with which they currently
operate and on the extent of their receptivity to new practices. For farmers
at a lower level of technology (Level 0), adoption of improved practices would
be slow and initially risk-reducing or risk-neutral, requiring very little
beyond their traditional hand tools (Level I). As their incomes improve,
however, some of these farmers and those presently at a higher level of tech-
nology, would start adopting more sophisticated practices such as the use of
animal traction (Level II). Farmers at yet higher levels of technological
sophistication would be using marketed inputs (Level III) such as plant
protection products, improved variety crops and improved tools and implements.
Under present conditions most farmers would be at Level 0. As a result of the
Project, these farmers would move into Level I and progressively into Levels
II and III.
Crop Production
5.02      Food availability in the Bay Region is projected to increase as a
result of a more stable farming population, improved productivity, expansion
in the area under crops, and improved storage. The following assumptions were
made for estimating incremental production attributable to the Project for
farmers currently at different levels of the technological development.
(a) Level I. Incremental crop production is based on the assump-
tion that, without the Project, most farmers would be at Level
0 and that about 240,000 ha would be planted to sorghum
intercropped with pulses. Owing to the almost exclusive use
of traditional technology, the effective yield in the Region
was estimated at 375 kg per ha due in part to substantial post-
harvest losses. The effective yield of pulses was estimated
at 70 kg per ha. As a result of the Project, farmers in this
category would adopt Level I practices at the average rate of



34 -
3% per year from year 3 to year 8. 1/ This adoption rate would
increase to 5% for the succeeding 5 years and to 7% thereafter
until year 20. Effective yields would increase gradually during
this period and reach 500 kg per ha for sorghum and 100 kg per
ha for pulses by year 15. The cropped area is assumed not to
increase for farmers at Level I;
(b) Level II. It is assumed that half of the farmers who adopted
the Level I simple improved practices would also take up
the use of animal traction starting in year 4 of the Project
period. This would result in a 25% increase in cropped area,
but no increase in effective yields. The introduction of
animal traction would be organized by the Extension Service,
which would also provide assistance in developing a network
for oxen training;
(c) Level III. Starting in year 8 after initiation of the
Project, half of the farmers who adopted Level II practices
are assumed to begin to adopt Level III practices as well.
Although the cropped area is assumed not to increase under Level
III, effective yields would increase reaching 675 kg per ha for
sorghum and 150 kg per ha for pulses by year 15.
Other crops such as groundnuts, millet and sesame are currently cultivated
and their cultivation is expected to expand over time at least partially at
the expense of sorghum. However, due to the relatively minor importance of
these crops in the early years following Project initiation, they have been
excluded from the analysis with the result that incremental crop benefits
may be understated.
5.03      Incremental crop production attributable to the Project as summarized
in Table 5.1 assumes Government ensuring the same level of intervention as that
provided during the investment period to sustain adoption levels and achieve-
ments after the Project 6-year investment period.
1/   Because farmers who adopt Level I practices are assumed to apply them
on 100% of their cultivated land and not to revert back to (Level 0)
practices, this would amount to 24% of all farmers and 24% of cultivated
area being under Level I practices by year 8.



- 35 -
Table 5.1: Incremental crop production due to the Project
Level I     Level II    Level III       Total
(mt)         (mt)         (mt)          (mt)
Year 5
Sorghum             725          800            -         1,525
Pulses              290          160            -           450
Year 10
Sorghum           3,700       3,825           3,600      11,125
Pulses            1,480          810          1,260       3,550
Year 15
Sorghum          14,400       8,075          10,200      32,675
Pulses            4,320        1,700          2,720       8,740
Year 20
Sorghum         28,500       13,500          16,200      58,200
Pulses            6,840       2,700           4,320      13,860
These quantities are significant for a food deficient country like Somalia.
Sorghum availability in the region under the above assumptions would increase
at the average rate of over 5% per year. In addition, other crops, especially
cash crops such as groundnuts, are expected to slowly acquire an important
place in the cropping pattern, hence transforming agriculture from its present
strictly subsistence nature to a more market oriented activity. Most impor-
tantly, the incremental production of staple grains from small farms would
allow the average family to meet its basic food needs and to increase its
marketable surplus that would help feed the urban population. It is estimated
that over half of the incremental food production due to the Project would
find its way into the market and would contribute to stabilizing food supply
to urban consumers.
Livestock Production
5.04      Livestock production is projected to increase as a result of better
quality animals on farms due to increased water availability, improved road
system which makes trucking possible (hence less weight loss), increased
fodder availability in the dry seasons, and improved animal health. Incre-
mental livestock production is based on the assumption that, at the start
of the Project, there would be 200,000 cattle, 300,000 camels, 300,000 goats
and 100,000 sheep more or less permanently based in the Bay Region. In
the "without Project" situation, livestock numbers are expected to decline
as a result of deteriorating range potential. Even with the introduction
ability, additional access tracks and an increased fodder base, the gradual
deterioration of the rangeland would continue - except in pilot range areas -
and would result in declining stock numbers for cattle and camels. However,
in the "with Project" situation, the decline in cattle and camel numbers would
be at a slower rate than in the "without Project" case and the numbers of



36 
sheep and goats would increase at a faster rate.  Incremental milk production
would result from a larger number of animals being used for that purpose and
greater milk yields per lactation. Lactation yields for human consumption are
assumed to remain constant "with the Project" and deteriorate "without the
Project" from 200 kg to 150-kg, 500 kg to 400 kg and 50 kg to 40 kg for
cattle, camels and goats respectively.
5.05      Incremental changes in livestock numbers due to the Project, as
summarized in Table 5.2, like incremental crop production, assume that Project
initiated efforts would be sustained after the Project 6-year investment period.
Table 5.2: Incremental livestock numbers due to the Project
Average per year
Year 1-5        Year 5-10     Year 10-15    Year 15-20
Head '000       Head '000     Head '000      Head '000
Cattle                1                 10             15              8
Camels                1                 12             28             26
Sheep & goats         2                 19             26             25
This incremental production represents mainly an increase in wealth to
livestock owners. In addition it is expected that increased offtake would
result in increased availability of meat, mostly for the market which is
expected to reach 2,000 head of cattle, 2,000 camels and 6,000 sheep and
goats by year 15 of the Project life (Table 5.3).
Table 5.3: Incremental Slaughter Stock Availability due to the Project
Average per year
Year 1-5         Year 5-10        Year 10-15      Year 15-20
Head '000        Head '000        Head '000       Head '000
Cattle                 0               1                 2               2
Camels                 1               1                 1               2
Sheep and goats        1               4                 6               6
Farmer Benefits
5.06      A farm family in the Bay Region with an average size of 5.5 people
and the potential to put 5 ha under crops and to care for about 12 animal
units both on and off the farm has at present an average yearly income of
about So.Sh. 3,300 (US$520). Without the Project, this income would, within
the next 10 years, decrease to So.Sh. 2,600 (US$410) as a result of the
unavoidable deterioration of range which would erode potential revenues from
livestock even if crop yields did not decline.  Under the "with Project"
alternative, a farm family going through the technological progression des-
cribed above would increase its income to about So.Sh. 4,100 (US$650) by year
10 as the farm models in Table 5.4 show. This would result in a per capita
income of about So.Sh. 485 (US$75) in the "without Project" situation compared
to about So.Sh.750 (US$120) in the "with Project" situation.



- 31 -
Table 5.4:  Farm Models (Outside PADUs) 1/
'8ffth Pfdject",
Level 0      Level 0
"Without      Level I    Level II    Level III
Project" 1/
Cropped Area (ha) 2/
Sorghum                         4              4           4           5           5
Pulses                          4              4           4           5           5
Livestock (head) 3/
Cattle                        3.3            2.5         3.1         3.0         2.7
Camels                        5.0            2.9         4.2         4.0         3.5
Sheep/Goats                   6.7            6.6         6.6         6.7         6.7
Yield (kg/ha)
Sorghum                       375            375         500         500         675
Pulses                         70             70         100         100         150
Off-take (%)
Cattle                        8.2            8.3         8.0         8.3         8.0
Camels                        5.7            5.6         5.5         5.4         5.5
Sheep/Goats                  12.0           12.0        12.3        12.7        12.7
Milk (kg/lactation)
Cattle                        200            150         200         220         240
Camels                        500            400         500         550         600
Sheep/Goats                    50             40          50          60          60
Production
Sorghum (kg)                 1500           1500        2000        2500        3375
Pulses (kg)                   280            280         400         500         750
Cattle (heads)                0.27           0.21        0.25        0.25        0.22
Camels (heads)                0.29           0.16        0.23        0.22        0.20
Sheep/Goats (heads)           0.80           0.79        0.81        0.85        0.85
Milk
Cattle (kg)                   140            106         130         122         112
Camels (kg)                   380            220         328         305         270
Goats (kg)                     80             78          80          82          82
Value of Production
Sorghum (So.Sh ..0.75/kg)   1125            1125        1500        1875       2531
Pulses (So.Sh.l.0/kg)         280            280         400         500         750
Cattle (So.Sh.1300/head)      351            273         325         325         286
Camels (So.Sh.1900/head)    551              304         437         418         380
Sheep/Goats (So.Sh.
220/head)       176            174         178         187        187
Milk:
Cattle (So.Sh.2.5/litre)  350              265         325        305         280
Camel (So.Sh.1.3/litre)   494              286        426         397         351
Goat (So.Sh.2.0/litre)    166              156         160        164         164
Total Value of Production        3487           2863        3751        4171        4929
Average Annual Costs of Production
Investment 4/                 -              -           -           300        400
Operating Costs               200            200         200        200         400
Total                             200            200         200         500         800
Family Income 5/                 3287           2663        3551        3671        4129
Per Capita Income
(5.5 persons per family)    598              484        646         667         750
1/ In the absence of the Project, crop yields remain the same as at present due to the
ability to alternate cropped areas, but livestock parameters deteriorate due to the
deteriorating rangeland.
2/ Total area cropped in Gu and Der.
3/ Assumes that there are 60,000 farm families and 200,000 cattle, 300,000 camels,
100,000 sheep and 300,000 goats. Changes which relate to livestock are in accordance
with the herd models "with Project" for Levels I, II and III and the herd models
"without Project" for traditional technology in the future. Full developrment refers
to the average expected to be achieved at each level of technology.
4/ Level II farmers would invest in ox training and oxen drawn implements. Implements
are depreciated over 3 years and oxen are sold for meat and replaced every 3 to 5 years.
5/ If water charges were collected 270 days per year at suggested rates, household
income would decrease by So.Sh. 400 at present, So.Sh. 340 for the future "with
Project" and So.Sh. 310 for the future "without Project."



- 38 -
5.07      Adoption of improved practices by farmers is expected to be faster
in the PADUs and Project effects on farmer incomes are expected to be higher
because of the earlier integration of farm and range activities. Accordingly,
the average income per family is expected to increase from the present level
of about So.Sh. 3,300 (US$520) to about So.Sh. 5,400 (US$860) by year 10,
meaning a per capita income of about So.Sh. 1,000 (US$155) compared to the
present level of about So.Sh. 600 (US$95) per capita or the estimated
So.Sh. 485 (US$75) per capita in the "without Project" situation (Table 5.5).
B. Marketing and Prices
Markets
5.08      There should be no problem in locating markets for incremental crop
production and livestock off-take. The entire increase in sorghum production
would be used to feed the growing population in the Bay Region and to substi-
tute for imported maize and sorghum in other regions. Increased pulse and
milk production would be used primarily for increased home and local consump-
tion, while some of the increased animal off-take would be used to meet the
growing demand in Mogadishu and other urban areas and the remainder would
be channelled into the export market. Because the international demand for
meat is projected to increase at a fast rate, especially in the Middle East,
all animal production in excess of domestic needs should be readily exportable.
Marketing of Crops
5.09      Since 1971, the Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC) has had
a monopoly over the sorghum and maize trade. Farmers generally maintain
on-farm grain stores of about 2 tons (2 years' subsistence supply) and sell
any excess production, although the amount delivered to ADC undoubtedly varies
with the price offered and the accessibility of ADC buying points. ADC esti-
mates its annual storage losses to be about 2% per year, which compares favor-
ably with estimates of annual on-farm storage losses of 20-40%. Sorghum was
the only crop purchased by ADC in the Bay Region during the 1977 crop season.
During this period, ADC purchased about 22,000 tons from 71 different buying
points. This total represents almost a three-fold increase over 1976 sorghum
purchases in the Bay Region and approximately 44% of total 1977 sorghum pur-
chased domestically. Because of Baidoa's increasingly important role as a
major center for the distribution of sorghum to deficit regions, particularly
to the north and east, ADC intends to increase its storage capacity in the Bay
Region which is now about 21,000 tons. ADC, however, has neither definite
plans for this purpose, nor the financial resources to implement them.
Additional storage capacity is not likely to become a constraint during
the present Project 6-year investment period, but may become one as Project
interventions become fully productive. It is, therefore, important that
this issue be considered when preparing the second phase Project.



- 39 -
Table 5.5: Pilot Agricultural Development Units - Farm Models
Expected             "With Project"
Level 0      Technology
Without      Year 5       Year 10       Year 20
Project
Cropped Area (ha) 1/
Sorghum                         4            4            5             5           5
Pulses                          4            4             5            5           5
Livestock (head )
Cattle                        3.3          2.5          3.2          3.5            4.0
Camels                        5.0          2.9          4.6          4.6            6.3
Sheep/Goats                   6.7          6.6          6.6          8.6            9.7
Yield (kg/ha)
Sorghum                       375          375          500          850          1100
Pulses                         70           70          100           150           200
Off-take (M)
Cattle                        8.2          8.3          7.4          8.2           10.6
Camels                        5.7          5.6          5.7          5.3            7.4
Sheep/Goats                  12.0         12.0         12.0         16.3          19.4
Milk (kg/lactation)
Cattle                        200          150          200          220            240
Camels                        500          400          500          550            600
Sheep/Goats                    50           40           50           60             60
Production
Sorghum (kg)                 1500         1500         2500         4250          5500
Pulses  (kg)                  280          280          500           750          1000
Cattle  (head)                0.27         0.21         0.24         0.29           0.42
Camels  (head)                0.29         0.16         0.26         0.24           0.47
Sheep/Goats (head)            0.80         0.79         0.79         1.40           1.88
Milk:
Cattle (kg)                   140          106          130          298            326
Camels (kg)                   380          220          350          478            633
Goats                          80           78           83          140            155
Value of Production
Sorghum (So.Sh.0.75/kg)    1125           1125         1875         3188          4125
Pulses (So.Sh. 1.0/kg)        280          280          500           750          1000
Cattle (So.Sh. 1300/head)   351            273          312          377            546
Camels (So.Sh. 1900/head)   551            304          494          456            893
Sheep/Goats (So.Sh.220/head)176            174          173          308            414
Milk:
Cattle (So.Sh.2.5/litre)  350            265          325          745            815
Camel (So.Sh.1.3/litre)   494            286          455          621            823
Goats (So.Sh.2.0/litre)   160            156          166          280            310
Total Value of Production           3487         2863         4300         6725          8926
Average Annual Costs of Production (So.Sh.)
Investment                    -            -            300          400            400
Operating Costs               200          200          200          900           1000
Total                                200          200          500         1300          1400
Family Income (So.Sh.) 2/           3287         2663         3800         5425          7526
Per Capita Income (So.Sh.)           598          484          690          986          1368
1/ Area cropped in both Gu and Der seasons.
2/ Exclusive of water charges. These would result in a decline in family income
of about So.Sh.400 per year.



- 40 -
Marketing of Livestock
5.10      Livestock marketing within the country is dominated by the private
sector with the exception of supplies to the meat factory in Kismayo. Export
trade, mainly in the form of live animals, is centered around the port of
Berbera. The Livestock Development Agency (LDA) under the MLFR provides
limited marketing facilities and services and mostly acts as a field collection
agency. One of LDA's ten marketing centers is located in Baidoa. This center
purchased 2,800 head of cattle in 1977 and intends to expand its cattle opera-
tion in the future and to introduce trading in camels. Producer prices are
judged to be non-competitive, in part due to the imperfect dissemination of
price information. Producer prices are also low because insufficient infra-
structure limits farmers' access to traders and makes trucking and trekking
expensive and only possible during part of the year. A Livestock Marketing
Project, currently under preparation, is expected to help increase producer
prices and encourage the increased offtake of livestock. Milk is marketed
when possible on an ad hoc basis because of lack of a marketing organization
capable of serving a dispersed area, moving herds and seasonal production.
No attempt is made or seems likely to be made in the near future, to provide
a marketing infrastructure that would permit the bulk collection of milk in
rural areas.
Prices
5.11      The prices of most agricultural products are basically determined
by the interplay of domestic market forces. This is not the case, however,
for maize and sorghum, for which ADC, in conjunction with the Government,
sets official prices at all levels of the marketing chain. Fixed prices for
sorghum have been changed about once every two or three years. This rigid
pricing strategy has and may continue to cause major liquidity and management
problems for ADC, either when ADC is forced to buy large quantities on the
international market to make up for local shortfalls (as in 1976), or when
unexpectedly large amounts of domestic production are offered for sale (as in
summer 1978). A rigid price policy has also been counterproductive for
producers as their terms of trade have been allowed to deteriorate. However,
as far as this Project is concerned present price levels alone should not
impede achievement of Project objectives. Nevertheless, if the terms of trade
of agriculture were allowed to improve then a rapid increase in the quantity
of sorghum and pulses marketed could occur particularly in the Bay Region
given the improved road system, extension service and on-farm storage facil-
ities the proposed Project would supply. One possible way of improving the
present situation would be for Government to make ADC a residual buyer instead
of a monopolist and give it the responsibility to manage a food security
program involving purchases in the local market, and food import and storage
in deficit areas. ADC would buy at a floor price fixed by Government and
reviewed annually. Farmers would have the choice between selling to ADC at
the floor price or to traders at a mutually agreed price. ADC could also buy
from traders at a price which would ensure them a reasonable margin over the
officially fixed floor price. IDA has an ongoing dialogue with Government on
pricing issues in the context of the Agricultural Sector Review.



- 41 -
VI. BENEFITS, ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND GOVERNMENT CASH FLOW
A. Benefits and Economic Justification
6.01      This Project would directly benefit 15,000 farm families engaged in
subsistence crop and livestock production by year 10 and would extend to over
45,000 additional farm families thereafter. The average per capita income of
these farm families is about US$95. Without the Project this would fall to an
estimated US$75. With the Project it is estimated to rise to about US$120 by
year 10. The most recent IBRD absolute poverty level estimate for Somalia is
US$50. The Project would also directly benefit non-farm users of roads in the
region. By establishing a better basis for crop and animal production, the
Project would help in the transformation of agriculture from its present
subsistence state to a more market oriented activity.
6.02      The road component links the administrative centers of each of the
Bay Region's four districts with Baidoa, and Baidoa with the major cities to
the north, and is an integral part of the development effort in the Bay
Region. Without the road component, it would be virtually impossible to
provide increased extension and veterinary services, drill and maintain water
points, and expand and extend marketing facilities. In addition to making
increased crop and livestock production possible, the road component gener-
ates additional benefits in the form of vehicle operating cost savings from
expected non-agricultural traffic and reduced slaughter stock weight losses as
a result of trucking all year as opposed to seasonal trekking in the "without
Project" situation. Some savings from improved roads are assumed to begin in
year 2. From year 6 onwards, full savings would be obtained. Road traffic in
the Bay Region is currently estimated at 1.6 million light vehicle-kilometers
and 4.8 million heavy vehicle (truck) kilometers, and is expected to grow at
about 5% per year, the same rate as agricultural production. It is also
assumed that with the improved roads 80% of cattle and 70% of sheep and goat
off-take would be trucked with a resultant saving in weight and mortality
which can be expressed as 30 kg per head of cattle and 3.6 kg per sheep/goat.
6.03      The economic rate of return (ERR) attempts to quantify the impact
of Project intervention during the 6 year investment period on the assump-
tion that such intervention will be maintained during the subsequent years.
Two major pilot activities (experimental range management and of irrigation
development in the Limestone Depression), and the national monitoring and
evaluation facility are excluded from the analysis because their full costs
and benefits would be defined only upon completion of the pilot stage. In
addition, given that approximately 60% of the water produced by the boreholes
in the Limestone Plateau will be for human consumption and that human consump-
tion benefits are impossible to quantify, 60% of the cost of the water supply
is excluded from the analysis. Although the financial requirements of exten-
sion are not included as Project costs due to their inclusion in the Agricul-
tural Extension and Farm Management Training Project, 22% of the National
Extension Service capital and operating costs are included as economic costs,
as about 22% of the potential extension beneficiaries live in the Bay Region.



- 42 -
.6.04      The economic prices of all tradeables are based on projected inter-
national prices, while those of non-tradeables, in this case, only pulses
and milk, are based on prices observed in the field. Estimates of savings
in vehicle operating cost (So.Sh. 244 per 1,000 km and So.Sh. 636 per 1,000
km for light and heavy vehicles, respectively) are based on IDA experience
in Somalia and neighboring countries. Approximately 50% of these savings
are in the form of imported items, and this portion is adjusted (para 6.05) to
reflect the shortage of foreign exchange in Somalia. Using the economic
prices of So.Sh. 10 per kg and So.Sh. 18 per kg for cattle and sheep/goats,
respectively, savings in the form of decreased weight losses due to roads of
So.Sh. 300 per head of cattle and So.Sh. 65 per head of sheep/goats would be
achieved.
6.05      The economic benefit and cost streams have been estimated by first
excluding the influence of taxes and subsidies and then, reflecting the
shortage of foreign exchange in Somalia, by using a shadow exchange rate of
So.Sh. 9 to US$1 instead of the official exchange rate of So.Sh. 6.3 to US$1.
The cost streams include replacement of equipment as an average annual expense
and allocate the capital and operating costs of the mechanical workshop to
each component by the percentage of total Project vehicles included in each.
An economic wage rate of So.Sh. 10 per man-day is applied to on-farm labor
because most of the incremental on-farm labor would be required at peak
periods when alternative off-farm employment at a wage rate of So.Sh. 10 per
man-day would be a real possibility.
6.06      Based on these assumptions, the economic rate of return is about
20% (Table 2). Even under the assumption of no incremental benefits being
generated after year 10 of Project life (20 years) and continued incre-
mental operating and maintenance costs, the ERR remains at the acceptable
level of 12%. In order to determine how sensitive the economic impact of the
Project is to changes in its benefit and cost streams, switching values are
calculated (Table 6.1). With constant incremental costs, total incremental
benefits can decrease by 48% without jeopardizing the economic viability
of the Project. With constant incremental benefits, incremental costs can
increase by up to 93% before economic viability is threatened. Even if only
13% of crop benefits materialize, as long as livestock and road benefits
remain as estimated, the Project remains economically viable. A lag of 3 to 4
years in both benefits and costs does not jeopardize economic acceptability
and if costs are not lagged, aggregate benefits must be lagged by more than
two years before the Project becomes economically unacceptable.



- 43 -
Table 6.1: Sensitivity Analysis
Variable                                 Switching Value /1
Aggregate benefits                                     -48%
Aggregate costs                                        +93%
Crop benefits                                          -87%
Livestock benefits                                    -130%
Road benefits                                         -215%
On-farm costs                                        +640%
Extension costs                                      +843%
Project Costs /2                                     + 90%
Aggregate benefits lagged                        between 2-3 years
Aggregate benefits and costs lagged together   more than 4 years
/1   Change at which NPV discounted at 10% equals 0.
/2   Costs related to items financed under the Project.
6.07      Additional unquantified benefits include the income redistribution
effect of the Project which arises from the emphasis it places on small-
scale rainfed agriculture. Another would result from the opening of major
market outlets to crop and livestock producers in the regions north and
west of the Bay Region through the improvement of the road system.
Environmental Effects
6.08      The objective of the Project in the long run would be the develop-
ment of a viable farming system in the Bay Region. This would maintain the
productive potential of the land through the introduction of improved farming
practices and range management. These practices would minimize the environ-
mental risk inherent in water development without strict control over animal
numbers. The situation in the "with Project" case would be an improvement
over the "without Project" situation which would mean continued deterioration
of soil fertility in cropped areas and continued degradation of rangelands.
Project Risk
6.09      The greatest risk would be that Project implementation is delayed or
extended over a longer period of time. There could be many reasons for such
delay, including limited cooperation of the concerned Government agencies in
seconding personnel to the PMU and in minimizing their interference during the
6 year investment period in the work program of their respective regional
units, limited cooperation of the regional and district authorities in sup-
porting institutional arrangements needed for the successful implementa-
tion of the Project, and shortage of manpower in the region. The latter
risk would be compounded if salaries and allowances were not made high enough
to attract and retain personnel. These matters were discussed with Government
and provisions were made to minimize the probability of their occurrence.
They would, however, have to be given close attention during Project imple-
mentation. A problem may also arise during early Project implementation in



- 44 -
that the extension and research activities may not be properly focussed on the
key issues requiring immediate attention in the Region, or that farmers and
local communities' receptivity may be lower than expected. The Monitoring and
Evaluation section of the PMU is given the responsibility and the means to
identify and resolve problems of this nature. Another source of risk asso-
ciated with the Project relates to the fact that the extent of the benefits to
be derived from this Project depend heavily on Government's continued support
at the end of the 6 year investment period. This is likely to materialize as
Government recognizes that the present Project is only the first phase in a
long term development effort in the Region. In order to assist Government
plan that development, funds are included in the Project for the preparation
of a follow-up phase. Moreover, the intention of Government, as reflected in
Project objectives, is to assist local communities to become economically
self-reliant which in the long run would shift some of the burden of develop-
ment from Central Government to local communities. The above risks have to
be balanced against the long-term benefits to the Bay Region which is and
promises to be a major supplier of food in the country.
B. Effect on Government Budget
Cost Recovery - Boreholes
6.10      To effect full cost recovery from boreholes provided by the project
would require an annual revenue per borehole of about So.Sh. 122,000 per year.
This is equivalent to So.Sh. 73,000 for capital costs (amortized over 16 years
at 12%), So.Sh. 25,000 for annual operating costs, and So.Sh. 24,000 for annual
maintenance. Such revenues are traditionally levied on a per animal per drink
basis. Since livestock would need to be watered from boreholes for about 270
days a year, rates capable of effecting full cost recovery would need to be
set. Table 6.2 compares the various water charges enforced at present with
estimates of the suggested charge rates that would be required to cover the
total costs of project boreholes.
Table 6.2: Water Charge (0.01 x So.Sh. per drink)
Camels     Cattle    Sheep and Goats
NRA/WDA Baidoa (Public Wells)              50          10              5
Range Act (Large Uars)                     20          10             10
Suggested to Recover Total Costs           80         50              10
The suggested charge rates cannot be considered excessive relative to the
value of the animals involved.  However, complete cost recovery is expected
to be difficult due to collection difficulties, erratic demand which will
strain facilities in certain periods and idle them in others, and operating
breakdowns over extended periods of time. Accordingly, assurances were
obtained at negotiations that Government would carry out a study to deter-
mine water charges that would at least ensure full cost recovery for the



- 45 -
establishment and maintenance of water supplies in the Bay Region. The terms
of reference for this study would be submitted to IDA for approval by
December 31, 1982, and when completed, Government would levy Regional water
charges in accordance with the findings of the study. In the interim, Govern-
ment would continue to levy existing per drink per animal water charges and
would increase these in such a way as to at least ensure full recovery of all
Project funds disbursed to improve water supply in the Region.
Government Cash Flow
6.11      Government would finance So.Sh. 35.4 million or 13Z of the Project
cost. After the implementation period, Government would have to meet incre-
mental recurring operating and maintenance costs of about So.Sh. 16 million
(US$2.6 million) per annum as well as meet debt service payments to IDA, IFAD
and ADF. The Project would save on subsidy paid for grain that would have
been additionally imported in the absence of the incremental production
deriving from the Project and Government would recoup part of its expenditures,
through income tax levied on salaries paid under the Project and tax receipts
from incremental livestock and grain sales. In addition, the Project would
recoup the cost of water development through water charges.
6.12      Over the estimated life of the Project, the incremental revenues and
expenditures deriving from the Project would be as shown below:
Million So.Sh.   Million US$
Credit                              (+)   245.0      (+)  38.8
Tax revenue                         (+)    93.2      (+)  14.8
Water charges                       (+)   102.0      (+)  16.2
Savings on grain import subsidy   (+)   134.5        (+)  21.3
Project costs and maintenance       (-)   506.0      (-)  80.3
Debt services                       (-)    16.7      (-)   2.6
Repayment of principal              (-)    45.0      (-)   7.1
(+)     7.0     (+)   1.1
Within the projected 20 years, Government's net cash flow would be negative
until year 12 and positive thereafter (Table 3).  In year 15, the cumulative
cash flow would still be negative at So.Sh. 35 million (US$5.6 million).
It would, however, turn positive in year 17 and remain so thereafter. The
budgetary implications of this Project taken alone are considered by Govern-
ment to be acceptable. It is important, however, that both Government and IDA
keep under close scrutiny the aggregate effect of all development Projects on
Government budget. IDA intends to pursue the discussion of this issue in the
context of the Agricultural Sector Review.
VII. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED
7.01      Assurances were obtained from Government during negotiations
that:



- 46 -
(a) procurement and construction consultants to PMU with qualifica-
tions acceptable to IDA would be appointed by February 29, 1980
(para. 2.26);
(b) the national monitoring and evaluation facility of the SPC would
be strengthened and the SPC would prepare a work program to be
submitted to IDA for review and approval by February 29, 1981
(para 2.31);
(c) Government would prepare a plan satisfactory to IDA for the
overseas training of Somali staff by June 30, 1980 (para.
2.32);
(d) a work plan specifying steps to be undertaken during the second
3 year stage of the Project to complete implementation of each
component would be prepared by PHU assisted by consultants
including, a hydrologist, a research agronomist and a livestock
specialist and would be submitted to IDA for approval by
February 28, 1983 (para 2.33);
(e) Government would open a special account in the name of the
Project, maintaining it as a revolving fund, initially paying
in a sum of So.Sh. 4 million and increasing it to So.Sh 5 mil-
lion by the end of the first year of the Project investment
period. The amount in the revolving fund would be renewed
every six months (para. 3.05);
(f) procurement procedures for goods and services outlined in
paras. 3.06, 3.07 and 3.08 would be followed;
(g) separate accounts would be kept reflecting expenditures
financed by the co-financiers. Project related accounts
would be audited by the Magistrate of Accounts, a Somali
independent auditing agency which is acceptable to IDA.
Audited accounts would be submitted to the Association by
the Ministry of Agriculture within six months of the end
of each fiscal year (para. 3.10);
(h) the Project Director, the Project Technical Manager and
Financial Controller of PMU will be appointed on terms
of reference and with qualifications satisfactory to the
Association and after consultation with the Association.
All other technical staff for the Project financed out
of the Credit or the Fund Loan shall be appointed after
consultation with the Association (paras. 3.08 and 4.05).
(i) Government would submit annual and half yearly progress
reports and within six months of completion of disbursements,
Government would prepare a completion report for submission
to IDA (para 4.07); and



- 47 -
(j)  Government would carry out a study to determine water charges
that would at least ensure full cost recovery for the estab-
lishment and maintenance of water supplies in the Bay Region.
The terms of reference for this study would be submitted to
IDA for approval by December 31, 1982, and when completed,
Government would levy Regional water charges in accordance
with the findings of the study. In the interim, Government
would continue to levy existing per drink per animal water
charges and would increase these in such a way as to at least
ensure full recovery of all Project funds disbursed to improve
water supply in the Region.
7.02      It would be a condition of Credit Effectiveness that:
(a) Government had paid So.Sh. 4 million to the Project account
(para. 3.05);
(b) the legal instrument establishing the PMU had been executed
(para. 4.04);
(c) Government had appointed the Project Director, the Project
Technical Manager and the Financial Controller to the PMU
(para. 4.04);
(d) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of other co-
financiers' agreements regarding the Project had been met;
(e) the Bay Region Development Coordination Committee was
established (para. 4.02).
7.03      The disbursement of Credit funds for each Project component follow-
ing the mid-term review would be contingent upon agreement between IDA and
Government to continue with the implementation of each component as originally
defined or as modified as a result of the review (para 2.01).
7.04      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the Project would
be suitable for an IDA Credit of US$12.0 million to the Government of Somalia.



SOMALIA
BAY REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Organization
Ministry of AgriculturP                                                                                      Bay Region Development
Minister's Office                         .                                                                Coordination Committee
Project Management Unit
Preparation            Training                                                                                Monitoring          Administration
of Phase II              and                                                                                      and                   and
Project             Consultancy                                                                              Evlauation         Financial Control               S
_Services         _Section                                                                                          Section                     0
Water Supply          Access Roads                                            Intensification of the Farming System
I WDA )               { MPW)
Adaptive               Range                Veterinary              Seed                Extension
Research              Service                Service                Farm                  Service
(MOA)                (NRA)                  (MLFR)                (MOA)                  (MOA)
World Bank - 20140
C.w   r



SOMALIA
BAY REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implemnentaion Schedule
1979     1|980                      1981              1982              1983              1984              1985               1986
Quarters    1  2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4    1  2   3   4    1   2   3   4    1   2  3   4
PREPARATORY ARRANGEMENTS
Identification of Sources of
Co-financing and Technical Assistance
Leqal Instrument Establishing PMU:
Draft
Negotiation of IDA Credit
Presentation to IDA Board
PROJECT ACTIVITIES
Appointment of Key Staff to PMU
PMU Legally Established
Initial Payments to Project Account
Co-financiers Agreements Effective
Appointment of Other Staff                                                                                                                                                                              4,---    
Training Program Drafted and                                    ___
Approved by IDA                                                                                                                                                                                        I
Implementation:
Intensification of the Farming System                     _
Water Supply
Access Roads-
Preparation of Phase II Project
Procurement of Project Financed Goods
Civil Work:
PMU
Farming System
Water Supply                                                                - _       _
Road- m                                                                               - -
NMEU
Reports to IDA
Semi-Annual Report                                                                                             1111111=1
Annual Report of Audited Accounts
Completion Report
CLOSING DATE. September 30, 1986
World Bank-20141
'1



-50-                                 Table 1
SOMALIA
BAY REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Joint IDA/IFAD              IDA                    IFAD
Disbursements          Disbursementsl/       Disbursements
------us                     US$000 ------US$000------  ------US$ ------
At End                 At End                 At End
IDA Financial Year &         of                     of                      of
Quarter              Quarter   Cumulative  Quarter   Cumulative  Quarter   Cumulative
1980    June         1980       400         400         400         400         --          --
1981    September   1980         --         400          --         400
December    1980         --         400          --        400          --          --
March       1981         40         440          --        400          40          40
June        1981         80         520          --        400          80        120
1982    September   1981         80         600          --         400         80         200
December    1981        300         900         140        540         160         360
March       1982        500       1,400         300        840         200         560
June        1982      1,500       2,900        900       1,740         600      1,160
1983    September   1982      1,500       4,400         900      2,640         600       1,760
December    1982      1,500       5,900        900       3,540         600      2,360
March       1983      1,700       7,600      1,020       4,560         680       3,040
June        1983      1,500       9,100        900       5,460         600      3,640
1984    September   1983      1,100      10,200         660      6,120         440       4,080
December    1983      1,100      11,300        660       6,780         440      4,520
March       1984      1,000      12,300        600       7,380         400      4,920
June        1984        800     13,100         480       7,860         320      5,240
1985    September   1984        700      13,800         420      8,280         280       5,520
December    1984        700      14,500        420       8,700         280      5,800
March       1985        700      15,200        420       9,120         280      6,080
June        1985        700     15,900         420       9,540         280      6,360
1986    September   1985        700      16,600         420      9,960         280       6,640
December    1985        700      17,300        420      10,380         280     -6,920
March       1986        700      18,000        420      10,800         280       7,200
June        1986        700     18,700         420      11,220         280      7,480
1987    September   1986        500      19,200         300     11,520         200       7,680
December    1986        500      19,700        300      11,820         200      7,880
March       1987        300      20,000        180      12,000         120      8,000
1/   Expected date of signing:          December, 1979
Expected date of effectiveness: March, 1980
Expected completion date:         March, 1986
Expected closing date:            March, 1987



o    O                        0 30e_ t                   X        
0    0    2    00            3       CE    00 = OOC9  j, C"'9 
9           0 w0 6                       i   '-     '- F   00w    3    
o    CC   0      .   =                   u o     C'               o -
2            9 CC   C'        2                                  o' 0  0   C
0 ~     ~      ~       7 0        o OO   C O                            0
0 ~     ~~~ CC        C           0 'C   OD               0 
oD r U o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'C    0    CC                            COCC .     ,,,    ,         CCC9 O          | 
'C~~~~~~~~~~~~                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -  1' C'-  1-   CCOCC1C3C 
CC   CC   _C       O        ;        'oC<u i<iS l-'C  C'     CCCW
CC ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ W C',   _, 0Th)    SC'CC O                   "C o         Y            
0~~~~~~~~ 'C   'C                    ioC'   3CCC         "'CCCFQ                          I 
'C~~~~~~                                                           ~     ~~~~~~~~~~ rC CC 10
'C   -1   wC                             CCCC'CCC wC'0'F* htrr    v  sCD
CC         o     er           w     w    u CCo  YN   CC  CCCCCCCC  COCO
E'   C'     o                'C   w'   C'           -            C o     -w r   ,  
CC   0    CC      '           C'  WC    CCCCCCCC _lC'-OCC ,                         | 
SC  O'                        SC  C'  CC                         CC W'  0\DOK   
*  '   C' ;   C            -C   'C]   W 'CCCC'C               CCCC                2   D
CC   CC  CCC  D0             'C   'C  g'CCJ3CCCODCC'C            'CC m'             |
CCC  OC    ;C OC   C'                            C'              CS  CCC DOWX   n   OO
CC   CD   ;'   C'       O     C   'C   CCSIC   YC1'CC
CC   C'                                 'C       C-'   WC        'C   'C            0 DOr3 
C'   C'   C'   O'            'C   -D 'CC-3IC)OC-Y COCCC                             I2
C'    O  ;C CCC  'C           C   'C   OCC CC'CCC'CCCCC DCC"C
z ~   ~    ~     C CI-'                              - C15      ' C --                '               0



SOMNALI\A
BAY REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Government Cash Flow
(So.Sh. '000)
15-20
1         2            3            4            5            6            7            8            9           10           11           12           13           14       avrae
Cash Inflow
Credit                          7.6        74.5        50.0         35.6         37.3         40. i
Income tax 1/                   0.2        o.6          0.7          o.8          0.7          0.7          0.7          0.7          0.7          0.7          0.7          0.7          0.7          0.7        0.7
Fuel tax 2                      0.3         1.3         2.1          2.1          2.2          2.2          2.2          2.2          2.2          2.2          2.2          2.2          2.2          2.2        2.2
Livestock tax 3/                 -           -            -            -            -            -          o.6           o.6         o.6          o.6          o.6          o.6          o.6          o.6        o.6
Sorghum tax 14                   -           -            -            -            -           -           2.2          2.2          2.2          2.2          2.2          2.2          2.2          2.2        2.2
Water charges 2/                 -                                                                           7.3-7.3-7_3                           7_3_7_3_7_3                            7_3_73 7737
Total                      8.1       76.4         52.8         38.5         40.2         43.0         13.0         13.0         13.0         13.0         13.0         13.0         13.0         13.0       13.0
Cash Outflow
Project costs                   7.8        86.5        58.4         40.6         43.3         45.1          16.0        16.0         16.0         16.o         16.0         16.0         i6.o         16.o       16.3
Service charge |                0.1         0.5          0.7         0.9           1.2         1.4           1.4         1.4          1.4          i.4          1.2          1.1          o.9          o.8         .14
Repayment of principal |        0-           -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -           -           4.5          4.5          4.5          4.5        4.5
Import subsidy 7/                -        ( 0-1)        0.2)       ( 0.4)         0 0.6)       0.9)       ( 1.6)       ( 2.0)       ( 2.8)       (3-6)        ( 4.0)       ( 5.9)       ( 9.0)       (10.4)    (15.5)
Total                      7.9        86.9        58.9         41.1         43.9         45.6         15.8         15.4         14.6         13.8         17.7         15.7         12.4         10.9        5J4
Net cash flow                     0.2       (10.5)       ( 6.1)       ( 2.6)       ( 3-7)      ( 2.6)        ( 2.8)       ( 2.4)       ( 1.6)      ( 0.8)       ( 4.7)       ( 2.7)         0.7           2.1       7.6
Cumulative                        0.2       (10-3)       (16.4)       (19.0)       (22.7)       (25.3)       (28.1)       (30-5)       (32.1)      (32.9)       (37.6)        (40.3)      (39.6)       (37.5)
i/, Income tax on local salaries at the average rate of 12% of gross salary.
|/ 40% of recurrent costs of petroleum  oil and lubricants.
3/ Average taxes of So.Sh. 135, 232 and 36 per head for incremental offtake of cattle, camels and sheep/goats, respectively.
i/ Average tax of So.Sh. 95 per mton of incremental production.
5 On the assumption of full cost recovery from the 60 boreholes on the limestone plateau.
3/ USAID contribution is a grant. Other outside financing on IDA terms.
v Decreased food import subsidies at the rate of So.Sh. 320 per mton of grain due to increased local production.
Co     ~



- 53 -
SOMALIA
BAY REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION VOLUME
Table of Contents
ANNEX 1      Project Management Unit
ANNEX 2      Water Supply
ANNEX 3      Access Roads
ANNEX 4      Intensification of the Farming System
ANNEX 5      Cost Estimates
ANNEX 6      Project Benefits
ANNEX 7      Project Financing






4  00                                         4A'3'nT|IR D                                                                               '    245
~. SAUrL  ARABIA   ~
a-      ,.~ts\OMAN
S OMA A L I A                                                                                         
BAY REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                 z               E
ROADS - PHYSIOGRAPHY                                                                  L       3
FORMER                                                                                                           v                   ,(   I'
EXISTING    PROJECT    [BRD PROJECT                                                                                                      |       EIH OPIA         ,   I
CLASS I ROADS                                                                                                             /   /
-          ------                    CLASS 1I ROADS
CLASS 11 ROADS
UGANIS                 eoo
\et.                  35' +                          S   \      g>/~~ 5/   Idoto r
. A-  LIMESTO-NE PLATEAU                                                                                                           (     KENSA    I            -
1-.  -      BAKOOLREGION
3    LIMESTONF DEPRESSION                             R-
-7-  BAY  REGION       /IIA
BASEMENT COMPLEX                      j                                               K :              Tcao '                                      '' '
E<:> I-, CJLTIVABLE LAND IDENTIFIED                                                        (                       v                                                          3
PROBABLE CULTIVABLE LAND                               |                                          '.                                                    0
ED    MAJOR TOWNS                           |
0 OTHER TOWNS                            I'                                          47 .
ESCARPMENT             |          '                   -                                                      -                 /                 -
D I RIVE    BOUNDARIES                                                                                                              D- ,  5  I           /
REGION BOUNDARIES                                                                                     ., y, '                           7    7-
A/MTA                                                                                      orX  A.0                                               Ve           .7haSb
/r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                     rt 'XA -I *0 \      
TOT       I__        ;                                          
INTRNATIONALBOUNDARE                                             ';   
of~~~~~5 0                                                                                                V
t    At "        ' -                                                                                                                                                             -
,_/giu~  '   '' 1 7               8wv \                     i                    43'30                                     |   35-D0                 /   -- /        AUGUST 1979






IBRD 13870
AUGUST 1979
oo5* ft  zPEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC                48
/    i        A               REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
DJI IBUTI                                                  Gulf   of    A o/e n                                          reda        12-
t       ft  lUIBOU~~BTI                                                                                        AL JA
laAdodo  Bososo                                                                            _ 
(SEa X IBOUL             BGrbero  rS              K0Erivo   (                     <       __s    n           7rebi v
/~~~>             \    r               )      | 4>Laz Daua\ ISS ,SS4~~I   z"PAN ' 
i(ORA',A                /   BER0BERA  j              \                               iflb 
BoramcIL         \ /       ;              CARALA-.    g       AV,                 
N b did                                                                                        'I, K
ArGpsiA
TUC                ARGEo SA              Bur| Garl                                            0/ L          OBender Beile
t&ogol\*   |   r    \ Bt SAC    zfL rA                             KRL, I    5F LI E ' 
.~~~~~e '      -'EP  Is                                                            BE4D LEEsa   Ao 
. Q  ).                        8 . . o RAea  h               TALoe A
aSOMALIA
BAY REONAGRICULTU DEVELOPMENt                                                     T                            .
PROJECT LOCATION
. ~ ~ ~        ~~~~~~~~~                                                        ~           ~         ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A.  ,  .     M  A 
aTff8NWOV5 SUPFAcO F(OADOST
CAAV8U8FffH StMFACE6  ROAtB                  '
*    0wa!fc AFRFEL32
-      * FT$$NA    PC8FT. A8' M\ iEW$
- 0B8WCr SOUNOAR8E$
_   4T8188A0808f4!AL Eoust* s                                      I    ; /       \    BO         /\
d     usa o e                  o y
EL EAF <    :SeleinerFe                    EL nAeARDFI
I ' /<-    EL 9ASDE    'Be etweinqGLb IBE N   El Bur
\ ET    Hoddur
s +_s+DgLO+>Luv  I _w   y r   BUL)  BT                                                                                   4 /
*      uk t!,Wgd,       QIrUi   3uo    
/lG~nane                                     - _         - ADNAA0    00    00o  ISO   200   250   300
av  0  \   \ E-.^# .    L . .   - ; . . _~ ~~~~ ~~iALA X                    KttOMETE RS
BOA E                                                          Di HUrle                            AA3Akf \ 
'    ELWAK  BARDi A1NsorS  mE                         , Dur         /
.    !                                                                            SU        $A          OI ARd. l_
| ~~~~AKG\U  elcornbot .SDA
A FMADU                                                                                                                           MA8
Oe~~~~Do L0- v<zr                                                                                       s 
|  \          \    kaara\Gme                                                    N   SUI3                   TWl ANIA         /7  
,FLIB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
lLiboi   Ggni                                                                                                                  
\,-   ETHfOPIA
KENYAj
B.id                                                                                                                                     AN J  \ A   iN DIAN  (. CEA U
/                       44'                                                              TA$4ZAt4tR   y                             l~44



