Document of                    FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2669-SO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR A
BAY REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
December 5, 1979
This docment has a restricted dWtribution nd may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oflicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank uthorIzaion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(For Calendar 1979, and at September 1979)
Currency Unit               -        Somali Shilling (So.sh.)
So.Sh. 1.00                 -        US$0.1589
US$1.00                     -        So.Sh. 6.295
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)                       10,000 m
1 square kilometer (KM )   -         100 ha
1 metric ton (mt)           -        1,000 kg
ABBREVIATIONS
ADC     -    Agricultural Development Corporation
ADF     -    African Development Fund
DEO     -    District Extension Officer
DVO     -    District Veterinary Officer
ETC     -    Extension Training Center
FEA     -    Field Extension Agent
FRO     -    Field Research Officer
GNP     -    Gross National Product
GOS     -    Government of Somalia
ICB     -    International Competitive Bidding
IDA     -    International Development Association
IFAD    -    International Fund for Agricultural Development
MLFR    -    Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and Range
MOA     -    Ministry of Agriculture
MPW     -    Ministry of Public Works
NES     -    National Extension Service
NRA     -    National Range Agency
ONAT    -    Tractor Hiring Agency
PADU    -    Pilot Agricultural Development Unit
PMU     -    Project Management Unit
REO     -    Regional Extension Officer
RVO     -    Regional Veterinary Officer
SMS     -    Subject Matter Specialist
WDA     -    Water Development Agency
USAID   -    United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SOMALIA
BAY REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Prolect Summary
Borrower:            Somali Democratic Republic
Beneficiary:         Ministry of Agriculture
Amount:              US$12.0 million
Terms:               Standard
Prolect              Over a period of six years, the proposed project would
Description:        increase crop and livestock production in the Bay Region by
improving potable water supplies and providing all-season
access roads; supporting the development of a viable
farming system that would preserve the productivity of the
land; training Somalis and helping to build institutions
capable of carrying on the agricultural development so
initiated. The project would form the first phase of a
long term development and would include funds to prepare a
follow up phase. Benefits of the first phase would allow
the average family in the Bay Region to meet basic food
requirements and increase marketable surpluses. Local
communities would be stabilized. In addition, the road
component would benefit regions to the North and West of
the project area. Major risks are that project implemen-
tation could be delayed. Extension and research activities
could take longer than expected to focus on key issues.
Farmer and local community receptivity could be lower than
expected and the Government might not provide the strong
support required at the end of the six-year investment
period to continue the long-term development efforts in
the Region. However, in view of the Government's strong
commitment to this project and the comprehensive extension
program, these risks should be held at acceptable levels.
This document his a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofcil dutie. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated
Project Costs:
US$ Million
% of
Proiect Component            Local Cost  Foreign Cost  Total Cost   Total
Water Supply                      1.4           3.5           4.9        11
Access Roads                      2.2           7.0           9.2        20
Adaptive Research                 0.4           0.5           0.9         2
Seed Farm                         0.6           0.9           1.5        3
Range Service                     0.9           0.7           1.6        4
Veterinary Service                0.9           1.1           2.0        4
Technical Assistance
and Training                    0.6          10.9          11.5       26
Project Management Unit           0.7           0.6           1.3        3
National Monitoring &
Evaluation Facility             0.3           0.6           0.9        2
Physical Contingencies            0.4           1.4           1.8        4
Price Contingencies               2.2           7.2           9.4       21
Total Project Costs        10.6          34.4          45.0       100
Taxes                        1.6          -             1.6
Total Project Costs         9.0          34.4          43.4
(net of taxes)
Financing Plan:                      Source        Amount US$ Million  Z of Total
IDA                  12.0               28
ADF                   8.9               21
USAID                10.5               24
IFAD                  8.0               18
Government            4.0                9
Total            43.4              100
Estimated
Disbursements:                             US$ Million
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
Annual (FY)   0.4      -      1.4    3.7    2.4    1.7    1.6    0.8
Cumulative    0.4    0.4    1.8    5.5    7.9    9.6   11.2   12.0
Rate of Return:      20% (Calculated on 87% of total project costs).
Staff Appraisal
Report:            Report No. 2406a-S0, dated November 29, 1979.
Maps:                IBRD 14245
IBRD 13870



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE SOMALI DE:MOCRATIC REPUBLIC FOR A
BAY REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Somali Democratic Republic for the equivalent of US$12.0
million on standard IDA terms to help finance a Bay Region Agricultural
Development Project. Additional financing for the project would be obtained,
on concessionary terms, from the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID) (about US$10.5 million), the African Development Fund
(ADF) (about US$8.9 million equivalent), and the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD) (about US$8 million equivalent).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum  (Report No. 2244-SO) was distributed
to the Executive Directors in January 1979. Country data sheets are attached
as Annex I.
3.         The Somali Democratic Republic gained its independence in 1960 and
the present Government came into power in 1969. In 1976, a political party,
the Somali Revolutionary Socialist Party, was formed and became the main
political institution. At present, the country is still suffering from the
hostilities in the border areas in the Ogaden, and the phasing-out of Soviet
aid and technical assistance in 1977. This, combined with large-scale
migration of Somali workers to the Middle East, has led the Government to
re-examine its development strategy. Although no major strategy has yet
emerged, some cautious steps tending to increase the role of market forces
in the economy have been taken.
4.         Somalia is a large country with a 3,000 kilometer coastline; its
land mass varies from a hot and arid coastal plain, to rugged mountains and
plateaux, and lowlands of varying fertility and rainfall. Only 13% of the
land is said to be arable!, but with water the limiting constraint, only a
small fraction of this potentially arable land is, in fact, cultivated. Of a
total population of approximately 3.7 million, over two-thirds are nomads and
semi-nomads who depend OnL livestock for their livelihood, and about 20-25%
are farmers cultivating land along the Juba and Shebelli rivers and in the
higher-rainfall Bay and North-west regions. The existence of several minerals
has been confirmed but with exploration still in its early stages, commercial
viability remains to be proved.  Short of other known resources, Somalia's
prospects center on agricultural and livestock development in which progress
will depend upon careful management of scarce land and water resources.



-2-
5.        The small monetary sector of the economy provides only limited
opportunities for employment. Apart from the traditional export of live-
stock, commercial agriculture is mainly centered on the production and export
of bananas, in which foreign concession holders are still important, and
the production of sugar for the domestic market. The expansion of manufac-
turing and other service sectors of the economy is limited by the small size
of the domestic market, poor infrastructure, and the shortage of capital
and entrepreneurial experience. Bank staff estimate that about 70% of the
population live at subsistence levels of about US$200-250 per family of five.
Social services are still very inadequate; the primary school enrollment
ratio (at about 40% in 1977), though considerably higher than five years
ago, remains relatively low.  There is little economic data on Somalia.  Even
basic figures such as GNP, population, number of livestock, or output of major
agricultural crops are only rough estimates. With a per capita income in
the order of US$130 in 1978, the UN classifies Somalia as one of the least
developed countries.
Development Strategy
6.        Since 1970 the Government has adhered to a program of "scientific
socialism", emphasizing egalitarianism and social justice, development through
the public sector, nationalization of certain foreign enterprises, and the
formation of cooperatives. While the Government has always stated that there
is room for private initiative in Somalia and several privately financed
projects have been implemented, the main emphasis has been given to develop-
ment of the public sector. Public ownership and management have expanded
through nationalization, creation, and growth of enterprises. The parastatal
sector now includes more than 50 autonomous agencies that have eliminated
private enterprises in wholesale trade and banking while taking a major
share in manufacturing. The Five-Year Development Plan 1974-78 was essen-
tially a public investment program that allowed for a few small private
ventures. Although it provided a needed impetus to investment in the economy,
the Plan does not seem to have played a major role in the allocative process.
Despite the Government's initial intentions, industry and mining, and infra-
structure, have received more public investment than agriculture. At the same
time, public enterprises have expanded without firm Government control, owing
to a large extent to the inadequacies of monitoring instruments.
7.        Since the bulk of the population is engaged in herding or in sub-
sistence farming, a development strategy for Somalia should be based on
agriculture and livestock resources. The major development goals of the
Somali Government include self-sufficiency in food grains, the partial sub-
stitution of other food imports (oils, rice) and improvement of the lot of
the traditional nomadic herdsmen through settlement programs and improvements
in livestock production and marketing facilities. The current emphasis on
irrigated agriculture is meant to make the country less dependent on the
erratic pattern of rainfall, and assure more stable and predictable increases
in output. However, rainfed agriculture, which occupies the largest number
of farm families is also being assisted. Improvements in livestock production
and marketing are being promoted together with projects aiming at the rehabil-
itation of the rangelands.



-3-
8.        Somalia has made considerable progress in meeting some basic needs,
a program of literacy and primary education has had noticeable results, and an
effective system of food supply has been established. In other areas of the
social sectors, however, the record is less impressive, particularly in water
supply, sanitation, and health where services frequently seem to benefit
mainly the urban population. On the other hand, economic growth has been
rather slow, making it difficult for Somalia to pursue its basic needs policies
vigorously. The GovernmerLt's industrial development policy focusses on the
processing of domestic rawr materials to substitute for imports, although
there are a few rather large investments which do not conform to this policy.
Finally, the Government places emphasis on developing infrastructure, espe-
cially transportation and communications.
Economic Performance, Problems, and Sectoral Developments
9.        The 1974-78 Five-Year Development Plan was revised several
times but remained overambitious with respect to both financial and implemen-
tation capacities. Financial implementation reached about 60%, 55%, 77% and
73% of the targets in the first four years. However, the absence of adequate
monitoring and evaluation makes it impossible to determine the economic
impact of these expenditures.  In real terms, annual investment has probably
been increasing and what was an essentially financial constraint in 1973-74
had, by 1976, turned into an implementation constraint which has worsened
recently as a result of the exodus of skilled Somalis to the neighboring
oil-exporting countries (see below, para 10). Many incomplete projects
from the 1974-78 Plan are therefore included in a Three-Year Development
Program 1979-81, under which investment of So.Sh. 5.7 billion (of which
So.Sh. 3.4 billion are carry-overs) is contemplated.
10.       About 100,000 Somalis have migrated to work in the neighboring
oil-exporting states and their total earnings equal about ten times the total
domestic value added in Somalia's modern sector. Labor migration has been a
phenomenon that the Goverament neither organizes nor controls, and its magni-
tude is such that the drain of skills and the inflow of private funds may
affect the smooth functioning of a government-controlled economy. This
migration is seriously depleting Somalia's already low stocks of qualified and
skilled manpower, thereby reducing the absorptive capacity of the country
and weakening its institutions. Migrant remittances have financed imports
of about US$50 million in 1977, roughly equivalent to Somalia's exports of
livestock (75% of total export value), consisting mostly of basic consumers'
goods (foods, textiles, some durables). To a certain extent, these remit-
tances could be mobilized to finance investment incentives although oppor-
tunities for private capital to engage in productive investment are few.
11.       Budgetary policies have generally been conservative and efforts
have been made to mobilize resources through taxation. Although the drought
and the border problems have adversely affected the Government's budget, the
external grants they attracted have considerably eased their financial impact.
However, expenditures on basic needs and defense have risen so much that the
current budget fell into deficit in 1977 (by So.Sh. 2.5 million) for the



-4 -
first time since 1971. The border problems of 1977 may only have accelerated
an outcome that was already visible. In fact, the supply of government
services nationwide, and the recurrent cost implications of recent public
investments and policies, especially in productive services (such as agri-
cultural extension) and basic needs (such as education, health and drinking
water) will mak' it increasingly difficult for the budget to generate savings.
12.       The external financial constraint is mainly the result of sluggish
exports, with relatively stable imports over the past three years.
The structure of the balance of payments in 1977 was essentially similar
to that of previous years, with low exports equivalent to US$71.3 million,
accounting for only about 40% of imports.  The large trade deficit was more
than compensated for by transfers (US$108.0 million) and capital inflows
(US$64.2 million). Exports declined by about 12% in 1977 mainly on account of
bananas, the second most important export item. The drop in banana exports
resulted partly from a marketing dispute in the Middle East. Decreased
activity in fields such as fish and meat canning, formerly assisted by the
Soviet Union, also contributed to declining exports. Livestock exports have
stagnated during the past three years largely because of the 1974-75 drought,
but early indications for 1978 suggest a resumption of growth (in volume)
together with satisfactory price developments.
13.       The sluggish exports and a low level of domestic savings, both
attributable to the country's poverty, have made external assistance most
important in the financing of development. Somalia joined the Arab League
in 1974 and mounted a major effort to attract funds from the Arab petroleum
exporting countries. The large inflows of external capital and transfers
from 1975 onward indicate that the effort has been successful.  Due to polit-
ical events, the source of foreign assistance has recently changed from the
socialist countries (except for China which maintains a large program)
towards Arab bilateral and multilateral institutions (continuing the trend
started in 1975) and Western countries, several of which (the EEC, Federal
Republic of Germany and Italy) have had substantial assistance programs for
a number of years. The public external debt of Somalia outstanding and
disbursed as of December 1977 was approximately US$400 million, and although
a large share is on fairly soft terms, the debt service ratio has increased
from 3.4% in 1972 to about 5.5% in 1977.
14.       In summary, the Government's record over the past few years has been
mixed, but the country's poverty is such that even partial successes must be
welcomed. The slow development of agriculture in a mostly nomadic society,
the shortage of qualified manpower, the difficulties of organizing and manag-
ing an efficient public sector, and the limitation of financial resources
can all be imputed to the country's human and natural constraints. The
Government has attempted to alleviate some of these constraints and has
partially succeeded.  It has met some of the basic needs.  It has also laid a
national basis for growth in manufacturing together with an initial system of
economic and physical infrastructure, though growth in income, exports, and
imports has been rather slow.



-5 -
15.       As regards future policies, greater emphasis should be gi-ven to
economic growth; this would imply directing more investments towards produc-
tive activities, particularly agriculture and small-scale industry. The
mobilization of resources to this end should be sought through better manage-
ment of public enterprises, and more dynamic measures to encourage the
migrants to return to Somalia and to attract and mobilize the financial
resources of the migrants. In the interest of economic growth, better oppor-
tunities and greater incentives ought to be created to stimulate production,
and a dialogue on various policy options for this purpose has recently
commenced between the Government and the Bank.
16.       Somalia's export prospects are rather poor because of the concentra-
tion on two primary products -- livestock and bananas -- both of which face
problems in expanding production in the long run. Livestock is subject to
cyclical droughts which decrease export supplies. Banana exports have fallen
because of both supply (drought, floods, poor agricultural practices) and
demand (increasing competition from multinationals in both Italy and the
Middle East) problems, but production could recuperate within two years.
Diversification efforts have been attempted with hides, skins, and fisheries
with limited success and even dimmer prospects now that Soviet technical
assistance, dominant in these three activities, has been wound up. Therefore,
in view of the country's poverty and uncertain export prospects, assistance
should be provided on the softest terms possible and contain provisions for
local currency financing.,
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA
17.       Starting in 1965 IDA has made 19 credits totalling about US$131
million, of which about 33% have been made for transportation development,
including construction oE three trunk roads and a new deepwater port and
associated extensions at Mogadishu. IDA credits were also made for live-
stock development in FY74, for a development finance company project in
FY77, and for education in FY71, FY75 and FY78. Lending for crop agricul-
ture commenced in FY76 with two credits for a Drought Rehabilitation Project
and a North-West Region Agricultural Development Project. Additional Credits
for Central Rangelands and Agricultural Extension and Training projects were
appraved in FY79. Agricultural credits approved for Somalia represent 35% of
total lending. A credit for development of water supply in Mogadishu and a
technical assistance Credit for project preparation were approved in FY78.
No Bank loan or IFC investment has been made to Somalia. Annex II contains a
summary statement of IDA credits as of October 31, 1979 and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
18.       Performance on ongoing projects has been somewhat weak due mainly to
shortage of qualified personnel. As the pace of development continues
to rise, absorptive capacity constraints are becoming increasingly evident,
especially in the field of agriculture where projects are rather complex and
implementation experience is limited. Therefore, in preparing and appraising
new projects, particularly close attention is being paid to implementation



-6-
capacity and the adoption of measures to ease this constraint when necessary.
As one step to address this problem, the Government is establishing a Project
Implementation Unit which would strengthen the capacity for project implemen-
tation considerably by providing monitoring and logistical support to the
projects, including assistance in procurement and recruitment of consultants.
19.       We plan to concentrate our future efforts on the country's directly
productive sectors, agriculture and livestock, and also on education and
transportation. While agriculture and livestock offer potential for develop-
ment, most rural development activities are only in the early stages. More-
over, agricultural development in Somalia is particularly difficult because
most of the people in rural areas are nomadic. To increase our knowledge of
agriculture in Somalia the Bank is currently making a comprehensive review of
the sector. In addition to these sectors, we plan to support the Government's
industrial development efforts (and assist in the formulation of an industrial
development policy) through our country economic work and future industrial
development finance projects. We also plan to continue assistance to the
water supply sector.
20.       Somalia's statistical service lacks the capacity to fulfill the
data needs of development programs. The Bank's operations have experienced
difficulties in obtaining statistical data. We are therefore helping to
strengthen the Central Statistical Department in the State Planning Commission
under the Agricultural Extension and Farm Management Training Project through
provision of technical assistance and training of Somali staff.
21.       To facilitate the development and implementation of the Associa-
tion's growing operational program in Somalia, we established a one-man
resident mission in 1977. The mission represents the Bank Group in its
contacts with the Government, thus facilitating an efficient and smooth
day-to-day working relationship, and assists in coordination of cofinancing
efforts. In addition two Bank staff members have recently been seconded to
the Project Implementation Unit (para. 18).
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND THE BAY REGION
Production Environment
22.       Somalia is heavily dependent on livestock and farming for its
economic development but, with the exception of commercially produced bananas
and sugarcane, production tends to be subsistence oriented. Although the
export of live animals and animal products contributes 75-80% of Somalia's
total foreign exchange earnings and involves approximately two-thirds of the
country's population, it remains a traditional industry based on natural
rangelands which make up 45% of the total land area (30 million ha). Only



-7-
0.7 million ha or 1% of Somalia's total land area are currently cultivated -
540,000 ha of this is rainfed, the balance is under controlled or uncontrolled
irrigation. About 195,000 families are engaged in crop production and 90% of
the cultivated area is used to grow sorghum, maize and sesame. State farms
growing maize, rice and other irrigated crops are slowly gaining importance.
23.       Cereal consumptiLon is around 350,000 tons per year.  Of this,
imports account for 15-30% and will rise unless output can be increased to
bring production trends in line with population increases. Domestic output
has improved considerably, but not yet returned to the pre-1973/75 drought
levels. Major impediments are the shortage of qualified manpower, the
absence of essential infrastructures, and the lack of institutional means,
facilities, and coordinat:Lon. As a result most producers operate in isolation.
Very few have access to the limited services available. Fewer use purchased
inputs. All suffer significant wastages trekking livestock to market and/or
holding grain against subsistence requirements until a saleable surplus
appears.
The Bay Region
24.       The 4 million ha Bay Region contains nearly 60% (320,000 ha.)  of
Somalia's existing rainfed agriculture. It also has a further 370,000 ha,
currently used as rangeland, that is cultivable; and is considered to have
the greatest potential of all regions for a rapid increase in area of rainfed
cultivation and crop yields. The remainder of the Region (3.3 million ha) is
rangeland which currently supports nearly 300,000 head, or 9%, of the country's
livestock. The rangeland is believed to be overstocked.
Agricultural Policies and Services
25.       The severe 1973/75 drought disrupted the economy and forced the
Government to redirect the country's development priorities, particularly in
agriculture, to achieve self-sufficiency. Somalia aims at self-sufficiency
in major food commodities through an expansion of the area under cultivation
and through gains in productivity. The Government plans to achieve this
objective through increased technical assistance to agriculture, soil conserva-
tion, better water management and irrigation intensification, and progressive
transition from nomadism to settled farming. Irrigation development is
intended as a shield against future weather vagaries affecting crops. On the
other hand, range conservation and management would protect livestock against
future prolonged drought. The livestock development strategy emphasizes
disease control measures, improvement of the marketing system and improvement
of herd productivity through better range and animal management. Although
the potential for irrigation in the Bay Region is largely unknown, its natural
resources and potential for dryland farming fit the Government's priorities
and provide the best opportunity for immediate action.
26.       Since 1971, the Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC) has had
a monopoly over the sorghum and maize trade. Farmers generally maintain on-
farm grain stores of about 2 tons (2 years' subsistence supply) and sell
excess production, although the amount delivered to ADC undoubtedly varies



-8 -
with the price offered and the accessibility of ADC buying poinits. ADC
estimates its storage losses to be about 2% per year, which compares favorably
with estimates of on-farm storage losses of 20-40%. Sorghum was the only
crop purchased by ADC in the Bay Region during the 1977 crop season.
Livestock marketing within the country is dominated by the private sector.
The Livestock DteJelopment Agency under the Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and
Range (MLFR) provides limited marketing facilities and services and acts
mostly as a field collection agency.  One of LDA's ten marketing centers is
located at Baidoa in the Bay Region.  Milk is marketed on an ad hoc basis.
27.       Except for sorghum and maize, the prices for agricultural products
are basically determined by the interplay of domestic market forces. Sorghum
and maize prices are controlled by ADC in conjunction with the Government at
all market levels. Livestock producer prices are non-competitive because of
imperfect dissemination of price information. In addition, poor infrastructure
limits farmers' access to traders and makes trucking and trekking expensive
and only possible during part of the year. The pricing strategy for sorghum
and maize has caused, and may continue to cause, major liquidity and management
problems for ADC even though the sorghum prices have been changed about once
every two or three years. These problems arise when ADC is either forced to
buy large quantities on the international market to make up for local short-
falls (as in 1976) or when unexpectedly large amounts of domestic production
are offered for sale (as in the summer of 1978). However, as far as the
proposed project is concerned, present price levels of themselves should not
impede achievement of project objectives. The Government's policy has been to
encourage the use of modern production inputs. These have to be imported and
are often not only exempted from duties, but are also subsidized. Subsidies
may be desirable at this stage of development as a means of getting farmers
familiarized with new techniques, but as their use becomes more widespread the
burden on the Government's budget will increase. IDA has an ongoing dialogue
with the Government on pricing issues in the context of the Agricultural
Sector Review (para. 19).
28.       Crop research is currently being carried out almost exclusively at
the Central Agricultural Research Station at Afgoi, under the supervision of
the Director of the Agricultural Research Institute (part of the Ministry of
Agriculture). Three regional research stations are being developed in the
major ecological zones at Gelib, Bonka (near Baidoa in the Bay Region), and
Aburein. Although some work has been done, there is a great need for a long
range research program, starting with adaptive work and building up gradually
towards a more basic research program. In the Bay Region cost savings and
early results could be achieved by making better use of existing local
knowledge and cautiously augmenting this with information already available
in other countries and at international research centers, until local work
provides Region specific results.
29.       Government programs related to crop production are the responsibility
of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). The Ministry is assisted by parastatal
and public agencies - the Production and Extension Department, the ADC, the
National Tractor Hiring Agency, the Somali Development Bank, and the Water



-9 -
Development Agency (WDA). Government programs related to the rangelands and
livestock production are the responsibility of the Ministry of Livestock,
Forestry and Range, assisted by several public agencies including the National
Range Agency (NRA), the Livestock Development Agency, the Department of
Veterinary Services and tlhe Water Development Agency. Government programs
related to roads are the responsibility of the Ministry of Public Works (MPW).
Bank Group Assistance in the Agricultural Sector
30.       As indicated in Part II of this report, Bank Group assistance to
the agricultural sector in Somalia started with the Trans-Juba Livestock
Project (IDA Credit 462-SO) in FY74 followed by two credits in FY76 for the
Drought Rehabilitation Project (IDA Credit 623-SO) and the Northwest Region
Agricultural Development Project (IDA Credit 635-SO). An Agricultural Exten-
sion and Training Project (IDA Credit 905-SO) and the Central Rangelands
Development Project (IDA Credit 906) followed in FY79. Currently there is
the proposed project, the Agricultural Sector Review (para. 27) and Bank
Group assistance for preparation of a Livestock Marketing Project.
31.       Implementation of on-going agricultural projects has met with
some difficulties (para. 19) mainly due to the scarcity of trained manpower
which is being aggravated by the continued migration of Somalis to the neigh-
boring petroleum exporting countries. To ease difficulties of this nature,
the FY79 projects and the proposed project provide additional technical
assistance and emphasize institution building by providing comprehensive
training programs. More pervasive difficulties, such as hiring consultants,
procuring equipment and monitoring project implementation, have been addressed
by setting up a Project Implementation Unit (para. 18) in the State Planning
Commission, and including, in the proposed project, the funds to estab-
lish a national monitoring and evaluation facility.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
32.       A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report, Bay Region Agricultural
Development Project" (No. 2406a-SO) dated November 29, 1979 is being
distributed separately. A Credit and Project Summary appears at the beginning
of this report and a Supplementary Project Data Sheet is given in Annex III.
The project was prepared by the Government with the assistance of the FAO/World
Bank Cooperative Program,, and appraised by an IDA/IFAD mission in June 1978.
Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from November 6, 1979 to November 9,
1979. The Somali Delegation was headed by Mr. Ahmed Mohamed Mohamud, the
Chairman of the National Economic Committee.
Project Concept
33.       Despite its recognized potential for increased production, the Bay
Region could not be deveLoped without first making major improvements to infra-
structure and the existing information base, which is at present inadequate to



- 10 -
define and choose between alternative strategies. The proposed project
would address the key prerequisites for increasing crop and livestock pro-
duction in the Region, by helping to provide:
(i) additional year-round sources of potable water for animal
and human consumption;
(ii) all-season physical access to areas where agricultural
production is either currently or potentially significant;
and
(iii) the institutional strength to maintain and use these
facilities.
The project would attempt to provide the institutional strength first, by
organizing existing know-how and disseminating it to farmers, by strengthening
local agricultural organizations, and by carrying out adaptive research and
field trial programs specifically geared to the Bay Region, and second, by
developing a viable farming system that both embraces the complementary
integration of crop and livestock production and also preserves the produc-
tivity of the land.
34.       The proposed project has therefore been conceived as the first phase
of a long-term development program in which the first phase would provide the
infrastructure, institutional strength and information base, funds and facili-
ties required to prepare a second phase project that would focus more directly
on increasing agricultural production. In addition, because of the many
technical and institutional questions that remain unanswered, the first phase
project would be implemented in two stages. The first of these would last
three years. It would concentrate on procuring project goods, staffing,
training, gathering information, extending assistance to farmers (within the
limits of proven region specific technology), and initiating an applied
research program to find solutions to already identified farming problems.
During the first stage, a Project Management Unit (para. 36) would prepare by
February 28, 1983, with the assistance of an hydrologist, a research agronomist
and a livestock specialist whose qualifications and terms of employment are
satisfactory to IDA, a work plan satisfactory to IDA that would specify the
timing, ways and means for completing the implementation of each project com-
ponent during the proposed second three-year stage (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 4.12). Disbursements of credit funds for each project com-
ponent following the preparation of this plan would be contingent upon agree-
ment between IDA and Government to continue with the implementation of each
component as originally defined or as modified as a result of experience
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.12 and Schedule 1, para. 3).
Project Objectives
35.       The proposed project would lay the groundwork for increasing crop
and livestock production in the Bay Region. Over a period of six years, it
would improve the potable water supply, upgrade the road network, support the
development of a farming system that would preserve the productivity of the
land, train Somalis and help build institutions capable of carrying on the
agricultural development task in the Bay Region. Specifically, the project
would provide for:



- 11 -
(a) improving the supply of potable water in the Region for human
and livestock consumption through: (i) drilling and developing
about 60 deep boreholes on the Limestone Plateau (of which six
would serve selected pilot range improvement units, and the
remainder, crop producing areas); (ii) an investigation/
production drilling program in the Basement Complex involving
about 40 drilled boreholes, 10 dug wells and 4 "uars" (earth
reservoirs); and (iii) testing the availability of water for
irrigation in the Limestone Depression by drilling about 6
boreholes and 2 test production wells. Funds would be provided
for drilling equipment, transport facilities, staff housing,
surveys and studies, and incremental operating costs;
(b) upgrading and mai ntaining all roads in the Bay Region to
give all-season access to areas where agricultural production
is presently or potentially significant by: (i) rehabilitating
about 350 km of 6 m wide low standard main roads; (ii) con-
structing about 210 km of 4 m wide feeder or access roads;
and (iii) clearing about 250 km of access tracks. The project
would provide for road construction equipment, transport facili-
ties, staff housing, a mechanical workshop and incremental
operating costs;
(c) intensifying the farming system in the Bay Region through:
(i) introducing simple improved production practices and
initiating a program of adaptive research and field demon-
stration trials aimed at crop production, animal husbandry
and range management; (ii) creating four pilot agricultural
development units to integrate crop and livestock activi-
ties and test the technical and institutional means of
integrating farm and range activities; (iii) strengthening
the veterinary service in the Region; (iv) strengthening the
agricultural extension service in the Region (to be financed
under the Agricultural Extension and Farm Management Train-
ing Project); (v) producing quality seeds; (vi) testing
means to improve on-farm storage of grains and fodder; and
(vii) supporting the production and diffusion of improved
farm tools and animal drawn implements. The project would
provide for staff housing and office space, machinery and
equipment for the seed farm and research center, transport
facilities, surveys, studies, and incremental operating
costs;
(d) technical assistance and training including: (i) training
abroad for key Somali staff; (ii) short-term study trips
abroad for selected Somali staff; (iii) expatriate experts
to fill key posiLtions during project implementation; and
(iv) consultancy services. The project would provide for
the construction of staff housing and office space, trans-
port facilities and operating costs. The Government would
furnish a plan satisfactory to IDA for the overseas training
of Somali staff by June 30, 1980 (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 4.11); and



- 12 -
(e) strengthening national monitoring and evaluation facility of
the State Planning Commission and make it responsible for the
independent monitoring and evaluation of, initially, agri-
cultural development projects and, ultimately, all development
projects in the country. The facility would be headed by
an internationally recruited monitoring and evaluation
specialist who would be assisted by an internationally
recruited sociologist, an internationally recruited
statistician and economist, and other support staff (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.04). The project would
provide for the construction of housing facilities and office
space, transport and incremental operating costs for the
facility. The State Planning Commission would prepare a work
program satisfactory to IDA by February 28, 1981 (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.10).
Project Implementation
36.       The Ministry of Agriculture was chosen by the Government to imple-
ment all aspects of the project except for the national monitoring and
evaluation facility which, as explained above, would be responsibility of the
State Planning Commission. A Project Management Unit (PMU), headed by a
Project Director, would be set up in the Bay Region to implement the project
during the investment period on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.02). The PMU would maintain close
contact with the Regional Government, the Regional Governor and District
Commissioners. A Bay Region Development Coordinating Committee would be
established as a condition of credit effectiveness to ensure adequate cooper-
ation at the regional level and provide policy making level support for the
PMU (draft Development Credit Agreement, Sections 4.03 and 7.01(d)). This
Committee would consist of the Regional Governor, the Ministers of Finance,
Agriculture, Livestock, Forestry and Range, Water and Mineral Resources,
Public Works, the Chairman of the State Planning Commission and the Project
Director. It would meet once a year or as needed at the request of the
Project Director.
37.       The PMU would have full control over all resources provided under
the project, and would be given the mandate to oversee the strengthening
of the regional institutions directly involved in the project. These include
the regional units of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Livestock,
Forestry and Range, the National Range Agency, the Water Development Agency,
and the Civil Engineering Department of the Ministry of Public Works. The
regional units would be brought under the direction of the PMU during the
project investment period. Their staff would be directly responsible to the
Project Director. Although seconded to the PMU, these units would retain
their identity as the regional extension of their respective ministries, agen-
cies or departments. This would facilitate their administrative reintegration
to their original institutions at the end of the project investment period and
would allow the PMU to develop clear lines of authority and cooperation within
and between these well defined units, thus creating an environment for con-
tinued interagency cooperation after the PMU is dissolved.



- 13 -
38.       Various concerned governmental agencies would second staff to the
PMU. Because of its importance for the proper and timely implementation of
the project, the Government has prepared a draft legal document establishing
the PMU and describing the procedures and to bring the regional staff and
facilities of MLFR, NRA, WDA and MPW under the direction of the PMU during the
investment period. This draft document was reviewed by the Association during
negotiations and it is satisfactory. The execution of the legal document and
the appointment of the Project Director, the Project Technical Manager and the
Financial Controller would be additional conditions of credit effectiveness
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 7.01(c)).
The Project Management Unit (PMU)
39.       The Project Director would be responsible for overseeing all
Project activities and ensuring that they complement other development
efforts undertaken by the Regional Government, Central Ministries and other
government institutions. The Project Director would be an agriculturalist,
preferably with a good knowledge of the economy of the Bay Region. The
Project Technical Manager would be an experienced agriculturalist or agricul-
tural economist with a broad knowledge in semi-arid agriculture and with
experience in managing development projects in the African context. He would
be responsible for all technical aspects of project implementation and would
report to the Project Director. He would be the leader of a team of interna-
tionally recruited staff and would assist the Project Director in coordinating
the implementation of the project, including the construction of facilities
created under the project, the coordination and quality control of training
programs, the proper use of project funds and the monitoring and evaluation
of project activities. The Financial Controller would be responsible to the
Project Director through the Project Technical Manager and would assist them
in organizing the procurement of project related goods and services and in
establishing a system of financial control and accountability for the consti-
tuent units of the project. The Project Director, Project Technical Manager
and Financial Controller would have qualifications, and be given terms of
reference, satisfactory tc, IDA (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
4.13).
40.       The Monitoring aLnd Evaluation Section of PMU would be headed by a
Somali agriculturalist or agricultural economist who would be responsible to
the Project Technical Manager. An internationally recruited Agricultural
Extension Specialist would assist the Project Technical Manager in establishing
a management oriented system of monitoring and evaluation of project activities
and results.
41.       The Government would submit semi-annual progress reports to the
financing agencies. Within six months of completion of disbursements under
the IDA Project, the Government would prepare a completion report on the
implementation of the project, including actual costs, benefits and contri-
bution towards the accomplishment of the country's development objectives
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.07(c) and (d)).



- 14 -
Intensification of the Farming System
42.       This component includes all aspects of the project aimed at inten-
sifying crop and livestock production both in the cropped and in the range
areas and at preserving the productive potential of agriculture in the
Region. Thus five subcomponents - extension service, veterinary service,
adaptive research and field trials, range management, and seed production -
would be brought together to create the institutional environment under which
it would become feasible to adopt an integrated approach to agricultural
development in the region. The Project Technical Manager would assist the
Project Director in coordinating the implementation of these five subcompo-
nents and in establishing procedures for continuous cooperation among their
staff at the working level.
43.       The Regional Extension Service.  The extension service would be
headed by the Regional Extension Officer (REO) who would be assisted by two
Subject Matter Specialists at the regional headquarters and by eleven District
Extension Officers, who in turn, would supervise 106 Field Extension Agents,
each covering about 500 families. Extension coverage of the Bay Region would
follow the phasing proposed under the Agricultural Extension and Farm Manage-
ment Training Project. Coverage would proceed one district at a time,
starting with the Baidoa District and with the Pilot Agricultural Development
Units and progressively covering the region as trained extension staff become
available. Because the National Extension Service is at its early stages of
development, an internationally recruited Agricultural Extension Specialist
would be recruited to serve as a technical advisor to the REO and to assist
him in getting the regional extension service started. He would also
represent the link between this project and the Agricultural Extension and
Farm Management Training Project. The Extension Specialist would be
responsible to the Project Director through the Project Technical Manager and
would assist them in supervising project activities aimed at intensifying the
farming system, coordinating crop, livestock and range research activities,
establishing strong links between research and extension, and establishing a
management-oriented system of monitoring and evaluation. The Extension
Specialist would work closely with the headquarters staff of the National
Extension Service at Afgoi and would follow the same extension methodology
being followed nationally.
44.       The Regional Veterinary Service.  The existing veterinary unit
in Baidoa would be brought under the direction of the PMU for the six-year
project investment period. The Project Technical Manager, assisted by an
internationally recruited Project Veterinary Specialist, together with the
Project Director and in consultation with the Director of Veterinary Services
in the MLFR, would prepare work and training programs for the regional
veterinary unit. Somali staff would be trained to provide for a qualified
Regional Veterinary Officer (RVO) at headquarters along with his support
staff and laboratory technicians. The RVO would be the deputy of the inter-
nationally recruited Project Veterinary specialist and would take over respon-
sibility for the unit towards the end of the six-year investment period. The
RVO would supervise District Veterinary Officers, who in turn would supervise
vaccination teams, veterinary store keepers and dispensary attendants. The
internationally recruited Project Veterinary specialist would be a qualified
veterinarian with experience in low rainfall areas and in pastoral type animal
husbandry.



- 15 -
45.       Adaptive Research and Field Trials.  An internationally recruited
Agricultural Research Specialist, assisted by the Extension Specialist, would
prepare a two to three year applied research program for the Bay Region,
covering both crop and aninal production. This program would be reviewed
by IDA and care would be taken to ensure that it fits within the national
research strategy (to be developed under the recently approved Agricultural
Extension and Farm Management Training Project). This program would have to
be locally approved by a committee consisting of the Project Director, the
Project Technical Manager, the Veterinary Specialist, the Range Management
Specialist, the Director of the Department of Animal Husbandry of the IMLFR,
the Director of Research Training and Planning of NRA, and the Director of
the Research Institute of IIOA. Once enough reliable information about the
Region is put together, this short term research program would be expanded and
modified as necessary into a more comprehensive applied research program for
the Region. The latter would be submitted to IDA for review and approval as
part of the project mid-term review of the overall work program. The inter-
nationally recruited Agricultural Research Specialist would be stationed at
the Bonka Research Station and would be responsible to the Project Director
through the Project Technical Manager. He would assist them in developing a
training program for Somali staff at the research station, both on-the-job and
abroad. He would supervise the work at the Bonka Research Station and the
adaptive/demonstrative trials in the field, both within and outside of the
pilot agricultural development units,(PADUs).
46.       A Somali Field Research Officer (FRO) would be stationed at each
cropping area of each PADU and would be given the physical means and technical
back-up to implement the on-farm research program and record its results.
The FROs would work closely with the Extension Service field staff to ensure
that the research program is well adapted to the needs of the farmers and to
ensure the uninterrupted flow of information to and from research.
47.       Range Management.  To implement this subcomponent which is an
integral part of the PADUs, the regional unit of NRA would be brought under
the direction of the PMU during the project investment period, but would
retain its identity. It rould be strengthened by an internationally recruited
Range Management Specialist who would be responsible to the Project Director
through the Project Techn:Lcal Manager.
48.       Seed Production.  The seed farm would be headed by an internationally
recruited agriculturalist with experience in seed production to serve as the
manager of the seed farm. He would be responsible to the Project Director
through the Project Technical Manager. He would supervise seed production
activities and would coopierate with the Agricultural Research Specialist and
the Range Management Specialist in producing quality seeds for food crops, by
pasture and experimental range improvement. He would supervise the establish-
ment of a workshop to service farm machinery on the seed farm and to serve as
a base for work related to the development of farm hand tools and animal drawn
implements and possibly for the construction of village and on-farm grain
storage facilities, if found desirable for the Region. He would also be
responsible for developing a training program for Somali staff working on
the farm and would assist in preparing the mid-term work plan.



- 16 -
Water Supply
49.       The WDA regional offices and workshop at Baidoa would be strengthened
through the provision of an internationally recruited team of technical staff
headed by a hydrologist who would be responsible to the Project Director
through the Pro,-ct Technical Manager. Somali staff would be trained and
equipped to take over responsibility for further water development and main-
tenance at the end of the project investment period.
Access Roads
50.       During the Project investment period, the Regional Unit of the Civil
Engineering Department of the MPW would be strengthened by a team of inter-
nationally recruited technical staff headed by a civil engineer who would be
responsible to the Project Director through the Project Technical Manager.
Besides implementing the project works, the team would train the Somali staff
in numbers and at levels needed to ensure that the Region acquires an ongoing
road construction and maintenance capability.
Project Cost Estimates
51.       Total project costs would amount to US$45 million, including taxes
of about US$1.6 milllion equivalent, over the six-year implementation period.
The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$34.4 million, or 79% of the
total project costs, net of taxes, of US$43.4 million. The project cost
estimates are summarized below:
Foreign
Project Component             Local Cost  Foreign Cost  Total Cost   Exchange
----US$ million------------ 
Water Supply                      1.4           3.5           4.9          71
Access Roads                      2.2           7.0           9.2          76
Adaptive Research                 0.4           0.5           0.9          53
Seed Farm                         0.6           0.9           1.5          60
Range Service                     0.9           0.7           1.6          44
Veterinary Service                0.9           1.1           2.0          57
Technical Assistance
and Training                    0.6          10.9          11.5          95
Project Management Unit           0.7           0.6           1.3          46
National Monitoring &
Evaluation Unit                 0.3           0.6           0.9          66
Total Base Costs                  8.0          25.8          33.8          76
Physical Contingencies            0.4           1.4           1.8          76
Price Contingencies               2.2           7.2           9.4          76
Total Project Costs         10.6          34.4          45.0          76
Taxes                        1.6            -            1.6
Total Project Costs          9.0          34.4          43.4          79
(net of taxes)



- 17 -
52.       Costs were estimated on the basis of prices expected to prevail in
November 1979. Physical contingencies were allowed at the rate of 10% of
capital and operating cost items, except for personnel. Price contingencies
on all internationally procured goods and services have been allowed for by
compounding annual rates of 6.0% for all equipment and 7.0% for all civil
works in 1980 through 1985 and 5.0% and 6.0% respectively in 1986; and by
compounding annual rates of 10% in 1979 and 8% thereafter for all locally
procured goods and services.. Physical and price contingencies combined
represent 33% of base costs. Price contingencies alone represent 28% of base
costs over the six-year project investment period. Technical assistance and
consultancy services were priced at US$6,600 per man-month. A total of US$1.6
million is provided for consultancy services to undertake base studies, assist
PMU with the implementation of this project, undertake a mid-term investment
period review of the project and prepare a phase II project. The Government
does not levy import duties on inputs for the agricultural sector. Con-
sequently, all capital items are included without such duties. The estimated
project costs, however, include local taxes on gasoline, oil and lubricants at
about 40% of the fuel bill. These taxes would amount to about So. Sh. 10
million (about US$1.6 million).
Financing
53.       The financing of the project would be shared in the following
amounts and proportions:
% of
Total Project Costs
Source              Amount US$ Million                   (net of taxes)
IDA                      12.0                                 28
ADF                        8.9                                21
USAID                     10.5                                24
IFAD                      8.0                                 18
Government                 4.0 (plus US$1.6 million            9
in taxes)
Total Project Costs      43.4                                100
(net of taxes)
54.       Under a joint financing arrangement, IDA would contribute a credit
of US$12 million, and IFAD a loan of US$8 million equivalent for financing
part of the total project expenditures for vehicles and equipment, local salaries,
materials and supplies, technical assistance, and training abroad and all
buildings, and consultancy services. Both contributions would be on IDA and
IFAD standard terms to the Government of Somalia. The joint IDA/IFAD finan-
cing would finance 46% of the total foreign exchange costs and 5% of the
local costs. The local cost financing is justified in view of the country's
poverty (para. 16). Assistance from USAID and ADF would be under a parallel
financing arrangement. USAID would finance vehicles and equipment, technical
assistance and training abroad for the following project components: Water
Supply, Adaptive Research, Range Service, Veterinary Service and Seed Farm.



- 18 -
ADF would finance the road component jointly with the Government except for
the buildings, technical assistance and training associated with the road
component.
55.       Funds for all project expenditures financed by IDA would be chan-
nelled by the Government as a grant to the project, which would be operated
as an identifiable separate entity within MOA, and would also have a separate
bank account. In order to ensure smooth project implementation and continued
liquidity, the Government would establish a revolving fund, initially in the
amount of So.Sh. 4.0 million, to be paid into the Project Account. This
amount would be increased to So. Sh. 5 million by the end of the first year.
Government would credit the Project Account every six months with sufficient
funds to replenish the account and meet expenditures during the next six
months. The initial payment to the Project Account would be a condition of
credit effectiveness (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 7.01(b)).
Procurement
56.       Contracts for the supply of vehicles, machinery and equipment,
and materials and supplies in excess of US$50,000 equivalent would be awarded
after international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with World Bank
procurement guidelines. Orders would be bulked whenever possible to attract
the highest possible number of bidders. Draft tender invitations and bid
documents would be submitted to IDA for review before issue. Contracts for
US$50,000 or less but in aggregate totalling no more than US$300,000 equiva-
lent would be awarded after competitive bidding advertised locally and follow-
ing Government procurement procedures which were reviewed at appraisal and are
satisfactory to IDA.  The Project Director, the Project Technical Manager and
Financial Controller of PMU will be appointed on terms of reference and with
qualifications satisfactory to the Association and after consultation with the
Association. All other technical staff for the Project financed out of the
Credit or the Fund Loan shall be appointed after consultation with the
Association (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.13). Training
abroad would be planned and organized by the Project Director and Project
Technical Manager; they will prepare a plan satisfactory to IDA for the
overseas training of Somali staff by June 30, 1980 (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 4.11).   The construction of housing and office facilities
at Baidoa and Bonka would be combined into a single contract and tendered
under ICB. A margin of preference would be granted to domestically manu-
factured goods of up to 15% of the CIF bid price of imported alternatives and
a margin of preference of 7.5% would be granted to Somali contractors.
Since building contracts outside Baidoa and Bonka would not attract inter-
national bids due to their small size and dispersed locations, the contracts
would be awarded to local contractors in accordance with Government procure-
ment procedures which are acceptable. For goods purchased under ICB, PMU
would submit general procurement notices to IDA for insertion in the UN publi-
cation "Development Forum" (draft Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 3).
Disbursement
57.       The disbursement of the IFAD Loan would be administered by IDA.
Project expenditures would be disbursed on a "pari passu" basis in the ratio
of about 3 IDA to 2 IFAD against the following categories: (a) 100% of building



- 19 -
construction costs; (b) 100% of the cost of vehicles and equipment up to
US$400,000; (c) 32% of local salaries; (d) 100% of materials and supplies up
to US$6.2 million; and (e) 100% of technical assistance, consultants services,
and training abroad. Disbursements against all categories, except local
salaries, would be fully documented. Disbursements against local salaries
would be made against appropriate certificates of expenditi-res, certified
by the Project Manager. The documentation for these certificates would be
retained by the Borrower and made available for inspection by IDA during the
course of supervision missions. An advance of US$0.4 million under the IDA
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) has been granted to the Government for
early recruitment of key staff to activate the PMU and provide the logistic
support to speed up project implementation. This amount would be repaid to
the Association from the 'IDA Credit Account after credit effectiveness. The
schedule of the estimated disbursements of the proposed IDA credit is given in
the Project and Credit Summary.
Coordination
58.       Memoranda of Understanding between the Association and each co-
financing agency, covering Project composition and financing plan, procurement
and disbursement procedures, project supervision, consultation and exchange of
information on various matters of mutual interest would be agreed and signed
by the Association and all co-financing agencies after approval of. all the co-
financing agreements.
Accounts and Audit
59.       Separate accounts would be kept reflecting the expenditures funded
by each co-financier. Project related accounts would be audited by independent
auditors. The Magistrate of Accounts is an independent auditing agency in
Somalia. Although the auditing capability of this agency is presently less
than optimum, IDA is considering measures for strengthening it under the
Technical Assistance CredLit. In view of this consideration, the Magistrate
of Accounts would be an acceptable independent auditor for Project Accounts.
The Government would submit audited accounts to IDA within six months of the
end of each fiscal year (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01).
The PMU would emphasize the introduction of accurate accounting procedures
within each of the units participating in the project and would train enough
accountants to ensure the continuity of proper accounting practices at the
end of the project's six--year investment period.
Cost Recovery
60.       To effect full cost recovery from boreholes provided by the project,
an annual revenue per borehole of about So. Sh. 122,000 would be required.
This is equivalent to So. Sh. 73,000 for capital costs (amortized over 16
years at 12%), So. Sh. 25,000 for annual operating costs, and So. Sh. 24,000
for maintenance. Such revenues are traditionally levied on a per animal per
drink basis. Since livestock would need to be watered from boreholes for
about 270 days a year, rates capable of effecting full cost recovery would
need to be set. Accordingly, the Government will carry out a study to deter-
mine water charges that would ensure at least full cost recovery for the



- 20 -
establishment and maintenance of water supplies in the Bay Region and will
levy such water charges after completion of the study. In the interim the
Government will not reduce the existing water charges and will increase them
to whatever extent is necessary to recover the full cost of all Project funds
disbursed for water supply improvements under the Project (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Section 5.02).
Benefits and Risks
61.        Crop and livestock production in the Bay Region would increase as
farmers progressively adopt improved practices and use resources more effi-
ciently to take fuller advantage of the complementary production relationships
between crops and livestock. Food availability is expected to increase pri-
marily as a result of a more stable farming population, improved productivity,
an expansion of the area being farmed, and improved storage. Livestock pro-
duction is expected to increase primarily as a result of higher quality
animals due to increased water availability, an improved road system which
would make trucking possible (thereby reducing animal weight loss), increased
fodder availability in the dry seasons, and improved animal health.
62.       The proposed project would directly benefit 15,000 farm families
engaged in subsistence type crop and livestock production by year 10 and would
extend to over 45,000 additional farm families thereafter. The average per
capita income of these farm families is about US$95. Without the project
this would fall to an estimated US$75 by year 10; with the project it is
estimated to rise to about US$120. The most recent estimated absolute poverty
level for Somalia is US$50. The project would also directly benefit non-farm
users and would help in the transformation of agriculture from its present
subsistence state to a more market-oriented activity.
63.       The road component is an integral part of the development effort in
the Bay Region and links the administrative centers of each of the Bay Region's
four districts with Baidoa and Baidoa, with the major cities to the north.
Without the road component, it would be virtually impossible to increase
extension and veterinary services, drill and maintain water points, and expand
and extend marketing facilities. In addition to making increased crop and
livestock production possible, the road component generates additional bene-
fits in the form of vehicle operating cost savings from expected traffic and
reduced slaughter stock weight losses as a result of trucking all year as
opposed to seasonal trekking in the "without project" situation.
64.       The economic rate of return attempts to quantify the impact of
project intervention during the six year investment period on the assumption
that the intervention will be maintained during the subsequent 14 years. Two
major pilot activities (experimental range management and irrigation develop-
ment in the limestone depression) and the national monitoring and evaluation
facility are excluded from the analysis because their full costs and benefits
would be defined only upon completion of the pilot stage. In addition, given
that approximately 60% of the water produced by the boreholes in the Limestone
r11ateau will be for human consumption and that human consumption benefits are
inipossible to quantify, 60% of the cost of the water supply is excluded from
t;  analysis.  Although the financial requirements of extension are not



- 21 -
Jncluded as project costs due to their inclusion in the Agricultural Extension
and Farm Management Training Project, 22% of the National Extension Service
capital and operating costs are included as economic costs, as about 22% of
the potential extension beneficiaries live in the Bay Region.
65.       Based on these assumptions, the internal economic rate of return is
about 20% (calculated on 87% of total project costs). Even under the assump-
tion of no incremental benefits being generated after year 10 of project's
life (20 years) and continued incremental operating and maintenance costs, the
return would remain at an acceptable level of 12%.
66.       Important unquantified benefits, which are not included in the
calculations, would also be derived from the project. A major benefit to
the country is the project's income distribution effect through emphasis on
small-scale rainfed agriculture. Another would result from the opening of
major market outlets to crop and livestock producers in regions north and
west of the Bay Region through the improvement of the road system.
67.       The greatest risk would be that project implementation is delayed
over a longer period of time. There could be many reasons for such delay,
including administrative and staffing difficulties in establishing the insti-
tutional arrangements needed for the successful implementation of the Project.
These matters were discus:sed with the Government and it was agreed that this
matter would be given close attention during project implementation. A problem
may also arise during early project implementation in that the extension and
research activities may not properly focus on issues requiring immediate
attention in the Region, or that farmers and local communities' receptivity
may be lower than expected. The monitoring and evaluation section of the PMU
is given the responsibility and the means to identify and resolve problems of
this nature. Another source of risk associated with the project relates to
the fact that the extent of the benefits to be derived from this project
depend heavily on Government's continu-ed support at the end of the six-year
investment period. This is likely to materialize as Government recognizes
that the proposed project is only the first phase in a long term development
effort in the Region. In order to assist Government plan that development,
funds are included in the project for the preparation of a follow-up phase.
Moreover, the intention of Government, as reflected in project objectives, is
to assist local communities to become economically self-reliant which in the
long run would shift some of the burden of development from the central
government to local communities. The above risks have to be balanced against
the long-term benefits to the Bay Region which is and promises to be the major
supplier of food in the country.
Environmental Effects
68.       The objective c,f the proposed project in the long run would be the
development of a viable farming system in the Bay Region. This would maintain
the productive potential of the land through the introduction of improved
farming practices and range management. These practices would minimize the
environmental risks inherent in water development without strict control over



- 22 -
animal numbers. The "without project" situation would mean continued de-
terioration of soil fertility in cropped areas and continued degradation of
rangelands.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Somali Democratic
Republic and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for under Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Associa-
tion are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
70.       Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement of special
interest are described in Annex III of this report.
71.       Additional conditions of credit effectiveness would be that:  (i)
Government had paid So. Sh. 4 million to the Project account; (ii) Government
had taken the necessary legal measures to establish PMU; (iii) Government had
appointed the Project Director, the Project Technical Manager and the Finan-
cial Controller to the PMU; (iv) the Bay Region Development Coordination
Committee had been established; and (v) all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of other co-financiers' agreements regarding the Project had
been met (other than the effectiveness of the IDA Credit Agreement).
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
December 5, 1979



li,~~~~~                                      ~~~ .oIf
9E  m  CAPE tuslt           ~~~ ~~70.0     W,0      130.0            306.1       :09.6        #7.5
N C     }        ~~~~ ~~10.0  39.0       47.0             80.6        *3.9        32. I
_ _ e     s     x           w.5          X,~~~~~~~~~~~~~31  3.7. 
amU   tO0SSO0 MKt  07 tOA) V70                     23.1       27.0 .            17.1        16.;        2".;
ncGA?t    IN TA  00 (#SLUSIIO)                               7.0
StJASTMART TOMX0"  (MILLIONS)                               17.0
T    tAn%omu PWUUtSCS ts Wm                            Ily
TIaMATO OITY
FU  S.  M1.                          3.0          *.0        S.0             1|.9*.4                  65.3
FIR SQ. Dt. A;IUCIILSIIL LA"D         7.0         9.0       11.0             30.0       252.0        149.0
510"wl    AC   7m            (PBMNT)
0-14 YU.                            *3.4         46.3       *5.0             ".I         *3.1         43.2
15-    .u                            13.:$        51.        5X, is.                      52           51 .
3 tlU. IIAD AIMZ                       .7       .1.9          2.00.                        3.0          2.l
ICSA,                                2.0          2.4        2.3               2.7        2.4          2.7
'Jll~~~~~~~~~~ 2.-..                      3.3'-'    S.0               3.7        *.6          4.3
CUM  SIMt   VSS (7U1 TROUSIID)        49.0         47.0       44.0             46.3        42.4         39.*
CWOI  W9T  IkAT  (tFR WOUSXND)        36           22.0       20.0              17.3       13.-         11.7
Zoss WgDtlCSOII AT..                                3.0        3.0               3.1   '    2-S          2.7
*UCZTOAU, UlMtAL (TtOUSAlS            ...                      .           
usnu  tn sa   of "A t1   wan)          ...                     ...                       12.2        '13.2
IP9  CAPITA (1969-71-100)           **-1        100.0       90.0             94.3        96.2         ".6
MU CPTSA amn oF
CALORInS (79llt or
IBQQ URNB )                       77.0O        00.0       79.0              .5        93.3         94U7
MnTKn   (OUAS  mt  DAY)             17.0         37.0       SS.1 I            5.8        52.1         $4Ul
OF WUsa MINL ADMR                 1U.Ott       27.0       20.0      I ? .S             13.6         17.4
C u (uS 1-4) mo      l    I=       u3.0         34.0      $1.0              23.3       1U.5          11.4
u P CTAs          Al *tUn   (YUIIS)    3 .0      *0.0      43.0              *7.0       U9.3         54.7
ZMFAru   MsORTAIT   KM   (nIL
TIOSAIN)                                 ...                     ...                      103.          614l. 
ACT.SSTO $       A)(PSMO
SOS^L                                  .         13.0       33.0             20.3        26.3         34.4
1111                      ..        ~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~17.0  54.0'    33.9        s$.5         37.9
Ig .A.                                           14.0       20.0             10.1        13 .8        21 .1
&CQMS TO ISCRIT OISL OxT
Wm                                     ...                   7.0             22.5        16.0          OJ.
IUBWl                                  ..                   77.0             62.         * s.1        71.3
IUL             '      ..           ..      ~~~     ~    ~ ~~~~ ~~~~33.0  13.@  3.s    27.7
PWIIOW I    CR Pn nWsc             30000.0    .21140.0   13560.0            1742U.7    113%.4         67".4
nW    ToN M        UnmG   nuar      590.0        361tO.0    2s00.0           2m.6        3332.4      1IU2.1
PMIAIUTO Ms DPtTAL UD
70AL                               U30.0        SW  0      D0.0             302.3      1U17 .1       72U:5
111..                                               .         .             201 4       197.3        V2  7
IIUL                ..          ..         ..          ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~1403.6  2445.9  104.4
ANCIlStONS nA  WM=71  L0 UD...                                  ..4                        24.0         27.5
AN   17 IZ   ol TAWSUOO.
ITL                                    .            .         .               4.9         5.3          5.4
..   ..      ..           - *.@          *.9          5.1~4 9 
..    ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:                                   5.5         5.s          s.4 Is.
AmA mm  or nuso n mmC
bUL                                    .            .         .        .       .            ..
ACQZSS TO tJMcITn (nsc
.9.



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4
TABLE 3A
SOMALIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (AOJUSTED MZERAGES
SOMALIA                          - MOST RECENJ af:STIMATE)
SAME       S7AE        NEX1M' *.f
XOST RECENT      CEOGRAPHIC    INCOME         LNCOME
1960 /b      1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    CROUP ,'e
FDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
?RIMARY: ;     TAL                    9.0          9.0       40.0             59.0        63.3          S2.7
MALE                   13.0         l4.0       52.0             64.2        79.1         87.3
FEMALE                  5.0          5.0       28.0             44.2        48.4         75.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                    1.0          4.0        3.0              9.0        16.7          21.4
MALE                    2.0          7.0        5.0             12.0        '2.1          33.0
FEMALE                  0.2          2.0        1.0              4.4        10.2         15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (E OF SECONDARY)    ..             3.0       2b.0               7.0         5.6          9.8
PUIPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PR'IMARY                             29.0         33.0       35.0             42.2         41.0         34.1
SECONDARY                            20.0         23.0       14.0             22.9        21.7          23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           1.5&         5.0       50.01i            20.8        31.2         54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER TmOUSAND
POPULATION                            1.2          2.4        2.7              4.0         2.8          9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           12.0         18.0       21.0             44.3        27.2          76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..           ..         ..              2.9         2.4          13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     1.0          2.0        1.0               5.6         5.3         18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.4             1.7         ..               0.4         1.1          2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)         930.0       1100.0    1250.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     30.1         29.7       29.4             31.9        24.8          29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                87.9         84.7       83.0             77.6        69.4          62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    4.4          5.9        7.0              7.9        10.0         11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  41.5         38.9       39.1             40.8         36.9         37.1
MALE                                   58.7         55.3       55.9             53.9         52.4         48.8
FEMALE                                 24.7         22.8       22.8             25.6        18.0          20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.3          1.4        1.3               1.2         1.2          1.4
INCOME DTSTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME 
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..           ..         ..                ..         ..          15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS    ..              ..         ..                ..         ..         48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..           ..         ..               ..          ..           6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCI9r Ot' NSti.i4..        ..                      ..                ..         ..         16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS P!R CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..      132.0            187.6        99.2        241.3
RL'RAL                                 ..           ..      101.0             96.8        78.9        136.6
EST1LMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..       40.0            138.4        91.9        179.7
RURAL                                  ..           ..       40.0             71.0        54.8        103.7
ESTL1.ATID POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..             34.5        44.1         24.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..       30.0             48.7        53.9         37.5
Not available
Not apLc;'!:.
NOTES
L/    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
ladicators depends on availability of data and is not untf -ci.
'b    Unless other..ise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recenc Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
Lc  Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Lov Income ($2qO ), 't- per capita.  1976);   Le  Lower MSiddle t1C--
.)sr capita, 1976);   /f  1963;   Li  1972;   /h  1962;   /i  Increise due to literacy campaign
of 1974.
Most Recenc Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



ANNEX I
_____________owl"________                                                        Page   3   of   4
d1t~~.Oth  daa ac dmo  emasols..genrsly jdge  th  me  mshortatve  ntreliable, it should olso be noted that they cqw tot be interna-
IV010 OOorable bosesu'  of th. lash of eteandardded do itaitons sad esasepte Used tbs dif  Ptrs   coustries to oollesttsg the data, Th. data ar, onoethelse.
ueeful to describe orders of OWitwA., lidicate trends, and earWa4tortol Osphaic, major difttromie betosot ttintdiee,
toM4ai,zmanaizfo  cshidiatrare Poaylatiom-weighsted gsoutois moos, emoluding the estreem  volues of the indicator end the moot popAuated
tocory  n eun goup   te    ItoeAk Of data  greep avengoge  Of cLU  iloaftaobe to  Capitol surplu  ot1 Ex,rtere end of indlotorts of does.. on Water   tenborn.t
lisposol, Woucing Inome Distribution and bcertp for other sountry groups arc pspolsttoe.wei*tet geantto mans~ withwat cxslusian of the mitre.. values sd
the cost popslstek soleetry,so
(thosan  sqm)                                                                 accsteMreiIl$eeoi (trVet o   Aoy.,.o(-tto.uhn  eutn
ftlsurface area comprising isad area seed inland voters.                        honr o  pepl M ANhc,oe,ae   ne)srsoportadps.s
WIullxi&     most recent estimate of agricultural, arc. used tswoarily                       persestsges of their respeetire Ppoplatieos. becret. disposel eq  isolude
or permedostly tor orops, pastuen., ofsrt end hintsb  gardna  or to                       the costottiot sat disposal, with or sitbout trcamtot, of losm  eseeste
lie fallow                                                                                eAnd weeto-wttcr by wtser-boras,  os.sem  or the use of pit ptrivis end csh.l,
up? PU 9pArIiot( ) - GNP PeM oqpita etimatts at sauin-ot market Irhoes,                                         a,inatellotiosbsnmbrofPrcicng.Waatn
083UIATUU1Cy1IN   conversionu method as World Boah Atlas (1976-7l basic)                  htfifioaLie0                    eool at University level
1960  1970, sec 1979 date'                                                                                                           ionajflng.fli      oplte   divided by enumer of prsctiring sole
m         0  B    M   CPITA - hmans  consumption Of 'powMepiol ont                        MA" m Al w"                      prIM toetrsos  sand oscistmt ourees.
00.  On    so  5,1    "# su,tatoal gae oat hydro-, mnclear and seoe-"ito                                                   tota4m JehiJ~& lj.jlgm..u4.n   - Popelattion (total, urhbn,
therme"  oleetriotty  t  hilrems of eoal  quivsc-t per sapita; 16,AU                                                                          OrYdtiU   tBWiioI9diiiAfIai..P~tl beds available to
ir9e7, sod art data.                                                    gd,publicca  premc  enral end epoisi-od boetpitaL end rohabilitatioe  rooters.
Hospitals are ssatblisbwntc perimeootly stat fed OF at lest one physilolso
Establishmentse providiog principally. custodial rare are tot iscluded. Rural
o91 & H.n      ?W-      L icns)   d . of July L; 1960, 1970, and                      hospitals,Ihowever, Include health  and  sdteal ranter. oot permoneotly, staffed
1977 cAta,                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~by a plysic ico (but by a medical assistant, rcurs, ei4vifs, etr.) whieb rffer
Urban Po!"eation est o  total)   Rai fubnto total population;                               In-patient aseoadation and provide a limited ranego of mitral facilities.
otfforot deto  toe of  ran, area                                                                          Ttatetoomahltyo;dt    .  ctl   -ee  of aodelsi.te to or discIharges free
omog  ounttri-si 1960, 1970, and 1973 d.t..lhytljIIA bFtjnae  of beds.
- Ourrst Populattod Proimotiets are hosed so               80-Wo
i9vIDtotal Population by aG. ad e.o and thsir mortality and fertilitY              '      a   iso   tueoO(ost   e t                   "sInd  - toteA  uban   i  ua -1
rates. Projactio  parametesr  for mortality rates oomprie  of thomAaiueoososeso  agopo  lodivideaLs~ oshore: fivio   ;uread
level  sassming life copeettny at bitrth tcroreaiog swith  contry's                     their mote meals,  A boardcr or lodger cyop  r mq tot he i.crltid it the
par capita ic. .0 lovol, mid festal. lit. expsotay stebiliLstog at                      household for  tetisti-al purpos..
77.1 years  OTh. peraootrs for fortility rate s1so have throe  lovole                AveraetmbrP orfr:ere ,a,    ros            a otal. u   _aFad rual- Average nuber
assuebe  decline in f-rtility socordiog to irrome, level and past                       oprsnperveialubn,ndu ralocpe  coevetiohal dcol1tog.,
feamily ulsoning perforULnee. bobh nountry Is thco ossigped 000 of those                respectivel.  DOcoitgs  olu o ooo.prmsrnet ototuours.  unonuid  parts.
n11c remhaioatiean  of mortality and fertility trends for pro5ectioc                 Arrea toEecrcty (;eroeat of iwelilo               - total,uban. sI ruralI -   ona-
purpoecs.                                                     nooticosl iwellio~~~~~~~~.,   gs with el-tricity ithl5quresa  perv-tago of
-  o    saiotery  poplatie  there Is to growth               total, urban  sod rural dwellings respectively.
I"og w   rat  he eUqualt te the doath rate, and also the ago
structure remtates resistant. This Is achi-ved cony after fcrtilitp  rates         EDUCAiTION
decline to the roplsomcot level of unit tot reproduction rats, when                      us sd brrollftot Patios
esch Smenratioc of wenc  replaces Itcolf sxcatly.  The stationary p000-                 hLigivp$h    j_j&_r_ male adyfomele - d;ress total, oslo 00  feol1erol
at ioc sloe men estimated on the basic Of the pi'Ojetted otaresteritiesme.falas.a   h   rmr   ee as-1                                    rstos  of r-peotIve  pric-y
of the popoilotios io the year 2000, and the ratei of decline of fertility                sohool-age populations; tormally iroludes rhildren aged 6-li peare hut
rate to replaoaemnt levcl.                                                                adjusted for difforeot lengths of primary eduratino.  for  nutvesith
Year statigrns  tooeatin  is reanhod - The poor tehs  stationary ppulatino                  unvramontorsrlostay ernes  100 p--  sites eon  pupils
sie  ashe   Ceded                                                                 ar  hole  or above the official school age.
Population Dmsiu                                                     14c                                    yZ~~~~srndo' ahul-  otl   ae  ndfsae ~ - Cmptdatao oenar
Nrjj~ .-ei-fsar poNolation Per square kilomecter (100 heoture   feuainrqie   tiatfu   er   fapoe   rmcyiorolt
total                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~provIdes Iseterl vocational, or tcouher teailong int-tr.vina   -o pupls.
agiutrl  - Computed us above for sgricultura1 land                   usualy of 12 to 17 years of seo; -orr...pcnderre coursec are gtte...IiL'
secluded.
AS. truoture cocot  -Childrso (0-lb psars), workilg-ags                             vocatihonl eoossi  ooe   f sendarn) - Vnoattial  tin.oti t-nto    include
years, WAd retie   b  years and over) as prrestages of cad-your                         teht,indosri,orote  prcsn  ohich oporoto itdoPoodvatly 0- 00
p.pulatico; I960. 1970, and I97  daaeartemete of secociarytstutoe
Peoulatiot, Growth Rots (percent) - total - Annual growth ratoc of total mid-               Pupl-tesohe  ratio- cinar  adiaeroodar    Total wtidotts  -rro d Io
year cnpulstiua"  for 1950-60c 19bo-T0o et  90O.                                             rmr and      sesooy  oel   ivde   y  oer   f toaniers iovivonos
P.oulaicecGrowth Oats (nreflet) - urban  - Annual growth ratos of urban                       spendinglels
pplations for  tgo.0,10-7,ad  907                                                                       gt,~    ..         Litertte adults(able to read nod once) as
Crude t,kztb .90t.re.4d o            ineui vs births per thousad of mcd-.                        pertenag.   otraTdiljt Population sod 1  yoore nodcon
yewr population  10    90ad17   aa
CM                                   dscsoualRtts per thousand of old-yea               COWoteprIic
pupulattocl 900o11970sicdW1977 d                                                                  Cas (prthusan  Pnua o                   .. Poeeger our  -nprise  otor oars
'P          "       ,-A   aruinberof.dnuaittersaoce              ill bea                sti   lsthneaT, peve  o   oolden  -anusonec., hoaro-  andclty
intbarcoralr krterve perio  if abs expsricc-s preset t age-                               vehcle.
speoifir fartility rates; ususaly fies-por aversgos ending In 1960,                     PaIoPcevrs (cer thouan_~dpilat~ior) - All tyo  of- ~rorors -v rod.
1970, and 1975.                                                                    -       roadat   oeorlpbi   e  thosan  o  onuott;  oldc  iilone
FondlyPlennig - Aeeptors inouo (thouands)    deouI aumber of                 receivers In countries end In peare obet r-gintra'tIo of rauto nets  -  in
soceptors c'hrh.otridvie  une..                sie   of coticoal fanly                    offsect; iota for recent poor. eq  tot be coepar..ble sIer c-t  cmotriso
planning program.                                                                         aholiched licensing.
Pambi Plceiag- laes (nrest., of   rri.dgcotn)   P-sPrrteage nP osri.d             l  esvrs     rtosndTV            lii)-Tv r-oi-s- ion b-ou-as  t. geerca
welan of child-hearingae(5h  yer                     b h  uehrth-rontrol device           Publi  per thusn.pplton               dolde  utli-ensd TV  eoorev.outriec
to ell aworied  oetnee  to sane age group.                                                ad in yearo  hen roqistrotlon, of TV sets sac in offset.
rool AND XmtIitiie                                                                          Woccr Ciroultloc  per thousad                                      1-uoln   -Sotte .ivrgr nirclo.tito
o'cty  _ecora."itrest  -sopapr , defined asaP.riodi-1 pbi-otion
lanc or end  rodutionrr Cohta(196-7l-~)  -dnde o  per capIta                  devoted prbosily to re...rding  en eral  -ro.  It Joon ..idore.d to hr 'daily'
annual prodeetio  of *1  food nouadities. PreduoIon  soa de   ee   n        if it anPoate on leat four time      eh
feed and Is on calendar year basis.  Cocodities rover primary goods                     Chos.- Annual Antoodaco pe  Capita 000 Ova-  hoBn-   n the o-,b-cr tiontu
io.saac ne eced of sugar) chirt are edibLe and cosmtic nutrients                 soi-ld -during the you, -.oldtng edeisoovan  no driv-in vin-o   ed nob! Ie
go.nffee and te  ar   colded).  Aggregate production of car  -nutry                     uci.
is booed on national average produner price weights.
Poe  "it" sorely of  -alriwa (oarst of ro..uirc,omotn) - Cnryted mo                  rti rle
enrgy eqivaCc_t of c1fund cupiovi l  iccutr  peroala                                TtllbrPno(husd).onejoyovvcpsn,   oodnaon
prd.y.  Available scpplive  oaoprios domestic Production, imports lose                fyrsr andFunemplyed hot oouig osevn,nuotod.t, 01- Drf ~init__
soPorte, and changes it stunt.  Net supplies o:crlde aniwa feed, seeds,                 ha variou  o-otrire are non ovopablo.
uantittes uwed Jn foci process.Ing, and loso ..iIn distribution. Rsquire-           fre4JfrccptC  - Pselo labor fo-  an p-oetage of total labor for-.
ments wer  nstitcetd by fAO based on physiolog1cal crdo for norms'                       r e Jtculure r_enn     - Labor forte In Porting, forvutny, hootiog nod
art iity and bralth c-niderio   -irtrvetetl tenycratuer, body ueightiu,                 fishing no p-rvtagc of total labor fo-o-
age ad son ditnitrihoton   of pouleti-c, nod als    10 pe-oet for                     cadustr ( rvt) - Laor- forno in ooano,,cntuto,noctton   o
eac to at hone-hold level.                                                              elenrio-ty, c'ater nod has it por-tg,o of total laorfoor
Pnr oniba, "uPl ofooen(gron or day) - Protoin onotrot                                   P- eeiatiniootioo Rate(p ot- to        al,mol, nod euv-'Artioloatio-O
_aita no  supWply oftfend pe  dsp. met supply of fnod ha del'fded or          ~           Ivyrtor upte asoalml,nd _f-ond    oo-fov   no
above. Pquir-mtno foe all coutries estbliohed by veto Proide Pif                         oogo0  total, mule nod femal  popudoto  o  at  en ecntIve_
olirco. shlcaneof Au greets of  ntetl protein per day nod 20 grsec  of                  i960, 1970, and 1975 data.  Theer are  IOn, perti-ipttia oucecfevin
asisco  and puls  pro.tein, of ciho  10 grot  should b eanimal protect.                 o     -se tunturc of thc population, nod lin t-  trenid.  A 'feu  -otimatec-
free  standards are lower tha  thowe of75 gram   of total pr-tha nod                   ar  -ro    atoo.a corve-_
23 gree" of "isal peoteto to an av-gr fnr the coId, propoced by Pie                  Fone"T'  Petudahy batty  -  Rtatb   of popolotoca under it  rd h  and ove  to
to tho Third World Food Survy,                                                         t1he labo  Porno In  ge getup of 15-tb year..
EPcr~ noottarotc snl frn  iant l and Otu   - Potein eupply of fod
Obdid(noes1-4)  ortalty lae (cr"thouse-d) - nual death, Poe thousad              PeoaOeo   rtacIcm   both in  -he and kind) - Rp...ived by rinhoet
In ageroP1-yers, to childre  in this ag  group  fo  moot Ae,on-                           5aecn,rchs   0p et, poorost20pretanpoes   0pret
uping v..ntrIes dta derived Pro. life table.!                                             nf housholds.
onLALo                                                                                    POVERTY TAPGIT GOPUPS
life_ bocetany at dith (Years) - Avorags ounhr  fof psr  of li~fe                          siae   bouehvryiva  eel(t   e   ata     ra   a  oe
remainng atbirth  1960  1970, and 1977. data.                                        Absolute poverty Ieoelvlirta    er  lvlblscho      iia
Onf nt ortaitydatelee nh"udann( A- ctul d-thu of lafata nodor 0w                      -utriti-oally  Adquats diet pluu vs-etial non-food robuir-onto io not
pear of age par thouand lies birtho                                                        Pfordbhi..
Ao-es to loPe dater (Pe...ent of peito      oa,ubn  n   ccl-                              Otetdbotriiet  onelvl( tprvca      ra   n   ua 
Nubor of pepr(total, urban   an.rrl            .u ron-blo toes  to                        rua   eaiepcry   onlvln   o-hrdo  crect pe%~r Capit
safe cater suppl'Y (includes troatd sufa-  eat'sre or untreated but                       personal inonee of the onnotry. Urban le-o  I. derived from  the rural 1et1
_ncoatsiaated eater ouch as that from Pr-tected horeholes, spriags,                       with adjustmen t for bigher ont of living in urban   -n..
and oanttary wello) as Porcentagow  of their respetive populations. In                  Estimated Pnualahb    boute ooen  InnomeL loo   (ecrt(   ra   o
an urban are  a puib  fountain or st&Adyat In&tond not More than                        ral-Perecit of populto   ubncdrrl1coae'bnucpo"
-0 aosfo   a house eqy he noasid-rd as beIng cJthio  reasoable                     ~.M-Abo    oP
a-ees  of that house.  In -rura  area  reas. tonale  ns    cou. ld imply
that the boucoolfe or -ne-.r of the household in cot hoes te spend a                                                               o-it  and nSola1 Oota Pinjrion
dtSProportioa..ne part of the day in fetching the family's water teatsB... lo tot  hA.lysis and P-oj-tio.s Deportment
August 1979



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
SOMALIA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS    -
1/
CNP PER CAPITA: US$130 (Approx. 1978)
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                                       MHNEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
Preln     Prel.    Budget                                           Dec.       Dec.      Dec.       Mar.
1976      1977      1978       19792-                                          1976      1977       1978      1979
(million US$)                                                                           (million So.Sh. )
Total Revenue                   106.0      121.2     220.3      269.3        Bank Claims on Government (net)  124.4       -97.8     311.1      353.9
Current Expenditure             103.1      121.5       NA      238.3         Bank Claims on Private Sector
Current Surplus                   2.9      -0.3        NA       31.0          and Public Enterprises           986.4    1280.7    1404.6    1497.2
Development Expenditure          99.1     150.1        NA        NA         Money Supply                       994.9    1325.1    1728.0    1853.9
Extra Budgetary Expenditure      48.8      15.1        NA        NA
overall Deficit                 145.0     165.5      108.9       NA                                                      ntgjer Id
General Price Index (1970-100)   172.0       190.9     208.6        -
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                16.6       10.9       9.3        -
Bank Claims on Privete Sector
and Public Enterprises           -5.3       29.8       9.7        6.6
Money Supply                       20.5       33.2      30.4        7.3
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                              MRECEHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
3/                                          US$ Iln.      %
1975      1976      1977       1978-
-         ~~~(million US5$)             Livestock                              46.9      60.3
Bananas                               13.2       16.9
Merchandise Exports (f.o.b.)   88.6        81.0       71.3     109.5        Meat and Meat Products                  6.5        8.4
Merchandise Imports (t.O.b.) -141.1    -153.1    -175.1    -244.2           lades and skins                         4.8        6.2
Trade Balance                 - 52.5    - 72.1    -103.8    -134.7          Fish and  Fish Products                 2.2        2.9
Others                                 be 2       5.3
Services,Net                  - 49.7    - 38.0    - 36.9    - 41.2             Total                               77.8      100.0
Transfers, Net                 102.2       40.8     108.0      105.8
current Account Balance          0       - 69.3    - 32.7    - 70.0          EXTERNAL DEBT
US $ MIlo.
Long-Tem Capital                52.8       69.6      64.2       71.0
Short-Term Capital and                                                      Public  Debt (Dec. 31,1977)                     872.8
Errors and Omissions          -26.2       13.3       5.3        7.3        (of which Disbursed)                            (470-9)
Reserves and Related Items    -26.6       -13.7    -36.9        -8.2
international Reserves                                                      DEbT SERVICE RATIO                                7
(end year)                     68.5      85.0      120.5     130.0         Public Debt - 977
petroleum  Imports              19.1       18.5      38.7       NA                       - 1978 (estimate)
IDA LENDING WSe-r mA  1Q7G         (Million US$)3
RATE OF EXCHANGE    US$1.00 - So. Sh. 6.295 (Since 1973)
IDA
Outstanding and Disbursed               59f3
Undisbursed                             71.3
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed          130.6
1/ No National Accounts available                                                                              September 1979
Not available
Not applicable
!/ The budaet data for 1979 is incomplete
3/ The import data for 1978 includes but previous years'
exclude Franco Valuta imports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA
A.   Statement of IDA CredLits (as of October 31, 1979)
(US$ Million)
Amount   Undisbursed
(Net of cancellations
No.       Year    Borrower         Purpose              and exchange adjustments)
(CY)
Five credits fully disbursed                               33.7
123-S0    1973    Somalia    Highway-Supplementary
(Afgoi-Baidoa Road)          2.7        0.3
462-SO    1974    Somalia    Trans-Juba Livestock          10.0        5.3
511-SO    1974    Somalia    Second Education               8.0        1.5
586-SO    1975    Somalia.   Mogadishu Port Extension    5.2           0.3
623-SO    1976    Somalia    Drought Rehabilitation         8.0        4.3
635-SO    1976    Somalia    North-West Agriculture       10.0         7.3
698-SO    1977    Somalia    Somali Development Bank        5.0        4.8
699-SO    1977    Somalia    Third Highway (Hargeisa-
Borama)                      7.0         4.8
738-SO    1977    Somalia    Third Education                8.0        7.6
821-S0    1978    Somalia    Technical Assistance           3.0        3.0
822-SO    1978    Somalia    Mogadishu Water Supply         6.0        6.0
838-S0    1978    Somalia    Fourth Port                    5.5        4.9
905-SO    1979    Somalia    Agriculture Extension         10.5       10.5
906-SO    1979    Somalia    Central Rangelands            8.0         8.0
Total                      130.6        68.6
of-which has been paid       0.5
total now held by IDA      130.1



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION - SOMALIA 1/
Credit No. 123:      Highway Supplement (Afgoi-Baidoa); $2.3 million Credit of
June 26, 1968: Date of Effectiveness: February 25, 1969;
Closing Date: originally December 31, 1971 and postponed
nine times to December 31, 1979.
The construction of the Afgoi-Baidoa road was completed in
March 1971. The International Chamber of Commerce made an arbitration award
to the Contractor (Joint Venture) on December 3, 1975, in an amount of DM
11,648,333.04 with interest at DM 1,356.20 per day from December 15, 1975; a
Government counterclaim against the Contractor was rejected. A series of
meetings were held between Government and the Contractor to try to resolve
the matter, and the dispute was finally settled recently.
Credit No. 586:      Mogadishu Port Extension Project; $5.2 million Credit of
October 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness; January 15. 1976;
Closing Date: originally December 31, 1978 and postponed
once to December 31, 1979.
The civil works, including the extension, were completed in
October 1977, six months behind schedule. Several outstanding claims of the
contractor were settled in July 1977 and payment effected in April 1978. The
port operating equipment has been delivered. Because of the continuing short-
age of skilled staff in the country as a whole, the Somali Port Authority
.continues to face problems in finding staff with the necessary skills to take
full advantage of the training aspects of the consultancy services provided
under the credit. As a result of the recommendations made by the consultants,
tariffs have been revised. The Port Regulations have been enacted.
Credit No. 462:      Livestock (Trans-Juba) Project; $10 Million Credit of
February 20, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: October 29,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Stock route and ranch development have made good progress but bore-
hole drilling and the veterinary assistance component are delayed. FAO has
supplied an irrigation engineer, and 4 senior staff have been recruited
by the Livestock Development Agency directly from India to replace supervision
consultants. Certain measures to improve Project Management and to enable
satisfactory completion of the Project have been taken by the Government,
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
which are acceptable. The measures provide for execution of the Project to be
the responsibility of the Minister of Livestock, through the Livestock Develop-
ment Agency.
Credit No. 511:      Second Education Project; $8 million Credit of September 19,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980.
The Elementary Teachers Training College is complete and in use.
Construction of the nomadic centers, the Academy of Somali Studies and the
Fishery and Marine Institute are about a year behind schedule due to staffing
shortage of the Project Implementation Unit and delays in establishing cri-
teria for locating the Nomadic Training Centers. Construction contracts have
now been awarded for 19 of the 22 project institutions and disbursements are
expected to increase rapidly as a result. Latest cost estimates indicate an
overrun of about 3 percent which is manageable.
Credit No. 623:      Drought Rehabilitation Program -- Juba-Shebelli Emergency
Settlement Scheme; $8 million Credit of July 7, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: August 31, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Project implementation, especially procurement of vehicles and
equipment and land clearing, is slow, mainly due to high turnover of consul-
tancy staff. One settlement location as originally selected is unsuitable and
the settlers may have to be moved as soon as the studies confirm suitability of
a new area. The interrivrerine study financed under the Project points to a
much lower irrigation potential than previously expected. Inadequate staffing
of the Settlement Development Agency has presented a problem, and therefore 13
middle level staff have been recruited from India.
Credit No. 635:      North-West Region Agricultural Development Project; $10
million Credit of July 7, 1976: Date of Effectiveness:
February 9, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
After the Credit was declared effective on February 9, 1977, the
project suffered a setback when the ULG Consultants' team withdrew from Somalia
in February 1978 on the basis of "force majeure" following the Ogaden War.
Project management has been actively replacing the ULG team by recruiting
individual specialists from Pakistan for supervisory posts, and other consul-
tants for feasibility studies. With the delivery of most of the construction
equipment and operators' training well advanced, the conservation work is in
progress.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Credit No. 698:      Somali Development Bank; $5 million Credit of June 1,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981.
SDB's volume of operations, and also disbursements to date under
the IDA Credit, have so far proceeded at lower than expected levels due mainly
to slower growth in SDB lending to industry. Implementation of the technical
assistance component of the Project, including training of Somali staff and
recruitment of expatriate advisers, is progressing.
Credit No. 699:      Third Highway Project; $7 million Credit of June 1, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: January 24, 1978; Closing Date:
December 30, 1980.
The contract for construction works on the Hargeisa-Borama road,
with a link to Tug Wajale, has been awarded and consultants engaged to carry
out supervision. The Construction work started on January 10, 1978. However,
the construction work came to a standstill at the end of November, 1978
following a bombardment at Gebile, near the Contractors' main camp. All
expatriate staff of the Contractor left the project site. However, the
Contractor resumed construction during the first week of February 1979.
Technical proposals, from a short list of consulting firms, for provision of
services covering feasibility study for the Dinsor-Bardera-Gelib road were
evaluated by the Government and subsequently consultants satisfactory to the
Association were selected. The feasibility study is under preparation.
Credit No. 738:      Third Education Project; $8 million Credit of September 30,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 13. 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983.
Physical implementation is still in the preparatory phase. Design
work and tender documents have been completed for the State Printing Agency
extensions and for the new Health Personnel Training Institute. Technical
assistance has been recruited for the manpower survey and for the National
Trade-Testing Center. Nine Somalis have commenced studies abroad in curricu-
lum development. The technical and accountancy sections of the Project Unit
are adequately staffed and overall progress is satisfactory.
Credit No. 821-SO: Technical Assistance Project; $3 million Credit of
June 30, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 1,
1979; Closing Date: December 1. 1981.
The Senior Project Advisor has been appointed and the Credit became
effective recently. Several sub-projects have been identified and preparation
for some of them is in progress.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Credit No. 822-SO: Mogadishu Water Supply ProJect; $6 million Credit of
June 30, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 2,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The Technical Operations Adviser and the Financial Advisor have
been appointed and the Credit has become effective.
Credit No. 838-SO: Fourth Port Project; $5.5 million Credit of August 23,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: June 27, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30. 1981.
This Credit has become effective. The tenders for bidding on the
construction of the Tanker Terminal were issued recently.
Credit No. 905-SO: Agricultural Extension and Training Project; $10.5 million
Credit of May 10, 1979; Planned Date of Effectivess:
January 22, 1980; Closing Date:  June 30, 1985.
This Credit has not yet become effective.
Credit No. 906-SO: Central Rangelands Development Project; US$8 million
Credit of May 10, 1979; planned Date of Effectiveness:
January 22, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
This Credit has not yet become effective.



ANNEA Iii
Page 1
SOMALIA
BAY REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I.    Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Initial discussions with Bank:        December 1976
(b)  First Bank Mission:                   December 1976
(c)  Preparation by:                       FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
(d)  Time taken to prepare Project:        Six months
(e)  Appraisal Mission Departure:          June 1978
(f)  Negotiations:                        November 1979
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:        March 1980
II.   Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
1II. Special Conditions
(a) Disbursement of credit funds for each project component
following the PMU's preparation of a work plan would be
contingent upon agreement between IDA and Government to
continue with the implementation of each component as
originally defined or as modified as a result of experience
(para. 34).
(b) A Project Management Unit (PMU) would be established and
maintained during the execution of the project and would
prepare a work plan satisfactory to IDA (paras. 34 and 36);
(c) The national monitoring and evaluation services would be
strengthened in accordance with a work program satisfactory
to IDA (para. 35 (e));
(d) The Government would furnish a plan satisfactory to IDA for
the overseas training of Somali staff (para. 35(d));
(e) A Bay Region Development Coordination Committee would be
established and maintained during the execution of the
project (para. 36);
(f) Terms of reference and qualifications of the Project Director,
Project Technical Manager and Financial Controller would be
acceptable to IDA (para. 39).



ANNEX III
Page 2
IV.   Additional Conditions of Proposed Credit Effectiveness would be:
(a) The Bay Region Development Coordination Committee had been
established (paras. 36 and 71).
(b)  The Government had taken the legal measures to establish PHU
(paras. 38 and 71);
(c)  The Government had appointed the Project Director, the Project
Technical Manager and the Financial Controller to the PMU
(paras. 38 and 71);
(d)  The Government had paid So. Sh. 4 million deposit to the
Project Account (paras. 55 and 71); and
(e) All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of other co-
financiers' agreements regarding the project had been met
(para. 71).






IBRD 13870
AUGUST 1979
48'
DEMOCRATIC
r                           REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
-4-
DJIBO        I
o   A
8 edo
IBOUT)
Adado Bosaso
Mait
L di-,
IN
ora a
N.bGdid
Arapsio
Waial              9Hsl
r                                           Gar
Bender Beile
[Aeh
-A A"
Wei
7,                                           aroe
SOM40A                                                                                                                                                                       8.
'BAY REGtON AORIC                                        DEVELOPMENT                                  r
PWAMOCAT*14
PROACT LWA-WW
AWA"
rAAVfWF.AeT14 WRFAC" ROAM
PMTS                                                                                  0*6yo-
1 DCWESTfe
lWrEMATp"t. AIIRFMIVS                                          V-
0
N.'
kTERNATfQXAL sou"#JAWESr
lk
usa Mareb
Hobyo
7
r Fer
'-Beletwe r)                      El Bur
%
4
L,k     Wagid                                 Bulo
Gdinan                                                               A                                0      50    loo    150    200    250    300
KILOMETERS
31
or
EUR Al(
30AL F                                                                                                                                                          JI
HU                                                                                    't
"r,"    Gglo                                                                                          A-U Di  ARAVA,
Dug
N                  SUDA
ELI                                                                                               'Y
Beles
f A
Liboi    Go_gani
Uj
J
0              f T H t
Kolbi\    K S., 1,)
0
ADACE
0 C]
0
YA I
cde
Id
INDiAN OCEAN
14-                                                            41'



