D_cument of
The World Bank
FOM OFFICL USE ONLY
Rqut No. 7845
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
THRACE GAS EXPLORATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2327-TU)
JUNE 2, 1989
Energy Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Tbis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of



THE WORLD BANK                  I  OMCIAL USE ONW
Washington, DC 20433
USA
Oglte d Duwe.eoe.Cqw,Il
Opwaswis waku*iqmllo
June 2, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Turkey
Thrace Gas Exploration Project (Loan 2327-TU)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled *Project
Completion Report on Turkey - Thrace Gas Exploration Project (Loan 2327-TU)"
prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office with Part
II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has
been made by the Operations Evaluation Department.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by tecipients only in the perftormance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
THRACE GAS EXPLORATION PROJECT (LOAN 2327-TU)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ...................... ... . ...............                      i
EVALUATION SUMuARY ....
PART I
1. PROJECT IDENTITY..                                                     1
2.  BACKGROUND ............................  .................           1
3.   PROJECT'S OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION       ..                        1
4.   PROJECT ORGANIZATION, IMPLEMENTATION AND RESULTS                     3
5.   PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK AND THE BOIROWER.                            5
6. CONSULTING SERVICES.                                                   5
PART II
I. INTRODUCTION.                                                       9
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL ........          11
1. Origin of the Project .12
2. Preparation and Appraisal .13
III. IMPLEMENTATIAN .14
1. Seismic .14
2. Drilling .16
3. Implementation Issues .17
4. Implementation Schedule .18
5. Reporting .21
6. Project Cost and Financing .22
7. Disbursements  ..23
8.   Use and Performance of Consultants .25
9.   Use and Performance of Contractors .28
10. Training Facilities .29
IV. PROJECT RESULTS ...................     ,    . ..........          30
1. Exploration Program    ..30
2. Exploration Promotion    ..31
3.   Production and Infrastructure.                                31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont.)
Page No.
V.  INSTITUTIONAL  PERFORMANCE  .... ............................                                        33
VI.  BANK PERFORMANCE  ....                   .....................................                        34
VII.  CONCLUSIONS                   ..............................................                          35
PART III
l.     RELATED  BANK LOANS  .......................................                                         39
2.     PROJECT  TIMETABLE  ....                  ....................................                       39
3.    LOAN DISBURSEMENTS  ................                   .. ...  . .........                            40
4.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...................                                 .        . ...               40
5.     PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING    ......                       .......................                  41
6.     PROJECT  RESULTS  ...                .......................................                         42
7.     STATUS  OF  COVENANTS                   ......................................                       43
S.     USE  OF  BANK RESOURCES  ....                 ................................                       44



£
TURKEY
THRACE GAS EXPLORATION PROJECT (LOAN 2327-TU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Thrace Gas
Exploration Project in Turkey, for which Loan 2327-TU in the amount of U$S55.2
million was approved on June 28, 1983. The loan was closed on December 31,
1987. The loan was not fully disbursed and the last disbursement was on
August 11, 1988.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Energy Operations Division,
Country Department I of the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional
Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower, (Part
MT!.
Preparation of this PCR is based, inter alla, on the Staff Appraisal
Report; the Loan, Guarantee, and Project Agreements; supervision reports;
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.



ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
THRACE GAS EXPLORATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2327-TU)
EVALUATION SUMKARY
Introduction
1.       The project was the third Bank operation in Turkey's petroleum
subsector. It was a continuation of the Bank assistance started in 1980 with
the purpose of remedying the country's high dependence on imported petroleum,
by increasing the availability of domestic hydrocarbon resources and shifting
part of the demand for liquid petroleum to alternative energy sources (PCR,
Part I, paras. 2.01-2.02). The Bank loan of US$ 55.2 million, approved on
June 28, 1983, was given to Turkiye Petrolleri A. 0. (TPAO), the national oil
company, with the guarantee of the Republic of Turkey.
Objectives
2.       The principal objectives of the project were to assess the
hydrocarbon potential of TPAO licenses in the Thrace basin of Turkey, and to
strengthen TPAO's capability to design and implement integrated basin
oriented exploration programs (PCR, Part I, para. 3.01).
Implemetitation Experience
3.       The project was completed on time and with a cost saving of US$ 34.9
million (35Z) despite a 153Z increase in the volume of seismic surveys. This
reduction in project costs was due mainly to actual i.nit costs beina lowier
than the appraisal estimates because of changing international market
conditions (PCR, part I, para. 4.03; and Part III, Sectioni A --d 5a). In
order to utilize part of the savings, the project scope was expanded to
include seismic surveys in the West Taurus and Black Sea coast-l'. aLeas (PCR,
Part I, para. 4.03). The disbursement of the loan was slower than forecast
due to cost reductions and procurement difficulties experienced by TPAO (PCR,
Part I, para. 5.02, and Part III, Section 3). The unutilized portion of the
loan (US$ 13.6 million) was cancelled on August 23, 1988. The performance of
contractors and consultants was mixed, possibly as a result of TPAO's
preference to use individual consultants/contractors rather than established
integrated firms (PCR, Part I, para. 6.01 and Part II, Sections III.8 and
III.9). The Bank's supervision was adequate, excepting some difficulties
arising from frequent changes in supervision staff (PCR, Part I, para. 5.01
and Part III, Section VI).
Results
4.       TPAO has satisfactorily completed the exploration program, including
studies and training of its staff. However, contrary to expectations, no
commercial discovery was made. Thus, the principal benefit which TPAO
derived from the project was institutional strengthening in technical and
financial areas (PCR, Part I. paras. 4.04-4.09).



U                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~ii$
Sustainabilit?
5.       TPAO remains the dominant institution in the Turkish petroleum
subsector. It has been able to ensure a reasonable continuity of its staff.
Therefore any benefits derived from the project are likely to be sustained.
Findinas and Lessons
6.       The project experience highlights the high risks inherent in
petroleum exploration, and emphasizes the need for the Bank and the borrowers
to exercise extreme caution in comuitting themselves to large petroleum
exploration investments (PCR, Part I, para. 4.07). Another practical lesson
drawn from the project experience is that, when a series of studies are to be
done to produce an integrated end product (such as comprehensive basin
study), engaging a reputable consulting firm to undertake the whole work is
likely to give better results than contrac-ing separate studies to various
individual consultants and trying to consolidate their works (PCR, Part I,
para. 6.01).



1. Proimct IdAtLtv
Project Name  :  Thrace Ga Eploration Project
Loan No.       :  2327-TU
IVP Unit      :  Europe, Middle last and Worth Africa Region
Country       :  Turkey
Sector        :  Energy
Subsector     :  Petroleum
2.  hakszmm4
2.01     The policy of the Government of Turkey (GOT) in the 1970, of holding
domestic petroleum prices constant in local currency terms, despite
accelerating domestic inflation and rising vorld prices for energy, led to
rapidly increasing demand for petroleum and hence for increasing imports. In
1980, Turkey's oil import bill had surpassed total export earnings. At the
same time, the foreign exchange constraints limited Turkey's import
capabiLities. To reduce the country's energy deficit, attention was given to
exploring alternative energy resources, and especially to a gas development
strategy. An essential step in rectifying the energy problem was thought to
be making an inventory of the total supplies of gas in the Thrace Basin, where
gas had been discovered in 1971, but had been left undeveloped ever since. It
is in this setting that the subject project was conceived.
2.02     The Petroleum Exploration Project, covered by Loan 1916-TU (approved
in 1980), was completed by the end of 1985, i.e. about two years earlier than
the subject Project. The PCR on that Project has concluded that the Project
was a qualified success, inasmuch e.s it strengthened TPAO as an institution
and added about 14 million barrels of oil to TPAO's established recoverable
reserves, although the exploration effort was not a commercial success. Under
the Project, TPAO's oil importing and refinery activities were separated from
its exploration activities based on the argument that TPAO's financial
resources should be linked to the success of its exploration program.
However, the outcome of the restructuring has been different from that
originally envisaged at appraisal, and the dividends from TPAO's refineries
and marketing subsidiaries are now financing TPAO's exploration effort because
of the fall in crude oil prices and GOT's pricing strategy for petroleum
products.
3. Project's Obiectives and DescriRtion
3.01     The project's main objective was to assess the hydrocarbon potential
of the Turkish Petroleum Company's (TPAO) licenses in the Thrace Basin as
quickly and efficiently as possible.  The second important objective was to
strengthen TPAO's ability to design and implement an integrated basin-oriented
exploration progfhm. The project would include the completion of a full
seismic grid on all of TPAO's Thrace licenses, detailed infill seismic mapping
of areas with structures of particular importance and the drilling of wells to
test about one-third of the most promising structures. Drilling would be
restricted to four of the most promising license areas. The project, as
originally envisaged, was to comprise the following components:



- 2 -
(1)    Seismic Surveys and Seismlc Interpretation.  About 1,800 line-km
of seismic survey would be undertaken. About 1,300 line-km
would be used to complete the seismic coverage of all of TPAO's
license areas to at least 4 km x 4 km grid size. This would
enable TPAO to make a basin-wide seismic prospect map and
regional seismic maps for potential producing horizons. The
other 500 line-km would be used for infill seismic, where
detailed maps of exploration prospects were needed to identify
the optimum drilling locations;
(ii)    Exuloration Drilling
(a)  Rehabilitation of Drilling Rigs.  The engines and mud
processing equipment of three heavy duty drilling rigs
owned by TPAO would be upgraded so that the rigs would be
capable of efficiently drilling deep exploration wells;
(b) Exoloration Drilling (11 wells). There would be 11 wells
In four of TPAO's 14 license blocks in Thrace - four deep
wells (to about 4,500 m), four medium wells (to about 3,500
m) and three relatively shallow wells (to about 2,500 m);
and
(c)  CasinQ. Cementing, Completion and Testing.  Casing,
cementing and testing would be required for all wells
drilled. Completion and production testing would be
required for all wells that encounter significant volumes
of hydrocarbons. It was estimated that five wells would
need to be completed for production testing;
(iii) iStudies. Two major categories of studies would be required:
(a) geological and sedimentological studies; and
(b) development studies to determine the optimum method of
developing new fields;
(it)    Technical Assistance (150 manmonths).  Technical assistance
would be provided to supplement TPAO's staff in areas where TPAO
does not have adequate numbers of specialized personnel for mud
engineering, high pressure gas drilling, well completing, well
testing, seismic field testing, advanced seismic data processing
and well geological and geophysical data interpreting. In
addition, the services of an expatriate financial adviser would
be required for a two-year period to assist TPAO in financial
planning and budgeting; and
(v)    Training.  Training would include courses on drilling
technology, mud engineering, cementing of high pressure gas
wells, testing and complr-tion procedures, advanced seismic
acquisition, processing and interpretation, financial management
and foreign language training.



Cia. in Proiect Scope
3.02     The lack of success of the first rouid of the drilling program in the
Thrace Beem raised the possibility of cencelletion of a c.osiderable pert o!
the loan. GOT wished to avoid such a cencelltion  ed to salves. if
possible, the project objective of icreing Turkey'se  s  reserves.
Accordingly, In December 1915, GOT proposed modifying the loan to include
TPAO's exploration activities in the sedimetary basins of the Vest Taus and
the Black Sea coastal areas. An Initially propose  by GOT, the propoal wAS a
rather ambitious one with a total foreign exchange cost of about 15*1S
million.  After review by the Bank, the progr  vas scaled down cons derably
(to approx. US$5 million), vith the proviso that an extension of the Lorn
Closing Date would not be required. The loan was subsequently amended in
August 1986 to Include seismic surveys (approx. 2000 ki) which, it was
considered, would promote the interest of international oil companies in
taking up concessions and thus reduce the risk to TPAO of exploration in these
two relatively virgin areas. In addition, the loan as amended provided for
rehabilitating one additional rig for a total of four under the Project, to
accommodate the new exploration component.
4. Proiect OXganization. Implementation and Results
4.01     Past exploration work in Thrace had established that the basin had a
considerable exploration potential. Only gas reserves had been established in
the prospects in the area, but several deep wells (awaiting testing at
appraisal) had also encountered oil and condensates. Although large gaps
remained in the exploration coverage of TPAO's licenses in the Thrace basin, a
provisional assessment of their hydrocarbon potential had produced encouraging
results. It was estimated that there was a high chance that additional
reserves (on the order of 1 TCF of gas) could be present at Hamitabat and its
miediate vicinity and that the gas potential of all of TPAO's licenses in the
basin could be several TCF. However, in order to establish this potential,
acquisition of additional critical geophysical data and the drilling of about
11 key exploration wells was required.
4.02     The Project was launched against the above background at a time when,
in the wake of the 1979 oil crisis, every country was trying to minimize its
dependence on oil imports. To ensure the success of the project, the
following specific measures were taken:
(a)  A Thrace Basin project group, headed by an experienced
geologist, was set up in TPAO's exploration department;
(b)  TPAO was required to submit to the Bank on an annual basis the
Thrace exploration and development program, and any changes
therein were to be agreed with the Bank;
(c)  TPAO was required to submit to the Bank a geological prognosis,
benefit-risk analysis and drilling program for each well to be
financed under the project;
(d) Seismic data acquisition would be carried out by an
international specialized contractor under the supervision of
qualified TPAO personnel. TPAO would also hire consultants, as
required, to assist in data interpretation and mapping; and



(e) TPAO vas required to hire specialized firms to perform all vell
services (e.g. cementing, testing, electric logging).
4.03     Implementation of the project comenced, an planne4, around July 1983
with the preparation of the bid docuemts for rig rehabilitation. The seimic
data acquisition, originally planned, was completed by February 1986. Later
it became necessary to shoot additional seismic to update the old seimic
data.  Thus a total of 2,550 km seimic lies was shot in the Thrace basin as
against 1,800 km planned. As explained in par& 3.02, 2,000 km of seismic were
also shot In W. Taurus and the Black Sea coastal area. While negotiations
are still under way vith international oil companies for exploration ventures
in these basins, this component could be considered as having helped in
attracting the interest of these companies in such ventures. The number of
rigs rehabilitated was also increased from three to four.
4.04     TPAO satisfactorily completed a comprehensive geological basin
study. The Bank has broadly agreed vith the conclusion of the study that In
view of the disappointing results of the exploratory drilling, further
investments in exploratory drilling be discontinued and that the pace of
exploratory activity be slowed down pending a re-evaluation of the data
gathered to date.
4.05     TPAO also fulfillcd its training objectives.  The project resulted in
the training of 28 TPAO geologists, geophysicists and petroleum engineers at
various locations in the USA, UK and Canada for periods of three weeks to two
months in areas of seismic stratigraphy, formation evaluation, applied
sediventology, development geophysics, well correlation and interpretation,
log analysis, development geology, drilling technology and well control. In
addition, more than 100 technical staff of TPAO attended in-house courses in
Batman and Ankara conducted by various scientists.
4.06     In the area of technical assistance, TPAO's staff acquired the
necessary expertise by working alongside expatriate experts in specialized
areas.
4.07     In one respect, the project was a disappointment.  Contrary to
expectations, no well resulted in the discovery of gas/oil in commercial
quantities. This outcome should not really have come as a great surprise
since the industry norm is only 10-20X success out of total number of drilled
wells. It should be noted, however, that the geological risk was assessed by
the Bank staff at appraisal as manageable on the optimistic assumption that
"the Thrace basin has proven hydrocarbon production and the exploration
program, as designed jointly by the Bank and TPAO, maximizes the feasibility
of finding new reserves". Clearly, the appraisal assessment that "the volume
of gas that this project could potentially make available would have a
dramatic impact on the balance of payments" was over-optimistic. Obviously,
the Bank and TPAO were not sufficiently alert to the risks inherent in an
exploration project in a relatively unfamiliar area. This matter has
subsequently been addressed by the Bank and an appropriate OMS has been issued
in November 1984 setting out inter alia the criteria for Bank support of
exploration programs.
4.08     However, on the positive side, TPAO, the dominant institution in the
petroleum subsector, has been considerably strengthened as an institution.
Its technical staff has greatly upgraded its skills in many areas of petroleum
technology, more especially geophysics, geology and well services. Although
the outcome of the project was, in some respects, disappointing, the



- 5 -
technological environment in the petroleum subsector was significantly
enhanced as a result of the proJect. Furthermore, four additional rigs have
been rehabilitated and added to TPAO's working fleet and its drilling
performance has become more efficient. In retrospect, the decision to
undertake drilling by force account was sensible, since the experience
resulting from the project has remained with TPAO as part of its institutional
strength instead of being lost to a contractor, perhaps an expatriate.
h.09     The institutional strengthening of TPAO has extended to the financial
side as well. Its l...ain weakness at appraisal, namely, its negative working
capital (with a current ratio of 0.85) has been remedied. Its current ratio
rose steadily to 3.2 at the end of 1986. GOT lived up to its agreement to
assist TPAO to solve its liquidity problems, since in 1984 it gave TPAO an
equity contribution of TL 50.5 billions. TPAO also fulfilled the covenant
that the debt-equity ratio would not be greater than 50:50, for the ratio was
18:82 at the end of 1984, 19:81, at the end of 1985 and 16:84 at the end of
1986.1/.
5. Performance of the Bank and the Borrower
5.01     The performance of the Bank from project identification to completion
should be considered satisfactory, with the exception of the assessment of
project risk. It identified the right issues at appraisal, provided
appropriate covenants to ensure proper action and maintained a constructive
relationship with GOT and the Borrower. It was flexible in dealing with the
borrower as evidenced by its handling of TPAO's requests for increasing the
project scope. TPAO's mention of frequent changes in Bank staff as the cause
of some of its problems is understandable considering the reasonable
continuity of its own staff. Some discontinuity in the Bank staff assigned to
the project was inevitable in view of the changing staff situation in the Bank.
5.02     So far as TPAO's performance is concerned, one area, namely delayed
procurement and the resultant delays in disbursements, is worthy of mention.
Initially, the project was delayed almost one year because of delays in
procurement and in customs clearance. It is unlikely that this was due to
TPAO's unfamiliarity with the Bank's procurement procedures because TPAO's
involvement with the Bank began as many as three years earlier in 1980.
Perhaps, the delay was due to internal problems in TPAO and an inability to
achieve proper coordination with tne customs authorities. However, matters
improved subsequently until the process could be considered satisfactory.
6. Consultina Services
6.01     TPAO obtained the services of many consultants, both firms and
individuals, to help with many aspects of project implementation. The
performance of these consultants was mixed: some performed well, while others
did not, thereby affecting project implementation adversely.   The reasons for
this mixed performance are hard to identify because the consultants were
chosen carefully and in consultation with the Bank. Perhaps, the results
might have been better if TPAO had obtained such services through established
reputable firms because then the firms could have been held accountable for
proper performance, including supplementing or replacing staff skills as
1/ A fuller discussion of TPAC's financial situation during this period is
included in paras 4.11-4.16 of the PCR on the Petroleum Exploration Project
(Ln 1916-TU).



-6-
warranted.  TPAO did not really have any hold on individual consultants who
were recruited individually, and not under the aegis of a firm employing
them. In fact, at one stage, the Bank advocated the idea of engaging a
reputab:a firm to conduct an integrated basin study, instead of TPAO putting a
study together out of separate studies done by individual consultants, but
TPAO was averse to the idea: In hindsight, it appears that the Bank should
have prompted this idea early enough during project implementation and
persisted in bringing round TPAO to accepting it.



-7- 7
PART II
(PCP PREPARED BY TPAO)



- 9 -
I. INTRODUCTION
Petroleum supply underlies the economic challenges
that face Turkey today.
The share of crude oil in Turkey's overall energy
requirements has increased sharply over the last two decades
from 20% in 1960 to 45% in 1983. Domestic oil production
which declined slowly through most of the 1970's current.y
accounts for about 14% of Turkey's overall oil requirements
of about 16 million tons. Its gas production is insigificant.
Since 1973 the Government has made concerted efforts
tc reduce oil consumption by replacing it with lignite and
hydropower for electricity generation and with coal for heat
in industrial processes. While these efforts have helped to
stem the growth of oil consumption, the potential for addi-
tional petroleum-subtitution projects is limited.
The Government's efforts to augment domestic petroleum
production through the introduction of enhanced oil-recovery
technology for older oil fields and through intensified exp-
loration and more rapid development of newer oil fields will
be important elements in Turkey's overall adjustment strategy.
However, despite the measures taken to develop alter-
native indigenous energy resources, Turkey is likely to re-
main heavily dependent on imported oil unless major new dis-
coveries are wade.



- 10 -
The Bank has participated in financing two projects
in petroleum sector. The two in addition to the project un-
der review are
a) Bati Raman Enhanced Oil Recovery Project (Loan
1917-TU), was signed on November 24, 1980. The project has
two main objectives : (i) to increase Turkey's crude oil
production in the short term by developing the newly disco-
vered oil reserves; (ii) to expand Turkey's recoverable re-
serves and to enhance its medium-term petroleum production
capacity. The cost of project was estimated 62.0 million US
dollars, on foreign exchange component and 40.0 millions
dollars as local currency component. The project was comp-
leted on December 31, 1987.
b) Petroleum Exploration Project (Loan 1916-TU), was
signed on November 24, 1980. The major objective of the pro-
ject is to increase Turkey's petroleum production through the
introduction of (i) regional geological and geochemical stu-
dies and integrated basin studies to develop a better unders-
tanding of what type of prospects should be explored; (ii)
the newest geophysical techniques of reflective seismic
surveys, data processing and interpretation, and (iii) a
limited exploration drilling program to help dermine whether
the prospects developed by the studies and surveys can lead
to new oil discoveries.



- 11 -
The smaller project components are designed to pro-
mate exploration activities by assisting the GDPA to attract
foreign oil companies to Turkey and to assist the Government
in formation petroleum policy and negatiating exploration
contracts, and to improve energy efficiency usage in industry
through technical assistance for an energy audit program.
The cost of project was estimated 25.0 million US
dollars as foreign exchange component and 20.0 million US
dollars as local currency component. The projects was comp-
leted on December 31, 1985.
The project under review (Loan 2327-TU) was signed on
June 30, 1983. The project's main objective is to assess the
hydrocarbon potential at TPAO's licenses in the Thrace basin
as quickly and efficiently as possible. The second important
objective of the project is to strengthen TPAO's ability to
design and implement an itegrated basin oriented exploration
program.
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
Exploration for hydrocarbon in Thrace has led to the
discovery of one medium sized gas field and two small oilfi-
elds. In addition in numerous previous exploration wells,
widely spaced our the basin, oil and gas shows have been
encountered.



-12-
More recently, succesful exploration drilling on the
part of TPAO has firmly demonstrated the hydrocarbon poten-
tial of the basin. At least in some areas, source rocks and
reservoir rocks are present and geological condition were
appropriate for migration of hydrocarbons from the source
rocks to the reservoir rocks. Forthermore, many geological
structures have been identified, several of which appear to
have closures that may have trapped the hydrocarbons.
1. ORIGIN OF THE PROJECT
Although a natural gas field had been discovered in
Thrace in 1971, no effort was made to determine whether the
gas could be produced economically until almost ten years.
The Bank review identified the need to reevalute the produc-
tion potential of the Hamitabat gas field in Thrace.
So, the second component of Loan 1917-TU was designed
to test the usefullness of advanced fracturing techniques
to increase its gas production potential to a point where
development would become economically viable. A program for
a gas pipeline transmission system initiated for the deve-
lopment of required infrastructure.
Gas production was expected to increase to about 50
million standard cubic feet per day when the Hamitabat field
would developed at the end of the period of proposed deve-
lopment program under the new loan-Thrace Gas Exploration
Project.



- 13 -
2. PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
TPAO and Bank staff became convinced that a careful
geological analysis of the Thrace basin would conclude that
chances for finding additional gas and, perhaps, oil were
most promising. TPAO at that time owned exploration rights
to appraximately 7000 sg. km (14 block). Which were to be
exploited. As a result, the first step was to complete
seismic coverage in TPAO blocks which required the profi-
ling of appraximately 2500 km. The seismic work would be
followed by the drilling of 8 to 10 strategically placed
key exploration wells which were to test the geological
structures in the Hamitabat, Ceylan and Osmanclk formations.
The Bank staff feld that the drilling in the Thrace basin
was important enough to launch Thrace Gas Exploration Pro-
ject. In order to maintain the impetus, the expenditures
in Thrace in 1983 were met from the Petroleum Exploration
Project (Loan 1916-TU) this was the Bank's first involment
in the exploration for hydrocarbons in Turkey. The expen-
ditures from 1984 and 1986 would come up from this loan
which at that time was expected to become effective in -.
late 1983.
The Bank review also identified the need to reevalu-
ate the production potention of the Hamitabat gas field in



- 14 -
field in Thrace, a field which has been discovered in 1971
and left undeveloped for almost a decade. As a result, the
second component of Loan 1917-TU was designed to test the
usefulness of advanced fracturing techniques to increase
its gas production potential to a point where devslopment
would become economically viable. The reservoir fracturing
tests of the field demonstrated that sufficient gas could
be produced to justify the coustruction of a transmission
pipeline to deliver the gas to large consumers.
III. IMPLEMENTATION
1. SEISMIC
At the initial appraisal of the "Thrace Gas Explora-
tion Project", the loan called for shooting and processing
or reprocessing of about 1800 km. seismic lines in the Thra-
ce basin. 1300 km. of these lines were to be used for comp-
leting the regional seismic coverage of the licences held
by Turkish Petroleum Corporation to at least 4 km.x4 km.
grid size. The remaining lines were to be used as infill
seismic for better delineating and 'etailed mapping of the
already defined exploration prospects. Later, it became ne-
cessary to shoot additional seismic in orde': to upgrade the
existing old seismic data. As a result, a total of 2550 km.



- 15 -
seismic lines were shot in the Thrace basin between 1983
and 1987. Yearly distribution of the seismic acquisition
is as follows : 655 km. A seismic lines were recorded in
1983; 784.4 km. in 1984; 66 km. in 1985, 432 km. in 1936,
and 614 km. in 1987. However, 1983 seismic acquisition ex-
penditures were paid out of the proceeds of the loan, 1916-
TU which was made available to the Turkish Petroleum Corpo-
ration in 1980.
Processing and reprocessing of much of these seismic
data were carried out in the processing center of TPAO in
Ankara. However, outside help was also used for processing
and reprocessing purposes. A total of 323 km. seismic lines
were inversion reprocessed for seismic stratigraphy and bet-
ter reservoir delineation studies by Tecnika Resources De-
velopment Ltd, Calgary, Canada in 1984. 1100 km. seismic
lines were reprocessed by Ensign consulting company of the
United Kingdom. In addition, a 714 km. seismic lines of va-
rious vintage were reprocessed by several geophysical pro-
cessing companies. As a result, a total of 2137 km. of seis-
mic lines from the Thrace basin was reprocessed by t:he cont-
ractor processing companies outside of the TPAO's own processing center.



- 16 -
2. DRILLING
Turkish Petroleum Corporation, already active in the
Thrace basin, had increased its exploration activities gre-
atly after obtaining an exploration loan from thw World Bank
in 1983. Starting in early 1982, the Turkish Petroleum Cor-
poration had increased its drilling phase by drilling medium
to deep exploration wells in the transitional and the deeper
zones of the basin in order to evaluate, exploit and deve-
lope natural gas in the Hamitabat, Ceylan% and the Osmancik
formations. What had made TPAO quite optimistic about the
deep gas prospects of the Thrace Basin was the gas tests
and gas shows in a number of deep wildcat wells drilled and
step-wise faulted morphology and favorable subsurface geo-
logical picture of the basin. Rapid phase of the TPAO's
exploration and drilling activity kept its pace until mid-
1987. Between 1982 and 1987,27 exploration and 16 appraisal
and delineation wells were drilled in the north and north-
western parts of the Thrace Basin. Gas, oil and condensate
shows were observed in several intervals in many of these
wells. But, outside of a small gas field, a commercial hyd-
rocarbon discovery was not realized in the Thrace basin.
Of the wells drilled in the Thrace basin, 11 exploration
wells were financed by the World Bank.



-17-
Towards the end of the 1987, drilling activity in
the basin was discontinued to give more time for the eva-
luation of both the drill-hole and seismic data accumulated
over the years. In fact, up to now, more than 220 drill-ho-
les have been drilled and close to 15000 km. of seismic li-
nes were shot in the Thrace basin, creating large amount of
data for the future activity in the Thrace basin. Future
drilling activity in the basin, will have to consider and
closely scrutinize these data.
3. IMPLEMENTATION ISSUES
It could be said that, overall, TPAO implemented
the project capably, both by exploration and drillingwise.
Drilling locations were selected on the basis of geological
and geophysical studies. The prospective locations, delinea-
ted and stated for drilling were presented before drilling for approval
to the World Bank technical mission who visited the exp-
loration department periodically. Detailed geological prog-
nosis, drilling justification and drilling programs of each
well were prepared and sent to the World Bank for clarifi-
cation and again approval. As a result, clarification and
approval were obtained from the World Bank for each well
before it was drilled.



During drilling operations, problems were encountered
due to either   inadequate cementing job in the well or type
of mud used. Open-hole testing in many of the deep wells
with gas shows was attempted, but in most cases failed. Due
to inadequate cementing job, cased hole perfora;-ions and
testing were not all successfull. Cement squeezing was tried
often times in the wells when the primary cementing job was
not successful, but this procedure was not always success-
full in the wells and sometimes caused formation damage.
Such problems sometimes were severe erough to cause faulty
production tests which obliterated the real potential of
the gas bearing intervals. It seemed somehow that inadequate
cement jobs caused water encroachment of gassy intervals in
some wells.
4. IMPLEMEITATION SCHEDULE
The objective of the "Thrace Gas Exploration Project"
was to rapidly bring out the gas prospectivity of the Thrace
basin and if possible develope the gas rapidly and bring it
into the commercial stream before the loan period expired.
TPAO made every effort to find out about the gas prospec-
tivity of the Thrace basin. Scheduled seismic program wit-
hin the quidelines of the World Bank and the drilling proa-
rame were executed without delay. Major anticlinal and nor-
mal fault-bounded structures were geologically and geophysi-



- I9 -
cally mapped. Many of these prospects mapped by preliminary
regional seismic surveying were later detailly coveraged
with infill seismic lines. The World Bank financed deep exp-
loration wildcats tested these well defined structures.
To get better evaluation of the seismic data and
available geological information and to help the Thrace-
Aegean District technical group in their efforts of evalu-
ating exploration prospects ir. the Thrace and the surroun-
ding areas, the TPAO exploration department advirtised to
hire coisultants in the fields of seismic interpretation
and mapping, geological basin evaluation, reservoir geology,
clastic and carbonate sedimentology, geochemistry, palino-
stratigraphy and seismic stratigraphy.
A geophysical consultant was contracted in the later
part of 1985 to work at the TPAO offices in close coopera-
tion with the exploration technical staff. He was assigned
to do seismic interpretation and mapping of the central
northern part of the Thrace basin. The consultant worked
a year in TPAO through 1986, and left TPAO at the end of
1986. A palinostratigrapher contracted for six months at
the beginning of 1986 worked with TPAO research center tech-
nical group in solving some of the biostratigraphical and
age problems in the Thrace basin. A third consultant cont-
racted in the early part of 1986 worked as a reservoir geo-
logist in the reservoir problems of the Thrace basin. He was



20-
contracted for a year and worked through 1986 at the TPAO
offices in Ankara. Another consultant contracted to do an
integrated basin analysis study was released from the cont-
ract after a 3-month trial period.
In the later part of 1984, Teknica of Calgary, Canada,
a geophysical consulting services company was contracted to
do wavelet extraction and seislog processing for a-323 km.
seismic lines. Processing and interpretation of these lines
were completed in middle 1985 and submitted to the explora-
tion department.
In addition, TPAO had started a comprehensive geoc-
hemical study cf the Thrace basin with respect to source
rock type, quality, richness, maturity, hydrocarbon gene-
ra-ion and migration. The study was first started in the
research center of TPAO, in Ankara with the local technical
staff. Later it became apparent that outside help was need-
ed in areas of advanced geochemical analyses and interpre-
tation techniques. For this reason, Global Geochemistry Cor-
poration, Canoga Park, California was contracted through
"limited International Tendering" in September, 1985, to do
geochemical analyses and interpretation from the Thrace ba-
sin for TPAO. Between September 1985 and September 1986,
Global Geochemistry Corporation analized 90 well-bore cut-
ting and core samples from nine wells in the areas of kero-



- 21 -
gen typing and spore coloration, vitrinite reflectance, to-
tal organic carbon, rock-eval, carbon isotoping, solvent
extraction and column chromatography, GC-1S, biomarker se-
paration, etc. Further, GGC analyzed nine oil, 10 condensate,
and 7 gas samples. However, GGC did not undertake any interp-
retation of the analyzed geochemical data due to technical
personnel problems although it was also written in the cont-
ract. TPAO did not continue any further studies with the
GGC afterwards. The geochemical data were interpreted and
mapped by the TPAO geochemists later.
5. REPORTING
TPAO presented the World Bank detailed report ever-y
three months (quarterly) covering seismic, geo3ogical,
geophysical, drilling and other related actiV x.es. Other
than this TPAO also provided the World Bank prognosis and
well programs for the new wildcats prior to their commence-
ment for drilling.
Furthermore TPAO also submitted semi annual and
annual financial statements.



-22-
6. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
The final project cost and financing as compared with
appraisal estimates is shown in the following table. As in-
dicated, the actual cost of project had been reduced to $ 39
million, equivalent to approximately 39 % of the original
project cost estimates.
An analysis of cost estimates and actual costs indi-
cate that the main factor contributing to this lower cost
was overestimates by the Bank. After completion of the first
round of exploration drilling in the Thrace Basin with di-
sappointing results, further wells previously planned were
suspended pending reviewing the results before deciding on
their future exploration program in the area. So, the major
component of the Project remained lower in cost than origi-
nally thought.
The cost of drilling (together with rig rehabilitation
and well completions) which was originally estimated at $ 53.6
million has dropped to $ 29.5 million.
The second major component of the project was seismic
surveys ($ 7.6 million). The cost of seismic surveys has ri-
sen to $ 25.5 million and this is mainly due to_.ncrease in
the amount of seismic coverage in the West Taurus and the
Black Sea coastal areas in addition to the Thrace Basin un-
der the project financing.



- 23 -
The cost of technical assistance and studies have ac-
tually been reduced by $ 4.3 million which was mainly due
to lower cost of consultant and contractor services than
originally estimated in the project.
The cost of training TPAO personnel was lower than as
thought due to the fact that the travel and living expenses
were provided by TPAO in abroad.
7. DISBURSEMENTS
The Thrace Gas Exploration Project was completed by
the end of 1987. Disbursements on the project were seriously
behind schedule because of the implementation delays as well
as procurement delays. On the other hand, disappointing re-
sults from the first round of drilling gave rise to further
new studies and data evaluation in the project area. As a
result, considerable amount of funds allocated for the pro-
ject could not be spent. As a result $ 17.7 million of Bank
loan was unspent by March 31, 1988.



Project Costs (US' Thousand)
Appraisal                                     Actual (As of March 31,1988)
Local       Foreign    Total            Local       Foreign       Total
Seismic               4.084        3.600       7.684          10.071.0   15.447.5      25.519.0
Drilling
1.Rig Phabilitation  -           7.000       7.000                      3.822.0       3.822.0
2.Drilling         21.527       20.050      41.577          10.943.2   13.720.1      24.663.3
3.Well Cmpletions   3.147        1.900       5.047             929.1       -             929.1
Testing Equipment      -           2.000       2.000                       2.432.3       2.432.3
Technical Assistance   658         2.500       3.158              32.6    1.010.0        1.042.6
Studies                 474        2.700       3.174             443.7       258.1         701.8
Training                -          1.500       1.500                         651.8         651.8
Total Base Cost  29.890        41.250     71.140           22.420.1   37.341.8      59.761.9
Contingencies
Physical           6.584        5.848      12.432           -          -
Price              7.279        7.951      15.230           -          -
Subtotal       13.863       13.799     27.662           -           -
Front-End Fee          -             138         138           -             137.7         137.7
:Total Pr6ject Cost  43.753        55.187      98.940          22.420.1   37.479.5      59.899.6



_ 25 -
8. USE AND PERFORMANCE OF CONSULTANTS
Eleven foreign consultants in various disciplines were
employed by TPAO to work on various aspects of the basin stu-
dies, evaluation of seismic data, hardware engineering as well
as drilling and well completion operations. Some consultants
performed assignments to the satisfaction of TPAO and their
work resulted in meaningful contribution to the project, while
others did not.
Of the eleven, two consultants employed previously
under the loan 2327-TU had performed well, and have had their
contracts extended. The two consultants were carbonate spe-
cialists, who were engaged studying on regional evaluation
of carbonate rocks and modelling sedimentary environments,
establishment of diagenetic history of carbonate rocks con-
cerning existing and potential reservoir rocks. Both consul-
tants with more than 25 years of industry experience were cont-
racted more than one year under this loan and presented their
reports to TPAO. One of the two consultants is now working
under the loan 2856-TU.
Another consultant, computer hardware specialist,
worked in the data processing center as a hardware engineer
to supervise the extension of VAX installation and seismic
terminal and trained the TPAO engineers. He worked for one
year and performed well.



- 26 -
Exploration department, as previously menti-
oned, hired four consultants to help its Thrace exploration
technical team in their evaluation and mapping of the geolo-
gical and geophysical data. A senior geophysicist was cont-
racted at the beginning of 1986 for seismic interpretation
and mapping. This consultant stayed and worked for a year
in Ankara. He mostly did regional seismic interpretation
and mapping. He looked at about 2500 to 3000 km. of seismic
lines in an area where more than 10.000 km. of seismic lines
existed. He did not come up with new ideas and he left TPAO
as soon as his contract period of one-year expired on De-
cember 1, 1986 without completing his assignment of detailly
mapping of a prospect area in which he had started work in
the second half of his contract period although TPAO had
offered him to extend his contract for another six months
to a year. He was not satisfactory and Thrace district could
not benefit from him as much as it wished.
Another senior geologist with more than 15 years
industry experience was contracted as a reservoir geologist
for a year on 23 December 1985. He worked in close coopera-
tion with the Thrace district personnel in Ankara. During
his term with the exploration department of TPAO, he studied
reservoir problems and characteristics of the Hamitabat and



- 27 -
the Umurca gas fields. He constructed several maps and cross-
sections of these fields. He was generally satisfactory in
terms of reservoir geological studies. He left TPAO at the
end of his contract period on 22 December 1986, after comp-
leting reservoir studies assigned to him.
A third senior geologist with more than 25 years in-
dustry expreience was contracted as a consulting palynolo-
gist to assist TPAO's own palynologists in their efforts of
solving some biostratigraphical problems and to work on de-
ciphering some biostratigraphical problems faced in the
Thrace basin. He worked at the TPAO research center for six
months and studied 3 exploration wells in terms of palyno-
logical biostratigraphy and organic maturation. He also hel-
ped to train two young TPAO palynologists in the fields of
Tertiary biostratigraphy.
A fourth senior geologist contracted as an integrated
basin evaluation specialist turned out to be lacking in geo-
logical knowledge and experience. He was contracted on 27
January 1986 and given a 3-month trial period before being
released from the contract. He proved to be inadequate in
his profession and geological knowledge and was released
from the contract in the middle May, 1986 after the three-
month trial period ended and he was given a month's advan-
ce notice before his contract was terminated.



- 28 -
Three consultants contracted from the Dresser Petro-
leum Engineers Services, were employed in the Drilling de-
partment in 1986. One of these was employed as a drilling
engineer, who performed well and left after completing one
year's contract. A second consultant was employed as mud
engineer, who left after three months. His performance was
poor quality. The third was employed as the tool pusher, who
left after four months of work. His performance was also very
poor quality.
A well completion engineer, supplied by Core Labora-
tories, has been employed for consultancy work with the Pro-
duction and Well Completion departments of TPAO. He completed
a six month contract work with a satisfactory performance.
9. USE AND PERFORMANCE OF CONTRACTORS
One geophysical contractor carried out the seismic
data acquisition program within the guidelines of the World
Bank. As previously described in detail, a special seismic
processing and mapping contractor and a geochemistry cont-
ractor were also utilized for the Thrace project. However,
the geochemical contractor did not fully comply with the
terms of agreement as stated between TPAO and the contrac-
tor. The contractor were to provide training of TPAO person-
nel, to visit the TPAO offices to inform and discuss the.



- 29 -
progres3 of the project and finally to provide a comprehen-
sive report of the interpreted and evaluated geochemical
data which he had analyzed. None of these were complied by
the contractor except a partial training of a TPAO person-
nel. Therefore, the geochemical contractor was very unsatis-
factory.
10. TRAINING FACILITIES
During the course of project, 28 of TPAO geologists,
geophysicists and petroleum engineers were trained at various
locations in the USA, UK and Canada for periods of three
weeks to two months in areas of seismic stratigraphy, for-
mation evaluation, applied sedimentology, development geop-
hysics, well correlation and interpretation, log analysis,
development geology, drilling technology and well control.
More than 100 technical staff of TPAO attended in-
house courses in Batman and Ankara instructed by various
earth-scientists.
There is no doubt that such training provided a bet-
ter and a stronger technical knowledge within TPAO and hel-
ped them to decipher and better understand the complicated
problems of the oil industry.



30 -
IV. PROJECT RESULTS
1. EXPLORATION PROGkAM
The exploration program in the Thrace loan project
consisted of seismic surveying and interpretation, explora-
tion drilling and geological and field development studies.
As described before, seismic coverage in the project area
was susbtantially within the pre-defined limits of the seis-
mic program, although it exceeded the original program by
about 500 km. The program was sufficient for the exploration
drilling and the resultant appraisal detailing. Exploration
department made every effort in obtaining a better quality
seismic data and succeeded in this purpose. Processing, in-
terpretation of the data and mapping were carried out by the
TPAO's own staff and consultants described previously.
Structural and hydrocarbon trapping picture in the Thrace
basin has been greatly clarified since. Regional and detail-
ed prospect oriented structural and isochrone maps have been
constructed.



*- Sl -
2. EXPLORATION PROMOTION
Part of the loan was used for shooting regional seis-
mic in the Black Sea and the Taurus Basin which were virgin
exploration basins in Turkey. Processing and interpretation
of the Black Sea and the Taurus seismic study helped to ex-
pediate exploration ventures in these basins by the foreign
oil companies, in fact several international oil companies
are looking into exploring in these basins.
3. PRODUCTION AND INFRASTRUCTURE
As provided in the loan agreement, 11 deep to medium
deep exploration and appraisal wells were to be financed by
the World Bank. Details of the World Bank financed explora-
tion and appraisal wells are provided in Table-1. In addition
to the wells listed in Table-i, one deep and two shallow
wells were also financed in the Thrace basin by the World
Bank from the proceeds of the loan '"1916-TU". In addition
to the World Bank financed wells, TPAO also drilled other
wells to test major structures and stratigraphical traps in
the basin. But, it seemed that major exploration effors in
the Thrace basin resulted in dismaying results. Although,
oil, condensate and gas shows were encountered in several
horizons in many of the exploration wells, no major commer-
cial discovery was made in the exploration drilling.



DRILLING
SPUD      COMPLETION            FORMATION                                         PRODUCING
WI:LL         DATE       DATE          T.D.   IN T.D.                     TYPE                    FORMATION
I)EtRMENCIK-3  4.4.1985   16.7.1985    3800   Hamitabat        Dry well with oil and gas show           -
IIABtLLER-2    7.8.1985   2.11.1985    2964   Hamitabat        Dry well with oil show
BALLI-1        30.9.1985  28.1.1986    2738   Basement         Dry well with gas sho,-
TERZtLt-2      16.8.1985  21.3.1986    4573   Hamitabat        Marginal oil well                     Mezardere
PANCARKOY-1    24.7.1985  11.4.1986    4769   Ceylan           Dry well with gas show                   -
QORLU-3./A     7.3.1985   5.5.1986      5043   Hamitabat       Dry well                                 -
KEPtRTEPE-2    15.5.1986  14.6.1986    1858   Osmanclk         Dry well with gas show                   -
AKBAS-1        9.5.1986   30.9.1986    4119   Basement         Dry well                                 -
UMURCA-C/3     28.6.1986  16.10.1986   3585   Ceylan           Gas well                              Ceylan
CEYLAN-4        29.6.1986  21.7.1987    1209   Basement        Dry well
IPSALA-1       3.8.1987   24.10.1987   2375   Kesan            Dry well
Table-i : Exploration wells in the Thrace basin financed by the World Bank
from the proceeds of the loan "2327-TU".
__ 1K



-33-
V. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
The Turkish Petroleum Corporot'on (TPAO) was formed
in 1954 as a Joint-Stock company by the Government. Unlike
many national oil companies, however, TPAO does not have a
monopoly on any segment of the oil business and applies to
the General Directorate of Petroleum Affairs (GDPA) for per-
mits on the same basis as private Turkish and foreign com-
panies.
The company dominates by its size and scope, the Tur-
kish Petroleum sector. The Government maintains close con-
tact with TPAO through the Board of Directors and through
direct contacts with TPAO's senior management. In turn, the
company asists in the development of the Goverment's energy
policy and provides the required technical asistance for the
formulation of that policy.
TPAO has recently been reorganized as part of a fun-
damental restructuring of the national industry in Turkey.
As a vertical integrated company with activities ranging
from exploration to marketing, TPAO meanwhile operates in
every oil sector either directly or through its subsidiaries
BOTAS (pipeline transportation), DITAS (marine transporta-
tion) TUPRAS (refining), POA9 (product distribution and mar-
keting) and associated companies IPRAGAZ (LPG distribution),



-34-
TUPRAS (engineering and consultancy), LIBYA-TURK (enginee-
ring and consultancy). In subsidiaries TPAO holds 100 I
share of each company. In associated companies, TPAO's
share is as follows : IPRAGAZ 49%, TUMA$ 19% and Libya-
Turk 50%.
The annual capital budget must be submitted to the
State Planning Organization (SPO) for review and its in-
vestment program is incorporated in the national budget.
VI. BANK PERFORMANCE
Bank staff from the beginning to the end of the pro-
ject visited TPAO offices in Ankara periodically and exchanged
views with the TPAO technical and administrative personnel.
They reviewed TPAO's Thrace exploration program and drilable
prospects. A cooperative relationship was maintained between
the Bank and TP.i throughout the period of project implemen-
tation.
The project's main objective was to assess the hydro-
carbon potential of the Thrace basin as quickly and effici-
ently as possible. During the implementation of the project,
various chanaes in the exploration program had to be made to
adjust exploration activities according to the results ob-
tained from previous activities. However such changes were



- 35 -
sometimes opposed by the Bank mission, but then for some
reason they had to consent to these changes. As a result,
TPAO had to face some difficult task of pre-planning of its
exploration program.
Another problem was that frequent changes amonq visit-
ing Bank staff took place. This caused some difficulty in
TPAO's part to adjust always to the newcomers since it seemed
that diffirent mission members seem to have different idea
in carriying out various aspects of the exploration program.
TPAO would like to express its appreciation to Mr.
James S. Thomas, geologist, for his kind assistance and ad-
vise during his mission.
VII. CONCLUSIONS
Annex-I details integrated geological and geophysical
evaluation and the exploration activity in the Thrace basin.
Of all the exploration drilling in the Thrace basin between
1982 and 1987, when the exploration activity peeked in the
basin, only one small gas field discovery was mada, the U-
murca-Osmancik gas field. Relevant geological and Production
data concerning this field are provided in Annex-II of this
report. This new gas field is located 12 km. to the sout-
heast of the large Hamitabat gas field discovered in 1969.



- 36 -
The gas discovery was made in the middle Oligocene Osmancik
shaly deltaic sandstones. Gas is contained in 2 to 5 meter-
thick sand pockets. Although, sandstone porosity is quite
high (up to 20% ), permeabilities are quite low (in the
range of 0.1 to 0.01 Inilli Darcies) in the field. Although
a structural closure over the Osmanclk Formation exists in
the Umurca-Osmancik gas field, thp field itself is a stra-
tigraphical trap in which elongate sand bodies are encased
in the shale. Inplace gas reserves in the Umurca-Osmanclk
field are calculated to be 25 to 30x109 cubic-feet.
Another hydrocarbon encounter worth mentioning during
this drilling activity is the marginal oil discovery in the
exploration well, Terzili-2 (Table-i). This well originally
was drilled for the Hamitabat target horizon for gas, but
the Hamitabat formation was tight and no show of hydrocar-
bon was observed. But uphole testing in the Mezardere for-
mation level at 2750 m. depth recovered oil. Later produc-
tion testing showed 15 to 25 bbls of oil a day production
from the well. This oil is not economical for the depth
given, therefore it can not be considered as a discovery.
But, in the coming years, one more appraisal well is plan-
ned in the same structure. Other than what has been mentioned
above, no other hydrocarbon discovery was made in the Thrace
basin during the project period. The reasons for such a dis-



- 37 -
maying result are several folds : The deep reservoirs in
the prospective structures drilled were too tight for any
kind of hydrocarbon accumulations. Some of these deep re-
servoirs were emptied by the young-fault breachment of the
structures. In the fault-trap reservoirs, some of the old
bounding faults had been reactivated by the latest tectonism,
causing leakage from the reservoirs through the fault. As
a result, many of these bounding faults were not sealing
faults as originally thought. Another factor is that not
enough hydrocarbon was generated in the basin, because the
source rocks were of poor quality. Organic carbon content
of the identified source rocks were quite low and quality
was poor and mostly gas-prone type. All of these findings
combined made the exploration drilling in the Thrace basin
an uneconomical venture during the project period.
In addition, three heavy duty (F 320) drilling rigs
have been upgraded. These rigs had been strengthened to
handle drilling up to 6000 m. exploration wells. As result,
wildcat Demre-1 was drilled to a total depth of 6111 m. in
the Western Taurus basin. It is the deepest well in Turkey
up to now.
Seismic crews, financed under the loan were able to
acquire better seismic data and it also enabled to have TPAO
better technology in gathering seismic data.
I



- 38 -
Drilling type exploration activities had been initiated
in the Black Sea and the Western Taurus basins as a result of
seismic surveys financed by the Bank. These activities opened
up these two frontier basins to international oil companies
for the exploration activities for the first time.
The upgraded data processing center and the interactive
interpretation workstations financed by the Bank gave vise
to obtain a better quality seismic data and interpretation.
Also funds, provided for training TPAO personnel under
this project enabled many geologists, geophysicits and engi-
neers to have an opportunity to improve their technical skills
through various courses in petroleum sciences either in abroad
or in-house, instructed by various agencies well-known in oil
industry. And thus bec%me more technically competent to carry
out exploration activities in Turkey.



- 39 -
1.  Related Batik Loans
Year of
Lgla Tl tle               P                     Aroxa]    Status         Cowmnts
a. Loan 1916-TU       (a) To assist TPAO in         1980    Completed in    This was the
Petroleum         the exploration of                     Dec. 1985        Sank's first loan
Exploration       subtle trapping                                         to the Turkish
Protect           structures in areas of                                  Petroleum Sub-
SE Turkey; (b) to finance                              sector. A PCR
TPAO's exploration efforts                             for the project
in the Hakkari area; and                               was sent to OED
(c) to help finance the                                on April 1, 1988.
first phase of the Thrace
exploration program.
b. Loan 1917-TU      (a) To undertake the trials   1980    Completed in
Bati Raman        of the C02 injection                   December 1987
Enhanced Oil      enhanced oil recovery.
Recovery Field    (b) To drill 18 wells in the
Demonstration     Reman field for oil product-
Project           ion; and (c) to evaluate the
potential output of Hamitabat
gas field
2. Proiect Timetable
Date           Date             Date
im.                                Planned        Reviled           A&tual
-  Identification                                                      November 1982
-  Preparation                                                         December 1982
- Appraisal Mission                                                    Jan.19-Feb.10. 1983
-  Loan Negotiations                  May 2-12. 1983                   May 10-20. 1983
-  Board Approval                     June 21, 1983                    May 28. 1983
-  Loan Signature                                                      June 30, 1983
-  Loan Effectiveness                 Oct.31, 1983                     November 3, 1983
-  Project Completion                 June 30. 1987                    June 30, 1987
-  Loan Closing                       Dec. 31. 1987                    December 31. 1987
Comments.  The one important project-related issue was that of force account
drilling.   The appraisal mission concluded that TPAO's past drilling
difficulties had resulted from the use of the inadequate local materials and
equipment and therefore recommended that all such materials and equipment
needed for such drilling and for rehabilitation of the three drilling rigs be



-40-
imported. The other issues vore of an institutional nature and related to
covenants of Loan 1916-TU that had not yet been implemented by TPAO, mainly
the reorganization of TPAO so as to separate the management of activities
related to refinery from those related to exploration and production of oil
nd gas. The appraisal mission proposed to moaitor the reorganization closely
to ensure that the new TPA0 exploration and production company vould be
financially viable. Before negotiations there vwa some discussion in the
Bank as to whether force account drilling vas the most cost-efficient way of
proceeding, but in the end, it vas accepted as the most desirable course.
There vere no significant changes as a result of negotiations. The
Turkish delegation confirmed during negotiations that the separation of TPAO
activities vould be completed not later than June 30, 1984.
3. Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(USt Millions)
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    198
Appraisal Estimate            10.1    36.3    53.3    55.2         -       -
Actual                         0.74    6.24   13.58   29.32   40.36   41.64
Actual as % of Estimate-X      7.3    17.2    25.5    53.1    73.1    75.4
Date of Final Disbursement      August 11, 1988
A time line presentation of the appraisal estimates and actuals of
disbursements is given in the attachment.
4. Proiect Imolementation
Indicators                   Appraisal Estimates              Actual
Seismic Survey             1800 km                   4,550 km
Rehabilitation of
Drilling Rigs              3                         4
Exploration Drilling       11 wells                  11 wells
Studies-Geological &      As required                TPAO completed a
Sedimentological                                   satisfactory and
Studies                                          comprehensive
geological basin study.
Development Studies     As required after          Not done since no
discoveries were made.    discoveries were made.
Casing, Cementing,        Casing, cementing &        Completion, cementing and
Completion & Testing    testing required for       testing done for all wells
Programs                all wells drilled,         drilled.  Completion
Completion & production   testing not done since
testing required for all  no well showed significant
wells that encounter       volumes of hydrocarbons.
significant volumes of
hydrocarbons.



- 41 -
Technical Assistance       150 MaXnonthe              Obtained an planned, except
for the services of an
expatriate financial
adviser for a two-year
period.
Training                   Conduct courses on        Training completed as
various aspects of        planned.
petroleu  technology.
5.  Prolect Costs and Financing
A.  PROJECT COSTS (US* THOUSADS)
APPRAISAL ESTIMATE                   ACTUAL 1/
Local   Forein  Total         cal      Foreisn     Total
Seismic               4,084    3,600    7,684   10,071.0   16,001.4   26,072.4
Drilling
(1)  Rig Rehab.           -    7,000    7,000         -       3,954.0    3,954.0
(2)  Drilling        21,527   20,050   41,577   10,943.2   17,157.0   28,100.2
(3)  Well Completions 3,147    1,900    5,047       929.1         -        929.1
Testing Equipment          -    2,000    2,000        -       2,466.7    2,466.7
Technical Assistance    658    2,500    3,158         32.6    1,010.0    1,042.6
Studies                 474    2,700    3,174       443.7       258.1      701.8
Training                   -    1,500   ,lS OO           -      651.8      651.8
Total Base Cost   29,890   41,250   71,140   22,420.1   41,499.0   63,918.6
Contingencies
Physical         6,584    5,848   12,432         -           -          -
Price            7,279    7,951   15,230
Subtotal          13,863   13,799   27,662
Front-End Fee                              138          -       137.7      137.7
Total Project Cost   43,753   55,187   98,940   22,420.1   41,636,7   64,056.3
1/ As of March 31, 1988.
Comments
Despite a significant increase in the amount of seismic coverage and
the rehabilitaton of an additional rig (para 3.02 of Part I of the PCR), the
actual costs came to US$63.9 million equivalent, 35X less than the appraisal
estimate of US$98.9 million equivalent, mainly because the appraisal estimates
were high, being a reflection of the then prevalent market conditions, whereas
the actual costs were much lower than estimated.
Drilling (together with rig rehabilitation and well completions), the
largest component of costs, actually cost $32.9 million equivalent, much less
than the estimated S53.6 million equivalent (excluding physical and price
contingencies) because of the reason mentioned above. This reduction in costs
was counterbalanced by the increase in the cost of seismic surveys, the second



-42-
largest component, from $7.7 million equivalent (excluding physical and price
contingencies) to *26.0 sillion equivalent because of the Increase of 750 km
In seismic coverage in the Thrace basin and of the additional 2,000 km of
seismic shot in West Taurus and in the Black Sea coastal areas. Tecbnical
Assistance and Studies cost less than the appraisal estimate because of the
lower cost of consultant and contractor services.
B. PROJECT PINANCING
(US$ HiIIion)
Planned
(Loan Agrment)  Final                Comnts
IBRD                 55.2         37.5     The Bank financed the final cost of
$37.5 million. The unutilized
amount of $13.6 million was
cancelled on August 23, 1988.
Other External
Sources               Nil           Nil
Domestic             43.7         22.4     The final local costs that were
financed by GOT and TPAO were only
$22.40 million, i.e. 51% of the
appraisal estimate.
TOTAL        98.9         59.9
6. Proiect Results
A. Direct Benefits
Through technical assistance and training and the experience gained
under the project, TPAO has significantly upgraded its technical skills and is
in a better position than before to undertake exploration activities
throughout Turkey. Through the extensive seismic work undertaken under the
project, TPAO has prepared the ground firmly for any future exploration
activity in Thrace, W. Taurus and the Black Sea coast. Specifically, W.
Taurus and the Black Sea coast were opened up to international oil companies
for the first time as a result of the project. The upgraded data processing
center and the interactive interpretation workstations financed by the Bank
have enhanced the quality of seismic data and interpretation capabilities of
TPAO. Four of TPAO's drilling rigs have been rehabilitated and added to its
fleet of rigs, which would enhance TPAO's future drilling performance. One
disappointing outcome of the project which must be weighed against the
positive results, is the failure to discover any significant hydrocarbon
sources in the project area,



- 43 -
B. Studies
TPAO has completed a comprehensive geological basin study. The Bank
has agreed with the conclusion of the study and its recomiendation that
further investmnts In exploratory drilling in Thraee be discontinued  d the
pace of exploratory activity slowed down pending a re-evaluation of the data
gathered to date.
7. Status of Covenants
Loan                                                Deadline
Aitreement            Subiect                    for Compliance      Status
3.02    TPAO to hire, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, specialized
firms to perform well services.                          Complied vith
3.06    TPAO to present to the Bank for approval
a geological prognosis, benefit, risk
analysis and drilling program for
each well.                                               - do -
3.06    TPAO to agree with the Bank on an
annual basis, its Thrace exploration
and development programs.                                - do -
4.04    TPAO to maintain separate accounts for
the exploration and production
activities and not transfer funds from
such accounts to the accounts of any
other activities.                                        - do -
4.05    TPAO to review annually with the Bank
its total exploration program.                           - do -
4.06(a) TPAO to complete its formal
restructuring by June 30, 1984           June 30, 1984  - do -
5.05    TPAO to maintain:
- a long-term debt to equity ratio
not greater than 1:1                                   - do -
- a current ratio not less than 1:0                      - do -
- a working capital level equal to
at least two months of estimated
operating expenses.                                    - do -
5.06    TPAO not to incur any new long-term
debt unless its debt service coverage
is at least two.                                         - do -
5.07    TPAO to finalize its annual investment
program and financing plan by October
31 of each year and furnish them to
the Bank for review and comment.         October 31      - do -



- 44 -
Guarantee                                            Deadline
^Areesent           Sub1ect                       for Ccomliance        statu
3.02    The Government vould base the price                        Complied with
of gas on the cost to the economy of
fuel oil delivered at the same
location.
S. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs 1/
Stage of                  Planned      Revised      Final
Proiect Cycle              eQ  F            Field    O+ Field          CoQents
Thru Appraisal                                         49 5
Post-Appraisal
thru Bd Approval                                      12.5
Bd Approval
thru Effectiveness                                     2.0
Supervision                                          11.9
Total                                              165.9
I/ Based on TBS data.
B. Missiona
Performance
Stage of                 No. of  Days in Specialization   Rating   Types of
PpiroLct Cvlt   Month/Year  Persons FiL.d Rafcrmncs I/    Status 2/   Problems 3/
Thru Appraisal   Dec. 1982    4      7    KAA, PET.EGR (2)    -
FNA
Jan.-Feb.83  F      23   ECON, FNA. GEO.PH.    -
Post-Apprais#1
thru Wd Approval   -
Board Approval
thru Effectiveness June 1984    1   10    PET.EGR



- 45 -
No. of   Days in   Specialization  Performance        Types of
SgggrXision    onth/Y ar  Persons  Faild    Recrosent&d 1/  Rating  Statut I/ froblu/
I         Nov-Oec/83   5        7         ECON. PET.EGR,         I             H
GEOL/GOPH
II        May/84       1         13       6tOLM/6P               1             N
III       Oct/84       3        7         FNI, PET.EGR, fiEOL    2             N
IV        March/85     4        7         FNA, GEOL, DR.EGR.    2              H
GOPH                                 T
V         Feb/86       2         10       GEOL                   2             M. T
DR.EGR
VI        Dec/86       2        4         GEOL                   2             N
PET.EGR                             T
VII       Apr/87       3         3        GOPH, GEOL, PET.EGR    2             M, T
VIII      Dec/87       3         8        GEOL, PET.EGR,          1            T
DR.EGR
1/  FNA - Financial Analyst
PET.EGR - Petroleum Engineer
GEOL - Geologist
GOPH - Geophysicist
DR.EGR - Drilling Engineer
ECON - Economist
Z/  1.  Problem-free or Minor problems
2. Moderate problems
3. Major problems
V/  M - Managerial
T - Technical



- 46 -
Thrace Gas Project
Pbrnned and Actud Diburmmenb
60 -
50 
40
SC
20-
2 0
10
1984           1985           1986           1987            1988           1989
El  approbc estimiate                          +   actual



