OFFICIALSLONNHEo3QT
DOCUMENT        OAN NUBER         TU
Loan Agreement
(Thrace Gas Exploration Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
TURKIYE PETROLLERI ANONIM ORTAKLIGI
Dated                      3 O       , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER    3R7Tu
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                   'S, 1983, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONS RUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and TURKIYE PETROLLERI ANONIM ORTAKLIGI
(hereinafter called the Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set focth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Statutes" means the Statutes of the Borrower dated
March 7, 1954, No. 6327, as amended from time to time;
(b) "Decree 20" means the Decree of the Guarantor dated
March 27, 1979; and
(c) "Previous Agreements" means (1) the Project Agreement
between the Borrower and the Bank for the Petroleum Exploration
Project (Loan Number 1916 TU), dated November 24, 1980, and (2)
the Project Agreement between the Borrower and the Bank for the
Bati Raman Enhanced Oil Recovery Field Demonstration Project
(Loan Number 1917 TU), dated November 24, 1980.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Loan
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-
five million two hundred thousand dollars ($55,200,000).


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to thp 'ank a fee
equivalent to one hundred thirty-seven thousand .x hundred
fifty-six dollars ($137,656).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:


﻿- 3 -
(i) "Interest Period" means     the  six-month  period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)  "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii) "Qualified   Borrowings" means:   (A) outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the imple-
mentation of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall obtain the
services of specialized firms, whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank, to perform well services under the Project and to train
the Borrower's staff in performing such services.


﻿-4-
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project. -
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank at regular intervals
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request con-
cerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.


﻿- 5 -
(e) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall carry out the training
activities referred to in Part C (2) (a) of the Project in
accordance with annual programs satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) carry out the seismic
and drilling activities provided under Parts A and B of the
Project in accordance with an annual program satisfactory to the
Bank; (b) make any change to such program, required in the course
of its implementation, only with the agreement of the Bank; and
(c) prepare, for every well to be drilled under Part B (2) of the
Project, a geological prognosis, a benefit-risk analysis and a
drilling program and provide the same to the Bank, for its
approval, not later than one month before the start of site
preparation for the drilling of such well.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and engineering practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and administrative practices.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿- 6 -
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall: (a) maintain separate
accounts for its exploration and production activities; (b) not
transfer funds from such accounts to the accounts of any of its
other activities or subsidiaries; and (c) to the extent permitted
under the Guarantor's legislation, conduct all transactions
between its production and refining units at market prices and
use such prices for purposes of calculating the amount due to the
Guarantor pursuant to Decree 20.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall review with the Bank, not
later than October 31 of each .year, the Borrower's proposed
exploration programs for the following year and take the Bank's
comments into account in implementing such programs.
Section 4.06. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1984, make all
necessary arrangements to completely separate its activities
with respect to exploring, producing, refining and distributing
domestic oil and products derived therefrom from those with
respect to the importing of foreign petroleum products, and
refining and distributing such petroleum and petroleum products.
(b) The provision of paragraph (a) of this Section shall
supersede any provisions to the contrary contained in the
Previous Agreements.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (a) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year: (i)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited; and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (c) furnish to the Bank such other information


﻿- 7 -
concerning said accounts, financial statements, records and
expenditures, as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably reeniest.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally
and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to
the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien
satisfactory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided,
however, that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall
not apply to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of
purchase thereof, solely as security for the payment of the
purchase price of such property or as security for the payment of
debt incurred for the purpose of financing the purchase of such
property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. As used in the following Sections of this
Article, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
(a)  "current assets" means the sum of unrestricted cash
available for use in current operations, marketable securities
(excluding securities, marketable or not, acquired for purposes
of control, affiliation, or other continuing business advantage),
receivables collectible in the normal course of business within
one year, and inventories valued at the lower of cost or market;
(b)  "current liabilities" means all obligations due on
demand or within one year or whose liquidation is reasonably
expected to require the use of existing resources classified as
current assets, such obligations to include, but not to be
limited to, customer's advances, accrued taxes on or measured by
income, other accrued taxes and current maturities of long-term
debt;


﻿-8-
(c) "net revenues" means gross revenues from all sources
less operating and administrative expenses, including taxes, sur-
charges and other levies, but before provision for depreciation
and interest and other charges on debt;
(d) "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount
of amortization (principal payments and any mandatory sinking
fund payments) on long-term debt, interest and other charges on
other debt payable during the period concerned;
(e) "long-term debt" means-any debt maturing more than one
year after the date on which it is originally incurred:
(i) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement, on the date of such
loan contract or agreement; and (B) under a
guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered into
but only, except in the case of a guarantee of
debt of a subsidiary, to the extent that the
guaranteed debt is outstanding; and
(ii) whenever in connection with this Article it shall
be necessary to value in terms of the currency of
the Guarantor debt payable by the Borrower in any
other currency, such valuation shall be made at
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which
such other currency is, at the time of such
valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the
purpose of servicing such debt or in the absence
of such rate of exchange, at another rate accept-
able to the Bank; and
(f) "equity" means the aggregate of the unimpaired paid-up
capital, surplus if it is represented by a positive number, and
free reserves of the Borrower.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall conduct its operation and
affairs in such manner as shall be necessary for it: (a) to
attain at all times: (i) a ratio of its long-term debt to its
equity not greater than 1:1; and (ii) a ratio of its aggregate
current assets to its aggregate current liabilities not less
than 1:1; and (b) on the first day of each month, to have avail-
able for use in current operations, cash, marketable securities
(excluding securities, whether marketable or not, acquired for


﻿-9-
purposes of control, affilitation or other continuing business
advantage) and net lines of credit, from commercial banks
(guaranteed for at least one month) equal in the aggregate to
not less than the estimated operating expenses for the following
two months. For purposes of this paragraph, "operating expenses"
means all operating and administrative expenses, including
provision for taxes, if any, but before provision for depre-
ciation and interest and other charges on debt.
Section 5.06. The Borrower shall not incur any long-term
debt in any year unless a reasonable forecast of its revenues and
expenditures shows that its .-aggregate projected net revenues for
each full fiscal year during the term of the long-term debt to be
incurred.shall be at least 2 times the aggregate projected debt
service requirements in such year on all long-term debt of the
Borrower. For purposes of this Section, "a reasonable forecast"
means a forecast prepared by the Borrower in the fiscal year in
which the debt in question is proposed to be incurred and
reviewed by the Bank which both the Borrower and the Bank accept
as reasonable and as to which the Bank has notified the Borrower
of its acceptability, provided no event has occurred since the
Bank's acceptance of such forecast which would have a material
adverse effect on the financial condition or future operating
results of the Borrower.
Section 5.07. Until the completion of the Project, the
Borrower shall furnish by October 31 of each year to the Bank,
for its review and comments, its proposed investment program and
corresponding financing plan for the following fiscal year.
Section 5.08. The Borrower shall not make any repayment in
advance of maturity in respect of any of its outstanding debt
which would materially and adversely affect its ability to meet
its financial obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof: (a) a change shall have been
made in the Statutes which would materially and adversely affect
the operations or the financial condition of the Borrower; and


﻿- 10 -
(b) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution or
liquidation of the Borrower.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that the event speci-
fied in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of Section, 6.01 shall
occur.
ARTICLE VII
Termination
Section 7.01. The date         ^        Q >  3  , is hereby
specified for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Turkiye Petrolleri Anonim Ortakligi
Mudafaa Cad No. 22
Ankara, Turkey


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By       f4J?                O
6a_lc_   Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
TURKIYE PETROLLERI ANONIM ORTAKLIGI
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Seismic sur sy            4,500,000          100% of foreign
and interpretation                          expenditures
(2) Materials and.            7,000,000          100% of foreign
equipment under                             expenditures and
Part B (1) of                               100% of local
the Project                                 expenditures
ex-factory
(3) Materials and            20,400,000          100% of foreign
equipment under                             expenditures and
Part B (2) of                               100% of local
the Project                                 expenditures
ex-factory
(4) Materials and             2,400,000          100% of foreign
equipment under                             expenditures and
Part B (3) of                               100% of local
the Project                                 expenditures
ex-factory
(5) Technical services        6,700,000          100% of foreign
and assistance under                        expenditures
Part B of the Project
(6) Technical assistance      2,500,000          100% of foreign
for other than Part B                       expenditures
of the Project


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(7) Training under            1,500,000         100% of foreign
Part C of the                              expenditures
Proiect
(8) Studies under             2,700,000         100%
Part D of the
Project
(9) Fee                         137,656         Amount due under
Section 2.05 of
this Agreement
(10) Unallocated              7,362,344
TOTAL              55,200,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of items in any Category decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such Category as
required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.


﻿- 14 -
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior
to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (a) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (b) if such reallocation
cannot   fully   meet   the  estimated   shortfall,   reduce   the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main objectives of the Project are to assess the hydro-
carbon potential of areas covered by the Borrower's licenses in
the Thrace basin and to strengthen the Borrower's ability to
design and implement an integrated basin-oriented exploration
programs.
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   Seismic Survey and Interpretation
Shooting and processing of about 1800 km seismic lines;
about 1300 km of such lines to be used for completing the seismic
coverage of the Borrower's license areas in the Thrace basin to
at least 4 km x 4 km grid size, and the remaining lines to be
used for infill seismic for detailed mapping of exploration
prospects.
Part B:   Drilling Rigs and Exploration Drilling
(1) Rehabilitation and upgrading, through provision of
materials, equipment and spare parts of three of the Borrower's
heavy duty (F 320) drilling rigs.
(2) Drilling and testing of about eleven exploration wells.
(3) Completion and equipping of the wells proven to be
productive under the drilling activities referred to in (2)
above, currently estimated at five wells.
Part C:   Technical Assistance and Training
(1) Technical assistance to the Borrower: (a) in the
implementation of Parts A and B of the Project; and (b) in
financial planning and budgeting.
(2)  (a)   Short- and long-term training courses for the
Borrower's staff in the areas of drilling technology and mud
engineering; well   testing   and  completion;  advanced   seismic
acquisition, processing and interpretation and financial manage-
ment.


﻿- 16 -
(b) Provision of equipment for a language laboratory.
Part D:   Studies
(1) Geological and sedimentological studies in order to
determine the size and production profiles of expected gas
accumulation and to predict the trends of proven gas reservoirs.
(2) Field development studies to determine the optimum way
to develop fields and connect them to distribution networks.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1987.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning March 15, 1988
through   March 15, 2000                   2,125,000
On September 15, 2000                           2,075,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                           .18
before maturity
More than three years but not                       .35
more than six years before
maturity
More than six years but not                         .65
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                      .88
more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years                            1.00
before maturity


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and services
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and services to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
services in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or services remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (a) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods
offered in such bid; (b) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (c) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 20 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Turkey may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one
of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids     offering  goods manufactured    in
Turkey if the bidder shall have established
to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Turkey equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to: (a) the amount of customs duties and
other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay
for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid; or


﻿- 21 -
(b) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the
comparison under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall be
selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Goods and services which the Bank and the Borrower agree can
be purchased only from a limited number of suppliers, may be
procured by the Borrower under contracts awarded on the basis of
limited international tendering procedures satisfactory to the
Bank; provided, however, that the aggregate cost of contracts so
awarded shall not exceed $8,000,000 equivalent.
2.   Equipment for the language laboratory, referred to in Part C
(2) (b) of the Project and for urgently needed drilling services
and materials may be procured by the Borrower under contracts
awarded on the basis of its shopping procedures; provided,
however, that the cost of any such contract shall not exceed the
equivalent of $250,000 and that the aggregate cost of contracts
so awarded shall not exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
1.   With respect to all contracts estimated each to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to


﻿- 22 -
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, together with the recommen-
dations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and pr-*or to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the .first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  no    -day of TmntL. , 198.
CF
FOR SECRETARY


