Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 25252
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-28628)
ON
A
GRANT
FROM THE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.4 MILLION
TO
THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A
EGYPTIAN RED SEA COASTAL AND MARINE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
December 27, 2002
Rural Development, Water and Environment Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALFNTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 27, 2002)
Currency Unit = Egyptian Pound LE
LE I = US$ 0.22
US$ 1.0 = LE 3.33 (at appraisal)
US$ 1.0 - LE 4.64 (at ICR)
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASD    -     Abu Soma Development Company
CZM    -     Coastal Zone Management
EEAA -       Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency
EIA    -     Environmental Impact Assessment
GEF    -     Global Environmental Facility
GIS    -     Geographic Information System
RBO    -     Regional Branch Office
RSG    -     Red Sea Govemorate
TDA    -     Tourism Development Authority
Vice President:  Jean-Louis Sarebo
Country Director:  Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Director/Manager:  Letitia A. Obeng/S, lRh Dargahouth
Task Team Leader:   Nicole Glineur



EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF
EGYPTIAN-RED SEA COASTAL AND MARINE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
I. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 9
6. Sustainability                                                                    10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   13
9. Partner Comments                                                                  14
10 Additional Information                                                            17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    25
Annex 7 List of Supporting Documents                                                 26
MAP: IBRD 24065






Project ID P004981                                        Project Name EG-RED SEA COASTAL
Team Leader Nicole Glineur                                TL Unit: MNSRE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        ReportDate December27, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: EG-RED SEA COASTAL                             L/C/TF Number: TF-28628
Country/Depar-tment. ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT                              Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/yubsector General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector
(76%); Central government administration (24%)
KEY DATES
Orginal             Revised/Actual
PCD:   04/28/1992                             Effective: 04/27/1993          12/30/1994
Appraisal:  09/01/1992                                MTR    09/30/1993          11/01/1997
Approval    11/23/1992                            Closing. 09/30/1996          06/30/2002
Borrower/lImplemeniting Agency  GOVERNMENT OF EGYPT/MINISTRY OF TOURISM; GOVERNMENT OF
EGYPT/Tourism Development Authority (TDA), GOVERNMENT OF
EGYPT/Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency (EEAA); GOVERNMENT OF
EGYPT/Red Sea Govemorate (RSG)
Other Partners  NGOs, USAID.
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President       Jean-Louis Sarbib                         Caio Koch-Weser
Countty Manager      Mahmood A Ayub                             Sven Burmeister
Sector Manager.       Letitia A Obeng                           Alastair McKechnie
Team Leader at ICR:  Nicole Glineur                             Arun Banerjee
1CR Primary Author:  Douglas I Graham
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlhkely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sutstainability L
Institetional Development Impact M
Bank Performance. S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry                          U
Project at Risk at Any Time Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective.
Original ODbjective
3.1.1 To meet the overall goals of biodiversity and pollution prevention in the Red Sea, the
objectives of the project, as stated in the SAR, were to:
(i) develop and implement policies, plans and regulations that ensure that development is
consistent with sound environmental management to protect the shared marine resources of
the Red sea coastal zone;
(ii) strengthen the capacity of government institutions to carry out integrated multi-sectoral
coastal zone management activities;
(iii)develop and implement public-private partnerships to assure that economic development is
consistent with sustainable environmental management and common marine resources;
(iv)develop and implement practical solutions for the establishment, management and recurrent
funding of marine protected areas and marine recreational resources; and
(v) develop a data base using a geographical information system (GIS) and inventory of the
coastal and marine ecosystem and resource uses that would be available to governments,
universities and private sector interests for the purpose of expanding the knowledge base of
the Red Sea.
Context
3.1.2 The Project was originally an integral part of the Private Sector Tourism Infrastructure
and Environmental Management Project (LN 36050) which was first approved by the Board in
November 1992 and, after conversion to become the Bank's first single currency loan, was
re-approved by the Board on 05/18/93 and signed on 09/28/93. Effectiveness of LN36050
suffered a series of delays for a variety of reasons, including a change of Minister, a dispute in the
People's Assembly over land allocation to one of the beneficiaries and opposition to provision of
Government guarantees to the private sector. These delays affected the GEF project until it was
decided to de-link it from LN. 36050 and an amendment to the Grant Agreement subsequently
enabled it to become effective on December 30, 1994. A separate ICR is available for LN. 36050.
However, the two projects continued to be supervised together by the same Bank staff, which
made for consistency of approach to environmental and social issues.
Assessment of Oiriginal Objective amnd Design
3.1.3  The project complemented assistance the Bank was already providing, along with other
donors, in the implementation of an environmental action plan through the Egyptian
Environmental Affairs Agency (EEAA). The project also complemented other initiatives; in
particular the United Nations Environmental Program (UNEP) and the World Bank were
collectively developing a Red Sea Regional Framework Plan to coordinate and revitalize regional
activities through the implementation of the Egypt and the Yemen GEF projects. However,
environmental capacity was at an early stage of development. In recognizing the need for
ecologically sustainable development of coastal areas, the Government of Egypt requested funds
from the Global Environment Facility (GEF) to develop a coastal zone management (CZM)
program that would focus on the environmentally sound management of tourism developments in
a way that would be productive for all concerned agencies (the Tourism Development Authority,
TDA, the EEAA and the Red Sea Governorate, RSG), the Egyptian people and the other littoral
- 2 -



states. The project objectives thus addressed a serious need for a sustainable CZM plan for
Egypt's Red Sea coast. The objectives were also consistent with the environmental aspects of the
Bank's country assistance strategy, while the high marine biodiversity values of the Red Sea and
the project's aim to protect biodiversity and mitigate international waters pollution justified GEF
support for the project objectives.
3.1.4 The project was, however, quite complex in terms of the range of activities to be
undertaken and quite risky in its implementation arrangements, involving three different agencies
(TDA, EEAA and RSG) with limited capacities and very little experience in the subject matter.
To mitigate these risks a special project unit was to be established with staff paid for out of the
project. The relatively short time span foreseen for implementation (three years) was unrealistic
given the range of activities to be undertaken and the limited capacity of the implementing
agencies. There was also an inherent conflict between the original project concept of tourism
development and the urgent need to improve the institutional capacity for environmental
protection.
3.2 Revised Objective:
N/A
3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1 The main components as stated in the SAR were:
(i) Coastal Zone Management Plan: the development of a CZM plan, to guide a program of
inter-sectoral coastal zone management during the project implementation phase and beyond. This
component would carry out scientific inventories analysis of the resources and zone the coast
according to the allocation of significant areas for conservation and development. Under this
component a data base would be established incorporating existing information and new surveys,
with a Geographic Information System (GIS) as an active planning tool. A final CZM plan with
policies for zoning and managing coastal and marine resources would be developed and approved
by all concerned agencies.
(ii) Environmental Assessment Capability: the development of the environmental assessment
capability of the TDA and the EEAA to evaluate, regulate and monitor the impacts of coastal
development, including tourism and oil and gas exploration, in recognition that one of the most
potentially effective mechanisms to support environmentally sound development is the EIA
process.  This component would develop EIA practices for tourism and all other development
activities impacting the coast. It would improve TDA's and EEAA's capability to manage EIA
requirements. The TDA's environmental unit and EEAA's EIA unit would be staffed and trained
in coastal zone management EIA procedures, and produce a manual on EIA procedures to be
used by developers and other agencies.
(iii) Marine Pollution Control: the development of the capacity to monitor and enforce marine
pollution control rules and regulations developed under the CZM plan among TDA, EEAA, and
the Red Sea Governorate staff. Rather than establishing an independent regulatory system for
CZM, the project would facilitate the coordination and strengthening of capacities between the
TDA, EEAA and RSG and other agencies. A Red Sea office would be established in the
Governorate with a monitoring and enforcement unit, which will coordinate these responsibilities
-3 -



with the environmental units at EEAA and TDA.
(iv) Reef Recreation Management: the management of recreational activities to protect the
valuable and fragile coral reef habitats and to promote training, public awareness and sustainable
visitor use and enjoyment through the development of a Reef Recreation Management Action
Plan and Program, the establishment of a Reef Recreation Management Unit, management
arrangements between public and private sectors, and other entities.
(v) Marine Protected Area Establishment: the identification of marine protected areas, the
preparation of operational plans for management of these areas and the training of necessary staff.
(vi) CZM Monitoring and Evaluation: the reviewing, monitoring and evaluation of the CZM
project to ensure that bio-diversity and pollution prevention goals are being achieved and that the
project is sustainable.
3.3.2 Design of the project lacked an overall coastal zone management framework from the
outset to link the components to the objectives and bring together the components. In practice,
the components were quite diverse and not consistently related to one another or to the overall
project objectives. Their complexity was beyond the existing capabilities of the implementing
agencies and the timetable envisaged for their implementation was too short. Although lessons
learnt from other environmental protection projects within the region were said to have been
taken into account, it would appear that previous experience regarding complexity and
implementation timeframes of projects in Egypt had been largely overlooked.
3.4 Revised Components
3.4.1   There has been no major revision of the project components. However, components (ii)
and (iv) were revised to reflect activities carried out with other funding sources and thereby avoid
duplication of activities. These changes did not require restructuring of the project.  The
components were adapted as follows:
1.    Part of the training originally envisaged to be carried out under the GEF project was
undertaken by USAID TA and an NGO -- specifically, (a) environmental awareness for RSG, (b)
ranger training for EEAA, and (c) GIS integration into a multiple access system for TDA.
Accordingly, US$80,000 from the Training Component Funds were reallocated to other activities
such as the preservation of coral reefs (including mooring buoys installation in Soma Bay-Safaga
area) and catalyzing further efforts for coral reef protection.
2.    The GEF project originally included provisions for construction of a reef recreation center
and a pollution control center in addition to a visitor center. However, during implementation a
pollution control center was constructed with other funding and USAID sponsored reef
protection through the establishment of the EEAA Red Sea Protectorate Office. Hence EEAA
requested that the project fund instead its Regional Branch Office (RBO) in Hurghada on a site
provided by the Governor. The original RBO design, whose aim was to enforce EEAA
regulations in the Red Sea Governorate, was finalized in June 1998 and tendered in August 1998.
In 1999, EEAA requested further changes to the building design to incorporate extra floors for
laboratories and a garage for which construction was paid by EEAA. The RBO was redesigned
- 4 -



to accommodate such changes. Construction of the GEF funded portion of the building, started in
January 2001 and was completed in June 2002.
3 5 Quality at Enty:
3.5.1 The ICR rating for quality at entry is, on balance, unsatisfactory. This was one of the first
GEF Projects to be approved by the Bank in 1992 (during the GEF Pilot Phase). At that time it
was part of a tourism infrastructure project, which took much longer than anticipated to become
operational and the project was finally processed in its own right only from 1995 onward.
Although the project objectives were well prepared and consistent with both county and Bank
strategy for environmental protection, the implementation plan was over-ambitious and
components were not always linked to objectives, as described below:
* Timing. The project was originally designed to be implemented over a 36-month (three-year)
period, with two main phases: (i) preparation of a CZM Plan over the first months 1-15
(which involved the bulk of surveys, background and strategic reports) and (ii) initial
implementation of priorities from the CZM findings during months 15-36. After effectiveness;
operationally the project continued to stay in a stage of "preparation" for all 1995, largely
addressing staffing, role clarification between the three joint agencies and disbursement
arrangements. The original closing date was September 1996, however because of weak
project management, and overly ambitious project design, the project did not become fully
operational until 1997. With hindsight, the initial three-year implementation period proved to
be unrealistic since it took over seven years to complete the project after a delayed start. A
better appreciation of institutional weaknesses and of the time required to undertake such an
ambitious program, might have resulted in a better phased approach to implementation, with
more emphasis on training.
* Piecemeal project design. The project preparation and design phases lacked an overall coastal
zone management framework at the onset to bring together the project components. The
project included too many studies and did not focus enough on implementation on the ground.
* Inconsistency between Objectives and Components. There were also inconsistencies between
objectives focused on data collection and interpretation for management of fragile resources
and those focused on implementation of other project components.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievemenit of objective
4.1.1  The project outcome is rated as satisfactory.  In terrms of the overall objective of
developing a CZM plan focusing on the environmentally sound management of tourism
developments, the project has been successful. The CZM plan, which identifies protected areas, is
in place and being enforced. Among the main outcomes, tourism developments now require full
ElAs; an environmental unit has been established in TDA and more focus given to tourism
development within EEAA; a comprehensive GIS is functioning and available to all stakeholders
including investors. All the main components of the project have been achieved and the project
has succeeded in collecting and interpreting crucial information for the management of resources.
Together, these achievements meet the requirements of the project's first detailed objective: to
develop and implement policies, plans and regulations that ensure that development is consistent
-5-



with sound environmental management to protect the shared marine resources of the Red Sea
coastal zone.
4.1.2 Where the project's second detailed objective is concerned, to strengthen the capacity of
government institutions to carry out integrated multi-sectoral CZM activities, a major
achievement of the project has been its success in bringing together the three implementing
agencies in an unprecedented working partnership. An essential instrument to this success was
the creation of the Project Management Group (PMG) comprising the heads of TDA, EEAA,
RSG as well as the project and operations managers, which met frequently during implementation
and continues to do so. The sustainability of this achievement has been helped by the fact that the
expertise gained by the project staff has been transferred to the implementing agencies.
4.1.3 The third detailed objective, to develop and implement public-private partnerships, has
been instrumental in planning the continuity of project activities. Thus the operation of the
completed visitor center will be undertaken by a public-private partnership, including
environmental NGOs and investors' environmental groups as well as Government agencies. The
close working relationships established between the TDA and the private investors and the
environmental NGOs have helped secure a satisfactory outcome to tourism development on the
Red Sea coast.
4.1.4 The fourth detailed objective, to develop and implement practical solutions for the
establishment, management and recurrent funding of marine protected areas and marine
recreational resources, has been less successful in its realization. The coastal management,
protected areas and recreation management plans produced by the project, as well as the
awareness of the importance of the area created by the project, enabled the promotion of the
proposed Red Sea Protected Area (RSPA) through EEAA and of preservation guidelines through
TDA's Red Sea Sustainable Tourism Initiative (RSSTI). The implementation of the RSPA was to
be undertaken by EEAA with USAID funding in parallel implementation with this project.
However, delays have occurred and activities such as hiring and training of rangers are only just
starting. It is yet unclear as to which major on-the-ground coral protection activities are being
envisaged with USAID funding. As regards recurrent funding, the vicissitudes of the tourism
sector have hindered the establishment of cost recovery mechanisms, but there is no doubt that
the potential exists. Meanwhile, recurrent funding is dependent on donors, particularly USAID,
and investors.
4.1.5 The last of the detailed project objectives, to develop a data base using a geographical
information system (GIS), has been fully achieved. A digitized atlas of the Red Sea marine and
terrestrial resources has been prepared to aid in the understanding and management of resources.
The GIS data base and inventory of coastal and marine ecosystems, completed since 1998, is fully
operational and is continuously updated by the operating authorities. It is available to Government
agencies, investors and donors. Representatives from the three participating agencies, TDA,
EEAA and RSG, have been trained in Database/GIS applications. In addition, a series of action
plans, reports and documents are among the major outputs from the project. Seven core reports
represent the major documents arising from the project and were compiled jointly by the core
team and their intemational advisers. They include the Inception Report, Baseline Report,
- 6-



Preliminary Coastal Zone Management Action Plan, the three major action plans (Reef Recreation
Management Action Plan, Coastal Marine Protected Areas Strategy and the Integrated Coastal
Zone Management Action Plan) and the Project Evaluation Report. Supporting technical reports
produced by the core team included reports originating from surveys and reports initiated by
local consultants.
4.2 Outputs by components:
(i) Development of a CZM plan(S):
The Coastal Zone Management Action Plan was finalized in September 1998 and provides
recommendations for optimal use of the coastal and marine resources along the Egyptian Red Sea
coast, within the broader context of the National Coastal Zone Management strategy, and is being
implemented by EEAA, TDA and RSG. The project area is represented by the stretch of coast
from Hurghada through Safaga, to Marsa Alam and southward to the Sudanese border. The
CZM plan incorporates the objectives and themes of the "Framework Program for Development
of a National ICZM Plan for Egypt" (1996), as well as other existing national plans, regional and
international agreements.
To underpin the CZM strategy, surveys were conducted throughout the project area; the surveys
provided information on distribution, extent, and condition at ecosystem, species/other taxa
levels. The main outputs and findings included information on percent cover, abundance, species
diversity for major marine invertebrates and fishes in the mangrove and coral reef areas; detailed
inventories of all the mangrove stands along the coast, including information on size, condition,
and density of each stand and biodiversity analysis concerning species diversity across a range of
habitats, north south variations for taxa groups, and identification of multiple critical ecosystems
in the same geographical areas.
(ii) Development of environmental assessment capabilities (S):
An Environmental Unit has been established in TDA and EEAA now fully enforces EIA
regulations for tourism development projects. The database prepared under the project is being
used, in conjunction with the EIA guidelines and EIA manuals developed with complementary and
coordinated bilateral assistance. Staff at TDA and EEAA has received adequate training. In
addition pollution types and sources have been identified; public awareness programs delivered;
assessments on pollution legislative needs, as well as diving industry needs were undertaken in
late 1997/early 1998.
(iii) Development of capacity to monitor and enforce marine pollution control regulations
(S):
Research was commissioned in early 1997 and completed by mid 1998: it describes measures to
protect the Red Sea marine environment with special reference to coral reefs and mangrove
habitats, combating oil pollution and a detailed framework on pollution control, monitoring and
enforcement service. To enforce marine pollution control regulations, EEAA has assigned over
40 rangers along the length of the Red Sea coast. In the near future more rangers and boats are
needed and are to be funded by USAID.
-7-



(iv) Management of recreational activities to protect coral reef habitat (S)
A Reef Recreation Management Unit (RRMU) was set up in the Hurghada GEF project office in
1997 to collect data for the Reef Recreation Management Plan (RRMP) preparation activities,
including dive surveys, sector and stakeholder consultations. In May 1998 a Reef Recreation
Management Plan was delivered by the international consultant fu-m McAlister Elliott Ltd in
conjunction with the local team. This report provides studies on reef-related issues and forms the
basis for reef recreational zoning and monitoring in the Hurghada - Safaga area. It has been
widely disseminated amongst other agencies, donors and NGOs involved in protecting the
environment in Egypt and Egyptian Environmental Policy Program/Red Sea Framework Project
funded by USAID.
(v) Marine Protected areas (S)
In May 1998 a Protected Areas Management Plan, which outlines targeted GEF support for
specific areas and actions that help realize the goals of the National Biodiversity Strategy,
National Coastal Zone Management Strategy and other national initiatives, was delivered by the
intemational consultant firm in conjunction with the local team. It was disseminated widely
amongst other agencies, donors and NGOs involved in protecting the environment in Egypt and
staff has been trained in management of the areas. The plan provides a strategic framework for
biodiversity conservation of coastal and marine habitats along the Egyptian Red Sea shores and
presents both broad scale ecosystem-based guidance and small-scale demonstration coastal marine
protected areas for targeted, geographic areas. Its preparation was based on the ecosystem
surveys and a broad inventory of all plants and animals recorded by the project teams in 1997-98.
An important element of this plan is the International Visitors Center (IVC) located in Marsa
Ghaleb, in the heart of ongoing new developments in the " green field " sites of the Marsa Alam
region and in the vicinity of the new Marsa Alam airport, which is now operational. The visitor
center was completed in 2001. Its design blends elements of local architecture with best practice
in environmental construction to serve as a show-case for new development in this expanding
region. It includes the following facilities: museum, multi-purpose hall, library, audio-visual room
and open air theater, to which are being added shops, restaurants and other service facilities. The
VC management plan prepared by USAID has a special focus on sustainability after project
completion, involving both private and public sector sponsors.
(vi) Reviewing, monitoring and evaluating the CZM project (U):
A mid-term review was carried out m November 1997. A fmal version of the Project Evaluation
Report with a review of the GEF project history and accomplishments to date was delivered in
December 1998, since when monitoring has mainly been undertaken by visiting Bank missions. In
the two areas (Soma Bay and Marsa Alam), where the GEF project had direct involvement on the
ground, this involvement has had positive effects. In the Soma Bay area of the associated
Tourism Infrastructure Project, baseline surveys and monitoring of the coral reefs were
undertaken and supervised by Bank missions. The coral areas being visited by the Soma Bay
tourists are being protected adequately. On the other hand, the sites used by Safaga diving
- 8 -



companies are poorly managed. This is being remedied through the installation of appropriate
mooring buoys and monitoring plan. The Visitor Center in Marsa Alam is in the middle of an area
which is planned for touristic developments. Mooring buoys are being placed in crucial yet
unvisited reefs as a preventive measure for future sound diving exploitation. Continued
monitoring of these areas will be necessary.
4 3 Net Presen t Value/Economic rate of retturn
Not Applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable
4.5 Institutional development imnpact.
4.5.1  At the time the GEF project was designed in the early 1990s, there were considerable
coastal-marine development issues along Egypt's Red Sea that needed site-based,. strategic and
policy actions at local, national and regional levels to achieve sustainable development. The
project has strengthened the environmental impact assessment capabilities and provided CZM
knowledge within TDA, EEAA and the RSG. The project has been successful in formulating
plans and regulations to ensure that development is consistent with sound environmental
management and to protect shared marine resources of the Red Sea coastal zone.
4.5.2 The project has contributed to elevate the environmental agenda and improved
communication between environmental units of different agencies; it has enhanced public and'
private partnership and ensured that economic development is consistent with suitable
environmental management of common marine resources. There has been capacity building
within the implementing agencies and elsewhere through wide use and dissemination of project
outputs; practical solutions have been developed for the management of protected areas and
marine recreational resources and conservation of biodiversity. Great emphasis has been placed
on raising public awareness and encouraging environmental education at all levels including
investors and developers, international tourists, local communities, and school-children.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control ofgovernment or implementing agency.
5.1.1 Before the project was de-linked from LN 36050, a lot of time was spent on processes not
directly related to the content of the project, such as disputes in the People's Assembly over land
allocation, opposition to Government guarantees to the private sector and opposition to
designated beneficiaries of land allocation. Terrorist attacks and other civil disturbances (which
occurred in 1993, 1997 and 2001) considerably slowed project implementation.
5 2 Factors generally subject to government control,
5.2.1 After effectiveness, a further delay of a year was incurred due to the lack of counterpart
funding and difficulties in compliance with the Bank's standard procedures for withdrawals and
procurement; after resolution of these issues the project started to move ahead, but progress was
still slow because of poor project management (see para. 5.3.1 below). It became evident that the
project would not be able to meet its original closing date of Sept. 30, 1996 and a two-year
extension was granted. With hindsight a longer extension should have been recommended by the
-9-



Bank team and requested by the Borrower given the ambitious agenda that the project was
pursuing.
5.3 Factors generally subject to tnmplemnenting agency control:
5.3.1 The project started, after delays, only during 1996, when the first Project Manager was
appointed and the recruitment of the core team staff was partially completed. Most of the
equipment was procured in 1996/97. However, the team experienced some difficulty in
understanding what had to be done to implement the project. Early in 1997, due to the poor
management ability of the Project Manager, two members of the core team resigned. The
Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) revised the work plan and the PMG decided to take action
and replace the project manager, who submitted his resignation. This was followed by the
resignation of the Chief Planner. After that, a new project manager was appointed, international
advisers were selected and a workable implementation plan was agreed. The project achieved a
major turnaround in actions on the ground and the quality of outputs thanks to the dedicated team
work of all concerned, including the Project Management Group, the core team, the Technical
Advisory Committee and the international advisors.
5.3.2 However other delays were caused by the changes in project design specifications during
the construction of the visitor center and, especially, the EEAA RBO office (the design of which
was finalized only in 1998, tendered in August 1998 and, after disagreements with the contractor,
construction finally commenced only in January 2001). As the contractor could not finish the
work by the completion deadline of March 31, 2001, GOE submitted an official request for an
extension, which was granted until June 30, 2002, when the GEF-fmanced part of the work was
completed.
5 4 Costs andfinancing:
5.4.1 At appraisal, the GEF allocation for the project amounted to SDR 3.4 million, equivalent
to US$4.75 million, with Egyptian Government funding of US$0.98 million and a total project
cost of US$ 5.73 million. Actual total cost of US$5.31 million was slightly less than the appraisal
estimate due to savings in the survey work and reports for the various project components. Part
of Egypt's contribution to the project consisted in providing land at no cost for the EEAA RBO
in Hurghada and for the Visitor Center in Marsa Alem.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating.
Sustainability of the project is rated as likely.
6.1.1 At project completion, there are good prospects that institution building, legal
strengthening and information system improvements will be maintained. Under the new Executive
Regulations all new construction or extensions to previous buildings require the consent of a
Competent Administrative Authority (CAA), one of various Ministries or Governorates,
depending on the nature and location of construction. In the case of the Red Sea coastal zone this
would normally be the TDA or RSG. Each proposal must be accompanied by an Environmental
Impact Assessment (EIA).
-10-



6.1.2   Activities towards mainstreaming of project results into the core activities of the Project
partners (TDA, EEAA, RSG), such as the increase by EEAA of the numbers of rangers covering
the Red Sea coast from 8 in 2000 to 40 in 2001, are continuing. Further coordination with other
donors, especially USAID and EU, is supporting these efforts. For example, TDA's Red Sea
Sustainable Tourism Initiative (RSSTI), funded by USAID, is promoting the development and
dissemination of environmentally sound tourism practices, and coordination with USAID has been
undertaken to facilitate the continuation of project activities under funding from USAID's
Egyptian Environmental Policy Program.  The unprecedented collaboration between the three
entities (Red Sea Govemorate, TDA, and EEAA) involved in the management of the Red Sea
Coast and the private sector is continuing. The private sector (in particular through the Tourism
Investors Association) is fully engaged and committed to continuing to pursue environmental
protection and capacity building through such activities as the management of the visitor center.
6.1.3 In the SAR, emphasis was given to introducing a recurrent cost mechanism through
protected area and tourism activities such as management of the visitor center. At the moment,
cost recovery and recurrent fundmg techniques have been only partially achieved due to the
weakness in tourism growth after the latest terrorist attacks and unrest in neighboring countries.
This has made more difficult the task of finding adequate cost recovery mechanisms, but the
continued growth of tourism in the newly developed Marsa Alem area, where the visitor center is
located, indicates that long-term prospects for sustainability are good.  Meanwhile, donor
participation, particularly from USAID, continues to contribute to recurrent expenditures.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1  At project completion, most of the activities are continuing under TDA's management.
The transfer of responsibility and assets to TDA has been completed and project functions
integrated into the overall institutional structure.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending
7.1.1  Bank performance durng project identification and preparation was, on balance,
unsatisfactory. While the objectives were consistent with the country's and the Bank's strategies
on environmental protection, the preparation and design phases lacked an overall coastal zone
management framework to bring together the project components. The project design included
too many studies and did not focus enough on implementation on the ground. It also suffered
from potentially conflicting goals. On the one hand, there was a need to emphasize tourism
development, which was the original project concept and, on the other, an urgent need to improve
the institutional capacity for environmental protection. With the separation of the tourism and
environmental components, both activities gained in effectiveness and during implementation,
Bank performance proved to be satisfactory on the environmental components.
7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1 Overall supervision has been satisfactory. There was a high degree of continuity in the
team supervising the project. Also, during the main period of implementation, supervision was
undertaken from the Bank's resident mission in Egypt, which made possible more frequent contact



with the implementing agencies and contributed to the successful implementation of the project's
complex range of components. The supervision team was proactive in resolving the problems
encountered by the project in its early period of implementation (see para. 5.3.1). Supervision of
fiduciary activities, procurement and financial management, was satisfactory, as was supervision
of compliance with safeguard policies. Reporting of project implementation progress and the
realism of project performance ratings was satisfactory. The team worked actively with donors
to try to ensure that critical environmental activities continue to be supported by bilateral donors.
These findings are in line with the FY00 Quality of Supervision Assessment Report which rated
quality of supervision as satisfactory. Close collaboration between the GEF Red Sea Coastal and
Marine Resources Management Project and the Red Sea Framework Project and the Aqaba
Environmemtal Action Plan project contributed to sustainability of project activities.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance
7.3.1 Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory. The assistance provided by the Bank
during the project's relatively long period of implementation helped the executing agencies to
undertake the complex components and overcome any shortcomings in the original design.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation
7.4.1  Borrower performance during preparation is rated satisfactory.  The implementing
agencies worked closely with Bank staff during project preparation. Technically, the GEF project
was declared effective as of December 30, 1994 following the formal "de-linking" with the
associated tourism loan, and following Parliamentary ratification. Beforehand, considerable
preparation for project implementation had been conducted through coordmated meetings
between the "Project Management Group (PMG)" and the Project Manager and Operations
Manager. Although considerable time had elapsed since the project was first approved by the
Board (Nov. 1992), the PMG agreed that the project design, phasing, scope and scale should
remain as conceived with no changes in substance. Operationally the project remained in a stage
of "preparation" for all 1995, largely addressing staffing, role clarification between the three joint
agencies and disbursement arrangements.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1  Government implementation performance is rated as satisfactory.  The Project
Management Group (PMG) provided an excellent example of inter-ministerial co-ordination and
vigorously pursued implementation. Since 1997 the new management and international advisory
teams made good progress in putting the project back on track, completing the base-line surveys,
establishing a computerized geographical information system and delivering high quality reports
on schedule.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1  Apart from the initial delay, due in part to lack of familiarity with WB procedures (and
hence delays in the replenishment of project funds), the project implementation agency
performance is rated satisfactory. Project Implementation has been rated unsatisfactory only on
two different occasions: in 1995, when lack of counterpart funds held up implementation, and in
1997, when poor management was holding up the project. On the second occasion, the Project
Management Group took decisive action and replaced the project manager and progress improved
substantially.
- 12 -



7.6.2 The project team has been successful in involving the private sector in regular meetings
which include developers, hotel operators, diving groups and oil and gas companies. NGOs
involvement is particularly strong m reef protection, including the Hurghada Environmental
Protection and Conservation Association (HEPCA).
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformance
7.7.1 Overall borrower performance is rated satisfactory, for the reasons indicated in paras
7.4-7.6.
8. Lessons Learned
Effective Impacts
*   Bringing  government agencies together to collaborate to their mutual benefit can
dramatically improve implementation. In this case the project allowed for an unprecedented
collaboration between the three implementing agencies, which led to more effective outcomes.
Bringing together the main Government agencies (Tourism Development Authority (TDA),
Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency (EEAA), and the Red Sea Govemorate (RSG)) in the
day-to-day management of the project ensured that their interests were addressed and
facilitated project implementation. The absorption of Project staff and culture into these
agencies made possible the subsequent mainstreaming and sustainability of project activities
into the tourism and enviromnental agenda.
*   Development of a GIS database can have major benefits which go beyond the project itself.
In the project, the development of the GIS database, with an inventory of coastal and marine
ecosystems for the Egyptian Red Sea coast, enabled it to be used as a tool for investment
programming and coastal zone management. The GIS has also proven to be an essential tool
to achieve consensus amongst stakeholders.
*   Development of successful public-private partnerships leads to more effective project
implementation. The project definitely benefitted from the involvement of NGOs such as
Hurghada Environmental Protection for Corals Agency (HEPCA), the Safaga EPCA, private
hotel operators and dive boat operators.
*   Promotion of environmental awareness amongst stakeholders is a key element in protecting
fragile natural resources. In this project it led to a broader "greening" of the private sector,
which now recognizes the importance of sound environmental management for sustaining
tourist inflows, and has formed an Investors' Environmental Association.  This grouping,
which includes all the major hotel operators, participates in the management of the
International Visitor Center financed under the project to promote best practices in
environmental design and resource management and to help ensure sustainability.
*   Combination of a highly experienced international consulting team with a dedicated
local team has a synergistic learning effect. In this case, the combination produced high
quality work and more effective implementation.
- 13-



Project Design
*     The need for consistency between project objectives and activities of the project
components is an important element of project design. In this case, the project design could
have focused more effectively on the preparation of a CZM framework with the three
implementing agencies. Such a framework would have provided an overall structure to work with
from the beginning and provided more opportunities for implementation of studies results on the
ground, especially towards the protection of coral reefs.
Project Implementation
*     Logistical considerations can have a major impact on project implementation: in this
case, the project had intended for a Cairo office to be more policy and liaison based, while most of
the day-to day work for all other activities would be in Hurghada. It proved difficult to get key
staff and resource people to relocate for 3 years to Hurghada, so there was in effect a split in the
staffs, with the Database, Administration-Finance and Planning teams in Cairo and the Executive
Management, CMPAs and Reef Recreation in Hurghada. Fielding and sourcing two offices
(Cairo and Red Sea) was time-consuming and inherently resulted in less rather than more
integrated linkages between field collection, data integration and presentation, as well as with
part-time project staff based in other areas.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
1- Introduction: -
The Egyptian Red Sea Coastal and Marine Resource Management Project is an innovative
tourism and environmental project funded by the global environmental facility (GEF) through the
World Bank amounting to US$4.75 million of GEF funds and US$0.98 million of local financing.
The overall goal of the project is to ensure environmentally sound sustainable tourism and other
coastal-marine development for the Egyptian Red Sea coast. Project activities were undertaken
within the context of national plans and other activities, including regional and international
programs for the Red Sea. The primary participating agencies in the project were:
-Tourism Development Authority (TDA)
-Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency (EEAA)
-Red Sea Governorate (RSG).
The project area covered the Egyptian side of the Red Sea and included the offshore islands.
Throughout the project, recognition was given to the importance of interactions between the sea
coast and land.
2- Project Objectives: -
The overall objectives of the project were:
-Formulating plans and regulations to ensure that developments are consistent with sound
environmental management, to protect the shared marine resources of the Red Sea coastal zone.
- 14 -



-Strengthening the capacity of government institutions and agencies to carry out integrated
multisectoral coastal zone management activities.
-Enhancing public and private partnerships to assure that economic developments were consistent
with sustainable environmental management of common marine resources.
-Developing practical solutions for the management of protected areas and marine recreational
resources and conservation of biodiversity.
-Establishing databases and producing an atlas and inventory of coastal and marine resources, to
be available to government, agencies, institutions and stakeholders for optimal and sustainable use
of these resources.
3- Project Description: -
The project included the following components:
a-    Coastal zone management (CZM) action plan.
b-    Environmental assessment capability.
c-    Marine pollution control
d-    Reef recreation management
e-    Protected areas management.
f-    Monitoring and evaluation.
4- Achievement of Objectives and Outputs: -
All the components have been fully achieved and the project has succeeded in collecting
information for the management of resources. The outputs for each component are as follows:
4.1-a. Costal Zone Management:
-Data base/ atlas/ inventories.
-Base line studies.
-Environmental-based Coastal Zone Strategy.
-Regulatory needs assessment.
-Review of international capacity.
-CZM action plan.
4.1-b. Environment Assessment Capability:
-Regulations/guidelines/manual review.
-Assessments and identification of information gaps.
-Training.
4.1-c. Marine Pollution Control:
-Environmental monitoring and co-ordination unit.
-Develop promoting procedures.
-Project to combat marine pollution affecting coastal habitat.
-Facility construction and operation.
-Training.
-Public awareness.
4.1-d. Reef Recreation Management:
-Reef recreation management action plan.
-Facility construction and operation.
-Training and public awareness.
- 15 -



4.1-e. Protected Areas Management:
-Detailed inventories.
-Selected criteria and suitability matrix.
-Boundary establishment.
-Management plans.
-Facility construction and operation.
-Training and public awareness.
- Cost and Financing
The GEF allocation for the project amounted to SDR 3.4 million, equivalent to US$4.75 million
out of a total project cost of US$5.73 million. Part of Egypt's contribution to the project
consisted in providing land at no cost for the EEAA RBO, which is going to be operated and
maintained by the EEAA in coordination with the environmental units of both TDA and RSG, and
also providing land for the International Visitor Center to be operated and maintained by TDA
and the private sector.
Project cost by component (in US$ million equivalent)
Project cost by component  Appraisal estimate US$  Actual US$ million
mulion
Cairo office              0.804                   0.764
Red Sea                  0.612                   0.581
CZM                    0.722                   0.685
Environmental Impact          0.214                   0.203
Assessment
Pollution Control           0.593                   0.563
Recreation Area             1.033                   0.981
Management
Protected Area              1.346                   1.278
CZM Program Review             0.152                   0.144
Scientific Advisory          0.060                   0.057
Committee
Network                  0.070                   0.066
6- Bank Performance
Satisfactory.
7-Implementation Agency
The project was managed by a core local team and international and national consultants.
Management was provided by a project management group (PMG) consisting of heads from the
three participating agencies (EEAA, TDA, and RSG) together with a technical advisory
committee. The PMG has provided an excellent example of coordination and effective
implementation.
- 16-



8- Sustainability
TDA has suggested that the World Bank continue to support environmental sustainability. In
addition, there is an investors association for the environmental management of sustainable
tourism development.
(b) Cofinanciers.
(c) Otherpartners (NGOs/private sector).
19. Additional Information
- 17 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Indlcator/Matrix                    Projected In last PSR                ActuaVLatest Estmate
Policies and regulations Implemented to  Sustainable resource management program  Laws, planning regulatons and building
protect Red Sea marine resources.     for Red Sea.                          codes in place to protect Red Sea marine
resources.
Capacity of Govemment institubons      DA, EEAA & RSG strengthened with     All three agencies have received extensive
strengthened                          training and additional resources.    training and established environmental units
Private sector Involvement.           Develop private/public partnerships.  Private sector involvement in managing the
visitor center and NGO involvement in CZM
activites.
Development of data base for GIS accessible Develop GIS data base and ensure access  GIS data base compiled and operabonal,
to Interested partes.                                                      accessible to Govemment agencies,
investors and donors.
Projected in last PSE = projected at time of appraisal.
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected In last PSR                ActuaULatest Estimate
Establish GIS data base. CZM plan.    Establish GIS data base and complete the  GIS data base established and operatonal.
CZM plan.                             CZM plan completed.
Establish Env. units In TDA and EEAA  Establish environmental units.        Environmental units established in both TDA
and EEAA.
Monitoring service with premises In   Establish a montonng service in Hurghada.  Monitoring service established
Hurghada.
Reef recreation management unit with office Establish a reef recreation unit in Hurghada. Reef recreaton unit is established.
in Hurghada.
Visitor Center.                       Visitor Center completed and functoning.  Visitor Center has been completed and is
operated by private/public partnership
End of project
-18 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million  US$ million
Cairo Office                                       0.80           0.76            95
Red Sea Office                                     0.61           0.58            95
CZM Plan                                           0.72           0.69            96
Environmnental Impact Assessment                   0.22           0.20            91
Pollution Control                                  0.59           0.56            95
Recreation Area Management                         1.03           0.98            95
Protected Area                                     1.35           1.28            95
CZM program Review                                 0.15           0.14            93
Scientific Advisory Committee and Network          0.13           0.12            92
Total Baseline Cost                                5.60           5.31
Physical Contingencies                            0.13           0.00             0
Total Project Costs             5.73    _     5.31
Total Financing Required             5.73          5.31
Project Costs by Procurem  nt Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method'
Expenditure Category     ICB          NCB         Other        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00         2.00         0.00         0.00        2.00
(0.00)       (1.80)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (1.80)
2. Goods                    0.00         0.00         1.00         0.00         1.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.95)      (0.00)       (0.95)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00         2.00         0.00         2.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (2.00)      (0.00)  *    (2.00)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.73         0.73
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                     0.00         2.00         3.00         0.73        5.73
(0.00)       (1.80)       (2.95)       (0.00)      (4.75)
-19-



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category        ICB           NCB          Other2        N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                        0.00          2.00          0.00          0.00         2.00
(0.00)        (1.65)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (1.65)
2. Goods                        0.00          0.00          1.00          0.00          1.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.97)        (0.00)        (0.97)
3. Services                     0.00          0.00          2.00          0.00         2.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (1.83)        (0.00)        (1.83)
4. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00          0.00          0.31          0.31
(0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        0.00          2.00          3.00          0.31          5.31
1    (0.00)         (1.65)       (2.80)        (0.00)        (4.45)
"'Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component             Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank      Govt.     CoF.      Bank      Govt.     CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
Cairo Office             0 41      0 39               0.40      0.36              97.6   92.3
Red Sea Office           0 36      0.25               0.36      0.22              100.0  88 0
CZM Plan                 0 63      0.09               0 61      0.08              96.8   88.9
E1A                      0 19      0 02               0.18      0.02              94.7   100.0
Pollution Control        0.55      0.05               0.52      0.04              94.5   80.0
Recreation Area mgt      0 98      0.06               0.93      0.05              94 9    83.3
Protected Area           1.24     0.11                1.20      0.08              96 8   72.7
CZM Program review       0 14     0.01                0 13      0.01              92.9   100.0
Adv. Comm & Network      0 13      0.00               0.12      0.00              92.3    0.0
Contingencies            0 12      0 00               0 00      0.00               0.0    0 0
- 20 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 21 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty       Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year   Count         Specialty                  Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
04/1992
Appraisal/Negotiation
09/1992
Supervision
06/19/1995                3   SR FINANCIAL ANALYST                        S
(1), CONSULTANT (2)
01/31/1996                4   SR. FINANCIAL ANALYST                       S
(I); ENVIRONMENT
SPECIALIST (1);
CONSULTANT (2)
07/18/1996                2   SR. FINANCIAL ANALYST                       S
(1); SR. ENVIRONMENT
SPEC. (1)
02/28/1997                3   SR. FINANCIAL ANALYST                      U
(I); SR. ENVIRONMENT
SPEC. (1); ENGINEER (1)
07/10/1997                2   SR. FINANCLAL ANALYST                       S
(1); SR. ENVIRONMENT SPC.
(1)
12/17/1997                2   SR. FINANCIAL ANALYST                       S
(1); SR. ENVIRONMENT SPC.
(1)
06/29/1998                2   SR. OPERATIONS MANAGER                      S
(1); SR. NATURAL
RESOURCES (1)
09/17/1998                2   SR. OPERATIONS MANAGER                      S
(1); SR. NATURAL
RESOURCES (1)
09/24/1999                2   FIN. MGT. SPECIALIST (I);                   S
SR. ENV. SPECIALIST (1)
02/18/2000                2   FIN. MGT SPECIALIST (1), SR.                S
ENV. SPECIALIST (1)
07/28/2000                3   FINANCIAL MGT SPEC. (1);                    S
SR. ENV. SPECIALIST (1);
OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
03/07/2001                4   FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT                        S
(1); SR. ENVIRONMENTALIST
(1); ENVIRONMENTALIST (1),
PROJECT OFFICER (1)
05/24/2001                1   FIN. MGT.SPEC./TTL (1)                      S
11/05/2001                2  TASK TEAM LEADER (1); SR.                    S
ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC (1)
04/10/2002                2   FIN. MGT SPEC./TTL (1); SR.                 S
- 22 -



ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC (1)
ICR
11/2002                     2    SR. ENVIRONMENTAL                               S
SPEC (1), FIN.MGT SPEC
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                                            7.3
Appraisal/Negotiation                                                58 9
Supervision                                                        386.2
ICR                                                                  16.2
Total                                                               468.6
-23 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                        O H  OSUM      O N  O NA
FSector Policies                       OH   O SU OM    O N  O NA
Z Physical                             O H     SUOM    O N  O NA
O Financial                            O H  OSUOM       ) N  O NA
(9 Institutional Development           0 H  0 SU (b M 0 N   0 NA
O Environmental                        O H  O SU O M   O N O NA
Social
0 Poverty Reduction              O H  OSUOM O N       (D NA
0 Gender                         O H  OSUOM      O N  e NA
O Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
'? Private sector development          0 H O SU O M    O N   0 NA
O Public sector management             0 H 0 SU @D M   0 N   0 NA
O Other (Please specify)               OH   OSUOM O N        O NA
-24 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6 1 Bank performance                               Rating
Z Lending                                          OHS OS       *U    OHU
M Supervision                                      OHS * S      O U   O HU
Z Overall                                          OHS OS       O U   O HU
6 2 Borrower performance                           Rating
* Preparation                                      OHS OS       OU    OHU
* Government implementation performance            O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
? Implementation agency performance                O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
* Overall                                          OHS OS       O U   O HU
- 25 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1.    Memorandum of the Director for a Egyptian Red Sea Coastal and Marine Resource
Management Project, November 20, 1992, report number 11131 - EGT;
2.    Inception Report - December 1996;
3.    Baseline Studies Report - August 1997;
4.    Draft Coastal Management Action Plan - January 1998;
5.    Protected Areas Management Plan - May 1998;
6.    Reef Recreation Management Plan - May 1998;
7.    Final Coastal Zone Management Action Plan - September 1998;
8.    International Visitor Center Evaluation Report;
9.    Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports and PSRs;
10.   Project Progress Reports.
-26 -



IBRD 24065R
- 30O  -             30'  Su                  320                        3A0
CARo4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 
CAIRO                                                       ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT     300
COASTAL ZONE
MANAGEMENT PROJECT
r/|z /3 PROPOSED MULTIPLE USE AREA
T\                     \zz )                       ta /               5   PROPOSED PROTECTED AREA
- \  ,)jfPAVED ROADS
ST KA11-I*ERIN )- - - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
-28  El Minya                                                                                     28-
KILOMETERS
RAS MOHAMMED             I       II           I
NATIONAL PARK           I
0          50        100
MILES
Asyut                       Hurgha
Th. booo7h .o., co-1-,
\t            V jYY                         \          c'@nomenobons ond o<V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~il. olo,oooo bo.,oo
obcooop do Woool opy, onis
pool of Th. W0.id 8ook Gonop
fago~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1Y11fm# ao
X                      X    ra9     ~~              ~     ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~0 \h, _ rt<,_+-
such bouodonoo
260                                                    si                                         26-
Esna 8                               Alam 
jKom Ombo
(                  ~   ~   ~    ~~~~HAMA                    20
240                                                                                               240-
220-
*                       S~~~~~ U D A  N
320                           340                           36
SEPTEMBER 1994









Typa:     M



