Republic of Belarus
Siodiversity Protection Project
Project Document
September 1992
TH WLD BAK



GEF Documentation
The Global Environment Facility (GEF) assists developing countries to protect
the global environment in four areas: global warming, pollution of international waters,
destruction of biodiversity. and depletion of the ozone layer. The GEF is jointly implemented
bythe United Nations Oevelopment Programme, the United Nations Environment Programme,
and the W'orld Bank.
GEF Working Papers - identified by the burgundy band on their covers - provide
general information on the Facility's work and more specific information on methodological
approaches. scientific and technical issues. and policy and strategic matters.
GEF Project Documents - identified by a green band - provide extended project-
specific information. The implementi,g agency responsible for each project is identified by
its logo on the cover ot the document.
Reports by the Chairman - identified by a blue band - are prepared by the Office of
the GEF Administrator in collaboration with the three CEF implementing agencies for the
biannual Participants' Meetings.
The GEF Administrator
1818 H Street, NW
Washington. DC 20433 USA
Telephone: (202) 473-1053
Fax: (202) 477-0551



125 BSs Rbb - US$ 1
WGWUS AND -W~
The metrlc *yat _ir used throughout this report.
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ACU   -     Adminltrative Coordination Unit
BNP   -     Belovezhakaya National Park (Delarus)
BPF   -     Bialowieza Primeval Forest
cIS   -     Commonwealth Independent States (Belarus and Poland)
ECU   -     European Currency Unit
EC    -     Zuropear. Communlty
G3F   -     Global Environmental Facility
GIs   -     Geographic Information System
GDP   -     Gross Domestic Product
IBRD  -     International Bank for Reconstruction and Developmnt
-CB   -     International Competitive Biddlng
IMF   -     International Monetary Fund
LCB   -     Local Competitive Bidding
NaB   -     Man and the Biosphere Program
PMU   -     Project Management Unit
son   -     Statement of Expenditure
TA    -     Technical Assistance
THU   -     Technical Management Unit
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



Gran     fqpi S_ mmr
Gr_e;tu:           Global EBironmental Faciwit
Repbic of  l ! -is
Ansumb             US$1.0 mini.m
Terms:             Grant from Global Enviromena Facility
O.leud'ng:         Not applicable
Fbladng Plan:
Local    Foregn       Total
Source                        (USS Million)
GEF Grant                               0.5         0.5        1.0
Committed Bilateral Grants              0.0         0.0        0.0
Govermment                              .25         0.0 o2
TOTAL                           0.75         0.5       1.25
Economic Rate of
Return:            Not calculated, though substantial economic and environmental benefits.
Staff Technical
Report:            Report No. 11042-BY dated August 21, 1992
Map:              IBRD R Map No. 24132



MEMORANDu AND RECOMMDATION OF Tim DIrER
OF THE CENItAL ASIA DEpAaTmIEN
OFr 7
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSImRUCnoN AND DEVELoMENT
To 1W RBGIONAL Vx3 Puma=
ON A GRANT FROm TE GLoAL ENv VoNmiNr TRU  FtPND
TO 7E REUDc Of RAMA
FOR A Fomgr Dnwr  oTN PROGRAM
Backsround
1.    The forests of the Belovezlskaya National Park (adjacent to the Bialowieza Primeval Forest in
Poland) are among the most important and unique in Europe.' The last remnant of the vast lowland
European forest now found only at Bialowieza are the most important of these disappearing biological
treasures. These areas remain because of the protection afforded their fauia by regal hunters since the
tenth century. However, this rationale has disappeared with the royalty to be replaced by a broader
appreciation of the values of such rare resouices:
they offer a glimpse at the environmental "baseline" in which European civilization was
forged;
they house threatened and endangered species and eco-system processes found nowhere
else;
*      they are at the margins of distribution for several commercially important forest species
such as Norway spruce, and can clarify questions of adaptability important to their
management;
*      they are the only sites of some genetic material of importance (e.g. the best adapted trees,
the healthiest soil fauna and flora) to renewable resource management, and the restoration
of polluted natural systems;
*     they are still of a viable size and can therefore offer the best opportunities to explore the
preservation and management of natural forests in Europe;
*      they can serve as models for the planning and management of shared transboundary
resource systems. The initiative recently taken by a local joint bilateral (Poland and
Republic of Belarus) technical group can constitute a model which is of benefit to other
such protected areas.
2.    If such areas are to be protected, even reclaimed, several issues which have lead to their current
status will need to be addressed. These issues make this GEF Project particularly tim-ly and useful.
1/ These forests Nave become a major source of germplasm for the afforestation of the rest of Europe.



-2-
Pollution is one problem. Inefficient and inappropriate land uses have resked in accelerating human
rdated incuniom and   _Rad_ftial   rA    arem   bere. More benin  ad ums which are
compatible with the natural resource base need to be encouraged, even as the tendency to high-grade for
short term gin Iam ineremvmiy evid.s with oh. dsocaiom of tbe tfuiiom to modem mriu
econemis. A mix of smch appropfiate land uses will sield the sawn saiorum-aruas under strict
proton. This Project is paticularly timely for Bdelar  foresters and ecologists wbo wll benefit from
some of the modern approaches to biodiversity consvation and man            t emerging thrt the
world.
3.     This addial program to widen the protecton program for the Biaowea  Primeval Foret,
whose estimated cost is $1 million, would support a biodiversity management program to protect the
forest ecosystem on the abutting 87,000 ha, located in the Republic of Belarus (see Map 2). Specific
investments and technical services to be supported under this program would be developed in the
quarterly meetings of the Joint Scientific Committee (Poland and the Republic of Belarus) to imnprove the
management of the full area on both sides of the border.
Rationale for GEF Involvement
4.      This project supports the environmental policy framework. The Belovezhskaya forests of Western
Belarus are important zones of ecological biodiversity. These key endangered forests are sites of
international importance being among Europe's largest expanse of remaining natural forests and areas
of high endemism.2
.      The GEF project has been accorded high priority by Government.  However, funds are not
available from government sources to carry out the work proposed here and the government does not
want to borrow external resources for it at market rates of interest. The GEF project would pco ide the
Government with urgently needed support to assess the environmental damage to Belarus' forests.
6.     There is a global environmental benefit.  These forests contain rare, endemic species found
nowhpre else. Of particular significance, as a model for many similar areas around the world, is the
attempt to treat in an integrated fashion, four major levels of biodiversity-at the molecular level with
ex-situ genome conservation at the species level (e.g., research to delineate the seasonal ranges of species
such as the European bison and lynx), at the habitat or community level with the identification and
incorporation of current!y unprotected forest associations, and at the landscape level with the bufKer zone
land use planning. The activation of the MaB will integrate this Project with activities at other MaB sites
around the world. The Belovezhskaya shares transboundary ecosystems, and the models developed for
its integrated management will be of international utility. The global significance of the two areas
initially selected is confirmed and supported by their designations by UNESCO as possible Biosphere
Reservies, and the World Wildlife Fund (International) by being identified among the "existing ecological
bricks" of Europe.
2/ Endemism means that the population of a plant or an animal species which is isolated to some extent has formed a common gene
pool by the interaction of the ecological factors with the genetic structure of the population during evolution. The result is an
indigenous population being highly adapted to the site and containing genetic structures different from populations within the range
where gene flow is frequenL An area of high endemism in an area, in which many populations of plant or animal species occur
showing this mode of evolution and adaption.



7.    This Project will constitute a contribution to the GEF Portfolio. In its efforts to preserve global
biodiverity, the GEF will enounter more of the mu ises bn  ddessed in Ihis rjct.
It will also frequently encounter the nred to balance in-situ and ex-situ preservation with innovative
Wtd_ss. It will, in pa_ticular, fae tbe confcting d_nands of a reside  population which can be a
fome either for furdter eroding biodiversity or a potet ally in its preservation. In the  ways, the
poge  of this Pojet  will be gemane to ongoing activiti  of the GEF and hive utility a a test bed.
These will not be a one-off or eccentric set of activities.
8.    The proposed GEF project will initiate programs to conserve the biodiversity of key endangered
orests and to link these efforts to ongoing GEF supported work in the abutting Bialowieza Primeval
Forest in Poland. It will provide institutional support to the Council of Ministers, the National Park and
the Committee of Ecology, to undertake biodiversity conservation management activities.
9.    The Project would start with an ecological perspective and would investigate both in-situ and ex-
situ options to conserve biodiversity. This would entail a program approach involving scientific study
of the flora and fauna of the selected key endangerea forests, including threats to their viability from
human pressures and detailing options to ensure the conservation of species considered at risk.
Project Description
10.   The GEF operation would supporn Belarus' effort to protect its forest ecosystems. Selection of
the parks, reserves and zones under the proposed project are based on agreed conservation priorities.
Project investments include:
(i)   insitutional sup- ort to the Belovezhskaya National Park, Council of Ministers and the
Comnittee of Ecology to enable it to carry out its biodiversity conservation management
activities including the establishment of facilities for a biodiversity protection program
for the Bialowieza Primeval Forest ecosystem located in Belarus and scientific linkages
to the ongoing GEF work in the abutting Bialowieza Plimeval Forest in Poland; and
(ii)   investment in  programs to preserve endangered forest ecosystems for biodiversity
conservation through provision of funding  for pilot investments in air and soil
monitoring equipment, land planning (GIS) equipment, air and soil monitoring equipment
(fixed and mobile), protected area planning, financial support for a program for
supporting transition to ecological agriculture for farms operating within the BPF, and
professional development, training and consulting services.
Agreed Actions
11.   During negotiations on the Grant Agreement, assurances were obtained as follows:



(a)   Joint S_edi       Cotee  The Council of Ministers shall establish a Joint Scienifc
4o.mittee no kawer tdu Marca 1, 1993.
(b)    Gr   11ios   The Ga wold be declmi fhetive upeon r iom of
docuetation satisfactory to the Bank  th the Proje  Technical Mngl*er and
Adminltriadve MHnger have bo  appoimd and a seprte project account, s*ject to
iionally accepted  di  standard, has bee esabished.
(c)    Accsob  A separate account wwld be established in a conmWcia bank for the project
prior to diburl_mn   of the grant. Tk  ccount would be odited llmfly by an
auditing firm acceptable to the Bank.
(d)    Project Managemnt A Technical Management Unit (TMU) woulld be established at
the level of the Belovezhskaya National Park and a Project Adnilnistiative Coordination
Unit 'ACU), prior to disbursement of the grant.
(e)   Joint Coordinaton Program This joint "coordinatior. program" would specify the joint
conservation management actions to be taken by each party. A side letter to the Belarus
grant agreement would be prepared on this issue and agreed during negotiations. A
similar side letter would be prepared and sent to the Polish Government prior to the
Belarus negotiations as a clarifying amendment to their December 12, 1991 agreement
with the GEF.
Benefits
12.   The principal benefits are to protect a zone of substantial inteinational ecological irnportance.
The Bialowieza Primeval Forest in Poland and the adjoining Belovezhskaya National Park in Belarus are
unique in Europe and a source of endemic biodiversity.
13.  lInovation is fostered by the integration of the various levels of biological diversity to address
issues in conservation planning (as described above), by the unique (for Belarus) collaboration of groups
from a variety of interests in addition to foresters in issues of forest planning and management, for the
balancing of ex-situ with in-situ approaches to biodiversity conservation, and by the use of consultation
at the local level in the identification of viable land uses compatible with the preservation of endangered
natural systems. Technically, the Project will break new ground in the development of the preservation
of genetic material and in the applications of GIS and simplified methods of digital processing.
14.   The Project is designed for sustainability. The long-term viability is achieved through the
building of institutions within Belarus, including some which are relatively disenfranchised but important
to biodiversity such as the National Park and Protected Reserve Managements. Another facet which is
designed to ensure a Project legacy are the training and professional development components. The goal
of sustainable revenue generation activities based on consultation with residents who would engage in
these activities is another way of ensuring longevity of interventions. These activities are premised on
their compatibility with the preservation of biodiversity. They include nature and culture-based tourism,
the selling of rninor forest products, harvesting game, balancing unev.n-aged, small-scale forest



production with ntural regenration, and other economically sound and envim nlly compatible
1S.   There is a demonai   value and replicability throh the use of begrad p1 , of d w
echnologis, and the deveopmem of Wd2W organi ationl Mtcm    hich fosaritraiona resoc
fm uw qppoahe. As a test of this qpoh to rego1 kss in biodie , the Prject ca
ha  upifmt diamo    value.



16.   The major risks are primarily technical and nmanaerial, technical in that the basic approach to
blotvea*y priecion In the DlvkhasNational Park be fhztbe delayed, rerju1lr !n contulnuzg
blodiverulty degradation of the ecosytem, and mnivagerial in that Govermnmen salre are extremely low
reuktig in the top wctanton and tcchnimciasepected to manauge and inykmat the projec leaving
Govermugu and hisitt servic. Ie project wondmitgt thes ris  by ktblhvg d projec
inI192 ad 993 to initiatethWs protecion progammand by providing hzndIg to supporfttework of the
key scientists and technicians working on the ;:ojact.
Enviromnental Assessamet
17.   The Project has been reviewed by the Regional Enviromnment Division and it has been placed in
the enviromnment screening category 'B". Monitoring and evaluation are built into the temis of reference
for the Project Management who will be reporting on a quarterly basis. Another node of Quality
Assessment and Control is the proposed small secretariat at Belovezhskava National Park which would
work closely with the unit in the Bialowieza Primeval Forest in Poland to jointly foster its UNESCO
designation as a "Man and the Biosphere" Reserve (MaB). There are built-in quality control and
monitoring elements because of the research which will be published in peer-reviewed journakc of
international quality. The international Jonint Scientific Review Commnittee will review the Project and
its progr,.;ss on a semi-annual basis.
Attachments



- 7-
BBLARUS
N MOMS= P_
COST ESTIMTES
(Curfa US$ TbounY_)
USS in Thousands
Local Foreign Total
A. Belo vezbskaya Natonal Park
1. Conservation of Biological Diversity       20      205    225
2. BPF Protection and Management               26     212    238
3. Geographical Infermation System (GIS)        9      191    200
4. Ecological Farmini, in Buff- Zone           23      28      50
5. Pollution Monitoring & Mitigation            0      100    100
6. Coordination w/ Poland                      20        0     20
7. Professional Development & Training          0       70     70
8. Support of a Bialowieza Foundation           0       I5     15
Sub-Total                              97      810
B. Bereziusky and Pripiatsky Protected Reserves      50       50    100
C. Project Manaement                                 80       S0    130
D. Johit Scientfic Review  Co    e                    7       13      20
Total BA.SELINE COSTS                               234      923
Physical Contingency                           11      44      55
Price Contingencies                             8      32      40
Total PROJECT COSTS                                 253      9"   1,250



MALSS.
SCHEDULE OF DI SEMS OF GEF GRANT
amS Thommib)
flImD                              IS & DP'        Otlel           Total
(1)  GIS, Air Monitoring and                    400.0           -             400.0
Supporing Equipnnt,                       (400.0)          -            (400.0)
(2)  Technical Assistance                        -              400            400
-            (400)          (400)
(3)  Salaries, Operations and                    -              450            450
Maintenance                                 -             (200)          (200)
TOTAL                                    400            9=0           1,250
(400)          (600)         (1,000)
NOTE: FIGURES IN PARENTHESIS ARE GEF GRANT
/ Im enational Shopping an Direct Purchas.
2/ Includes srvices procured under Bank s consultwv guidtlines.
KHEDUL'S
DISBURSEMENT
Disbursement
1ten                 Amount
'US$ millon)   % Facing
(1)  Goods and Equipment            0.3           100 %
(2)  Technical Assistance           0.3           100 %
(3)  Salaries, Operations &
Maintenance                    0.3           100 %
(4)  Un-allocated                   0.1
TOTAL                       1.0



-9.
EID JICAL YEAR
193       194       19
Annual              0.3       0.4       0.3
C, ulative          0.3       0.7       1.0
Closing Date: October 31, 1M
KHEDULE E
BELARUS
FOREST BI)DIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
(a) Time Taken to Prepare ...........          ............. 3 months
(b) Prepared by Council of Ministers and Committee of Ecology with Bank Assistance
(c) First Bank Mission ..........           .............. June 1992
(d) Appraisal Mission Departure ........................  July 1992
(e) Negotiations ...................... .. September 14-18, 1992
(f) Planned Daue of Effectiveness: ..................... October 30, 1992
(g) List of Relevant PCRs and PPARS  ........................  None



GWA
FAOIZrT
BELARUS
FOREST BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
TECHNICAL REPORT
December, 1992
Project Document



FORRSTRY BIODIVERSITY PROTE =.l  OJECT
Table of Contents
I.  ~IE~IND.IT.D   *. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 1
II. T=E FOREST AND WILDLIFZ SECTOR AND THE ENVIRONMBNT       .        .    5
A. Forest Resources . . . .                                . . . . .    5
B. Biodiversity in Perspective  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ..  6
C. Forest Biodiversity on the Belarus-Polish Border .      . . . . . . . .   7
D. Priority Areas for Protection .          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. Berezinsky and Pripiatsky Nature Reserves .        . . . . . . . . . . . 8
III. THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .9
A. Summary Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
B. Beloveshkaya Primeval Forest ................. . .   9
C.  Berezinsky and Pripiatsky Reserves . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
D.  Detailed Project Description ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   10
E.  Project Costs and Financing  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   21
F.  Procurement  .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   23
G. Disbursement .......................... .  24
H.  Accounting, Reporting and Auditing ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   24
I.  Monitoring, Supervision and Evaluation Plan  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  24
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
V.  NEGOTIATIONS. EFFECTIVENESS AND DATED COVENANTS IN THE GRANT AGREEMENT ,6
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS TO BIODIVERSITY IN BELARUS  . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
ANNEXES:
1. Monitoring, Supervision and Evaluation Plan
2. Geographic Information System (GIS) Mapping of the
Belovezhskaya Primeval Forest
3. Detailed Project Costs
4. Conservation Management Plan
5. Institutional Responsibilities
6. Ecological Agriculture
MAPS:
1. SBlovezhskaya Primeval Forest (IBRD Map No. 24132)



FOREST BIODIVRSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
TECHNICAL REPORT
I   INTRODUCTION
1.1    This project is the first phase of a new offort by Belarus to protect its
endang-red forest ecosystem.   It will initiate programs to conserve the
biodiversity of key endangered forest counities of the Belovezhskaya Primeval
Forest and will provide institutional support to the Supr m Soviet of Belarus'
Council of Ministers Committee for Ecology to undertake biodiversity conservation
management activities.
1.2    The forests of Belarus are important to the Republic.  The Republic of
Belarus, with 10.3 millon persons living on 20 million ha, has 8.1 million ha of
forests, equal to approximately 34% of its land area.  The forested area was
increased from 23% in 1945 to 34% in 1973 and has been stabilized at this l-vel
since. Belarus protects nearly one-third of its forests from commercial cutting,
classifying 1.7 million ha through the following types of reserves: National
Parks and Protected Landscapes (363,400 ha)1, greenbelts around cities and towns
(450,000 ha), protected nature reserves (689,700ha)2, and watershed protection
belts (250,000 ha).
1.3    The Chernobyl incident has had significant impact on the Belarus forgets
with 1,286 million ha (20% of the total forest) being contaminated. A: a result,
in 1988 some 142,800 ha of this impacted area was designated as the Polesuky
Radiological/Ecological Protected Reserve.   Fortunately, there have been no
measurable impacts of Chernobyl on the proposed Bialowieza Primeval Forest
project.
1.4    Five percent of the land area of Belarus is wetland.   Of this, one
million hectares, 312,000 is currently protected. This protection includes the
Pripiatiky State Landscape and the Wetland Protected reservation of 63,000 ha as
well as an expansion of the protected lands to include wetlands in the
Belovezhskaya Puscha. A scheme has been launched to protect a further 712,000
ha of wetlands by the year 2010.
1.5    The last remnants of the vast lowland European forest now found only at
Belovezhskaya are the most important examples of these disappearing Belarus
biological treasures.  These areas remain because of the protection afforded
their fauna by regal hunters since the tenth century. However, this rationale
has disappeared with the royalty, to be replaced by a broader appreciation of the
values of such rare resources:
/ Selovezhskays Pusehe (1939), Berezinsky ""an and the Biosphere Reserve" ('925), Pripiatsky Landscape am
Wetland Protected Reserve (1969) and most recentLy, the Polessky Radiological/ECoLogical Protected Reserve
(1988).
2/ Byelorussfa also protects 152 relics of nature and 70 state owned protected areas, incLuding 6 hunting
areas, 6 Landscape parks, 12 botanical gardens of wild medicinal plants, 20 protected cranberry bogs, 15
wettlnds, 2 zoologIcat and 7 blotogical sanctuaries, I mrial and I prsteeted ferest ame, with a totat
area of 5.1X of the Republic. These areas,together with the national parks, contain 67X(1032) of the flora
of the country, including 51 of the 80 species in the Red Book of Endangered Species of Belarus.



2
they of for a glimpse at the environmental wbasellne* in which
European civilisation was forged;
they hous  threatead and endang red specios and system proceses
found nowhere else;
they are at the margins of distribution for several commercially
important forest species such as Norway spruce, and can clarify
questions of adaptability Lmportant to their manage,nt
they are the only sitoa of some gmnetic material of importance
(. g. the best adapted trees, the healthi-et soil fauna and flora)
to renewable resource management, and the restoration of polluted
natural systems;
they are still of a viable size and can therefore offer the best
opportunities to explore the preservation and management of
natural forests in Europe;
they are a recognized priority of the Government ana people of
Belarus, as well as of international conservation organizations
such as the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) (a "Green Lung of Buropew)
and UNESCO (as a proposed "Man and the Biosphere" site);
they can serve as models for the planning and management of shared
international resource systems. The initiative recently taken by
a local joint bilateral (Poland and the Republic of Belarus)
technical group can constitute a model which is of benefit to
other such protected areas.
1.6    There are several innovative and unique features of the B-larus Project:
the newly independent republics of the former Soviet Union have
a remarkably diverse natural patrimony which is increasingly at
risk. Furthermore, several environmental issues confront these
countries. Among them are threats to one of the most extensive
and well tended systems of nature preserves in the world - the
"zapovedniki"3.   These  "zapovedniki"  house  a vast range of
biological diversity.   Their status as strict preserves has
sometimes fostered both local resentment and/or the desire to
exploit the natural resources in the difficult economic transition
which is occurring.   They are coveted by both neighbors and
Central authorities.  This Project is an attempt to develop a
specific working model for enfranchising these invaluable sites
in a CIS State through establishing their value as natural areas.
The model will be broadly useful in the emerging states of the
region and is therefore timely;
I/ Strict Preservs - over 144 or nearly 2 mitlion ha exist in the CIS states.



3
the forest is the only home for several threatened species or
populations threatened with extinction  e.g. the European bison).
This forest is the last remnant of a type of landscape and
associated comuniti-e which covered much of Central and  astern
Europe.
* sveral biological issues exist only in the D,loveuhakaya which
are not only important for the species concrned, but which are
significant well beyond the borders of this forest. for example,
a fatal disease of the bison is only found here. Knowledge about
this scourge is important to healthy populations of bison in North
America and to *mo   of the most important commenrals of man -
domestic cattle and other bovines. Its etiology and cure are not
yet clear, but it must be studied at Belovezhskaya;
because this is the last intact remnant of a widespread forest
type, it is the only place on earth where ethnobotanical work on
traditional uses of forest products 'e.g. as a pharmacopeia and
garden)  can take place.   The local population has not yet
fundamentally altered its forest use, although modernization is
a threat to both the forest and traditions;
the Belovezhskaya is at the meeting point of Western European and
Continental European flora and fauna. Because some species such
as Silver Fir, and Norway Spruce are at the limits of their ranges
at the Belovezhskaya, their genetic variability and adaptiveness
can only be studied at such sites.
* finally, work in Belarus is a key step in the emerging effort to
achieve economies of scale and minimize the time taken for
addressing disappearing resources through a series of recional
activities through GEF Projects.
1.7    If such areas are to be protected through reclamation and restoration,
several issues which have led to their current status will need to be addressed,
making the GEF Project timely. A concern of resource managers and foresters is
the possibility of the Central Government logging the site for revenue in the
difficult economic transition ahead. Such trans-boundary issues are common for
this part of Europe and solutions derived will have more general application.
A central issue is the development of an appreciation and delivery of actual
benefits of the local population from the forest. Neighbors can pose a long-term
threat if they are systematically excluded from reaping any of the benefits of
a large area set aside for specific uses.
1.8    This Project involves the surrounding rural population in both the
planning and benefits of the Project and the stimulation of small nature-based
enterprises. Such enterprises would provide alternative incomes and be designed
to support the conservation of the protected area adjacent to the buffer or
surrounding zone.
1.9   The 80,700 ha which biaffers the BPF characterizes the rural Belarus life
in which traditional values persist and change has not greatly impacted life



4
styles and material culture. Although the best data is nearly 10 years old, it
in still only indicative. About 19,500 people lived in 108 villages - a density
of 24/km2.  There is one Stat- farm which tills about 27.2% of tho lard, 9.9%
being fallow in the buffer. The remainder of the landscape consists of 36%
forest, 12.3% pasture, 3.9% swamp, 1.6% water, 1.2% bush, and 7.9% unclassified.
These areas would constitute the outer planning and land use zone for the SFF and
would be the focus of the Conservation Plan. In this outer zone reaching about
5 km from the edge of the BPr, development is reviewed by the BPF staff who must,
for exmple, assess t-e environmental impacts of industrial and agricultural
development.
1.10   The Government and the people of Belarus and many in the world community
are concerned at the potential loss of critical flora and fauna in parts of
Belarus's forests. As a result, the Government has assistance from the Global
Environmental Facility for the identification, development and financing of key
biodiversity protection and management msasures. Even though there is a sense
of urgency to start this project, there is still time for well planned,
development approaches to protect the majority of the biological systems now
being threatened.
1.11   The Project would  investigate both in-situ and ex-situ options to
conserve biodiversity.   This would support a programmed approach involving
scientific study of the flora and fauna of the selected key endangered fcrests.
This program would include an analysis of the threats to their viability from
human pressures and would detail options to ensure the conservation of species
considered at risk.
1.12    While the project has been accorded high priority by Belarus, sufficient
funds are not available from government sources to carry out the urgent
biodiversity protection work proposed here.  Belarus does not want to borrow
external resources for it at market rates of interest.  This GEF pruject would
provide the Government with urgently needed additional financial resources to
develop a prooram to protect the biodiversity of plants and forests in
Belovezhskaya Primeval Forest and its buffer zones in Western Belarus (see Map
1).
1.13   Protection Strategy and Project Rationale.  At Bialowieza, the Polish
Government has designed a program to cover the biodiversity protection needs in
the Polish portion of the BPF. The agreement which initiated the application of
GEF support was signed on December 12, 1991 ($4.5 million). There are many added
scientific advantages in extending the program to cover the part of the BPF which
lies in the Republic of Belarus. For example, the movements of pollutants and
wildlife do not respect the border and cannot be understood without data from
both countries.  Therefore this relatively small (US$lM) but scientifically
important project has been identified for implementation on the Belarus side of
the border.
1.14   The objective of the GEF operation would be to suppor-  investments
(including technical services) to the Belarus Supreme Soviet Council of Ministers
Stats Comittee for gcology to carry out its biodiversity conservation managment
activities in Belarus.   The project would complement the establishment of
facilities for biodiversity protection of the Bialowieza Primeval Forest area of



5
Eastern Poland.   A critical *lement of support  is planned  for regional
initiatives which address common, recurring regional needs such as certain types
of professional development (e.g. in tourim management, geographic information
systems, small business and project management, conservation biology, social
surveys, workohop management, etc.), a common information management system, and
NaB activitios. Large economies of scale will accrue to a regional approach to
these needs.
II. THE FOREST AND WILDLIFE SECTOR AND THE ENVIRONMENT
A. Forest Resources
2.1    The Belarus commercial forests (exclusive of parks and preserves) cover
33.4% scattered throughout the national territory. The dominant species is Scots
pine. The overall age structure of the forests is skewed, with a scarcity of old
ages (generally 80-100 years depending on the species).   only 2.4% of the
commercial forest are in older age classes. The dominant species, pine, spruce,
oak, and beech, are well suited to enable Belarus to expand its position as a
producer of high quality, high value wood and wood products.
2.2    The Belovezhskaya Protected Forest Reserve  is 87,600 ha  (gradually
increased from 67,000 ha since 1957). Currently, 68,000 ha are natural, 9,500
are planted, 3,000 ha are wetlands, 1000 ha are consumed by Park infrastructure,
and 800 ha are unforested. The average stock of commercial tree species is 265
m31ha with a total stock of 20.6 million m3, 44% of which is mature. Young trees
(0-40 yrs) occupy 9,800 ha, 40-60 yrs on 30,000 ha, 60-80 yrs on 9,000 ha, and
80 yrs+ on 27,800 ha. From the data presented in paragraph 2.01, the older age
class is about 16 times more common in the more pristine forests of the
Belovezhskaya.   The species composition of the forest dominants reflects a
natural state for the once vast European lowland forest:
soecies                    %
Scots pine                55.0
Scots pine (riparian)      3.7
Norway spruce             10.3
red oak                    4.6
ash (excelsior)            1.8
hornbeam (betulosa)        0.9
birch (viricosa)           4.8
birch (oubescens)          3.4
alder (olutinosa)         15.
2.3    Ten thousand ha in the BPF of Belarus are strictly protected with no
permitted use in the core area, excluling hunting for wildlife management
purposes for which specific licenses are issued4. On the remaining abutting
77,600 ha about 25% of the more commercially attractive dead trees are salvaged.
Hunting is light and sustainable with a maximum of 300-400 red deer taken (100
y Licenses issued for huntirg in the 8PF. inclusive of the core alga generate an ar*uaL income of about
S150,000, including permits, accommodation and guide expenses.



6
last year), primarily by foreign clients, and 20 bison are culled annually by
local staff. About 30 wolves are killed each year. Encircling the 87,600 ha
forest is an additional buffer area of 90,000 ha of mixed agriculture and forest
land which is a transition buffer for the BPP. In this buffer zone coumercial
uses and developments must be assessed for their impacts by the BPF staff
Aerial application of fertilizers and pesticides is prohibited.
2.4    The system of Parks and protected areas in Belarus consists of Sakazniki
under a temporary ten year protection program until plans can be formulated and
the area is re-or declassified as Z-lonia zona (protected forests around urban
areas), Zaiov2dniki (which are strictly protected with all uses prohibited), and
National Parks (primarily protected but allow some recreation).  The BPF is
unique in the system of reserves for both the former Soviet Union and Belarus.
The "Belovezhskaya Puscha" is the only National Park in Belarus (gazetted in
1991) established both for research and for limited public access.
B. Biodiversity in Perspective
2.5    Concern is rising for the maintenance and conservation of biological
diversity. Once considered an academic subject, there is now a realization that
the maintenance of biological diversity influences and impacts the quality of
life, productivity and stability of society.
2.6    There are many definitions for biodiversity but they all have the
following common elements: biological diversity includes all living elements and
their processes in some spatial arrangement; a plot, a valley, a mountain or a
country. Biological diversity is assessed at the genetic, species and community
level. More recently, the l;andscape level has become the fourth feature.
Biological diversity also has some additional general features. These are living
systems and as such are dynamic and ever changing. They are not static in their
composition nor development over time.  Biological diversity refers to both
natural and man-made biological systems. In referring to biological diversity,
one must consider more than more numbers of individual components, but must
consider intra-and interrelationships,  interactions and processes.   Natural
events such as floods, droughts and natural fire all shape, impact and change the
dynamics of natural diversity, but rarely shiCt the stability of natural system
for very long periods of time.   In contrast, man's influence directly or
indirectly can alter permarently the stability of natural diversity.
2.7    In central Europe, including Belarus, the natural systems are subjected
to a series of ecological risks including excessive inputs of toxic pollutants,
pesticides and nutrients. Direct physical destruction of biological systems are
taking place by land clearing, compaction, poor harvesting procedures and
industrial waste.   All of these activities are drastically  shifting the
composition and structure of biological systems to an unstable condition. For
example, the forests of Belarus are currently receiving approximately five tons
of pure sulphur per km2 of forest 5
5/     Lonkiewiez et. at, 1990. National Reort on Forestry in Poland for 10th World Forestry Conoress



7
2.8    There are a number of strategies for the conservation and protection of
biodiversity. The choice of strategy or strategies will depend on the nature of
the biological system to be protected.   In Belarus, there is an array of
conditions that bust be dealt with.  As noted, mom  system   are seriously
impacted and others are not.  In addition, in the forested regions, there are
both natural and man made forests.  Som  form of forest *ane4e ut ha  been
practiced for approximtely 200 years in aelarus. An elent of this mnagement
has been the movement by man of tree seeds from on- region to another. Thus
oonservation programs for both natural and highly managed systmem would be
considered in this program.
2.9    There are two basic forest conservation systems: in-situ (conservation
in place) and ex-situ (conservatlon done outside the target area).  Whenever
possible, in-situ management is the most desirable and will constitute the focus
of activities at the BPF in Belarus. However, the forest is a rich source of
adapted plant material and will constitute a major resource for restoration
activities elsewhere. In this way, both major and minor elements of the various
biological systems can be protected as a unit. There will be less chance of
unintentional loss of essential biodiverieity with this practice.
C. Forest Biodiversity on the Belarus-Polish Border
2.10   The position of the BPF forest at the intersection of Western and
Continental Europe results in an unusually rich biological community known in
areas of forest diversity as an "ecological knot."  There are over 900 known
plant species, 220 bird species and 56 mammal species. Some guilds of mammals and
birds such as the raptors (particularly owls) and Talpidae (moles) are
particularly rich, while other species such as the wild ox (auroch) have become
extinct in the BPF.
2.11   To illustrate the significance of the forest for endangered species, of
approximately 351 European bison which reside in the former USSR, all are in
Belarus. However, the 13 Bison in Pripiatsky Nature Reserve, and the 23 Bison
in Berezinsky Nature Reserve and Biosphere Reserve do not constitute viable
breeding populations, as they are too small and suffer inbreeding, resulting in
reduced health and productivity.
2.12   Another example is the capercaillie grouse (Tetraonus gallus).  It is
particularly rare in this region and there are no breeding males on the Polish
side of the forest.   Ecological studies of habitat requirements,  captive
breeding, and transplant work needs to begin with the 25 males on the BelArus
side.
2.13   Similarly, the silver fir is represented by only 61 individuals in the
entire forest. The hydrologic factors which resulted in its decline can now be
controlled, and therefore an opportunity exists to attempt to regenerate the
species over its former range, before the provenance is lost.
2.14     Currently, the populations of ungulates are artificially maintained by
extensive, expensive artificial feeding. The 2,000 red deer, 3,000 wild boar,
200 roe deer and 100 moose are at 2 - 3 times the carrying capacity of the native
forage resources. The effects of such artificial population densities on the



8
natural pattern and processes of the forest including the dynamics of the 40
wolves and 40 lynx are not fully understood beyond a recognition of their
artificiality.
D. Priority Areas for Protection.
2.15   Belarus forestry and *nvironmntal specialists have identified several
priority forest areas for i-"ediate attention under the proposed biodiversity
protection program. In Western Belarus (See Map 1), the bulk of Project grant
finance would assist Belarus in further protecting the internationally
significant Belovezhskaya Primeval Forest (BPF).  Some limited Project grant
finance would also be provided to initiate protection efforts (linked to the BPF)
in the Berezinsky and Pripiatsky Nature Reserves.
2.16   The "Belovezhskaya" Primeval forest area on the Belarus/Polieh border
covers some 145,000 ha., one of the last remaining natural assemblages of
biodiversity in central and eastern Europe containing unique species of native
plants, forests, and animals. Of the 145,000 ha, 58,000 is in Poland and 87,000
ha in the Republic of Belarus. The Belarus area is to be proposed as a UNESCO
designated "Biosphere Reserve", while the Polish side already has biosphere
Reserve designation. Some unusual and spectacular species which represent relict
and endemic fauna and flora include the European bison, lyix, wolf, moose, masked
shrew and numerous varieties of orchids and other flora.
2.17   This forest is also of unusual ecological valLe because it lies at the
distributional limits of several important species. The adaptive tolerance and
ecological amplitude of species are often studied at the extremes of their range.
Such variability is also expressed in the genome of each species. This is a
critical consideration for species such as Norway spruce and oak which are
experiencing extreme environmental stress and require study and experimentation.
The Belovezhskaya Forest is a significant "natural" laboratory waiting to be used
in the development of packages of restoration and mitigation activities in other
regions of Belarus.
2.18   The international nature of the forest and the importance of coordinated
management also renders the Belovezhskaya forest a useful "model" for developing
coordination mechanisms essential to the survival of such transnational
resources. The movement of animals, propagules, pollutants and other important
management variables does not recognize the political boundaries, and necessitate
coordinated management across seasonal ranges.
E. Berezinsky and Pripiataky Nature Reserves
2.19   The biodiversity in two additional protection reserves, Berezinsky in
central Belarus and Pripiatsky, in southern Belarus, is also endangered.
III. THE PROJECT
3.1       The BPF represents the largest natural remnant of the vast lowland
forests which covered the greater part of the European continent. Despite human
activity since Neolithic times, it has maintained in parts its basic primeval



9
conditions.  The current natural richness and variation of the flora of BPF
provides a unique opportunity to strengthen the existing protected core area of
the BPF by better manage ent, protection from local air and water pollution and
an inclusion of the an yet unr-presented unique natural associations in the
protected area.
A. Sumary Description
3.2    The Project has the following objectives:
a. To provide the resources, financial and professional, necessarl
to ensure the maintenance of the current Belovozhckaya ProtecteJ
Forest Reserve(BPF) as nn unmodified natural system;
b. To broaden the constituency of support across government and the
public for both the protection and conservation of biological
diversity;
c. To integrate national efforts in biodiversity protection and
conservation with international support and information networks;
d. To link the Belovezhskaya Forest Protected Reserve to the
Bialowieza irimeval Forest in Poland and to maintain the linked
tranaboundary forest as an international reference area.
3.3       The project would conserve the biological diversity of the forest
ecosystems of the Belovezhskaya Primeval Forest (BPF) through two major project
initiatives, the first focussing on the BPF and the second on the Berezinsky and
Pripiatsky reserves. There are eight components of the BPF initiative, which is
the major area of focus. These are outlined below:
B.    Beloveshkaya Primeval Forest
The eight components of the BPF initiative are:
developing a number of ex-situ and in-situ conservation measures
(seed and plant parts storage end collection in-situ conservation of
native populations and the determination of genetic diversity);
developing a program of protection and management  (conservation
planning, expansion of protected areas, applied research);
implementing a Geugraphical Information System to assist with land
and conservation planning;
fostering ecological  agriculture on  farms  operating within  and
abutting the BPF;
designing a program for mitigating local air and water pollution;
furthering cooperation with Poland;



10
a  providing proft-sional developmnt and training opportunities; and
by,
providing sunport for a foundation to develop a mechanism  for on-
going funding.
C. Dereslusky and Priplatsky Reserves
3.4        The project would also fund specific linked activities in Deresinsky
and Pripiatuky reserves which are closely linked with those being implemented for
the BPF.
3.5    Imediate needa include:
an investigation of a deadly dLsease of the bison;
* an investigation of the ecology of the capercaillie grouse and the
conduct of a program to transplant the capercaillie grouse to ensure
the persistence of this population at Belovezhskaya.
a more in depth analysis of the scale of pollution from related
biotic or abiotic hazards to communities and individual plant
species.  This may be especially needed for the dominant keystone
tree species such as oak, ash, and Norway spruce as well as sensitive
plant communities. Early pollution detection is essential before
losses become permanent.
initiation of several specific training programs such as computer
uses and GIS, and new methods of the new field of conservation
biology;
collaboration with several of the transboundary studies and effort of
the Polish GEF Project - seed collection and pollution monitoring.
D. 3etailed Project Description
3.6    Component One. In-Situ and Ex-Situ Conservation in the BPF
In-situ conservation of a number of natural plant communities is weli
underway in the BPF, however, such is not the case for areas outside the
protected core of the National Park. Even within the National Park, individual
tree specie., individual trees, selected understory plants and associated fauna
are threatened. To maintain the threatened individuals, both in-situ and ex-
situ conservation strategies are proposed.  For the dominant woody species,
individual trees 200 years or older will be the highest priority for collection
and preservation of genetic material, When in-situ methods are not available nor
appropriate, then a series of ex-situ methods including clone collections from
trees 200 years or older will be initiated. Seed production orchards from these
clones for each natural site in the forest will be established. Seed production
orchards from seedlings will be established to ensure future sources of natural
material for the various sites. Long term storage of seed and pollen will be
also conducted at a variety of existing banks.



11
3.7    As knowledge accumulatoe  for leos  well known taxa, a similar program
would be initiated to maintain horbacoous plant matorial. Xvery offort will be
made to mintain natural co unitil-. The initial smuple will also include 11
species of woody shrubs and appropriate other flowering plants that are olmnnts
of natural oomunities.
3      T S o aoo  paLob the objectives of protectlng oxistiLg natural plant
coSouniti.e in the ltoest and to strengthen the natural biodiversity in the Park,
the following activities would be supported under the GUI projct.
Seed and Plant Parts Collection and Storage. ($25,000)
To ensure that only native trees are employed in both maintenance
and restoration in BPF, specialized sampling, collection, and
wsall-scale extraction equipment is required.  In the case of
forest trees, only very large trees 200 years or older will be
sampled (to ensure their native character). To ensure that this
material is viable at some future date, long term low temperature
storage is required for seeds, pollen, and plant parts.
In-Situ Conservation of Native Populations. ($50,000)
Conservation of native populations will be maintained in part by
the establishment of common gardens in their native sites in order
to procure seods for future restoration activities.  A 1.2 ha
clonal seed production stand will be developed for maintaining the
progeny from 200 year old or older Scots pines and other species.
The existing facilities for holding ungulates will be configured
as experimental pens for food habit/nutrition and veterinary
studies.  Likewise, holding facilities for breeding threatened
gallinaceous birds (e.g. capercaillie grouse) will be developed
with appropriately trained keepers.
Determination of Genetic Diversity. ($50,000)
It is now feasible to determine the genetic structure and
diversity of selected individual plants and animals, as well as
their populations by means of Lso-enzyme scanning and separation
equipment.   Working, closely with associated Universities  in
Belarus, varilous plant and animal population. will be individually
identified through these methods.   Endangered  animals with
confused heritage and small isolated populations which are at
genetic risk such as the bison and lynx, will also be evaluated,
coordinated with ongoing work at zoological parks, and stud books
updated.
3.9    Component Two. Protection and Management.
To support the protection of a viable and complete primeval forest at
Beloveshskaya, six activities would be supported under the GZF Project:



12
Conservation Planning  ($215,000)
"Conservation" is generally defined as "wins use."  It is used
herein to mean a carefully planned mix of wise use and selective
protection of natural resourcos in and around the OPP,   The
relationship of the Conservation Management Plan to the goals of
the C03 project stated on page 2, is that the planning process
will build on the results of the individual project components to
fully  achieve  the  goals  inherent  in  the  protection  of
biodiversity. The research components and the development of the
GI8 capability are examples of this interrelationship, and the
Conservation Management Plan will provide the longer term
framework for the protection of the bioliversity of the BPF.
PLANNING         IMPLEMENTATION       MONITORING AND
PLAN REVISION
GOALS   OBJECTIVES  STRATEGIES   TACTICS      PRODUCT'S
The Ccnservation Plan will function to insulate the strictly
protected areas of remnant natural forest ecosystems from
incompatible land uses and accidental introduction of exotic
species. It will also permit the continued existence of native
species, such as bison, wolf, and avifauna whose ranges exceed the
area (10,000 ha) under strict protection (Map 1). In keeping with
the Man and Biosahere designation, uses which do not compromise
the natural forest ecosystem, but which afford residents of the
area economically attractive activities will be carefully planned
and zoned. Project funds will support an inventory of public
knowledge, desires, capabilities and needs, the development of
supporting data and descriptions of candidate land uses, zoning
and mapping,  and a training/education component.   To ensure
coordination with the ten-year planning cycle of the BPF as well
as regional and National land use planning, $10,000 of the funds
allocated for this element will be used for a consultancy with the
Central Planning Institute which is reaponsible for all planning.
A Conservation Plan will be developed which examines ,he
technical, institutional, environmental, social and economic
aspects of the conservation of the Belarus part of the
Belovezhskaya forest. The plan will have three main goals:
(a)    the conservation and management of the area's natural
ecosystems and habitats;
(b)    the conservation and management of the area's natural
(water, land, biological), historical and cultural resources
in a sustainable multi-goal/multi-use context. Specifically
this implies the -onservation of biodiversity, the concerns of



13
the needs of the local population, and associated touristic,
urban, and agricultural developments; and,
(o)    the evaluation of related development schemes from tho
perspective of conservation and *ustainablo development. This
will involve reviewing their economic viability, social impact
and environmental implications.
The plan will provide a framework for implm_entation and will
lnitiate a process in which all concerned parties will have a
chance to participate.   It will also propose  to government
authorities a practical strategy, technical methodology ard
adaptations to existing institutional structures to ensure
sustainable development and conservation of natural and cultural
resources in and around the area. It will ensure clarity of goals,
objectives, strategies and factors in the common understanding of
tasks, responsibilities and authorities for all participants. This
is essential for morale as well as efficiency.
Project funds will support an inventory of public knowledge,
desires, capabilities and needs, the development of supporting
data and descriptions of candidate land uses, zoning and mapping,
and  a training/education  component.    The  conservation  plan
objectives will be to provide guidelines to decision makers, at
the Republic and local levels, for the conservation of crucial and
irreplaceable natural ecosystems and cultural resources, while
assisting in creating an ecologically and economically viable
future for the area's human population.
The Planning Process will involve the following phases:
(a)    Identification of the significant resources of the BPF,
the agricultural lands around the BPF, and the threats and
trends on these resources;
(b)    Development of appropriate management objectives for
the  sustainable  protection  of  these  resources.    These
objectives will be measurable indicators which will reflect
the goals of the project (page 2).   They can be used in
project monitoring and supervision;
(c)    Development  of  appropriate  management  strategies,
including the investigation of a legislative basis to support
the provisions of the final plan;
(d)    Production of a Draft Conservation Plan and a public
consultation process; and,
(e)    Production  of  a  final  plan  and  acceptance  by
government.



14
Methodology - It is expected that the Conservation Plan will be
produe-d within 18 months from the start of the GEF project. A
Steering Comittoe would be established to manage the project and
a consultancy team composed mainly of local consultants would be
assembled for the project. The project will need to a adopt a
multi-disciplinary approach. An initial planning workshop would
be held in May, 1993 with wide participation to refine the goals,
issues and Terms of Reference for the project and detail the scope
of the plan activities and the planning process.
Assistance will be sought from appropriate government agencies,
particularly the Planning Institute which is currently developing
a ten year plan for the region. In addition, academic institutions
will be involved in the plan's preparation.
Meetings will be held at each stage of the planning process, with
relevant senior government officials to discuss and refine their
tentative observations, conclusions, and recommendations. These
discussion meetings will enable the planning team both to receive
information and to discuss ideas and issues. The meetings will
operate at the local and national level.  Locally, government
staff, representatives and members from community groups and
resource users such an farmers, forest managers  and potential
business enterprises will be contacted.
Annex 4 further identifies the planning activities and tasks and
provides a proposed Conservation Plan format.
The Expansion of Protected Areas to Include Remaining Natural
Associations ($15,ooo)
The viability of such a small area needs to be further protected.
On the Polish side, only 35 percent of the natural forest
associations enjoy strict protection. The remainder is vulnerable
to  timber  harvesting  activities.    However,  they  have been
identified and once located, can be protected.  In the Belarus
BPF, the location of endangered remnant communities needs to be
investigated  through  a  survey  of  relict  natural  forest
associations and rare taxa.
Supporting Applied Research. ($100,000)
Because of the urgency of protecting the biodiversity of the BPF
and the considerable information from three decades of research
in the area, the identification of areas for protection can be
made.   However,  not enough is known about the BPF ecosystem
pattern and process to permit the designation of keystone species
and other management elements important to the Conservation Plan.
For example, a "protected area net" needs to embrace the seasonal
ranges of important wildlife species. Knowledge of nutrient and
chemical cycles will *nable the natural restoration of abandoned
marginal farmland. To achieve the biodiversity goals of the GEF
project, some initial applied research has been designed in three



15
topical areas of concern to support the other elements of the
Project:
(1)  social  and  economic  studies  of  the  deographic
characteristics of residents, their attitudes and deciaion
processes, and their uses of the natural resourc base-
(2)  fes   nattr   stuisX  of  ecosystem  composition,
distribution and structure; and
(3) studies of forest seorvat-m rocesses which define the
forest and will enable management and rehabilitation in the
buffer.
The Director and Staff of the R esarch arm at the BPI have a very
clear met of rosearch priorities which fall into the three
categories and which are completely consonant with the goals of
the GEF Project:
Highest Priorities
1. Studies of the bison disease issue, the highest priority
of all studies as the potential for a catastrophic loss is
clear;
2. Studies of the genetics, ecology, captive breeding, and
translocation of the capercaillie grouse, as well as two other
species of gallinaceous game birds. With the only remaining
25 males left in the BPF, Belarus does not wish to dilute
adapted populations by introducing genetically different
birds.
Others
1. Studies of the natural movements of the bison, theJr
tranquilization, and translocation;
2. Studies of the movements of the primary wild ungulates
(moose, roe and particularly red doer, and boar).
3. The population dynamics of the wild ungulates which will
provide information for the reduction of these populations as
they are managed toward carrying capacity and away from
artificial  feeding.  The  reduction  must  mimic  natural
populations and processes as much as possible.
4. The distribution of ungulate species by habitat types.
This information is basic to planning and managing land uses
around the forest and assessing the impacts of such management
on wildlife. This particularly applies to the management of
wildlife in managed forests, and the mitigation of animal
damage to forests and crops;



16
5. Telemetric studies of the movemnts of predators -
initially wolves and lynx. This closely complements work in
the Polish BPF.
6. Continuation of the major studies (150 one ha plots) of
forest dynmics/plant succession underway since 1952.
Innovations would involve gradient analysoe (correlations of
plant cmunities with environmntal variables such an soil
type aspect, micro-climate etc.) employing C18.
7. Now that control of ground water is possible, attempting
the re-introduction/dispersion of silver fir from the existing
22 trees;
8. Introducing an experimental demonstration farm of 2000 ha
to test ecological agriculture;
Research Activities Funded in Other Portions of Project
1. Clarification of the genetic structure of the bison in
Belarus, Poland, and the Caucasus, as well as in zoos;
2. Preserving the genetic resources of ancient oak, pine, and
spruce stands through the use of cuttings, animal control,
seed tree cuts, orchard plantings, and seed banking in
cooperation with Polish scientists;
3. Ethnobotanical studies of traditional human uses and
knowledge of the forest.
4. Studies of discrete population groups based on attitudes
toward nature and natural resources, and their decision-making
process.
The Application of Environmental Impact Evaluations. ($25,000)
Adapting existing protocols for the conduct of envirorunental
(including social) impact evaluations will insure that appropriate
uses are fostered in the buffer zone.  Many of the problems which
plagus the BPF could have been avoided or mitigated with such
procedures.
"Man and the Biosphere" Unit at Belarus.   ($15,000)
The Belovezhskaya Primeval Forest has been proposed as a "Man and the
BiosphereN Reserve. The existing designation needs to be activated to
provide the oversight, coordination, brokering and information
dissemination activities which the innovations of this integrated
approach to biodiversity protection require. An important element is
the active participation of local NGO's. A very modest MaB Unit at
*eloveshkaya will be started and supported through the GCF project.



17
In many significant ways, the MAB activities will foster the
scientific cooperation which is described next.
End-of-Phase I Meeting and Transition.  ($25,000)
The results of research, the public review of the Conservation Plan,
and opportunity to incorporate results and reactions in an updated
Plan will be achieved during a review/plenary meeting marking the
termination of Phase I of BPF activities. This meeting is expected
to be held in late 1993. The resulting plan will be the product of
all parties of concern. It will constitute the basis of a package of
future additional investments for the land uses compatible with
biodiversity goals of the BPF.
3.10   Component Three. Computer Assisted Mapping (GI3). ($185,000)
Because the changes and impacts on species and communities are uneven and
have various degrees of significance in terms of stability of the system
involved, there is an urgent need to remap the BPF in light of hazard assessment.
Because of the complexity of the potential data base for such an assessment, a
GIS (Geographic Information System) would be included for data managemenit under
the project (Explained more fully in Annex 6).
3.11   Component Four. Ecological Agriculture  ($50,000)
One State farm operates within the Belovezhskaya Primeval Forest.
Primary production focuses on basic grains (wheat, rye), forage crops, and
potatoes. Dairy and pork production are the primary cash producers, and many of
the farm personnel also work as loggers in the abutting forest. This project
component would foster expansion of ecological farming practices and provide
technical assistance and cash incentives as necessary to farmers to shift from
chemicals to ecological agriculture.   This component would be managed by
specialists recruited for this purpose by the Project Technical Management Unit.
Funds from the project would support pay for these specialists and for their
technical analysis of the impact in the Belovezhskaya Primeval Forest of changing
from conventional farming methods to ecological chemical-free farming methods on
small family farms on (a) farm yields, farm income, and farm employment; (b)
soil, water, and product quality; and, (c) would estimate and compare the costs
of these two farming systems on farms in the Belovezhskaya Primeval Forest
(details given in Annex 5).
3.12   Component Five. Risk assessment of Pollution - Monitoring and Mitigation.
($100,000)
The Belovezhskaya project area is impacted by both air and water
pollution. Air and water monitoring wi; 'iin the project area would be carried out
with project support and sources of both air and water pollution within and
abutting the project area would be identified. Once these sources are located
and identified, project funds would support the detailed engineering and designs
for the installation of mitigation equipment to eliminate local pollution impact
on the project area. One possible idea would be the conversion of coal-burning
steam generation plants to wood-burning oparation.



18
3.13   In order to determino tho pollution load on indiLvidual plant conitleo
both in the BPI and the buffer zone, a mobile automatic air and soil monitoring
station ia requlred. To determine the smpact of pollution on individual woody
and berb acous plants reproductive csystem, a non-deutructive x-ray ampling
machine is noeded. To manage and process the dta from the risk assessmnt
activity, a high powered personal computer with cartographLi plotter is
necessary.
3.14   An array of fiold data including t  e rature, moisture, irradiation, and
wind instruments ar required on a routine basis to complete fel-d masreurmnts.
In order to protect sensitive lab eguipment and ensure quality laboratory data,
electric power stabilization quipment is necessary.
3.15   Component Six. Scientific Cooperation at Iolovoxhskaya with the Republic
of Poland in Forest Management.   ($20,000)
Some 40 percent of the area of the Bialowioza Primeval Forest is in the
Republic of Poland.   Regular meetings of local scientists from Sialowieza
(Poland) and Belarus have begun to explore joint efforts in scientific forest
protection and management as well as the exchange of scientific data on pollution
sources, wildlife populations and foraging impacts, and mapping of possible
future abutting protected reosrves (Map 2). These scientific contacts would be
encouraged under the Project with funds provided to support quarterly local
scientific meetings at the Belovezhskaya Station. This initial work should
contribute substantially to the proposed investment and technical support
prepared for the Poland zone of the Dialowieza Forest ecosystem for which $1.5
million has been provided for a separate, but complementary GRF project (see
Annex 7).
3.16   As part of the project, a joint "Coordination Program* would be prepared
by Poland and Belarus within nine months of grant signing. This "coordination
program" would specify the joint conservation management actions to be taken by
each party. A side letter to the B-larus grant agreement would be propared on
this issue and that a similar side letter would be prepared and sent to the
Polish Government as a clarifying amendment to their December 12, 1991 agreement
with the GEF.
3.17   Component Seven. Professional Development and Training   ($90,000)
Support for professional development and training is an integral element
of the Project.   Funds are to be provided for training in biodiversity
protection, mitigation of tourism-related impacts, GIS, mitigation planning,
small business development and management, information and data base management,
and other selected topics.
3.18   To ensure that current concepts of biodiversity are applied and equipment
is properly employed, additional professional and staff training is required.
Such activities include on-site training, seminars, and attendance at
professional meetings inside Belarus, and externally. This element will support
reional training initiatives as well.



19
3.19 Component Eght. Support For Deloveshskaya Primeval Forest Foundation
($15,000)
To sustain the biodiverhity protection program for the foreeeable
future, a Beloveshskaya Primeval Forest Protection Foundation is proposed. The
GIP would organize the legal and financial structure of such a Foundation and
neourage contributions froam co-debt conversion resourcos and from bilateral and
international (EC, Foundations, etc.) donors. Som $15,000 would be expended
from the initial GEF Core Grant to develop the legal and financial underpinnings
for the foundation, operating procedures and the terms of reference for its
operation.
3.20   II. Blodiversity Dependencies between Belovezhskaya, Berezinsky and
Pripiataky ($100,000)
There are six biodiversity protection initiatives that are essential for
the successful protection of key species and components of the internationally
significant biodiversity of the Belovezhskaya.   For technical reasons these
cannot be carried out in the Belovezhskaya alone,and must include sui' able sites
found in Berezinsky and Pripiataky reserves. This approach has been agreed to
by the management of both areas.
3.21   These initiatives are:
Preservation of the European Bison
The bison population at Belovezhskaya of 315 animals is under a
serious disease threat for which no treatment has as yet been
devised.   The Pripiataky and Berezinsky reserves already contain
populations of bison which are too small to be genetically stable and
need to be increased.  There are two aspects to the issue - the
first, loss of viability through inbreeding. In fact the populations
were all greatly reduced at the end of the First War - the first
bottleneck. The outlier population near Berezinsky was founded from
5 animals from the Moscow zoo. A population of at least SO is needed
to avoid inbreeding.  Two such bottlenecks are potentially serious
and an evaluation of the genetic structure is needed as soon as
possible, with the goal of outbreeding from the likely existing
founder effects. If it is not evaluated and a mixing of the herds
effected, reductions of viability, disease resistance, productivity,
milk production and other predictable consequences of loss of
heterozygosity can be expec:ed. One can speculate on the possible
contribution of such effects to the serious disease of male bisor at
Belovezhskaya.  The three Reserves must be managed together as a
single gene pool, preferably in this Project. The second aspect is
the location of suitable areas as transplant sites.  These can be
former bison range areas in the region which have the carrying
capacity to support a minimum critical population. Surveys for such
areas need to be well informed (e.g. about movements and feeding
ecology), and be cooperatively initiated within Belarus or
bilaterally.



20
Preservation of the Capercaillie Grouse
The capercaillie, like the American turkey, in r-pr-esnted by local
populations, many of which are now greatly reduced in number. The
populations are distinctive and transplants tend to dilute the
fitness and adaptability of the host populations. The birds of
Bialowieza are near extirpation, e.g. no males have been found on the
Polish side of the Bialowieza Primeval Forest and should be managed
from the local population to pre-rve this important element of the
original biota in this threatened forest systm. Substantial
experienco with breeding and maintaining the endangered capercaillie
grouse has been achieved at Berezinsky.  As part of the recovery
program at BPF (particularly on the Polish side) this technology
needs to be transferred to achieve the goals of Component 3 of the
Project.
Genetic Resources Management Policy
The appropriate policy responses to the work at Belovezhskaya, will
be more broadly acceptable if the work has been linked to other
elements of the resource management system of Belarus in other parts
of the country. These should include a genetic resources management
policy which addresses and defines the constraints on translocations
of genetically distinct populations and animal damage control
policies (deer damage to forest regeneration, rogue bear control,
etc.).
Migratory species
The three reserves share avifaunal resources and have wetlands and
share other similar habitats and the same species of birds.  The
effects of Chernobyl have not been looked at in terms of this
potential agent of dispersal.   Migratory bird management and its
meaning for rare species such as the black stork needs coordination.
Training and Technical Coordination
Large economies of scale in professional development will accrue with
region-wide  training  programs.    A  consultant  in,  for  example
Geographic Information Systems, small business d>-alopment, public
relations, or tranquilizing and transplanting animals can deal with
15 participants as well as two. Beyond the value of getting vital
methodologies and procedures down quickly, the contacts and
interactions of colleagues dealing with the same regional issues can
greatly facilitate, for example, the identification and permitting of
bison dispersal across boundaries.
Data Management
Standards for measurements, procedures, and data base management need
to be discussed and agreed upon in the three Reserve areas. The same
analytic hardware and software systems will be required to effect



21
dta  exchanges.   Maps  should  be  in  the  sam   baseline  scales.   A
comon accoes to an on-line data base euch as the key word searchable
Dialog  data  base  for  forostry,  wi..life,   Park  managemnt,  and
agriculturo is noeded to insure that research in informed by the
global experience.
S. Project Costs and Flnancing
3.22    2utimated project costs are as follows (detailed project costs are given
in Annex 3):
COST ESTIMATES
(Current US$ Thousand.)
USS in Thousands
Local  Fomcign  Total
A. Bekoezhskaya Natioal Park
1. Conservation of Biological Diverity     20     105    125
2. BPF Protection and Management            26     212    238
3. Geographical Information System (GIS)     9     191    200
4. Ecological Farming in Buffer Zone        23      28     50
5. PoUution Monitoring & Mitigation          0     190    190
6. Coordination w/ Poland                   20       0     20
7. Professional Development & Training       0      70     70
8. Support of a Bialowieza Foundation        0      15    15
Sub-Toal                             97     810    908
B. Bereuiqky and Pripistsky Protece  Resers       50      50    100
C. Project Maemet                                 80      50    130
D. Joint Sciestific Review Commitee                7      13     20
Tol BASELINE COSTS                               234     923   1157
Physcal Contingency                         10      44     54
Price Contingencies                          7      32     39
Tol PROJE( COSTS                                 251     99m  1,250



22
Projoct Finacing  Estimated project financing plan in as followes
aS^b1. 3 2PROJZCT FINANCING PLAN
(1US$ Thousands)
GEF CORE                COMIITTED  TOTAL   FO.REI 
COMPONEW           PROWa    GOVERNMENT  UATERAL                 EXCHANGE  LOCAL
GRANTS              _
A. LOHKY
NATIONAL PARK
1. Conwuaon of Biolgical    205          20           -         225       205       20
Diversity                 __ _  _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _   _  _ _ _             _ _ _ _
2. BPF Protecion and
Mwagent                     212          26           -         238       212       26
3. Geographal Informaion
Sytem (GIS)                  191          9           -         200       191        9
4. Ecological Farming in
Buffer Zone                  30          20           -         50        30        20
5. Polludon Monitoding &
Migaton                      100          -           -         100       100       -
6. Coordination w/Poland     -           20           -          20        -        20
7. Professional Development
& Training                   70           -           -          70       70
8. Support of a Blalowieza
roundation                   15           - _                    15       15
SU-WTOTALS            813          95
B. BEREZINSKY AND
PRIPIATSKY PROTECTED
RESERVES                     100         -            _         100       50        50
C. PROJECT MANAGEIENT        130          -                     130        50       80
D. JOINT SCIENWFIC
REVIEW COMMIffEE             13           7           _         20        13         7
TOTAL  ASELUNE COSTS         924         234      _             1,158     924       234
Phyical Conngc               44          10           _         54        44        10
Price Conringencies          32           8           _         40        32        8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS         1,000        250           -        1,250     1,000     250
3.23   Core financing  for this project would be provided by the GEF  ($1.0
million)  and by the Government of Belarus.   There may be other  important
investments that would could attract cofinancing partners which would be
identified.



23
1. Procurement
3.24 Goods and equipment listed in Annex 1 would be carried out through
Lnternational shopping with a minimum of throe quotations from two different
countries.  Blidding documents would be revie-wd to  3nsure that they are
satlifactory to the Bank. Consultant services would be obtained ln accordance
wLth the World Bank guidelines on the use of consultants.  The estimated
procure mnt plan is as follows:
Table 3.3 PROCCUfNT HETHOD
(U$8 Thousands)
Procuremet  Mthod
tems                           Is & DP2     Othe        Total
(1) OI8, Air Monitoring and                 400.0         -         400.0
Supporting Equipment,                  (400.0)        -        (400.0)
(2) Technical Assistance                      -          400         400
-        ((400)      (400)
(3) Salaries, Operations                      -          450         450
and Maintenance                           _         (200)       (200)
TOTAL                                 400          850        1,250
(400)       (600)      (1,000)
NOTE: FIGURES IN PARENTHESIS ARE GEF GRANT
I/ Local Competitive Bidding for civil works
I/ Ionsmtioncl Shopping and Direct Pufchac.
,1 Includes crvice procured under Bank's conkuhta guidelinbs.



24
0. DLsbwsm.m t
3.25 A special account would be established in a Bank acceptable to the World
Bank. An initial deposit of $100,000 would be made into this account by the World
Bank. All categories of expenditure (listed in table below) would be eligible
for disbursu_nt from the special account   For each payent made out of the
account, prolect management would furnish to the World Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.   The account would be replenished upon subm-seion of this
documntation. The Disbursement Plan for GE? grant funds in an followes
Table 3.4  DISBURSEMENT PLAN
Disbusmonenl
items            Amount
(USS miion)  % Funaning
(1)  Goods and Equipment     0.3         100%
(2)  Technical Assistance    0.3         100%
(3)  Salaries, Operaions &
Mainteace               0.3        100%
(5)  Un-allocated            0.1
TOTAL                 1.0
HI. AccountiD3, Reporting and Auditing
3.26   The project  accounts  would  be audited  annually by  a firm whose
qualifications are acceptable to the World Bank. A quarterly report on Project
progress and statements on project expenditures would be submitted to the World
Bank by the Project Manager.
I. Monitoring, Supervision and Evaluation Plan
3.27   Since the Project involves a series of innovative components, including
an innovative ecosystem protection program for the Project area, a detailed
monitoring, supervision and evaluation program has been developed (See Annex 1).
The project would be supervised by the world Bank three times a year, normally
in conjunction with the supervision of the Polish GEF Forest Biodiversity
Project.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
4.1    The  Council  of  Ministers  would  be  responsible  for  the  overall
implementation of the project. A list of project institutional responsibilities
is given in Annex 4.



25
4.2    Project Management.
Technical          t Unit.  This independent unit would be established
by the Councll of Ministers prior to the Initial grant disbursement. It would
be physically located at 8eloveshakal a Puacha and work within the Research
Center. One full time Project Technical manager supported by a Scientific Advisor
and two assistants would be ppoted. it would be expected that the teem would
be selected with complementary skills and qualifications.  The Read would be
required to have professional qualifications in land/natural re-ource management
and a knowledge of biodivorsity protection and issues.
Administrative   Coordinatina   Unit.   A   supportive   Administrative
Coordinating Unit would be established in Minsk in the Council of Ministers.
This unit would be provided to expedite investments from the Special Account, to
facilitate international comunications, to coordinate international professional
development training, to expedite the outreach applied research conducted outside
of the Belovezhskaya Project area, to monitor and evaluate project progress and
to collate and forward quarterly and annual progress reports to the World Bank
on project progress. The Project Administrative Manager appointed to head this
unit should have strong language, communication and project management skill.
including and ability to maintain the necessary accounting and procurement
procedures. One clerical assistant would also be appointed.
Overall coordination of the project will be the responsibilit; of the
Chief of the Economic Organizations Department of the Council of Ministers.
4.3    Joint Scientific Review Committee
A Joint Scientific Technical Committee of six scientists, three
internationally selected (wildlife in managed forests, conservation biology, and
a land use specialist) and three from Belarus in related disciplines would be
established no later than November 1, 1992. The qualifications and experience
of the members of this Committee would be acceptable to the Bank.  The Chairman
would be designated by the Council of Ministers and the Review Committee would
meet semi-annually to advise on the scientific progress under the Project.
Expenses (travel, subsistence and honoraria for both Belarus and external) would
be supported from the Project ($30,000).
4.4     A number of additional organizations would be aub-contracted  to carry
out specific activities  (Annex 4).  The proposed Project Management Units,
assisted by its scientific advisors, will design, contract out, and supervise
the agreed program.  These additional institutions will carry out activities
under the direction of the Project Management Units.  Among the additional
organizations that would be contracted to carry out project activities under the
Project are:
The Man and Biosphere Unit, which will be constituted under the project,
will be specifically responsible for conservation and transition planning
at Belovezhskaya Primeval Forest. This unit with a staff of one will be
attached to the Technical Management Unit.



26
Pollution Monitorina and Mitication at the BPF will be carried out by a
private sector engineering/environmental firm to be s-lected under World
Bank procedures.
V. NEGOTIATIONS, EFFECTIVENESS AND DATED COVENANTS IN THE GRANT AGREZEMNT
5.1    During negotiations on the Grant Agreement, assurances were obtained as
foilows:
(a)   Joint Scientific  Comittee.   The Council of Ministers shall
establish a Joint Scientific Cotmuittee no later than February 28,
1993
(b)   Grant Effectiveness.   The Grant would be declared effective upon
submission of documentation satisfactory to the Bank that the
Project Technical Manager and an Administrative Coordinator, whose
qualifications and experience are satisfactory to the Bank, has
been appointed and a separate account, subject to internationally
accepted auditing standards, has been established.
(c)   Accounts.   A separate account would be established in a Belarus
bank prior to disbursement of the grant. This account would be
audited annually by an auditing firm acceptable to the Bank (para.
3.18 and 3.19).
(d)   Project Management.  An Administrative Project Coordinating Unit
would be established in the Council of Ministers prior to
disbursement of the grant.
(e)   NaB Application   Formal  application  by a Project  Technical
Management Unit would also be established and maintained in the
Bialowieza Project area and will be made to the UNESCO MaB
Secretariat in Paris for the designation of the Belovezhokaya as
a Biosphere Reserve.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS TO BIODIVERSITY IN BELARUS
6.1    The Belovezhskaya Primeval Forest protection program in eastern Poland
is directed to protect the last remains of a unique low level forest ecosystem.
By expanding its buffer zone, by linking protected reserves in the Forest, and
by initiating natural restoration within the Forest, it is both possible and
feasible to essentially restore a wide range of natural ecological processes chat
in a relatively short period of time can heal the wounds caused by man's
inappropriate practices.
6.2    The forests of Belarus are important to the overall economy of the
country. By inappropriate management practices and by environmental abuse, their
value and contribution to society has been reduced. This current project offers
a unique opportunity to restore the genetic variability of these forests and as
such productivity in the fullest sens can also be restored. in essenc, the
project would permit genetic sustainability to occur and as such the forests



27
would be in a far better position to withstand natural as well as unplanned
changes, i.e. global climate change porsibilities.
6.3    The Projects specific benefits wouldt
greatly rduce the genetic erosion and losses of genetlc resources
which are part of the heritage of nature. In the *eloveshkaya, thLa
program of genetic conservation address"d the 113 known forest
asociations, two-thirds of which are not yet protected. This GUI
Project strategy in itportant in assuring the maintenance of the
forest fauna as well as flora. The endangered bison, for example,
are known to consum 350 species of forage plants, thereby requiring
a comprehensive representative of these forest ecosystems.
enable man to restore ecosystems destroyed by either natural or
anthropogenic factors by re-introducing populations into their
natural or equivalent habitats after having reduced the influence of
the most striking destroying factors;
*stabilize  ecosystems  by  maintaining  a  high  level  of  genetic
variability within species. Thus the species can adapt themselves to
the site, even if the site conditions are changing to a certain
extent; and
increase the forest economy at a long term by being able to use the
full amplitude of genetic variability available, e.g., by replacement
of aot adapted species by better adapted ones and tree improvement
programs.



28
GLOSSARY
Afforestation
Establishing trees on lands where they have not previously grown.
Biological Diversity (biodiversity):
The variety and variability among living organisms and the ecological
complex.e in which they occur.
Biosphere Reserve:
A unique category of protected areas combining both conservation and
sustainable use of natural resources. Each biosphere reserve conserves
example of characteristic ecosystems of cne of the world's natural
regions.
Buffer Zone:
An area surrounding a conservation or protected are which is extensive
enough to insulate the protected core from the dispersion of exotic
genetic material. Land uses in a buffer zone must be compatible with
its primary function of maintaining the core.
Clone:
Group of genetically identical plants produced by vegetatively
propagating a single plant over one or more vegetative generations.
Coppiced Forest:
A forest of trees grown from re-sprouts of the stumps following
harvesting.
Ecosystem:
A community of organisms interacting with one another and the
environment in which they are found. Ecosyetem boundaries are often
physical (such as watersheds, fields, or lakes).
Ex-situ:
The management of planted stands of trees outside of their natural
range; the conservation or preservation of trees as seed, pollen, tissue
culture or excised plant parts.
Gene bank:
An institution or center that participates in the management of genetic
resources, in particularly, maintaining ex-situ or in-situ collections.



29
Genome:
Sum total of an organism' genetic information i.e. all hereditary
traitm.
Geochemical Cycling:
The movement of mineral elements and organic nutrients in an ecosystem.
Geographic Information System (CIS):
Employs an array of spatial information (maps) and displays such data as
themes (forest cover, pollution damage, habitats, etc.) to overlay,
spread or otherwise objectively analyze and display the solution to a
land management problem.
Germplasm:
Living reproductive material including pollen, seeds and p.ants and
their parts.
Germplasm collection:
A collection of many different varieties, species or subspecies
representing a diverse collection of genetic material.
High Forest:
Forest consisting of trees grown from seed.
In-situ:
The managing of organisms in their natural state or within their normal
range.
Keystone species:
A plant or animal species which largely determines the stability of an
ecosystem through its functions in key processes such a. reproduction or
nutrient cycling.
"Man and the Biosphere":
A conservation, scientific and management program of the United Nations
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization.
Provenance:
origin or source for trees, an identifiable region in the natural
habitat of a species from where the seed of tbe trees originally cme.



30
Reforestation:
The introduction of tr-es on land from which they had previously been
rSMoN d.
geed Production Orchard (Send Orchard):
A collection of s-l-cted tr-er planted and managed for the purpos* of
producing needs.
*: \hL\GEF\OLOSS



31
ANNZX 1
Page 1 of 3
701? EIODIVUSITT PROTECTION PROJSCT
MUITOlIUG - SUPEVISION AND EVALUATION PLAN
I. Introduction
1.      Supervision and monitoring are essential elements of any complex
Project. They are much more than checking disburuements, reporting and
contractual observations. They are important in assisting all participants to
step back and view the whole effort rather than focussing on managing its,
parts. The view afforded permits innovation, adaptive changes, mid-course
corrections in changing environments, and the evolution of the project in ways
which enrich it and foster the achievement of the goals of the Proj_t.
Monitoring:
2.      With the number of innovative components in this project being
implemented in a short time frame, a wider and more extensive program of
supervision and monitoring is proposed than is commonly applied in Bank
projects. For example, the life of this GEF project is two years, rendering
the Annual Project Review less meaningful. Also, its thrust differs somewhat
from the normal concerns of the implementing Agency (Council of Ministers,
Balovezhskaya Forest). This will probably not be unusual for such new
technical concerns as biological diversity in many areas of the world which
most require such efforts. The normal checks and balances and quality
assessment mechanisms of such Agencies may be initially confounded by the
novel and unfamiliar elements of such Projects and may therefore benefit
disproportionately from Bank supervision activities.
3.      As was the case with the response to the Environmental Impact
Assessment requirements of the initial U.S. law of 1969 (NEPA), there is the
distinct danger of a paper blizzard with Lots of raw monitoring data but
little analysis and useful synthesis. The Plan is more frequent (three times
per year) as well as more scientifically oriented compared to the normal
schedule of semi-annual staff/consultant efforts in regular Bank projects. The
scheduled supervision visits respond to milestones proposed in the Project.
Supervision:
4.      Three supervision missions are planned for each year of the proposed
two year project implementation period (estimated at about 2 weeks each, with
1 week of report writing on return). Each of these missions should have the
flexibility to adapt to the conditions at the time. The Core Team would
include Task Manager, the forest wildlife ecologist, and the parks specialist
supplemented by additional scientists. The first supervision mission is
propo- d for April 1993. At this critical juncture, the initial Joint
Scientific Committee (Belarus-Poland) workshop would be held, equipment and



32
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 3
infrastructure procurement would be underway, the MAB staff would be
finalized, the GIS implementation plan completed, and the applied research
initiated. The second supervision mission will take place in July, 1993 when
the work is largely in progress, and the initial JSC meeting with Polish
counterparts would be scheduled. The penultimate supervision misaion would
occur in September, 1994 for the End-of-Pha-e.I meeting which will summarize
progress, and the land use demonstrations are just underway.
Proposed Staffing Pattern   Aprit   July    October  April   July    Sept    June
1993    1993    1993    1994    1994    1994    199    l
Wrap-u'p
Task Manager             2       2       2       2       2       2       2
Forest Wildlife Ecologist  2     1       1       1       1       1        1
Parks Specialist         2                       1       -       1        1
GIS 4pecialist (Trust Fund)  1                   1
non- GE F
Ecological Farming       1       1               1       1       1
SpeciaList (Trust Fund) non-
GEF
Land Use Plarner (Trust  2       1       1       1       1       1
Fund) non-GEF
Propoed Supervision (GEF)  6     3       3               3       4       4
Staff/Weeks                  I    -                                    _
S.      The proposed budget for this intensive supervision work is 27 staff
weeks, 12 weeks for 1993, 11 staff weeks for 1994 and 4 staff weeks for the
wrap up work in 1995. The estimated total supervision cost is estimated at
$40,000 for 1993, $35,000 for 1994 and $13,000 for 1995, for a total
supervision cost estimate of approximately $88,000 (inclusive of staff costs,
consultant fees, travel and subsistence) according to the detailed program
outlined in the matrix above. The supervising division expects at a minimum
of 10 staff weeks of the specific scientific supervision work on the GIS,
Ecological Agriculture and air and water monitoring work to be eligible for
non-GEF Trust Fund support. This would leave a direct divisional supervision
charge of 17 weeks for the full project, which is in line with regular GEF
supervision co-efficients on an annualized basis (12 staff weeks per annum).
6.      Evaluation:
As part of the project, a Joint Scientific Review Committee is to be
established. This committee, half of which will be composed by international
scientists, will advise on the scientific progress unler the project. As
importantly, they will monitor and evaluate the project particularly as it
relates to:
the protection of biodiversity
the aims and objectives of the Global Environmental Facility



33
-ANNMX I
Page 3 of 3
The Review Comittee will also address the suitability of the
initiatives taken in this projeCt to other area&, and evaluate the success or
otherwise of any of the stated "innovation."
N:\UL\GEF\ANX1 .EL



34
BELARUS
FOREST BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
THE ACGUISITION AND USE OF A GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SYSTEM (GIS)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        Briefly, a CIS can uso spatial data which are displayed an "thmes"
(forest cover, pollution damage, threatened habitat, *tc.) to objectively analyse
and display the solution to a spatial land management problem.  Such useful
products can include, for example, the least cost siting of a logging road, areas
of highest return on habitat development activities, dispersion of pollutants,
etc. Such data are usually acquired through remote sensing of the environment
from a platform such as a satellite, or aircraft.  The aerial photographs or
images of digital information transmitted from a satellite are then "processed"
manually or statistically to make them meaningful for aiding the achievement of
the goals of the project. Perhaps the greatest failures of GIS technology lie
not in the technology but in the failure of the resource scientists familiar with
the area of interest, to educate both the image (ground truthing), as well as the
computer scientist who provides the image and does the initial processing. Lack
of precise communication at this point can lead to expensive but useless products
whose categories are meaningless in terms of real habitat or forest types.
2.        Forestry  applications  of GIS  are  increasingly  common.    Forest
inventory, infrastructure, wildlife habitat, geotechnically suitable sites for
extraction activities, and other themes can be overlaid. Likewise, the leaet
expensive environmentally acceptable travelsheds can be spread over a
compartment, silvicultural treatments allocated, and other analyses performed of
uae to foresters. Graphic output can include hard copy maps or digital files.
3.        Other environmental applications of GIS of particular use in the
conservation of biological diversity are emerging.  One common problem is in
inventorying valuable resources such as endangered species.  Often they are
fugitive, furtive, and their ranges are not fully known.  In one application
which involved assessing impacts (in this case of roads) to one such important
but poorly located species (very similar to the black grouse), field studies were
conducted on twenty habitat variables such as vegetation type, and distance from
water, at the few known population sites. Statistical analyses revealed that
only four of the environmental features contributed to the presence of the bird
on its mating display grounds - the critical environmental requirement in its
annual cycle. These four map variables were overlaid and the priority areas for
habitat preservation were predicted over the whole forest. Furthermore, forest
succession and encroachment due to effective fire control efforts were predicted
and the habitat losses due to the loss of mating grounds were also predicted for
twenty years. Another use of the GIS was in predicting the impacts of poaching
due to the siting of a mine in a rich wildlife area.  Surveys revealed that
people would travel up to two hours to recreate and a "travelshed" of two hours
on three different grades of roads and trails was created by the GIS. The
travelshed was overlain on key habitat and revealed that only 3% of the area
described by drawing a circle of two hours travel at 80 kph (the traditional



35
ANNX 2
Page 2 of 6
mothod) needed to be patrolled. The GIS analysis producad an efficient focus of
effort and savings of project money.
II. SYSTEM SBLZCTION
4.        The acquisition of a GIS will, to a degree, lock the user into the
hardware and software system  selected.   It mut  be able to satisfy the
requirementc of the Department while being adaptable to future needs and
compatible with the system of related users (and sources of data) such as
national mapping agencies, and other resource agencies.  A seminal step is
inventorying the activities and systems of other parts of Government. The next
step is in conducting a workload analysis. This lays the groundwork for making
appropriate choices which will have a long-lasting effect. It reviews current
uses which are being made of spatial information, projects future uses, and
assesses those uses which can be replaced by such an automated system as a GIS.
How many maps are used for how long? How many users? Are uses centralized or
distributed?   How many maps are created by the different uses?   How many
overlays? The answers will reveal system requirements. specifically, what will
need to be purchased, the supporting infrastructural requirements, and staff.
The product will be a 5-year implementation plan with annual costs and progress -
i.e. a life cycle analysis. At this point the procurement people can craft a
procurement contract and RPP for the system, including the training necessary
before operations can be productive. At that point the potential vendors will
provide considerable ad hoc planning advice. It should be stressed that although
the process will take several months and an initial pulse of money, the savings
from the up-front planning are inevitably considerable.  As mentioned at the
beginning of this Annex, the entire process must be closely supervised by
knowledgeable resource scientists - i.e. the users (the biologists and
foresters), not only the providers (vendors and programmers), or the system is
guaranteed to be maladaptive.   However, a well-planned GIS is a proven and
essential tool in the kit of today's resource planners and managers.   For
example, the provision of GIS-aided impact assessment analysis by the National
Ecology Research Center of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service for Forest Plans
of the U.S. Forest Service has resulted in a 75% saving of time and money over
traditional manual methods.  Although the initial tasks involve inventorying
existing resources and capabilities and projecting the demands and uses of a GIS,
we have provided an initial estimate of such needs based upon our visits and
discussions with the likely users. These estimates will be useful in budget
estimates now, but may require revision after the systematic analyses conducted
during the initial tasks.
III. TRAINING
5.        The system will not work without trained user/operators.  However, it
should be stressed that there is no magic to acquiring the necessary skills. It
is particularly useful if the operator is also the scientist - i.e. the scientist
does not always have to go to a computer operator not informed about the
technical demands and logic of the biologist or environmental engineer,
meteorologist, etc. Thee are several excellent center which have the range of
new equipment and the relevant resource scientists, which have taught the novice
how to use GIS. A working knowledge will take about 2 to 3 monthi. A complete



36
AEUX2
Page 3 of 6
facility will take about a year of working on actual projects.  One of the
trainees (there should always be more than one trained), should be good at
dealing with the hardware and software maintenance and updating for the lab at
the inatitution. Things will break and the whole system should not be down for
long.
IV. A 0IS AT BZLOVNZHSKAYA PUSCHCHA
6.        L ad Use Planning and Zoning - Soam  resources are, in part, spatially
defined.  These include seasonal ranges of much wild animal species as the
herbivores ( e.g. cervids and bison), as well as other important faunal elements
upon which the ecosystem may depend - i.e. pollinators such as insects and bats.
The distribution of forest stands and unique plant and animal associations is
also mappable.  Land use activities, physical features, cultural features are
also mappable  "themes".   In support of the land use planning activities
elaborated in Annex II, these resources will need to be inventoried and mapped.
The GIS will assist in analyzing these resources and in planning their uses by
"map modelingw - overlaying them, spreading them onto each other, subtracting
some from others, etc. Locating the resources is the first requisite to planning
for zones of their best uses.
7.        Pollution Monitoring and Analysis - A GIS can be of immense value in
projecting the dispersion and attenuation of pollutants from a source. The GIS
applications software "spreads" the pollutants from their sources and will
complement the use of the data which are now being collected by researchers at
Belovezhskaya Puschcha. The use of these spatial data will be coordinated with
the land use planning described above.   For example, forest thinning where
pollutants are projected to increase, placement of monitoring stations where
analyses indicate problems, the placement of research plots, the replacement of
marginal agricultural sites in heavily polluted areas, the location of the most
viable candidate sites for protection in the primeval protected area network, and
other uses influenced by the projections of pollutants can be materially assisted
with inventive applications of the GIS.
8.        Siting of Development Features - As the implementation of the land use
plan occurs, the siting of supporting infrastructure such as roads, tourist
lodges, waste disposal/treatment facilities and other such features which attend
development can be assisted with a GIS.
9.        Although numerous uses will be made of this analytic tool, those
mentioned above are indicative. The final point is the need to coordinate any
GIS system development with the broader needs of the FRI and the Forestry
Department. It is critical that the system be reviewed and found suitable in
outline by the Forest Development Project planners.



37
ANIEX 2
Page 4 of 6
GIS WORK PLAN, LEVEL-OF-EFFORT. AND BUDGET
(U.S. dollars)
WORK PLAN
Fim Yew (ma)
TASK                         1  2   3   4   S   6   7   S   9   10  I1  12
1. lave" wory fw acivkiie eNW reaura
2. Workkod adyT*s
3. Implemeiiion Plalebloveshkayas
4. Review Co-odinatioo with other p==ject=
S. Facilities enhancemient
6. Secure equipmnezat, imagery/photou/_=ps
7.lit-uitutraining
S. Training tour
9. Initi alnlysis
BUDGET
1.        Initial Inventory of mals. Mapping ActivitiesA  and GIS Capabilities in
Belarus
To be conducted by Project Management Unit by sub-contract - 2 months
2.        Work Load Analysis and GIS Implementation Plan
Consultants: Forest Ecologist/Land Use Planner - I month
GIS (land use and forestry experience) - 1 month
Total for Item                                        26,000
3.        Computer Hardware              #Units   S Cost/Unit    COST
A.   386 PC or 486 PC            2       7,000        14,000
VGA Graphics Card
5.25 & 3.5 inch disk
drives
300 Megabyte Hard Disk
Math Co-processor
Mouse
B.   Hi-resolution Color
Monitor                   2        1,500         3,000
C.   Internal Backup Tape
Device                    1        1,500         1,500



38
Page 5 of 6
D.   Digitizing Tablet 36x48
inch with electric
pedestal               1          5,000         5,000
*.   Color plotter 8-pen,
360 width              1          4,500        4,500
P.   Laer Printer              1          2,500         2,500
a.   Uninterruptible Power
Supply (UPS)          2             750         1,500
H.   Additional Serial &
Parallel Cables                                   300
I.   Supplies - Paper, Plotter,
Pens, etc. for 2 years                          5 000
Total for Item  3                                      37,300
4.        Imaaery, Geocodina. and Dicital Meroing
TM ILiagery Data                  2        4,350        8,700
TM Geocoding                      2           900       2,800
SPOT Imagery Data                 3        2,450        7,350
SPOT Special Acquisition          3           600       1,800  SPOT
Geocoding                         3           900       2,700
SPCT Digital Mosaic               3          600/-dge  1,800
TM/SPOT Merge                     1        3,000        3Q00
Total for Item 4                                       27,150
5.        Chanoa  Detection
Digital Change Detection          1         2,000       2,000
GIS Data Conversion               1            250        am
Total for Item 5                                        2,250
6.        Photoura2hic Prints and Progeasing
TM                                2           2,300     4,600
TM/SPOT Merge 1:50,000            5           1,200     6,000
Land Cover Classification         3           1,500     4 500
Total for Item 6                                       15,100
7.        Computer Software
Arc/Info GIS                      1           6,000     6 000



39
ANNRX 2
page 6 of 6
S.         I-
Assum  2 Intornatlonal trlps,
75 Travel Da,s (cosultant)                         ,00
Assuim  2 Trainig trips, 150 days                      30L000
9.          e_ 
Consultant for 2 months including workshops            26 000
TOTAL                                                 182,300
*         Two study tours (Task 8) are not budgeted here but in the Training Task
of the overall project.
10.       Therefore, a working GIS unit within the Belovezhakaya Puschcha, would
require about S 182,300 to achlive a GIB capability. This does not include an
image procsasing capabillity. Image processing of digital data from satellites
is an esoteric activity quite removed from the intsrests and capabilities of the
national park management. It should be the function of the Survey and Mapping
Agencies of Government, or contracted from, for example, ZOSAT at about $8,300/
TX image.
N:\KLXGEF\AMX2.BL



40
ANtZX 3
Page 1 of 3
FOREST BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT COSTS
PROJBCT TASKS AND TIMELINE
zmE
1.    Risk Assessment of Pollution - monitoring and mitigation ($100,000)
1.1 Monitoring/plotting pollutants with Polish GEF
1.  Hydro-meteorological monitoring
1.3 Plan and initial support for alternative energy
2.    Seed and Plant Part Collection and Storage ($25,000)
3.    In-situ conservation of native populations ($50,000)
4.    Determination of Genetic Diversity ($50,000)
4.1 Isozyme analysis of old and endemic plants
4.2 Genetic loci analysis of bison from tissue samples
S.    Expansion of Protected Areas to Include Remaining Associations ($15,000)
5.1 Plant surveys
5.2 Cadastral surveys
5.3 Enabling legislation
6.    Conservation Planning ($215,000)
6.1 Establish steering committee/secure consultants
6.2 Integrated planning workshop - goals/issues/activities
6.3 Scoping (public and agency review)
6.4 Data collection
6.5 Thematic mapping/GIS
6.6 Analysis
6.7 Constraint analysis
6.8 Plan preparation and alternative generation
6.9 Develop business plans
6.10 Environmental assessment
6.11 Public review of draft
6.12 Final Conservation Management Plan
7.    Computer Assisted Mapping ($185,000)
7.1 Study tour of GIS centers of excellence by PD
7.2 Workload analysis
7.3 Initiate training overseas
7.4 GIS implementation plan with coordination review
7.5 Procurement and facilities enhancment
7.6 In-situ training



41
ANILX 3
Page 2 of 3
7.7 Initial analyses
S.    Supporting Applied Research ($100,000)
8.1  Bison diseas
8.2 Bison genetic.
8 3  Bison mov-m nts/b.havior/translocation
8.4 Ecology and breeding of endangered grouse
8.5 Ungulate movements
8.6 Ungulate population dynamics and harvesting
8.7  Ungulate habitat use and forest/farm dxsage
8.8 Predator movements
8.9 Soil insects as bioindicators of pollutants
8.10 GIS analysis of ants and forest nutrients
8.11 Forest dynamics and succession
8.12 Natural forest regeneration and experimental harvests
8.13 Ecological effects of harvesting of dying trees
8.14 Dispersion of silver fir
8.15 Preserving ancient stands-cuttings/animal control/seeds
8.16 Effects of pollutants on moribund stands
8.17 Chernobyl radiation in natural vegetation
8.18 Experimental farm for ecological agriculture
8.19 Ethnobotanical studies of traditional forest uses
8.20 Determine local population groups/attitudes/decisions
9.    Application of Environmental Impact Assessment ($25,000)
9.1   Public and agency Scoping
9.2   Project systems workshop
9.3   Top-up existing data from Conservation Plan
9.4   rost:benefit analysis of alternative Plan actions
9.5   Cumulative effects analysis
9.6   Mitigation and monitoring plans
10.   Man and the Biosphere at Belovezhskaya ($15,000)
10.1 Coordination with Belarus MaB
10.2 Coordination meeting with Polish MaB at UNESCO
10.3 Biosphere Reserve application
11.   Scientific Cooperation at Bialowieza with Polish GEF ($20,000)
12.   Ecological Agriculture ($50,000)
13.   End of Phase I Meeting and Transition ($25,000)
13.1 Display products and plans at donor meetings
14.   Developing the Bialowieza Transnational Foundation ($15,000)
15.   Professional Development and Training ($90,000)
15.1 Elaborate training plan in detail
15.2 Assign Project TA to administer logistics
15.3 Develop MOU's with relevant institutions
15.4 Initiate professional development



42
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
16. Project Management ($100,000)
17.   Joint Scientific Review Coimittee ($30,000)
18.   Biodiv*rsity Dependant Applied Research Outreach ($100,000)
N: \BEL\GEFANNEX3.BEL



43
Eq11z1E ILIIIk    ll 
I 111S    
6 111    
Eq                   1[    I   I-  
Eq    lr          D 
Eq   1|  11J11            .n
0     1|mmX        -l 
0    TlI   
Eq    T l       I          I
llM  T 7 W   I          ' I|  
;    11a1  a  ~I        ' Iii   I     j
E~~~~~ II1.    'i  I 
E~~. 111* II1 Eq I    EOEqqIEqIEqEqOI



;1018~~~~~~~ 2bg                       - * k.1I',i','  1 ,,0-
STIIIllFI  I    I           IjII[I',1186 l   1
s | | | r  | r  I   I    II I' '111111 1111I1T
I ! I | I 1M   T              HIM 1 
111|1111    HIM1 llll11II
t~~~~~~~I                   I -1  foil|1 1 :1   
IIII LLi
]1IIL]   I      -  -  -  I   ,l[ *111II11  1'   LI
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ITT        T I    A-  I  I    1 1   1-1   I 1.1  I  I



45
BELARUS
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
PROTECTION OF BIWIVERSITY
Table 101. Belovezhskya   Consvation of Biodiversity
Detailed Cost Table
US S ,000
Breakdoun of Totals Incl.Cont.
Quantity          B.C. in US S ,000                   US S ,000
s=..u=7..U..uuuam   Z27suUUUUUUU3UU33UU3    UUU3aU3Uz u.U533UU-U===
1993  1994 Total      1993   1994  Total       F.Exch   Local   Taxes   Total
...... .........   ......  .......................  ........... ............ .................... ......  .... ...
1. INESTNENT COSTS
A. Seed & Plant Coll. A Stge
Equipmont                      3     2      5      15.0   10.0  25.0         27.2      0.0     0.0    27.2
S. In-situ Conwrvation
Establishmnt of Seed Or.       1     1      2      10.0   10.0   20.0        21.8      0.0     0.0    21.8
Animal holding pens            1     1      2      10.0   10.0   20.0        21.8      0.0     0.0    21.8
...... ...... ......... . ...... ... .... ....... ... ....
Sub-Total                                           20.0   20.0   40.0        43.7      0.0     0.0    43.7
C. Determination of Diversty
Isozym  Analysis (plants)      1     1     2       10.0   10.0   20.0        21.8     0.0      0.0    21.8
Genetic Loci An. (Bison)       1     1      2      10.0   10.0   20.0        21.8      0.0     0.0    21.8
......    ........ . .....  -------    --- --   -- - -   ------
Sub-Total                                           20.0   20.0   40.0        43.7      0.L    0.0    43.7
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                     55.0   50.0  105.0        114.6     0.0     0.0   114.6
1. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Seed & Plant Colt. & Stge
Labor, Collection & Ntce       1     1      2      10.0   10.0   20.0         0.0    21.0      0.0    21.0
.. . . .....    ... .    - -  -    - - -    - - -   - - -
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                      10.0   10.0   20.0          0.0    21.0     0.0    21.0
==.=== ====== ======    ======= ======= ======= =======
Total                                                   65.0   60.0  125.0       114.6    21.0      0.0   135.6
sia Sampling, collection and storage equipment
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0 12/30/1992 8:50



46
FELARUS
GLuSAL ENVIROWMENT FACILITY
PROTECTION OF IIODIVERSITY
Table 102.  elhawaskaya - Protection and 1m_gnt
Detailed Cost Tablt
US s ,000
Ureakdom of Totals Incl.Cont.
Quantity             fas    Costs in US S  000                         US s ,000
_           _~~~za   *__                   ___ _"a"" 
1993   1994 Total            1993       1994    Total         F.ExcI    L%.at    Taxes    Total
......... ........................................ .......................................    ................................
1. IUWSTMIUT COSTS
................
A. Conservation Pltming
Labor                                       1      1       2          9.0        9.0      18.0            0.0      19.7       0.0      19.7
Cowutants                                   I      I       1          15.0      15.0      30.0          32.6        0.0       0.0      32.8
Travel and per Dim                          1      1       2           5.0       5.0      10.0          10.9        0.0       0.0      10.9
Equipmnt                                    1      1       2           5.0       5.0      10.0          10.9        0.0       0.0      10.9
.......    .......... .......      ........... .......    ........... ....... ....... ... .................. ...
Sub-Total                                                              34.0      34.0      68.0           54.6      19.7       0.0      74.3
B. Eopansion of Prot. Area 0P
Plant Survey                                1      0       1           5.2       2.2       7.5            8.1       0.0       0.0       8.1
Cadastral Survey                           0       1       1           0.0       7.5       7.5            8.4       0.0       0.0       8.4
.......      .......... .......    .......... .......     .......... ....... ................................
Sub'Total                                                               5.2       9.7       15.0          16.5       0.0        0.0      16.5
C. Support for Applied Res. <2>
Consultants                                 1      1       1          12.5      12.5      25.0          27.3        0.0       0.0      27.3
Travel & Per Diem                           1      1       1           2.5       2.5       5.0            5.5       0.0       0.0       5.5
Equipmnt                                    1       1      2           5.0       5.0      10.0           10.9       0.0       0.0      10.9
Vehicles                                    3      0       3         39.0        0.0      39.0          41.8        0.0       0.0      41.8
................... ..........   .......... .......  .......... .......   .......... .......
Sub-Total                                                              59.0      20.0      79.0           85.5       0.0        0.0      85.5
D. Application of EIA <3>
Workshop                                    0       1      1           0.0      10.0      10.0           11.1       0.0       0.0      11.1
CB Analysis & Plans                         1      2       3           5.0      10.0      15.0           16.5       0.0       0.0      16.5
.......       .......... .......   ........... .......     .......... ....... ................................
Sub-Total                                                               5.0      20.0      25.0           27.6       0.0        0.0      27.6
E. Ma8 Organisation 4<
Labor                                       1      1       2           6.0       6.0      12.0           13.1       0.0       0.0      13.1
Travel & Per Diem                           1      1       2           3.0       3.0       6.0            6.6       0.0       0.0       6.6
.......      .......... .......   .......... .......      .......... ....... ................................
Sub-Total                                                               9.0       9.0       18.0          19.7       0.0        0.0      19.7
F. End of Phase I and Transn                      0       1       1          0.0      25.0       25.0          27.8       0.0        0.0      27.8
.......      ....... .. .... ....... . ... .......    .......... .......    .............. .....................
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                         112.2    117.7    230.0           231.7       19.7        0.0    251.4
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Vehiclc Operation & Mtce.                      1       1       2          4.0        4.0       8.0           0.0        8.4       0.0       8.4
.......      .......... .......   .......... .......      .......... ....... ................................
TotaL RECURRENT COSTS                                                            4.0       4.0        8.0           0.0       8.4        0.0       8.4
S=   -C==                          ======u= ====- m----=- S=====S
Total                                                                      116.2    121.7    238.0           231.7       28.1        0.0    259.8
<1A Consultants (local), minor  quipment and per diem.
23 Priority projects are identified  in the mn  report
'3> IncLudes consultancy, trawl and per dim
<0 Office to be located at Belovezhskays Research Centre.
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0   12/30/1992   8:50



47
SELARUS
GLOBAL ENVIROWENIT FACILITY
PROTECTION OF 8IDIVERSITY
Table 103. Geographic Information System
Detailed Cost Table
US S ,000
Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
Quantity         Base Costs in US S ,000                   US S ,000
1993  1994 Total        1993    1994   Total      F.ExCh   Local   Taxes   Total
......... ..........................  ........................  .................................................. ............. .........
1. INVESTNENT COSTS
A. Initial Inventory  1)
Projec Technical Unit               I     0      1        4.0      0.0     4.0         4.3     0.0      0.0     4.3
B. Conultants Q2>
Forest Ecologist/ LUP               1     0      1       20.0     0.0    20.0         20.4     0.0      0.0    20.4
GIS Specialist                      1     0      1       20.0      0.0    20.0        21.4     0.0      0.0    21.4
Travt and Perdim                    I     0      1        6.0      0.0     6.0         6.4     0.0      0.0     6.4
Sub-Total                                                 46.0      0.0    46.0        48.2     0.0      0.0    48.2
C. Computer Hardware
Personal Computer c3                2     0      2       14.0      0.0    14.0        15.0     0.0      0.0    15.0
Hi-Res Color Monitor                2     0      2        6.0      0.0     6.0         6.4     0.0      0.0     6.4
Internal Backup Tape Dev.           1     0      1        1.5     0.0      1.5         1.5     0.0      0.0     1.5
Digitizing Tablet                   1     0      1        5.0      0.0     5.0         5.4     0.0      0.0     5.4
Color Plotter                       1     0      1        4.5      0.0     4.5         4.8     0.0      0.0     4.8
Laser Printer                       1     0      1        2.5     0.0      2.5         2.7     0.0      0.0     2.7
Uninterruptable Power Sup           2     0      2        1.5      0.0     1.5         1.6     0.0      0.0     1.6
Misc. Computer Supplies             1      1     1        3.0      3.0     6.0         6.6     0.0      0.0     6.6
Sub-Total                                                 38.0      3.0    41.0        44.0     0.0      0.0    44.0
0. Imagery,Decoding,Merging
TM Imagery Data                     2     0      2        8.7      0.0     8.7         9.3     0.0      0.0     9.3
TM Geocoding                        2     0      2        1.8      0.0     1.8         1.9     0.0      0.0     1.9
SPOT Imagery Data                   3     0      3        7.3      0.0     7.3         7.9     0.0      0.0     7.9
SPOT Special Acquisition            3     0      3        1.8      0.0     1.8         1.9     0.0      0.0     1.9
Geocoding                           3     0      3        2.7      0.0     2.7         0.0     2.9      0.0     2.9
TM/SPOT Merge                       1     0      1        3.0      0.0     3.0         3.2     0.0      0.0     3.2
Sub-Total                                                 25.3      0.0    25.3        24.3     2.9      0.0    27.1
E. Change Detection
Digital Change Detection            1     0      1        2.0      0.0     2.0         2.1     0.0      0.0     2.1
GIS Data Conversion                 1     0      1        0.3      0.0     0.3         0.3     0.0      0.0     0.3
Sub-Total                                                  2.3      0.0     2.3         2.4     0.0      0.0     2.4
F. Photo. Prints & Process.
TM                                  2     0      2        4.6      0.0     4.6         4.9     0.0      0.0     4.9
TM/Spot Merge 1:50,000              5     0      5        6.0     0.0      6.0         6.4     0.0      0.0     6.4
Land Cover Classification           3     0      3        4.5     0.0      4.5         4.8     0.0      0.0     4.8
Sub-Total                                                 15.1      0.0    15.1        16.2     0.0      0.0    16.2
G. Computer Software
Are/Info GIS                        1     0      1        6.0      0.0     6.0         0.0     6.4      0.0     6.4
H. Systm Training
Study Tours 150 days                1     1      2       15.0    15.0    30.0         32.8     0.0      0.0    32.8
Consultant                          1     1      1       15.0    15.0    30.0         32.8     0.0      0.0    32.8
.......   .......   .........  .... ...    ...........    .......   .............
Sub-Total                                                 30.0    30.0    60.0         65.5     0.0      0.0    65.5
Total INVESTMEIT COSTS                                           166.7    33.0   199.7       204.9      9.3     0.0   214.2
Total                                                        166.7    33.0   199.7        204.9     9.3      0.0   214.2
=======s================                      ========== =                          3Uu3uss:===ss============s=-=====s s=
01v Init. Inventory of maps mapping activities and GIS capab. by PTU
2> Specialists in ecosystem, mapping, land use, and related skills.
c3> 386 PC or 486, VGA Graphics card, 5.25 & 3.5 inch drives, 300 Meg HD
4> Consultant for 2 months and 2 workshops (fees, fares and per diem)
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0 12/30/1992 8:50



48
BELARUS
GLOBAL ENVIRONIENT FACILITY
PROTECTION OF BIOOIVERSITY
Table 104. Ecological Agriculture
Detailed Cost Table
US $ .000
Breakdoin of Totals Incl.Cont.
Quantity          Base Costs in US S .000                   US * .000
usu---suuusumsuss asuauuass-uuususuuinsusa m=a-sausss=s-Xasts-sassssssssss
1993  1994 Total        1993    1994   Total       F.Exch   Local   Taxes   Total
1. INWISTIENT COSTS
................
A. Vehicls ad Equinnt
4W.D Pickup                         1      0     1        10.0      0.0    10.0        10.2      0.0     0.0    10.2
Personat Caputer & Prin             I      0     1         3.0      0.0     3.0         3.1      0.0     0.0      3.1
.......    .......... .......  .......... .......    ........... ....... ................................
Sub-Total                                                  13.0      0.0    13.0        13.3      0.0     0.0    13.3
B. Technical Advisory PaneL 10            I     1      2        2.0      2.0      4.0        4.2      0.0      0.0     4.2
C. External Specialists 42'
Fes                                 2      3     5         2.0     3.0      5.0         5.2      0.0     0.0      5.2
Per Dim                             1      1     2         1.0      1.0     2.0         2.1      0.0     0.0      2.1
Travel                              3      4     7         1.5      2.0     3.5         3.7      0.0     0.0      3.7
Sub-Total                                                   4.5     6.0    10.5         11.0      0.0     0.0    11.0
D. Belarus Specialists
Fees                                1      1     2         5.0     5.0    10.0          0.0    10.4      0.0    10.4
Per Diem & Expenses                 1      1     2         1.0      1.0     2.0         0.0      2.1     0.0      2.1
Travel                              1      1     2         1.0      1.0     2.0         0.0      2.1     0.0      2.1
Sub-Total                                                   7.0      7.0    14.0         0.0    14.6      0.0    14.6
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                            26.5    15.0    41.5          28.4    14.6      0.0    42.9
1I. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Vehicle Maintenance                    1     1      2        0.5      0.5      1.0         0.0     1.0      0.0      1.0
B. Enumerators                            1     1      2        1.0      1.0      2.0         0.0     2.0      0.0     2.0
C. Analysis of Samples  3>                1     1      2        1.0      1.0      2.0        0.0      2.0      0.0     2.0
D. Sundries                               1     1      2        0.5      0.5      1.0         0.0     1.0      0.0      1.0
E. Report Production/Transtn              1     4      5        0.5      2.0      2.5        0.0      2.5      0.0     2.5
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                              3.5      5.0      8.5         0.0     8.5      0.0     8.5
=2z-=3=2= =222a25  55=52      s=2=   E-= =-==Ss= ==s-========
Total                                                          30.0    20.0    50.0         28.4    23.1       0.0    51.4
=55=2*222*222s*us-wsasa              sssU=2-=2us2---uss2s2E2Uin2us---a---5- 2.22-=r ==     =5=2==        s===-------
-1> 2 external advisors: Agriculturat Economist, Soit Chemist & Sociologist
42> Mkt. Econ.(Y1-2 months,Y2-2months), Agronomist(Y1-1 month,Y2-1 month)
43> Soil, water and plant sampling team (contract)
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  12/30/1992  8:51



49
SELARUS
GLOBAL ENVIROMIENT FACILITY
PROTECTION OF BIOOIVERSITY
Table 105. Pollution Monitoring and Mitigation
Detailed Coat Toble
US s .000
Breakdoun of Totals Incl Cont.
Quantity          Bas  Coats in US *  000                   US S  000
1993  1994 Total        1993    994   Total       F.Exch   Local   Taxes   Totel
..................    ........................ ....... .............. ........................._...................... ....
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. Nobile Monitoring Station 10           1     0      1      150.0      0.0   150.0        160.6     0.0      0.0   160.6
B. Pollution Mitigation                   1     1      2       10.0    10.0    20.0          21.8     0.0      0.0    21.8
C. Ernin ering Services                   0     2      2        0.0    20.0    20.0         22.3      0.0      0.0    22.3
...      .. ....... .......    ....... ....... ....... .......
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                            10.0    30.0   190.0         204.8     0.0      0.0   204.8
.uauuuu -- -----             azmmuu    8suSum aas=u=u     . Buu.u
Total                                                         160.0    30.0   190.0        204.8      0.0      0.0   204.8
1 To be established in liaison with Polnd
<2> Supporting Equipmant to coiplete detailed engineering design
3> Consulting Services for detailed engineering designs
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0 12/30/1992 8:51



50
BELARUS
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
PROTECTION OF SIODIVERSITY
Table 106. Coordination with Poland
Detailed Cost Table
uS S ,000
Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
Quantity      Base Costs in US S ,000                  US S ,000
93-94 Total         1993-94       Total      F.Exch   Local   Taxes   Total
............   ........................     ........................ ............................... ........ .................. 
I  INVESTNENT COSTS
................
A.  eetings, Conferences         1      2           10.0         20.0        0.0    21.8      0.0    21.8
Total INVESTNENT COSTS                                 10.0         20.0        0.0    21.8      0.0    21.8
uuuuuusau  .u.             :3u_uu  mmuUUU  -m -u-u was
Total                                               10.0         20.0        0.0    21.8      0.0    21.8
Unit CostsSaled by 1000.0   - Values sl   by 10. 12--3--------0/1992  8:51
Unit Iosts Scaed by 1000.0 - Vatues scaled by 1000.0  12/30/1992  8:51



51
BELARUS
GLOBAL ENVIRCWINET FACILITY
PROTECTIOM OF BIODIVERSITY
Table 107. Professional Deveopnent and Training
Detailed Cost Table
U S * 000
Sreakdoun of Totals Incl.Cont.
Ouuntity       Se  Costs in US *  000                  US s * 000
sea   --ESE=    uuuuSUUauuuauSfU            uu.u.uuUUu=UUUU
93-94 Total         1993-94       Total      F.Exch   I cal   Taxes   Total
................... ..... ............... .................................   ................................
1. INWSTNENT COSTS
................
A. Professional Developm ent 01>        1     2           20.0         40.0       43.7      0.0     0.0    43.7
B. Training                             1     2            15.0        30.0       32.8      0.0     0.0    32.8
........    ........... . ..... ......... ............... .......    .............. .....................
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                       35.0         70.0        76.5     0.0     0.0    76.5
u.m. suaa-  =uo5=_  mu=... mamma" Salomon
Total                                                     35.0         70.0       76.5      0.0     0.0    76.5
c1c Including seminars and meetings
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0 12/30/1992 8:51



52
BELARUS
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
PROTECTION OF BIODIVERSITY
Table 108. Support for the Establishmont of the Bialowieza Foundation
Detailed Cost Table
US s ,000
Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
Quantity                Base Costs  in US S   000                              US s  .000
mm7Ummm.7Um.2.XU               .UU.U.U....UU.U..UU.U                tUUUUUUUUUUu-UU --UUUU---UU-
1993   1994  Total              1993        1994    Total           F.Exch    Local         Taxes    TotaL
..................    ............................... ........................ ..........................................................
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Estab. of Legal  Framawork                     1       0        1           1S.0        0.0       15.0            16.1         0.0        0.0       16.1
....... .......... .......            .......... ....... .......... ....... ....... ... ...... ... ...... ...
Total  I M  STNENT  COSTS                                                          15.0        0.0       15.0            16.1         0.0        0.0       16.1
a,....m            .. ...             m        . Banmnas  Rang m---------  -.-----  a--- -
Total                                                                         15.0         0.0       15.0            16.1        0.0         0.0       16.1
Unit  Cost-------.--sScal by  1000.0.. Values  saled b.... 1000.0 12/30/1?- -                  8:-
Unit Costs Scated by 1000.0 - Vatues scaled by 1000.0 12/30/1992 8:51



53
BELARUS
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
PROTECTION OF BtOOIVERSITY
Table 201. Outreach Activities at Bere'insky and Pripyatsky
Detailed Cost TatL
us s .000
Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
Quantity       Base Costs in US S  000                   us S *oon
*UUUUUSUU   U*3U.U U3UU.UUUUhU. S U   u uu..u.............................
93-94 Total         1993-94        Total      F.Exch   Local   Taxes   Total
.........................   ........................   ................................
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. Pro*v. of Europen Bison            1     2            15.0         30.0        16.4    16.4      0.0    32.8
B. Preo. Capercaillie Grouse          1     2            10.0         20.0        10.9    10.9      0.0    21.8
C. Gen. Pes. Not Policy               1     2             5.0         10.0         5.S     3.5      0.0    10.9
D. Nigratory Species                  1     2            10.0         20.0        10.9    10.9      0.0    21.8
E. Training and Tech. Coord.          1     2            10.0         20.0        10.9    10.9      0.0    21.8
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                      50.0        100.0        54.6    54.6      0.0   109.2
%2ss====2= ====a= a---. ----.-------  ............................... --s
Total                                                    50.0        100.0        54.6    54.6      0.0   109.2
Unit Costs scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  12/30/1992  8:51



54
BELARUS
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
PROTECTION OF BIOWIVERSITY
Table 301. Project Management and Coordination
Detailed Cost Table
Us S ,000
Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
Quantity         Saw Costs in US  S  000                 US S 000
1993  1994 Total       1993    1994   Total      F.Exch   Local   Taxes   Total
..... . ...........  ....... .. . . .........    .... . . . . . . .. . . . . ..
1. INVESTMET COSTS
A. Project Technical Unit
Saelaries etc.                    1     1    2        30.0    30.0   60.0          0.0    65.5      0.0   65.5
Computers and Equipment           1     0     1       30.0      0.0    30.0       32.1     0.0      0.0   32.1
Sub-Totat                                              60.0    30.0    90.0        32.1    65.5      0.0   97.7
B. Proj. Adin. Coord. Unit
Salaries etc <2>                  1     1    2        10.0    10.0    20.0         0.0    21.8      0.0    21.8
Computers and Equiput.            1     0     1       20.0      0.0    20.0       21.4     0.0      0.0   21.4
Sub-Total                                              30.0    10.0    40.0        21.4    21.8      0.0   43.3
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                        90.0    40.0   130.0        53.5    87.4      0.0   140.9
=zmum    zzguuzz ---u-su     .==z#== *z--= ==.uu  =====
Total                                                      90.0    40.0   130.0        53.5    87.4      0.0  140.9
0> Head of Unit, Scientific AdvIsor and 2 Assistants.
2> Head of Unit and 1 Assistant
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  12/30/1992  8:51



55
BFLARUS
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
PROTECTION OF BIOCIVERSITY
Table 401. Joint Scientific Review Committee
Detailed Cost Table
US S ,000
Breakdoun of Totals Incl.Cont.
Quantity      Base Costs in US S ,000                  us S ,000
33U33335=       33         33     33333   ===33333=S33S3Z=333Z==3=S55=S=S
93-94 Total         1993-94       Total      F.Exch   Local   Taxes   Total
..... ...............   . ...................... ....................... .............. .......................... ..... 
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Travel and  oeetings             1     2           10.0         20.0       14.2      7.6     0.0    21.8
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                   10.0         20.0       14.2      7.6     0.0    21.8
.xuuuuuaunu u.rnsuama.ma    u.m.iuz z3amuuw uuauuain ===Nuu
Total                                                 10           20.0       14.2      7.6     0.0    21.8
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  12/30/1992  8:51



56
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 9
FOREST BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
CONSERVATION NANRAGIMME PLAN
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Conservation Management Plan (CMP) will be undertaken by a multi
disciplinary team of national and international consultants.
2.        The Planning Process will involve the following phases:
(a)   Identification of the significant resources of the BPF and the
threats and trends on these resources;
(i)   The consultants will document and assess the range of
information pertinent to the conservation plan through
literature, field visits, and consultations with
government and local population. Consultation will also
be maintained with the Joint Scientific Committee and
where appropriate with the MAB organization. Throughout
this process, they will give particular attention to
changes in the environment during the recent history and
will identify the patterns of such changes.
(ii)  In documenting and assessirg the information pertinent
to the conservation plan, the consultants will
systematically collect and analyze data from: (a)
written materials (studies of the area, management
plans, project documents, maps and photographs); (b)
interviews with Republic and local officials, project
staff, researchers, community leaders, local population,
etc.; and (c) field visits to the sites. Much of the
existing data pertinent to the conservation plan will be
available from government, universities, and research rs
and from the results of the other activities of this GEF
project.
(iii) Assistance will be sought from appropriate government
agencies, particularly the Planning Institute. In
addition, local academic institutions will be involved
in the plan's preparation.
(b)   Development of appropriate management objectives for the
sustainable protection of these resources;
The consultants will develop appropriate management objectives
from the information collected as part of (a) above.



57
ANN= 4
Page 2 of 9
(c)   Developm nt of appropriate management strategies, including
the investigation of a legislative basis to support the
provisions of the final plan;
After documenting and assessing the information and developing
the manag ement objectives, the consultants will identify the
major factors (physical, institutional, legal, economic, and
social) impacting on the sustainable conservation management
of the area. In order to produce an operational conservation
plan, they will then identify measures likely to be effective
in influencing the major factors.
(d)   Production of a Draft Conservation Plan and a public
consultation process; and,
The consultants will embody these measures in a series of
recommendations and identification of specific management
actions to be undertaken during the three year period of the
plan. The recomrendations will address the role of government
and local population in the conservation of the area,
including the most cost-effective approach to sustainable
conservation, and highlight the technical, financial,
institutional, and policy measures which will enable the
implementation of the plan. The mearsureF iich will be
identified in this process will be poss..   activities to be
funded from a Trust which will be established in parallel with
this GEF project.
(e)   Production of a final plan and acceptance by government.
Finally, the Draft Conservation Plan will be subject to
consultation with all affected parties and be forwarded for
formal approval by government.
II. PLANNING ACTIVITIES
3.        The preparation of the plan will entail the following
activities:
(a)   Site Identification, Boundaries and Zoning - The conservation
plan will review and identify the existing key natural and
cultural sites for protection and determine their protection
category. It will make recommendations on the limits of any
areas to be further protected. It will review the current
zoning scheme in line with the level of protection to be
afforded to the identified areas, and including, where
necessary, the definition of buffer and transition zones. This
will include proposals for zoning and land uses in particular
areas and will allow for adaptations needed as a result of
increased knowledge, legislative, institutional and land



58
AMEX 4
Page 3 of 9
tenure developme nt, or environmental changes. This activity
will build on the present zoning.
(b) Conservation of Main Ucosystems and Habitats - The
conservation planning exercise will review the extent and
condition of the forests and other ecosystems, taking account
of the many different potential uses of this resource, develop
proposals for future managemont. Proposals for the management
of the forests, and the identification of any necessary
research on this and any other relevant problems of forest
management will also be made.
(c)   Animal Populations and Monitoring - The conservation planning
exercise will assess the status of the main animal populations
and will define measures (e.g. protection of breeding sites)
to protect the threatened species. It will assess the carrying
capacity of the threatened species and review the current
feeding programs.
(d)   Botany - Recommendations for the protection of endemic and
imported botanical species will be provided, including non-
tree species.
(e)   Activity Trends
(i)   Land Tenure
The conservation plan exercise will review land tenure
arrangements in the area. It will recommend any action
or legal steps necessary to ensure both the protection
of the forest's key natural and cultural resources, and
land security for the inhabitants.
(ii) Agriculture and Livestock Production
Agricultural and livestock production systems will be
reviewed to analyze their present and future impact on
the conservation of the protected areas.
(iii) Tourism
The exercise will review planned tourism
development in the light of conservation requirements,
the market economy, and of potential economic
development for the region. It will evaluate the
tourist carrying capacity of the area and make
recommendations for conservation wise tourism, including
necessary regulations and the promotion of nature based
tourism and hunting.



59
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 9
(iv) Infrastructure
The conservation plan will provide rules and regulations
for road construction and extractive activity. It will
also establish requirements, for sewage treatment and
water reuse.
(f)   Conservation Measures
(i)   Land Use Planning
a.    The exercise will review the current local and
national process of land use planning. The
integration of conservation into the planning
process will be the prime concern. There will
also be an analysis of how priorities identified
by local people are incorporated into plans and of
the weight given in the plans to the protection of
the environment, nature and cultural resources
conservation.
b.    The conservation planning exercise will also
consider, in its chapter on management targets,
the current and future capacity of the proposed
biosphere reserve to support human population,
urban and tourism development, the extension of
agriculture and pasture, and infrastructure
development.
(ii)  Reserve Management
The conservation plan will provide a program of reserve
management. This will include interpretation and
visitor centers, information kiosks, trails, etc.
(iii) Research Program
The conservaticn plan will assess the needs for
scientific and social research directly related to the
conservation of the key sites, species, and vegetation.
A prioritized program will be drawn up and suggestions
made as to the means required to stimulate and foster
the program. It is intended to involve the existing
researchers in this conservation planning activity so
facilitating the definition of research needs at least
in the biological domair. Stock will be taken of
previous and ongoing research activities and resulting
reco"> ndations will be included in the progrm.



60
h=PX 4
Page 5 of 9
(g)   Local participation The consultants will work with the
population of the archipelago to determine local perspectives,
goals, aspirations and priorities. The conservation plan will
provide a program for local participation in natural resource
management and ecologically sensitive site specific
interventions. The preparation of the prograu will includes
(i)   the analysis of traditional and cultural practices which
concern the conservation of nature and natural resources
(e.g. traditional uses of land, use of medicinal plants,
natural products);
(ii) the analysis of traditional natural resources management
and control systems;
(iii) the identification of appropriate incentives to
encourage local participation in resource management,
and the potential for developing natural resource
management and nature conservation agreement between
local population and the authorities; the assessment of
the extent to which, and the system under which, local
communities can be given responsibility and authority
for the management of certain areas, in return for an
agreed benefit package negotiated with the authorities;
(iv)  the review of present and potential role of the commune
authority in improving local participation in the
management of the area, and the identification of
specific training and institutional support
requirements; and
(v)   the review of the existing local and national non
governmental organizations (NGOs) with an interest in
conservation and environmental matters in the area,
including the assessment of their present capacity and
recommendations as how their independent development can
best be enhanced.
(h)   Training, Public Awareness and Environmental Education
(i)   Staff Training
The exercise will identify staff training needs and
propose a staff training program. This will include
training to identify proposed development projects which
may have an impact on the ecosystems.
(ii)  Government and Commercial/Private Sector Training
The exercise will design a program to provide relevant
training to Government staff and relevant private



61
ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 9
individuals (NGO leaders, industrial and agricultural
polluters, hotel managers, etc.) on nature conservation
and natural resources management. The exercise will
consider the relative advantage of long, short or medium
term programs and in-service or overseas training. To
aa great a degree as possible, the training should be
based on existing courses and institutions.
(iii) Public Awareness
At present only a limited number people in the area are
aware of the local, regional and international
importance of the special set of natural and cultural
resources in the proposed biosphere reserve. If the
conservation plan is to have any chance of long term
success, this must change. The conservation plan
exercise will propose a public awareness program aimed
at an audience within the area and in some cases beyond.
The program will identify key targets, define methods
and resources to be used. The themes to be included in
the program will focus on the forest and its linkages
with the many other aspects of social, cultural and
economic life in the area.
(iv)  Environmental Education
A program of local environmental education will be
included in the conservation plan based on the
experience accumulated over a considerable period by the
national park management. It will focus on the areas
primary and secondary schools, though it could also
develop a component for adult groups and NGOs.
(i)   Legislation and Enforcement  A list of recommendations will be
prepared on any necessary modifications to existing and
proposed legislation relating to the conservation of the area.
This will include Republican laws and regulations relating to
nature conservation, environmental protection laws,
legislation controlling hunting, water management and land use
in reserves, and buildings and historic settlements laws and
regulationa.
(j)   A review of the requirements of relevant international
conventions and classifications useful for nature conservation
and ratified or signed by the country - especially the Unesco
Biosphere Reserves - will be undertaken and provisions any
related requirements will be provided for in the conservation
plan.



62
ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 9
(k)   Environmental Impact Assessments  A system for developing and
reviewing hrA *tudies at the local level will be further
strengthened. The conservation plan exercise will recommend
changes to enhance conservation of ecosystems through the EIA
process.
To that and, the conservation plan will catalogue all of the
development schemes being implemented, evaluated, planned or
conceived. In order to learn from experience, the plan will
briefly review the environmental impact assessments undertaken
for these schemes and make appropriate recommendations for
future EIAs.
(1)   An importantly the conservation plan will be subject to
environmental assessment to provide an opportunity to develop
local management skills in this activity.
III. TIMETABLE
4.        The preparation of the conservation plan is estimated to require 12
months to be completed.
Month
TASK                           1   2  3  4  5  6  7  S  9   10  11  12
1.Plning workhopi                        IIIIII == =
2. Preparation of the draft plan                                  _
3. Public coamutution                 
4. Final plan prepartion
. Plan inpiemcntaion
IV. PLAN OUTLINE
5.        The following Plan outline will be amended as required in the
planning process.



63
ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 9
EzECUTIYC tn    yURK                         Chapter 6  Development Projects
On-going Government projects
PART 1:  DUUCRIPTION                              Planned GoveL-aent projects
On-going private sector
Chapter 1 General Information                      projects
Location                                    Planned private sector projects
Description
Planning contexts                     Chapter 7  Legal Framework
International context                       Local
Republican/local context                    Republic
Reserves                                    International
Sites
Map Coverage                          Chapter 8  Institutional Framework
Aerial Photographs                          Local institutions
Satellite Imagery                           Republic institutions
International conservation
Chapter 2   Resources                               organizations
Physical Description                        Institutional
Geology                                 interrelationships
Geomorphology
Climate                        Chapter 9  Awareness and Tram ning
Hydrology                            Awareness programs
Hydrogeology                                General public
soils                                       Schools
Biological Description of                         Publicity and media
Natural Ecosystems                                 coverage
Vegetation                                  National
Fauna                                       International
The Human Population                  Training
Archeology                                  Conservation staff
Settlement histcry                           training
Demography                                  Other training
Population distribution
Cultural Description           Chapter 10  Information Base
Land use                                    Bibliography
Land tenure                                 Register of research
Architectural heritage                       underway and planned
Landscape                      Appendices Summary table of factual
Chapter 3  Economic Development             information Data files, e.g
Atouismtie                                  Hydro-meteorological data
Industrial activity                          Photographic file
Agricultural systems
Pastoral systems                PART   I:       OBJECTIVES   OF  TBE
Forestry systems                CONSERVATION PLAN
Commercial activity
Supporting infrastructure      Chapter  1       Rationale  for  the
Water supplies                PoetdAesi   h
Electric Power                Primeval Forest
Sewage disposal
Waste disposal                Chapter  2       Evaluation  of  the
Transport                     Significance  of  the Resources  and
Telecommunications             Potential of the Area
Pollution
Chapter  3      Objectives  of  the
Chaper 5Linkges  etwen Naural   Conservation Plan
and Economic Systems                       Long-term objectives
Short-term objectives
Subsidiary objectives



64
ANNEX 4
Page 9 of 9
Chapt-r  4      Specific  Managiment        Chapter 3   Budget  for Management
Targets                                     Actions
PART  IKIU      FACTORS  INFLUEMCING        Chapter 4 Outline Management Actions
POSSIDL  NANAGRODIT ACTIONS                 for the Second Phase
Chapter 1  Constraint.                      Chapter 5  Implementation Timetables
Legal factors and enforcement               Phase I: 1993-1995
Institutional constraints                   Phase II:1995
Organizational/managerial
constraints                                 Chapter 6  Summary Organigrammes
Cultural factors
Constraints of land tenure           Chapter 7  Summary Maps
Constraints   of   access   to
resources
Staffing shortages
Chapter 2 Threats
Environmental change
Human induced trends
Natural trends
Chapter 3 opportunities
Available funding sources and
financing mechanisms
Changes   towards   a   market
economy
International conventions
Chapter 4   Environmental Soundriess
and Sustainability of Projects
PART IV:  RECOMUENDATIONS
Chapter  1    Schedule  of  Priority
Management Actions
Chapter 2 Management Actions
Legislation and enforcement
Institutional arrangements
Administrative management
Physical plan
Protected area boundaries
Protected area zoning
Resource management
Water
Soil
Forests
Grazing and livestock
Pollution control
Ecosystem monitoring
Scientific research
Infrastructure and
equipment
Staffing
Training
Awareness and education
User management and
enforcement
Plan implementation monitoring
Plan evaluation and updating



65
AMEXL5
Page 1 of 2
BELARUS
FOREST BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES
1.      There are a number of institutions, both local and international which
will be involved with the individual components of this project. Clear
responsibilities for the Project Technical Management Unit, the Administrative
Coordinating Unit and the Joint Scientific Committee have been detailed in the
main body of the report.
2.      The organizations so far identified to complete the project in
cooperation with the two Units above include:
* Institutes from the Academy of Science (7);
* The management of Belovezhskaya Pushcha;
* The Research Institute of Experimental Veterinary Science; and,
a The Institute of Planning
3.      The following table is designed to indicate the responsibilities/
collaboration so far identified for each organization. These roles correspond
to the necessdry skills and expertise to assist with specific project
components, either as a formally contracted party or by the provision of on-
going advice and data. The heads of each of the project units will be
responsible for ensuring that the organizations listed below are involved in
the project as appropriate.
TASK                   -     RESPONSIBLE OR COLLABORATING
ORGANIZATION(S)
1. Risk Assessment of Pollution - monitoring and nitigation  Inst. Forest Research
Inst. of Botany
Inst. of Ecology
l__________________________________________________________________  Belovezhskaya Pushcha
2. Seed and Pant Part CoLLection and Storage         Belovezhskaya Pushcha
3. In-situ conservation of native populations        Belovezhskaya Pushcha
4. Determination of Genetic Diversity                Inst. of Forestry
Inst. of Genetics
Research Inst. of Experimental
Veterinary Science
5. Expansion of Protected Areas to Include Remaining  Belovezhskaya Pushcha
Associations
6. Conservation Management Planning                  Belovezhskaya Pushcha
[Ist, of Planning
7. Computer Assisted Mapping                         Inst. of Ecology
Belovezhskaya Pushcha



66
AtINEX 5
Page 2 of 2
S. Suporting Appi od Rte"arch                                      Iblov zhslya Pushcha
Inst. Fort Reseerch
[ot. of Botany
Inst _of Ecology
9. ApplIcation of Environmental Imact Assessnt                     Blovezhskay  Puehcha
_Inst. of Ptming_
10.  en and the Biosphere at belowvhskayau                         Inst. of  0tow
Inst. of Ecotogy
l_________________________________________________________  Socio-Ecological Union
11. Scientific Cooperation at oialowieza with Polish GEF           B.lovezhskays Pushcha
12. EcoLogical Agriculture                                         Agricultural Acadmy
Inst. of Ecology et al
13. End of Phase I Meeting and Transition                          Project Units
14. Developing the Belarus Foundation                              Belovezhskaya Pushcha
l_______________________________________________________________  Project Units
15. Professional Developing and Training                           Project Units
International Organizations"
16. Project Management                                             Council of Ministers
17. Joint Scientific Review Coemmittee                             Council of Ministers
Project Units
18. Biodiversity Dependant Applied Research Outreach               Project Units
1/ In collaboration with the MAR unit to be established under the project as well as the MAR
Secretariat of the Academy of Sciences.
2/ These would include international agencies and would be selected according to the individual
training and staff development components.
4.         It should  be noted  that the  above  listing  is not comprehensive.   It
would be expected that there will be a number of collaborative and/or
responsible organizations identified as the project develops. This will be
particularly the case with the involvement of international organizations
which will ensure that the opportunity is taken to build on world expertise.
5.        As importantly, many  individual project elements would  be
appropriately undertaken by specific consultants and will therefore not be
limited to the institutions indicated above.
M:\BEL\GEF\ANNEX5 .BEL



67
ANnn 6
Page 1 of 3
VORZ9T BIOD!VEREITY PROIoCTIOU PfO.T3CT
ECOLCSCL AGRICULTURZ
1. INTRODUCTION
1.    Several Kolkhoz (cooperative farms) operate within the Belovezhskaya
National Park and in the buffer zones adjacent. Primary production focuses on
basic grains (wheat, rye), forage crops, and potatoes. Dairy and pork
production are the primary cash producers of most of the farmers, many who
work as loggers in the abutting forest. Farms operating within the boundaries
of the park are not permitted to use pesticides and only carefully monitored
chemical fertilizers. Farms operating within the adjacent 90,000 ha buffer
zone (see Map) are restricted in a number of farming practices, especially in
draina',e, dams, aerial spraying and farm waste storage and disposal.
2.    This project component would widen this practice and provide technical
assistance and cash incentives as necessary to farmers to shift from chemicals
to ecological agriculture.
Obiectives:
3.    To encourage further development of ecological farming methods within
the Beloveskskaya National Park and its buffer zone by supporting the shift
from conventional farming methods to ecological agrochemical-free farming
methods on the Kolkhoz farms. This component would support work on:
(a)   farm yields, farm income, and farm employment;
(b)   soil, water, and product quality; and
(c)   Cost comparisons of tnese two farminq systems on farms in the
Primeval Forest
!1. BACKGROUND
4.    In recent years, agricultural technology which depends substantially on
chemical inputs and fossil fuels as a means of increasing yields and quality
of produce, or maintaining already high 'evels of yield and quality, has
become under review. The main focus of this review has been in the
industrialized countries of Western Europe, the United States, and Japan, due
largely to concerns about pollution of soil and groundwater, but also to fears
of chemical residues in food which may affect human health.
5.    Consequently, there has been a search for alternative approaches to
sustaining agricultural, and particularly food production. Attention has been
directed principaily to farmiixg based on organic measures to maintain soil



-68-
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 3
fertility, and to biological or physical means of controlling pests, diseases,
and weeds. Various labels have been attached to this type of agricultural
technology: ecological agriculture in synonymous with organic farming which
is defined precisely by the International Federation of Organic Agricultural
Movements (IFOAM). While not yet widely practiced by a large number of
farmers, this movement is spreading and claims as to its pot-ntial are being
made by its proponents.
6.    Moreover, it is of paramornt importance that ecological farming is
economically viable for the prorucer.
Ecological Agriculture in the National Park and in the Buffer Zone
7.    As concern about environmental damage increases in the Belovezhskaya
National Park and its buffer zone, the role of current conventional
agriculture, as a contributor to environmental pollution and degradation of
the natural resource base, requires further attention. Attempts are now being
made to quantify and value these external costs in order to reflect a more
realistic economic framework with which to compare conventional and ecological
farming systems.
III. THE PROJECT COMPONENT
Obiectives
(a)   To study the impact on the Kolkhoz farms in the Beloveshskaya
National Park and within the adjacent buffer zone of further
changing from conventional to ecological farming methods on the
small family farms, on (a) farm yields, farm income, and farm
employment; and (b) soil, water, and product quality.
(b)   To estimate and compare the  costs of these two farming systems in
this buffer zone.
Procedure and Methods
(a)   The project is designed as a 2-year program, with two principal
stages:
(i)   Stage 1 - the establishment of baseline data, preliminary
reports, review of farm sampling and methodology
(ii) Stage 2 - the implementation of a program to further foster
ecclogical agriculture within the national park boundary and
to initiate ecological agriculture on farms within the
buffer zone of the national park



-69-
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 3
IV. DETAILED COST ESTIMATES
Base Costs         Includirg Contingencies
Ou,auitv           USS Thousands)            (USS Thouaands)
Foreign
1. INVSTMENT COSTS                            1992  1993   Total   1992   1993   Total   Exchange   Lcal  Total
A. Vehicles and Equipment
4WD Pickup                                    I     0        0      10       0      10        10.2      0    10.2
Personal Computer & Printer                   I      0       I _- ----                ---
Sub-Total                                               13       0      13        13.3      0   13.32
B. Technical Advisory Panel'                     I      1       2      2       2       4         4.2       0     4.2
C. Extermal Specialist
Fees                                          2      3       5       2       3       5        5.2       0     5.2
Per Diem                                      I      1       2       1       !      2         2.1       0     2.1
Travel                                        2              7 _2J-_                                       -2.
Sub-Total                                              4.5       6    10.5          II      0       11
D. Loca, Experts'
Salary Supplements/Fees                       I      1       2       5       5      10          0       0       0
Per Diem                                      I      1       2       1       1      2           0       0       0
Travel                                        I      1       2 ____- ____-____2_           _         _     _-
Sub-Total                                                7       7      14          0       0       0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                      26.5      15   41.5        28.4   14.6  42.97
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Vehicle Maintenance                           I      1       2     0.5    0.5      1.0          0       1       1
B. EnumeratorR4                                  I      1       2     1.0    1.0    2.0            a       2       2
C. Analysis of Samples'                          I      1       2     1.0    1.0    2.0            0       2       2
D. Sundries                                      I      1       2     0.5    0.5      1.0          0       1       1
E. Report Production/Translation                 I     4        5     0 5     2.0     2.5          0     2.5    25_
TOTAL RECURRENT COSTS                                        3.5      5      8.5          0     8.5    8.5
TOTAL                                  _                                        2A      SD        2R-    23-1   -1
I Three external advisors: Agricultuml Economist, Soil Chemirt and Sociologist
2 Mkt. Econ. (Year I - 2 months, Year 2 - 2 months), Agronomist (Year I - I month, Year 2 - I month)
3 500/month x 6 months x 4 persons, 5250imonth x 6 months x 3 persons
4 Five enumertors (Farm Economic Survey)
5 Soil, Water and Plant sampling team (contrct)
M:\BEL\GEP\ANNEX6.BEL



Zokeony   H)" -             , ,       .n Wilk
~~~ oLono.ks. , ' 
Su~czo_ uo/ - ,  '/\7
Nr~~~~~~~~ewli.-ki <i))/  )
0              5               1.
Na.wo                                                                               BELARUSI.
FOREST BIODIVERSITY
PROTECTION PROJECT
B OU,NDARY Of ZAPOVEDNIKI PROTECTED AREA (BELAR")
-   BOUNDARY OF GRE AREA (POANDI
BUFFERITRANSITION USE AREASt
\    I~   /                                          R_oELARUS
NORWAY                                      ES70NIA
RUSSIAN                        ~~~~~~POLANO
FDRUSSIAN                         Lii]1ALO'VEZA NATIONAL PARtK IPOLAND)
KItOMETERS~~~~                \E RAIO
SWEDEN                       LArA                                            [        IALOVMEZA NATIONAL PARK (BELARUS).
N- j                   6                                                                          ABSOLUTELY PRESERVED AREAS
DENMARK                                                                   RECREATI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OtNOALO WOVEDNKA RTEIDMASIEMS
C         A LUIHUANAIA                                            __    ADMRNITRATIVAND ECONOMIC AREAS
RIVERS
S _._   \.<   RUSSIANTOWNS AND VIUAGES
SWEDEN   IPOLAND             I                                             - -    INTERNATIONAL BOLNDARY
GERMANY
UKRAINE
DEII  _      T                                            ,                                 :CZECH REPUSL
AUS'TRIA                                                                     RIER
ROMAANIA    \
_ SWIR&   00,'.   AUSiTRIA  ,            HUNGARY         s                 - \                                           _         _Ri



The wed So*
Global Environment Coordination Division
Environment Department
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433 USA
Telephone: (202) 473-6010
Facsimile: (202) 522-3256
Printed on recycled paper



