Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18000
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
FOREST BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
GET GRANT 28621
June 11, 1998
Rural Development & Environment Sector
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of February 1998)
Currency Unit   =    Belarussian Ruble (BYB)
US$1          31,837 BYB
NOTE: On June 1, 1994, the Russian Ruble was re-denominated by a factor of
1000 and renamed to the Belarussian Ruble.
AVERAGE OFFICIAL EXCHANGE RATES
Jun 1994  Jun 1995  Jun 1996  Jun 1997  Feb 1998
26,800    11,500    13,100    26,844    31,837
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACU   -  Administrative Coordination Unit
BNP  -  Belovezhskaya National Park (Belarus)
BPF  -  Belovezhskaya Primeval Forest
EC   -  European Community
ECU   -  European Currency Unit
GDP  -  Gross Domestic Product
GEF  -  Global Environment Facility
GIS  -  Geographic Information System
IBRD   -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB   -  International Competitive Bidding
IMF  -  International Monetary Fund
LCB   -  Local Competitive Bidding
MaB   -  Man and the Biosphere Program
MOF  -  Ministry of Finance
PMU   -  Project Management Unit
SOE  -  Statement of Expenditures
TA   -  Technical Assistance
TMU   -  Technical Management Unit
FISCAL YEAR OF BELARUS
January I - December 31
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director: Paul J. Siegelbaum, ECCI 1
Sector Director: Kevin M. Cleaver, ECSRE
Sector Leader: John Hayward, ECSRE
Responsible Team  Phillip Brylski (ECSRE) and Caspar Warnaars (Consultant)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
FOREST BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
GET GRANT 28621
Contents
Preface
Evaluation Summary ................................................                                     i
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment .................................................1
Part II. Statistical Tables ................................................ .                          7
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS                                    .8
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS .10
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE.                                                                      10
TABLE 4:  GRANT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL .1
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATON .11
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION .11
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT .11
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS ................................................. 12
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING .................................................                    12
TABLE 9:  ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS .................................................          12
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS .................................................            13
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS .................................................   14
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS .................................................         14
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS .................................................             15
Appendices:
A. Mission's aide-memoire
B. Recipient's comments on the ICR
C. Map 24132R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
FOREST BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
GET GRANT 28621
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Forest Biodiversity Protection Project in
Belarus, for which the GET Grant 28621 in the amount of SDR 700,000 (US$ 1.0 million equivalent)
was approved on September 24, 1992 and made effective on January 7, 1993.
The Grant was closed on June 30, 1997; the original closing date was December 31, 1996. It was fully
disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on May 30, 1997.
The ICR was prepared by Phillip Brylski (ECSRE) and Caspar Warnaars (Consultant) of the ECA region
and reviewed by John Hayward, Sector Leader and Gottfried Ablasser, Portfolio Manager. The
Recipient's comments on the draft ICR are included as Appendix B.
Preparation of this ICR was begun after the completion mission in October 1997. It is based on material
in the project files and on discussions with the Director of the Administrative Management Unit and his
staff within the Department of Protected Areas, Academy of Sciences, and other relevant entities
involved in the project.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
GRANT 28621
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.    The Belarus biodiversity protection project was the first World Bank project in Belarus, having
been identified in 1992. The project, together with the GEF projects in Poland, Ukraine, Slovakia, and
the Czech Republic, comprise a cohort of five biodiversity protection projects that were developed based
on the opportunity and need to protect globally significant biodiversity in these countries making the
transition from centrally planned to market economies. Each of the projects also focused on
transboundary protected areas where collaboration with one or more of the five GEF projects was an
important objective.
Project Objectives and Components
ii.    Objectives: The project objectives were to preserve the biodiversity of key endangered forests
(the Belovezhskaya Protected Forest Reserve (BPF) and the wetlands and forests of the Berezinsky and
Pripiatsky Reserves) through institutional support and investments in applied research and management.
The component for Belovezhskaya National Park was designed to link park management with ongoing
GEF-supported work in the adjoining Bialowieza Primeval Forest in Poland. These objectives and the
project design supported the country's program on protected areas.
iii.   Components: The project provided: (i) institutional support to the Belovezhskaya National Park
and Department of Protected Areas to undertake biodiversity conservation activities, including
preparation of a management plan for the Belovezhskaya National Park, professional development and
training for staff, consulting services to assist protected area staff implement selected activities, further
cooperation with Poland on the management of the transboundary forest reserve, and technical assistance
for developing ecological agriculture on farms in the buffer zone of the national park, and (ii)
investments in programs and research to assist with conservation of forest and wetland ecosystems,
including air and soil monitoring equipment, a forest gene bank and related archival nursery equipment,
and a geographic information system (GIS).
Implementation Experience and Results
iv.    Achievement of Objectives: The project objectives were substantially achieved. The
Belovezhskaya National Park was expanded to improve protection against impacts occurring on its
border. A multidisciplinary management plan was prepared for the national park and is under
implementation. The applied research and management plan identified the greatest impacts on
biodiversity of the puscha as poor regeneration in old and mature stands; succession to a spruce
monoculture with reduced presence of pine, oak and ash typical of the climax lowland forest;



ii
overpopulation of game ungulates with attendant damage to regeneration; and agricultural drainage on
the park's borders. Good progress in implementing the management plan was initiated under the project,
through expansion of the national park in selected areas to reduce drainage impacts and to protect unique
and threatened forest stands. Implementation of the management plan is also continuing through a
reduction of deer and a necessary increase in hunting, owing to the damage of ungulate browsing
pressure on natural forest stands. A successful professional development and training program was
completed in technical subjects and business aspects of park management. Cooperation with Poland was
furthered to improve management of the Bialowieza and Belovezhskaya transboundary forest, and
collaboration with other international organizations was initiated.
v.    Major Factors Affecting the Project: Being the first Bank operation in Belarus, a number of
activities and approaches were new to the Recipient, including Bank/GEF procedures and international
practices in biodiversity conservation. Although the scientific and administrative staff were proficient in
many technical aspects of the project, they were relatively inexperienced in preparing long-term
management plans that integrated modem principles of conservation biology and social issues in natural
resources management. In addition, the policy framework for such an approach needed to be adopted by
the government in the course of implementation. Two factors that contributed to slow start-up and
implementation of the project were Belarus' inexperience with the Bank's procurement procedures and
the relative inexperience with the project's explicit approach to interdisciplinary management planning.
Together, these factors delayed project completion and contributed to relatively high supervision costs.
Two factors that countered the first two factors were the dedication of the project staff to the project
objectives and the ownership and problem-solving at high levels of government afforded by the PMU's
location within the Presidential Affairs Office, where the Department of Protected Areas is located.
Project Sustainability and Future Operations
vi.   Sustainability: The most important criterion for project sustainability is continued
implementation of the management plan for the Belovezskaya National Park and the extension of
interdisciplinary management planning approaches to other sites. Two factors will contribute to the
project's sustainability: (i) ownership of the project was high at all levels throughout implementation.
According to the directors of the national park and the Department of Protected Areas, implementing the
management plan is one of their highest priorities; and (ii) the professional development and training
activities were successful at building the capacity to go forward. However, there is no indication that the
national park's budget will be increased in the near-term. The national park has been developing income
to support its operational budget, especially through donations from private and public sponsors in
Belarus and abroad. Whether this will be sufficient to sustain the project activities is unknown. Taken
together, however, these factors indicate a moderate chance of the project being sustainable.
vii   Future Operations: Two Bank rural development and environment project are currently under
implementation (Forestry Development and the Ozone-depleting substances phaseout), but neither is a
follow-on activity of the biodiversity project. With regard to the biodiversity conservation project, the
national park is continuing with the activities initiated or strengthened under the project, especially
implementation of the management plan for the Belovezskaya Puscha, pollution monitoring, and
cooperation with Poland on joint management of the Belovezskaya and Bialowieza transboundary forest.
The Recipient has indicated interest in working with the Bank to develop a follow-on GEF project for the
last of these, to implement transboundary priorities of forest and wildlife management identified under
the project. The Recipient has also requested assistance for a follow-on GEF project for wetlands
conservation in the Polessie region of southern Belarus. Both projects are eligible for financing under
the GEF biodiversity conservation operation program and provide an opportunity for continued Bank



iii
dialogue with Belarus and, based on the results of the recently completed project, would yield substantial
results for biodiversity conservation and natural resources management in Belarus.
Bank and Recipient Performance
viii.  Bank Performance: Bank missions were led by a biodiversity and forestry specialists with
sufficient experience in supervising technical and of non-technical (e.g., procurement) issues. Based on
the government's communication with the Bank team, and supported by its comment letter on this ICR
(Appendix 3 of this report), the Bank's performance during implementation was satisfactory. The cost of
project supervision costs was high, amounting to approximately one-quarter of the grant amount.
However, the project was appraised on a low budget, with the result that many of the project issues that
are normally addressed during preparation and appraisal were addressed instead during supervision.
ix.    Recipient Performance: The administrative and technical staff demonstrated a strong
commitment to achieving the project objectives. During the first year of the project, the PMU
experienced difficulties in initiating the project due to its lack of experience in Bank operations. As
stated in the Recipient's comment letter on this ICR (Appendix B), "...we have to keep in mind that the
project was the very first experience of cooperation between (the) Republic of Belarus and the World
Bank. Due to this fact, some delay in project implementation occurred, but later, when we became more
familiar with Bank procedures project development was smooth and efficient." The administrative and
technical staff demonstrated a strong commitment to achieving the project objectives. On these bases,
the Recipient's performance was satisfactory.
x.    Assessment of Outcome: The project achieved its objectives, with two important outcomes. The
first is the improved management of the old growth forest ecosystem of the Belovezhskaya, which itself
improves the chances for the persistence of its globally significant biodiversity. The second is that
protected areas management in Belarus is now more similar to that employed elsewhere in Europe.
These outcomes, in concert with project publications and outreach efforts by the Belovezhskaya National
Park, are promoting nature based tourism. They have also lead to further international collaboration on
natural resources management issues in the forest and environment sectors. In recognition of these
achievements, the European Commission awarded the national park the European Diploma in Nature in
1998.
Key Lessons Learned
xi.    The lessons learned were discussed during a regional meeting involving participants of GEF
biodiversity projects from Belarus, Ukraine, Czech Republic, Slovakia, and the World Bank. Based on
discussions held during the completion mission and at the regional workshop, the key lessons learned
from the Recipient's perspective are:
a. The social assessment component of the management plan conducted in the last year of the
project revealed that public awareness of the project objectives and activities was weak.
Local residents valued the park's conservation objectives and would be more supportive of
the national park if they received some of the benefits. As a result, the national park is
improving its communication with local communities, and is looking for opportunities to
contribute to local benefits while protecting the park's resources. Participation of local
communities would have been more successful if the social assessment had been conducted
earlier in the project.



iv
b. The project was strongly oriented to achieving results, especially in technical subjects. The
project design could have been improved by identifyinrg discrete results to be achieved at
different stages of the project, and used as measures of success. These should include
measures of sustainability, technical aspects, social changes, policy decisions, and
innovation.
c. Professional development and training activities were an important ingredient of the project's
success. Training should be targeted to mid-career professionals and students. Part of the
program should include extended studies for individuals who will be responsible for training
others.
A key lesson learned from the Bank's perspective is:
a. Early in the project, a needs assessment of the PMU could have identified the need for
training in the office management and business skills needed to implement the project. This
could have reduced the initial delays in implementation and given greater time to the
substantive work to be done.



1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
GRANT 28621
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment
A. Introduction
1.    The forests of Belarus cover approximately 7 million hectares (approximately 40 per cent of the
country). These forests, which play an important role in rural economy and culture, were largely
destroyed during World War II or harvested after the war. As a result, mature stands (those over 80
years old) are only a small part of the forest fund. A major exception is the old growth forest within the
Belovezhskaya Puscha (forest), the focus of the Belarus Forest Biodiversity Conservation Project.
2.    The Belarus biodiversity protection project was the first World Bank project in Belarus, having
been identified in 1992. The project was identified in early 1992, before Belarus became a member of
the World Bank Group. It was then negotiated in September 1992 and became effective in January 1993.
The project financed biodiversity conservation and sustainable use activities in Belovezhskaya Puscha
National Park, Berezinsky Reserve, and Pripiatsky Landscape and Wetland Reserve.
3.    The project, together with the GEF projects in Poland, Ukraine, Slovakia, and the Czech
Republic, comprise a cohort of five biodiversity protection projects that were developed based on the
opportunity and need to protect globally significant biodiversity in these countries making the transition
from centrally planned to market economies. Each of the projects also focused on transboundary
protected areas where collaboration with one or more of the five GEF projects was an important
objective.
4.    The majority of project activities focused on the Belovezskaya Puscha (forest). This forest has
existed as an intact forest for more than 2,000 years, and it was first established as a preserve in the late
fourteenth century. Today, the protected area covers 1,250 km , distributed more or less equally between
the Republic of Belarus (in the Belovezskaya Puscha) and Poland (in the Bialowieza forest). This
contiguous, transboundary forest is the largest remaining natural lowland forest in Europe. A special
feature of the Belovezhskaya Puscha is its stands of "primeval" (never harvested) and "old growth" (100
- 200 years old) forest that serve as refugia for certain plant and animal species that have been extirpated
from or greatly diminished in other places. More than 50 percent of the Puscha consists of stands that
developed largely under natural conditions, producing multilayer uneven-aged stands, rather than the
single-layer even age stands typical of managed forests. Some of its stands are from 250 to 350 years
old, and some individual trees are from 300 to 600 years old. In addition to its natural biodiversity
values, the Belovezhskaya Protected Forest Reserve (BPF) provides a natural laboratory for studies on
sustainable forest management, ethnobotany and traditional uses, and individual species, such as the
European bison.



2
B. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
5.    According to the project document dated September 1992, the project's main objective was to
conserve the biological diversity of the wetland and forest ecosystems of the Belovezhskaya Pushcha,
Berezinsky Reserve, and Pripiatsky Landscape and Wetland Protected Reserve. The specific objectives
were to:
*   provide the resources-financial and professional-necessary to ensure the maintenance of
the current BPF as an unmodified natural system;
* broaden the constituency of support across government and the public for both the
protection and conservation of biological diversity;
*   integrate national efforts in biodiversity protection and conservation with international
support and information networks; and
*   link the BPF to the Bialowieza Primeval Forest in Poland and manage the transboundary
forest as an international conservation area.
6.    The GEF program objectives include the following: projects should, where possible, be innovative;
they should yield activities with demonstration value that can be replicated elsewhere; and they should be
sustainable.
7.    The project's focus was on the BPF, with eight components planned:
*   develop ex-situ and in-situ conservation measures (seed and plant parts storage and
collection, in-situ conservation of native populations, and determination of genetic
diversity);
*   develop a program of protection and management (conservation planning, expansion of
protected areas, applied research);
*   implement a geographical information system (GIS) to assist with land and conservation
planning;
*   foster ecological agriculture on farms operating within and abutting the BPF;
*   design a program for mitigating local air and water pollution;
*   further cooperation with Poland;
*   provide professional development and training opportunities; and
*   provide support for a foundation to develop a mechanism for on-going funding.
8.    The project also funded specific activities in the Berezinsky and Pripiatsky reserves which were
closely linked to those being implemented for the BPF and are summarized as follows:
*   veterinary studies of diseases affecting viability of the bison population;
*   investigation of the ecology of the capercaillie grouse to better understand the threats to this
threatened species and guide management to conserve populations in the three protected
areas and beyond;
*   analyses of pollutants in soil, air, water, and accumulated levels in target plants and animals,
and identification of pollution sources;
*   training programs such as computer uses and GIS, methods in conservation biology and
business planning;
*   collaboration with several of the transboundary studies and efforts by the Polish GEF
project in seed collection and pollution monitoring.



3
9.    Evaluation of Objectives. The original project objectives and design were confirmed by the
Recipient to be appropriate to the needs at the three project sites and for the country's program on
protected areas. However, the use of the GIS as intended proved difficult to realize within the project.
The sequence of training, procurement of the equipment, and application took too long for the tool to be
used analytically. Nonetheless, the investment in training and equipment is being used by the national
park to extend the results of the management planning work undertaken during the project.
10.   The specific project objectives used by the Recipient to plan and implement activities to achieve
the broader objectives identified in the project document are as follows: (i) complete a management plan
for the Belovezskaya National Park (BNP) that guides the forest management and research activities
within the park; (ii) expand the BNP to include areas considered important to the integrity of the park
ecosystem and which were under threat; (iii) improve the capacity of park staff through professional
development and training and provision of necessary equipment; (iv) develop international cooperation,
especially with Poland on conservation of the BialowiezalBelovezhskaya forest shared by the two
countries; and (v) improve public involvement/public support for the park's conservation objectives.
C. Achievement of Objectives
11.   The project objectives of conserving key forest biodiversity and collaborating with the Poland
GEF project on transboundary conservation efforts were achieved. In addition, project activities proved
to be innovative and demonstrated that they can be replicated elsewhere. The project ratings have
consistently been scored as successful in all categories, although management was weak at the beginning
of the project. The following is a brief description of the project's main achievements:
12.   The first project objective, regarding conservation of the Belovezhskaya Puscha ecosystem,
was successfully implemented through the following:
i. Expansion of the Belovezskaya Protected Area Approximately 12,000 ha were added to the
puscha (about a 15 percent increase in area, with an additional 4,000 ha under consideration)
in forest, bog (reclaimed from agriculture), and riverine habitats. This provided necessary
protection to specific areas where human activities such as the drainage of wetlands
indirectly affected the protected forest, and improved the ecological sustainability of the
national park.
ii. Applied Scientific Research and Development of a Management Plan for Belovezhskaya
Puscha The 20 research efforts at Belovezskaya, five at Berezinsky, and four at Pripiatsky
were all successfully carried out and published in the book Belovezhskaya Pushcha Forest
Biodiversity Conservation (in Russian and English). The volume synthesized the technical
and scientific research, a social assessment, and specific management actions now under
implementation to improve function of the BPF. These include management for non-timber
plant species in the economic zone of the park and improved management of boar and deer
populations. The applied research and management plan identified the greatest impacts on
biodiversity of the puscha as poor regeneration in old and mature stands; succession to a
spruce monoculture with reduced presence of pine, oak and ash typical of the climax lowland
forest; overpopulation of game ungulates with attendant damage to regeneration; and
agricultural drainage on the park's borders. Good progress in implementing the management
plan was initiated under the project, through expansion of the national park in selected areas
to reduce drainage impacts and the reduction of ungulate populations through cessation of
winter feeding of deer and a necessary increase in hunting.



4
The management plan represents an important advance in natural resources management in
Belarus. The plan could have been more integrative, but the approach was more
interdisciplinary and participatory than the approach followed for forest management
planning in Belarus. In addition to the practical value of the applied research (for managing
the park's biodiversity), dissemination of the book throughout Europe is providing
opportunities for further international collaboration.
iii. Professional Development and Training. This component was considered one of the most
successful of the project. The workshops and study tours achieved useful professional
development and training in technical subjects and the establishment of professional contacts
that have continued to date. In addition, the biobusiness training activities have led to direct
benefits in developing the national park's nature-based tourism program.
iv. Support to Infrastructure. The project provided pollution analysis equipment, computers,
vehicles, and a GIS hardware and software. All of these were identified during appraisal as
necessary to implement the program.
13.   With regard to broadening support for conservation activities, the management planning process
for the Belovezskaya Puscha included a social assessment-the first of its kind in Belarus. The social
assessment provided the park administration with information about the attitudes of local communities
toward the park specifically and nature conservation more generally. It also informed the park about the
impact of park activities on local communities and how relations could be improved. As part of its
outreach program, the National Park developed video and printed interpretive materials in English and
Russian on conservation themes and Belarus protected areas. These are used for public education for
visitors and non-visitors, and for building public and financial support from within and outside Belarus.
Although not originally envisaged under the project, a business plan for nature-based tourism was
drafted late in the project.
14.   With regard to further international collaboration, the principal objective of promoting
cooperation with Poland in the management of the Bialowieza/Belovezhskaya transboundary forest was
successful. This resulted in numerous scientific exchanges and established semi-annual joint meetings
on the management of the Belovezskaya and Bialowieza National Parks. This collaboration is
continuing. The Belovezskaya park director is developing collaboration in park management activities
with a number of international organizations.
15.   Early in implementation, a commitment was made by the project participants from Poland and
Belarus to go well beyond the project work plan: members of a joint meeting of participants in 1993
agreed to prepare a Joint Transboundary Management Plan for the contiguous protected area, to
designate the contiguous protected area as a Transboundary Biosphere Reserve, and to standardize
technical studies. Of these, the last objective was met at the time of project completion, and
collaboration on the other two is continuing. Although these ambitious objectives were only partly
achieved, the collaboration with Poland was useful in establishing regular dialogue on research and
management needs.
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project
16.   Being the first Bank operation in Belarus, a number of activities and approaches were new to the
Recipient, including Bank/GEF procedures and international practices in biodiversity conservation.
Although the scientific and administrative staff were proficient in many technical aspects of the project,



5
they were relatively inexperienced in preparing long-term management plans that integrated modern
principles of conservation biology and social issues in natural resources management. In addition, the
policy framework for such an approach needed to be adopted by the government in the course of
implementation. Two factors that contributed to slow start-up and implementation of the project were
Belarus' inexperience with the Bank's procurement procedures and the relative inexperience with the
project's explicit approach to interdisciplinary management planning. Together, these factors delayed
project completion and contributed to relatively high supervision costs. Two factors that countered the
first two factors were the dedication of the project staff to the project objectives and the ownership and
problem-solving at high levels of government afforded by the PMU's location within the Presidential
Affairs Office, where the Department of Protected Areas is located.
E. Project Sustainability
17.   The most important criterion for project sustainability is continued implementation of the
management plan for the Belovezskaya National Park and the extension of interdisciplinary management
planning approaches to other sites. There are two factors that will contribute to the project's
sustainability. First, ownership of the project was high at all levels throughout implementation.
According to the director of the national park administration and Department of Protected Areas, one of
the highest priorities of the national park is to implement the management plan produced under this
project. Second, the professional development and training activities were successful at building the
capacity to go forward. A number of people working on the project were outstanding in motivation and
technical ability. There was little turn-over in the Park staff that participated in the project, which further
contributes to the chances for sustainability.
18.   Given the ongoing fiscal difficulties of the state government, there is no indication that the
national park's budget will be increased in the near term. As a result, the Belovezskaya National Park,
like other protected areas in the former Soviet Union, is under severe pressure to generate revenue to
augment the state budget. The National Park has been developing income to support its operational
budget, particularly through donations from private and public sponsors in Belarus and abroad. Whether
this will be sufficient to sustain the project activities is unknown. Taken together, these factors indicate a
moderately good opportunity for the project's sustainability.
F. Bank Performance
19.   Overall, the Bank's performance was satisfactory. Bank missions were led by a biodiversity and
forestry specialists with sufficient experience in supervising technical and of non-technical (e.g.,
procurement) issues. Based on the government's communication with the Bank team, and supported by
its comment letter on this ICR (Appendix 3 of this report), the Bank's performance during
implementation was satisfactory. The cost of project supervision costs was high, amounting to
approximately one-quarter of the grant amount. However, the project was appraised on a low budget,
with the result that many of the project issues that are normally addressed during preparation and
appraisal were addressed instead during supervision.
20.   The Bank's performance could have been better, based on the following: First, according to the
Recipient, two changes in task management resulted in difficulties in the continuity of supervision. The
Belarus project was one of five GEF projects implemented in the region which had been prepared by the
same task manager. Eventually, however, the coordinated supervision of the five projects was lost when
the portfolio was divided and managed by separate divisions. Second, stronger assistance on Bank
procurement procedures and attention to the need for development of office management skills early in



6
the project would have facilitated project completion. Third, while there was highly satisfactory
supervision of technical issues, adherence to internal reporting requirements was weak: 590 forms were
filed for approximnately half of the supervision missions. This indicates that GEF projects had not yet
been sufficiently mainstreamed into the region's loan operations.
G. Recipient Performance
21.   The administrative and technical staff demonstrate&da strong commitment to achieving the
project objectives. During the first year of the project, the PMU experienced difficulties in initiating the
project due to its' lack of experience in Bank operations. As stated in the Recipient's comment letter on
this ICR (Appendix B), "...we have to keep in mind that the project was the very first experience of
cooperation' between (the) Republic of Belarus and the World Bank. Due to this fact, some delay in
project implementation occurred, but later,-when we became more familiar with Bank procedures project
development was smooth and efficient.". The'administrative and technical staff demonstrated a strong
commitment to achieving the project objectives. On these bases, the Recipient's performance was
satisfactory.
H. Assessment of Outcome
22.   The project achieved its objectives, with two important outcomes. The first is the improved
management of the old growth forest ecosystem of the Belovezhskaya, which itself improves the chances
for the persistence of its globally significant biodiversity. The second is that protected areas
management in Belarus is now more similar to that employed elsewhere in Europe. These outcomes, in
concert with project publications and outreach efforts by the Belovezhskaya National Park, is promoting
nature based tourism. They are also leading to further international collaboration on natural resources
management issues in the forest and environment sector. In recognition of these achievements, the
European Commission awarded the national park the European Diploma in Nature in 1998. According
to the Recipient's comments on the ICR, "the Diploma is a recognition that this territory has an
international importance and proper system of management".
I. Future Operations
23.   Two Bank rural development and environment projects are currently under implementation
(Forestry Development and the Ozone-Depleting Substances Phaseout), but neither is a follow-on
activity of the biodiversity project. With regard to the biodiversity conservation project, the national
park is continuing with the activities initiated or strengthened under the project, especially
implementation of the management plan for the Belovezskaya Puscha, pollution monitoring, and
cooperation with Poland on joint management of the Belovezskaya and Bialowieza transboundary forest.
The Recipient has indicated interest in working with the Bank to develop a follow-on GEF project for the
last of these, to implement transboundary priorities of forest and wildlife management identified under
the project. The Recipient has also requested assistance for a follow-on GEF project for wetlands
conservation in the Polessie region of southern Belarus. Both projects are eligible for financing under
the GEF biodiversity conservation operation program and provide an opportunity for continued Bank
dialogue with Belarus and, based on the results of the recently completed project, would yield substantial
results for biodiversity conservation and natural resources management in Belarus.



7
J. Key Lessons Learned
24.   The lessons learned were discussed during a regional meeting involving participants of GEF
biodiversity projects from Belarus, Ukraine, Czech Republic, Slovakia, and the World Bank. Based on
discussions held during the completion mission and at the regional workshop, the key lessons learned
from the Recipient's perspective are:
a. The social assessment component of the management plan conducted in the last year of the
project revealed that public awareness of the project objectives and activities was weak.
Local residents valued the park's conservation objectives and would be more supportive of
the national park if they received some of the benefits. As a result, the national park is
improving its communication with local communities, and is looking for opportunities to
contribute to local benefits while protecting the park's resources. Participation of local
communities would have been more successful if the social assessment had been conducted
earlier in the project.
b. The project was strongly oriented to achieving results, especially in technical subjects. The
project design could have been improved by identifying discrete results to be achieved at
different stages of the project, and used as measures of success. These should include
measures of sustainability, technical aspects, social changes, policy decisions, and
innovation.
c. Professional development and training activities were an important ingredient of the project's
success. Training should be targeted to mid-career professionals and students. Part of the
program should include extended studies for individuals who will be responsible for training
others.
A key lesson learned from the Bank's perspective is:
a. Early in the project, a needs assessment of the PMU could have identified the need for
training in the office management and business skills needed to implement the project. This
could have reduced the initial delays in implementation and given greater time to the
substantive work to be done.



Part II. Statistical Tables
Tables
1         Summary of Assessments
2         Related Bank Loans/Credits
3         Project Timetable
4         Grant Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
5         Key Indicators for Project Implementation*
6         Key Indicators for Project Operation*
7         Studies Included in Project
8A        Project Costs
8B        Project Financing
9         Economic Costs and Benefits
10        Status of Legal Covenants
11        Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
12        Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
13        Bank Resources: Missions
Note: Not applicable for GEF projects



8
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Obiectives        Substantial       PataReafiaible                 Not applicable
Macro Policies                      E               E                E                 0
Sector Policies
Financial Objectives                Cl              a                0                 a
Institutional Development           0              [                 0                 0
Physical Objectives                                                  El [             J]
Poverty Reduction                   O               E                0                 E
Gender Issues                       :               E                E                63
Other Social Objectives             E               0                E                 E
Environmental Objectives            0               E                E                 E
Public Sector Management            0               E                E                 E
Private Sector Development          E               El               0                 E
Other (specify)                     E               E                E                 E
B. Project Sustainability             Likely                   Unlikely                 Uncertain
(V)                       (/)                       (/)
0                        El                        El



9
(Continued)
HWL
C. Bank Performance                   satisfaco                 Satisfactr                  Deficient
(1)                       (v')                       (/)
Identification                        a                                                   [0
Preparation Assistance                                          0
Appraisal                            E] D                                                 E
Supervision                          EJ 1ii
Hihly
D. Recipient Perfonnance              satisfacQ                 Satisfactorv                Deficient
(1)                       (V)                        (1)
Preparation                          E                          0                          a]
Implementation                       El
Covenant Compliance
Operation (if applicable)            E ll
Highly                                               Hh
E. Assessment of Outcome                tifaSatisfacty                Unsatisfat         unsatisfactory
El)              0/              (E)                 El



10
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                       Purpose       Year of         Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Poland GEF                        Support           1991         ICR Issued
conservation
of forest
-biodiversity
2. Belarus Forestry Development       Support to       1993           Under
forestry                    Implementation
Following operations
1. GEF ODS                           Reduction of      1998           Under
ozone-                      Implementation
depletion
substances
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle             Date Planned          Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)         2/92                   2/92
Preparation                                        6/92                   6/92
Appraisal                                          7/92                   7/92
Negotiations                                       9/92                   9/92
Board Presentation                                  na                    na
Signing                                            9/92                   9/92
Effectiveness                                      10/92                  1/93
Grant Closing                                      10/95                  6/97



11
Table 4: Grant Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY93   FY94   FY95    FY96   FY97
Appraisal estimate         300      700     1,000      -        -
Actual                     121      146     442      889    1,033
Actual as % of estimate    40.3    20.9    44.2        -        -
Date of final disbursement: May 30, 1997
Note: Actual disbursements in dollars was higher than appraisal estimate due to
exchange rate with SDR
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
not applicable for GEF projects
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
not applicable for GEFpro]ects
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                              Purpose as defined at  Status       Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
1. Belovezhskaya Pushcha Forest   Synthesis of 20 technical    completed   under
Biodiversity Conservation       studies, social assessment,           implementation
and management plan for
the National Park
2. Business plan for nature-based   This study identified in  draft    under
tourism                         course of project training  completed  implementation



12
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate            ActuaVlatest estimates
(US$ thousands)                 (US$ thousands)
Item                                   Local Foreign  Total       Local Foreign    Total
costs  costs              costs  costs
A. Belovezhskaya National Park          98    810    908                           779.5
1. Conservation of Biological Diversity   20    105    125    155.1  140.5      295.6
2. BPF Protection and Management     26    212    238         183.5  10.3       193.8
3. Geographic Information Systems     9    191    200         0      85.7       85.7
4. Ecological Farming in Buffer Zone  23     27      50       32.8    0         32.8
5. Pollution Monitoring & Mitigation  0    190    190         77.1   49.4       126.5
6. Coordination w/ Poland            20       0     20        2.0    1.0         3.0
7. Professional Development/Training  0      70     70        69.3   148.5      217.8
8. Support of a Bialowieza Foundation  0     15      15       1.4    0           1.4
B. Berezinsky & Pripiatsky Reserves     50      50    100        105.6  45.4       151.0
C. Project Management                   80      50    130       112.1  65.0        177.1
D. Joint Scientific Review Committee     7      13     20        0.4    0           0.4
Total Baseline Costs                   235    923    1158                          1285
Physical Contingencies                  10      44     54
Price Contingencies                      7      32     39
Total                                  252    999    1251       739.3  545.8       1285
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate       Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)              (US$ million)
Item                                  Local  Foign   Total       Local  Foreign  Total
costs   costs              costs   costs
1. GEF                                              1.0                         1.032
2. Government of Belarus                            0.25                        0.253
Total                                               1.25                        1.285
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
not applicable for GEF projects



13
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant Present   Original    Revised        Description of Covenant          Comments
Agreement  Section    Class    Status 0 Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date       Date
GRANT       3.01(a)   5         C      Continuous              Recipient declares commitment to
project objectives and shall carry
out the project with due diligence
and with appropriate
administrative and financial
practices and shall provide funds
for the project.
GRANT       3.01(b)   10        C      Continuous              Recipient shall carry out the
Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth
in Schedule 4 of this Agreement.
GRANT       3.02      10        CD     Continuous              Recipient shall maintain under
TOR satisfactory to the Trustee,
the Project Technical Management
Unit with qualified and
experienced staff under a Project
Manager whose qualifications are
satisfactory to the Trustee.
GRANT       3.03      5         C      Continuous              Recipient shall maintain in the
Main Economic Dept. of the
Council of Ministers, under TOR
satisfactory to the Trustee, the
Admin. Proj. Coordination Unit
with qualified and experienced
staff under a unit chief satisfactory
to the Trustee.
GRANT       3.04     9          CD     Continuous              Recipient shall maintain the
scientific review committee with
three international specialists and
three similar specialists from
Belarus acceptable to the Trustee,
to meet and review semi-annually
the scientific progress of the
project.
GRANT       3.05     5          C      Continuous              Procurement of goods, works and
services for the Project to be
financed out of the GET Grant
shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 3 of the
Grant Agreement.
GRANT       4.01(a)   I         CD     Continuous              Recipient shall adequately
maintain project records and
accounts of project operations,
resources and expenditures in
accordance with sound accounting
practices.
GRANT       4.01(b)   I         CD     Continuous              Recipient shall have the project
records and accounts (including
Special Account) audited by
independent auditors acceptable to
the Trustee and shall fumish audits
to the Trustee not later than four
months after the end of each year.



14
Covenant Present   Original    Revised        Description of Covenant           Comments
Agreement  Section    Class,   Status  Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date        Date
GRANT       4.01(c)   1         C       Continuous              Recipient shall adequately
after each             maintain within a Statement of
audit                  Expenses records and accounts
for expenses incurred against
withdrawals from the Grant
Account. Annual audits shall
include a separate opinion of such
records. Recipient shall retain
such records and evidence of
expenses at least I year after
Trustee receipt of applicable audit
report.
Covenant types:                                                                         Present Status:
I. = Accounts/audits                            8. = Indigenous people                  C = covenant complied with
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation from  9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting  CD = complied with after delay
beneficiaries                                 10. = Project implementation not covered    CP = complied with partially
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds         by categories 1-9                    NC = not complied with
4. = Counterpart funding                         11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing  or other resource allocation
agency                                        12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6. = Environmental covenants                       regulatory/institutional action
7. = Involuntary resettlement                    13. = Other
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title            Describe and comment on lack of compliance
no lack of compliance was observed
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                      Actual
Stage of project cycle    Weeks       US$          Weeks          US$
Preparation to appraisal        --        --            5.5         16,900
Appraisal                       --        --            n.a.          n.a.
Negotiations through Board     --         --            4.6         11,400
approval
Supervision                     --        --           70.0        244,900
Completion                      --        --            6.0         28,000
Total     --         --           86.1        301.200



15
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Riatin      Typesof
Stage of project cycle    Month/  No. of Days in  Specialization'    Implem.    Developm.  Probleems3
Year  Persons  Field                      status      objectives
Through appraisal          7/92      4                E,F,F,F
Appraisal through signing  9/92
Supervision 1              4/93      3       5          F,F             S            S          M
Supervision II             6/93      1       3           F           No 590       No BTO
Supervision III            11/93     3       3         E,F,F            S            S
Supervision IV             3/94      2       3          E,F             S            S
Supervision V              6/94      4       6        F,F,F,F           S            S
Supervision VI             11/94     2       8          F,F          No 590       No BTO
Supervision VII            2/95      3       4         E,F,F         No 590       No BTO
Supervision VIII           6/95      3       6         E,F,F            S           HS
Supervision IX             3/96      1      10           F           No 590       No BTO
Supervision X              10/96     1       8           F           No 590       No BTO
Supervision XI             2/97      1       6           F              S           HS
Completion                 9/97      1       6           F
Total
I - Key to Specialized staff skills:  2 - Key to Performance Ratings:  3 - Key to Types of Problems:
E, economist; F,                  HS, highly satisfactory; S,  F, financial; M, management; T, technical
forestry/biodiversity specialist  satisfactory.



Appendix A
AIDE MEMOIRE
BELARUS
GEF Biodiversity Protection Project (TF02862 1)
Completion Mission of September 22-26, 1997
1.    A World Bank mission consisting of Messrs. P. Brylski (ECSRE) and S. Berwick (consultant)
visited Belarus from September 22-26, 1997 to carry out the Implementation Completion Mission for
the GEF Biodiversity Protection Project. The mission held discussions in Minsk and at the
Belovezskaya National Park to discuss project achievements and the operational plan. The mission
briefed Mr. David Phillips, Chief of the Minsk Resident Mission, on the Project and the results of the
mission.
2.    The mission expresses its appreciation to the Administrative Management Unit in Minsk and
the Technical Management Unit at the Belovezskaya National Park for the cooperation and the
courtesies extended to it and all previous missions during the project implementation. In carrying
out its activities, the mission was fully supported by the Bank's Resident Mission in Minsk.
3.    The project closed on June 30, 1997. The objectives of the Mission was to (i) discuss with the
AMU and TMU the contributions to the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) prepared by them;
and (ii) collect data for the preparation of the Bank's ICR.
4.    This Aide Memoir records the views of the Recipient and the Bank on project implementation
and assess its sustainability during the operation phase. The Mission' s findings regarding the views of
the Bank are subject to confirmation by World Bank management.
Project Implementation
5.    Project Closing and Disbursements. The Project closed on June 30, 1997 after two
extensions, 16 months after the planned closing date. All funds in the Special Account were disbursed.
The final Project audit for 1997 expenditures will be carried out by Audit Bank (an independent
Belarussian auditor) and be made available to the Bank by October 15, 1997.
6.    Formulating and Attaining Project Objectives. The project objectives, as stated in the
project document, were to conserve the biodiversity of key endangered forests and to link these efforts
to ongoing GEF-supported work in the adjoining Bialowieza National Park in Poland. The specific
Project objectives recognized by the Recipient, and discussed during the Completion Mission, were: (i)
complete a management plan for the Belovezskaya National Park (BNP) that guides the forest
management and research activities within the Park; (ii) expand the BNP to include areas considered
important to the integrity of the Park ecosystem and which were under threat; (iii) improve the
capacity of Park staff through professional development and training and provision of necessary
equipment; (iv) develop international collaboration; and (v) improve public involvement/public
support for the Park's conservation objectives.
-I



7.    In addition to these, the GEF program objectives include the following: (i) projects should,
where possible, be innovative; (ii) they should yield activities with demonstration value that can be
replicated elsewhere; and (iii) they should be sustainable.
8.    Achievement of Objectives. The general Project objective of conserving key forest
biodiversity and collaborating with the Poland GEF project in achieving better cooperation on
transboundary conservation efforts and the four main specific Project objectives identified by the
Recipient (para. 5 i-iv) were achieved.
i)   Applied Scientific Research. The 20 research efforts at Belovezskaya, 5 at Berezinsky, and
4 at Pripiatsky were all successfully carried out and reported in the now published
management plan (Russian and English). These research activities are continuing. The
missing element was a formal integration and overview of the results in a useful way.
Unexpected results include discovering that very small populations of silver fir are
genetically diverse, and that a deadly and heretofore mysterious bison disease is possibly
genetically linked and related to inadequate micronutrients. This work illustrated the
desirability of contracting with the most capable small team, rather than large institutes and
groups to achieve better efficiency and management control.
ii)  Professional Development and Training. This Project component was considered the most
successful of the Project. The workshops and study tour achieved both useful professional
development and training in technical subjects and the establishment of professional
contacts which have continued to this early period in its operation phase. In addition, the
biobusiness training activities have led to direct benefits in developing the National Park's
nature-based tourism program. The component for expanding cooperation with Poland, in
order to promote conservation of the transboundary protected areas, resulted in over 60
different scientists visiting colleagues in Poland. As a result, there are semi-annual joint
meetings on the management of the Belovezskaya and Bialowieza National Parks.
iii) Expansion of the Belovezskaya Protected Area. Approximately 12,000 ha were added to
the Puscha (about a 15% increase in area with an additional 4000 ha under consideration)
in forest, bog (reclaimed from agriculture), and riverine habitats.
iv)  Developing International Expertise in Science and Administration. Tr his component was
successfully achieved, in concert with the professional development and training
component. It was especially important in transferring practical approaches and standards
in protected area management developed in Europe and North America. The Polish
collaboration was useful in establishing common management and in instituting regular
consultation on common research and management needs (a biannual meeting). These
include air pollution with common research stations, large predator movement with
common radio-tracking equipment, exchange of genetic material from ancient trees to
bison, and identical zoning. Some desired actions such as removing the border fence to
allow free movement of the fauna, fell short for political reasons;
v)   Support to Infrastructure. With the exception of a GPS unit, all desired and practicable
equipment was purchased through Project assistance. This was partially because the very
expensive pollution analysis lab which would have been used in non-project sites, was
trimmed to the analytic lab installed at Belovezskaya. The equipment also included 25
-2 -



computers and peripherals, 5 vehicles, an ecofriendly chip-fired boiler, a distributed GIS
system, etc. The depreciation and recurrent costs are considerable ($1 0,000/yr for the
pollution lab and monitoring), but will estimates indicate the possibility of completely
defraying costs by charging other users for technical services of the lab, GIS, data bases,
etc.;
9.    Project Sustainability. The main criterion for project sustainability will be implementation of
the management plan for the Belovezskaya National Park, including the technical studies and
monitoring that are needed to refine and evaluate management of the Park's biodiversity. The
sustainability of the project, while difficult to predict, is considered likely based on three factors:
i)   Budgetary: Given the ongoing fiscal difficulties of the state government, there is no
indication that the National Park's budget will be increased in the near-term. As a result, the
Belovezskaya National Park, like other protected areas in the former Soviet Union, are under
severe pressure to generate revenue to augment their state budgets.
To mitigate this, the National Park has sought to develop income to support its infrastructure,
programs, and 700 staff. The Park Director has been successful in obtaining support from
private and public sponsors, both in Belarus and abroad, and has developed income-
generating activities such as hunting. The hunting program is consistent with the
conservation objectives defined under the project. The-Park's main ungulate species (red
deer, roe deer, and boar) are above the Park's natural carrying capacity; their gradual
reduction through fee hunting is consistent with Park's biodiversity conservation objectives
and is potentially lucrative.
ii)  Its importance to the Park management. According to the Directors of the National Park
administration and Department of Special Protected Areas, one of the highest priorities of the
National Park is to implement the management plan produced under the Project.
iii)  Continuity of gtffand experience. One of the most important Project outcomes was the
improvements in staff productivity through professional development and training activities
and provision of computers and monitoring equipment. There was little turnover in Park staff
during Project implementation, in particular among those that received professional
development and training. This ig expected to continue, and will contribute to Project
sustainability.
Contribution of the Recipient to the ICR
10.   The Mission disuussed with tho Administratiyv Managcmcnt Unit thd =Qnwnt Qfthvir
contributions to the ICR. Their reports will be submitted to the Bank by late October.
Key Lessons Learned
11.   The lessons learned will be a major point of discussion for the upcoming workshop for the
Belarus, Ukraine, Czech, and Slovak GEF projects. The meeting will occur in the Czech Republic
September 29-October, 1997, and be attended representatives of the Belarus GEF project team.
-3 -



APPENDIX B
YapaDselixe OXPuIIICMx14 nPipOAtiblx          Division of Nature Protected Aremu and
TreppNTop H N JccOOXOTHHqLuX X,O3A#CThi       Hunting Grounds
YnpoBneiiiAcziaMxii pc3J,IPenaPccrCne recr u  Presidential Affairs Managemnlt Departlnent,
;enapycb                -                     K, Marx str. 38, Minsk, 220016, liclarus
MvIIlCK, . 20016, K. Mapca, 38, Seiiapycb.-
T. (017) 222 38 75, 222 31 25, 222 38 03     2 + 375 (17) 222 3875, 222 3125, 222 3803
4*aicc (0172) 220 06 96                       Fax +375 (17) 220 0696
DtR. PHILIP BRYLI
RURAL DEV K .OPM?SENT AND UNvtONME.N'r SUcTOR
EUROTJI. AND CENTRAL ASIA REGION
ThiE WORIX.) BANK
Dear Dr. Bryl ski
We arc very pleased to know, that still in contact with you amd the World Bank
even when our common project is over.
We red version of the lmplemenitation Completion Report very thoroughly
and now I would likc to emphasize some points and idcas.
First of all, we havc to keQp in mind that the projcut was very first experience
olfcooporation between Republic of Belarus and the World Bank. Due to this
fact, some delay in project implementation occurred, but later, wlheni we be-
came more familiar with Bank procedures project developmelnt was smooth
fd OfflVient In this regard we would hke specMally note tlie highest apprecia-
tion from our side the Bank' stuffcontribution in achieving main projest ob-
jectives. 'rhis help was really necessary especially in first half of the project.
OCne oitthe lesson, which was learned firom the project is a necessity of pre-
liminary training local stuffin Bank rules and procedures before beginnins of
the project. We also veiy grateful Bank' stuff, who assisted us in accounting
a-and disbursement.
Mainagement plm for National Park i3eiovezhskaya 1'ushcha, which is the
core o0fhe project now Is in implernentation and, as it was said during awvard-
ing National Park by European Diploma in .Xpril 1998, the Diploma is a rec-
ognitio1l that this territory h-n nn       i_&,   A Api twice anUd proper system
of management. We consider that specialists from tlhe World UQJk -66< ex%n_
tribute a lot in this fact of international recognition.
We do: hope that our cooperation will continue fiurthcr as in diodiversity con-
-ervation in Aelovezhskaya Pushcha as well as in th.e Rcpublic of Belarus in



genoeral.
In prOposed ICR in principle all. niicst,nes and steps in project impleminerta-
tion presented correctly and we just would like to emphasize strong positivte
contribUtion frorn the lBank side and include relevant comment in the 1CRA.Mn
Chapter F.
~   ~    ,/  J-
Dr. A. Luchkov
GEE Belarus Biodiversity Conservation
Project Acting Manager



Zoleszany                       Hiryn Wielki
y I Kp<pi-nico
OWns                  -         2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T-                     .i
'e Susz,                                            uo9/ '"' *  \2 ~~'  -       '4qrryr 
\ ''~<;   x   W  )S; f                               /
-   .Igd   0   cnft  c .'n..n   0  ncne..
t <' <S;d  XX   \\) t1eQ  S 0 j t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d, s
MILES                                                POLAND
\             9           ~~~~FOREST BIODIVERSITY
77                           FDRTO                                  BIALOWIEZA NATIONAL ^#^o~;n&nt;  PROT ECTION  PROJECT
BOUNDARY OF ZAPOVEDNIKI PROTECTED AREA (BELARUS)
BO8UNDARY OF GEF AREA (POLAND)
BUFFER/TRANSITION USE AREAS:
OT    X  \ ;STONS                                                 81FDERTIO  BALOWIEZA NATIONAL PARK (POLAND)
j x 0 HS  aSWEEN  l  7fIf             LATVIA                                            B1ALOWIEZA NATIONAL PARK 18ELARUS):
aNti,             'S       Bat\4  1   % /P.  53(HtJc  0    -f --c~ -                          ABSOLUTELY PRESERVED AREAS
: X 0 5 DENI - K S  \                 Xf S RECREATIONAL AREAS
Sea GT'in  SS1>    (       Sea    )7  LITRUANIA  J                                             ADMINISTRATIVE AND ECONOMIC AREAS
5'                                     ___  )vIERf TI?NX- ~ROADS
",4_ iK  _. t   BELARUS                                                             -    RAILROADS
RIVERS
2                          ,cc,,F,       tt                         _     TOWNS AND VILLAGES
POLAND         1                                         _       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
GERMANY         V
-,                             UKRAINE
*  CZECH REPUBLIC
,) /              >- ,2    S   9P          '         J*o                                                                                           a
SW{TA  6tE\ AUSTRIA   H -               ROMANIA    \  'I>
a SlL~ U'TN7NHUNGARY  5                            5



