Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 22073
PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
BELARUS
FOREST BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
(GEF GRANT 28621)
April 12, 2001
Operations Evaluation Department
Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
This document has been prepared for the Global Environment Facility (GEF).



ii
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BPF          Belovezhskaya Protected Forest
BNP          Belovezhskaya National Park
GEF          Global Environmental Facility
GIS          Geographic Information System
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
MNREP        Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Protection
OED          Operations Evaluation Department
PAR          Performance Audit Report
PMU          Project Management Unit
Director-General, Operations Evaluation           Mr. Robert Picciotto
Director, Operations Evaluation Department        Mr. Gregory Ingram
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group     Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                      Mr. Andres Liebenthal



Contents
Principal Ratings ................................. iii
Preface .................v
Executive Summary .................................                                                                  vii
Background ..................................1
Country and Sector Context .................................1
Bank/GEF Role .................................1
Project Objectives ..................................1
Components ..................................2
Institutional Arrangements ..................................2
Implementation and Results ...2..............................2
PAR Findings .................................2
Summary Conclusion ..................................2
Progress at Belovezhskaya National Park ..................................3
Belarus Ecological Reserves Foundation ..................................3
Coordination ..................................4
Assessment of Performance .................................5
Ratings ..................................5
Sustainability ..................................5
Bank Performance ...5..............................5
Borrower Performance ...5..............................5
Conclusions and Lessons ..................................6
Conclusions.6 .................................
Lessons .................7
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet .................9






iii
Principal Ratings
Audit
Outcome                                                                               Salisfactory
Sustainability                                                                         Uncertain
Institutional Development                                                              Substantial
Borrower Performance                                                                  Satisfactory
Bank Performance                                                                  Marginally Satisfactory






v
Preface
This is a Performance Audit Report (PAR) on the Forest Biodiversity Protection Project
in Belarus, for which the GEF Grant 28621 in the amount of SDR 700,000 (US$1.0 million
equivalent) was approved on September 24, 1992, and made effective on January 7, 1993. The
grant was closed on June 30, 1997, after a delay of 20 months. The final disbursement took place
on May 30, 1997. The grant was fully disbursed.
The PAR was prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED). It is based in
part on the Appraisal Report, environmental and related project reports, loan documents, review
of the project files and discussions with Bank staff. An OED mission visited Belarus in
September, 1999 and discussed the effectiveness of the Bank's assistance with government
officials and other stakeholders. Their kind cooperation and invaluable assistance in the
preparation of this report are gratefully acknowledged.
Following standard OED procedures, the draft PAR were sent to the borrower for
comments, and the comments have been incorporated in the report.






vii
Executive Summary
The Forest Biodiversity protection project (GEF Grant 28621, of SDR 700,000,
equivalent to US$1.0 million) was the first operation of any kind by the Bank in Belarus. The
grant was approved in September 1992, and closed, fully disbursed, in June 1997, after a delay of
20 months.
The objective of the project was to protect globally significant biodiversity of key
endangered forests, especially the Belovezhskaya National Park (BNP), through institutional
support and applied research and management. The BNP work was designed to linked with
similar GEF-supported work being carried out in the contiguous Bialowieza Primeval Forest in
Poland.
The project provided: (a) institutional support to the BNP and the Department of
Protected Areas to undertake biodiversity conservation activities; and (b) investments in
programs, research and equipment to assist with the conservation of forest and wetland
ecosystems. Institutional support components were preparation of a management plan for the
BNP, professional development and training for staff, consulting services to assist protected area
staff implement selected activities, further cooperation with Poland on the management of the
transboundary reserve, and technical assistance for increasing the ecological sensitivity of the
management of farms adjacent to the BNP. Investments included a small forest gene bank and
related archival nursery equipment, and a geographic information system (GIS).
The project objectives were substantially achieved. The applied research effort identified
the greatest adverse impacts on the biodiversity of the BNP as poor regeneration in old and
mature stands, overpopulation of game ungulates resulting in reduced regeneration of the major
tree species, and drainage of agricultural land adjacent to the park. The former changes were
inducing a succession to spruce. Following the management plan the park has been expanded to
reduce drainage impacts and protect unique and threatened stands. The pressure from ungulates
(hoofed animals) is being reduced through an increase in controlled hunting and capture and
movement of game. Following increased exposure of senior staff to forest, park, and game
management practices in other countries, a number of measures are being undertaken to increase
revenues through targeted efforts in tourism and hunting, and limited management of non-core
forest areas. The Belarus Ecological Reserves Foundation was established to support these efforts
and to increase domestic awareness of Belarus' biological resources and of the need and of
methods of conserving them. However, despite the best efforts of those involved in the project
(and in the subsequent management of the reserves) to develop alternative funding sources, the
sustainability of their efforts remains uncertain.
The audit rates project outcome as satisfactory; sustainability as uncertain; institutional
development as substantial; Bank performance as marginally satisfactory; and borrower
performance as satisfactory. Sustainability is rated as uncertain because of the weak economic
and financial position of Belarus. Bank performance is rated as marginally satisfactory because
supervision reporting was incomplete and little effort was made to support efforts to generate
follow-on funding. At the time this project was undertaken, the Bank was attempting to establish
lending programs in all the FSU countries, all of which had limited experience with international
agencies. Resources in the region were stretched thin and, to some degree, the project fell through
the cracks.



viii
By more recent standards, these operations were under-designed, and noted issues such as
the need for clearer and more operationally relevant objectives and targets, and the importance of
greater inclusiveness during both the preparation and implementation stages. These issues have
been highlighted in reviews of the GEF program and have largely been incorporated in
subsequent operations, so are not reemphasized here as lessons from this review.
This operation was initiated in the early stages of the pilot phase of the GEF, when it was
implicitly assumed that countries would be able to obtain follow-up funding to take the place of
the initial GEF input. The lesson from this project is that this assumption may be outdated and
that GEF should review whether further steps are required to ensure long-term support for efforts
to protect resources of high global biodiversity value.



1
BACKGROUND
Country and Sector Context
The Republic of Belarus extends to just over 200,000 km2. The continental divide between the
Baltic and Black Seas runs approximately NE - SW through the center of the country. The
landscape is relatively flat with the highest elevation being 300 meters. About half its area is
farmed, 35 percent is forest, 5 percent is in protected areas, and 5 percent is wetland. Through
much of its history the society was feudal in its structure, and significant parts of the land now
protected have been reserved for much of the millennium as hunting areas for the nobility. Areas
of these forests form some of the few remnants of the deciduous lowland forest that once covered
much of northern Europe. This is especially true of the Belovezhskaya Protected Forest (BPF),
which is situated on the western border with Poland and is contiguous with the Bialowiezca
Primeval Forest in that country.
The Chernobyl nuclear power station lies in Ukraine, just south of the border with Belarus.
Significant areas of Belarus were heavily impacted by the fallout from the 1986 accident (Belarus
absorbed 75 percent of the fallout), and this constituted the single greatest environmental problem
for the country. Agricultural and forestry use is banned or production practices are restricted on
almost 2 million hectares of land (almost 10 percent of the country) as a result of pollution from
the accident.
Bank/GEF Role
The Government of Belarus was interested in continuing to preserve areas of biological interest
but, in the face of the economic pressures accompanying the breakup of the Soviet Union, and the
aftermath of the Chernobyl disaster, it sought support to do so. Given the international importance
of the major protected forests, especially the BPF, the GEF was interested in supporting efforts of
this type, in particular to complement similar efforts being undertaken in Poland, which included
a program in its part of the contiguous Bialoweza/Belovezhskaya protected forests
The Bank fostered contact between Belarus and Poland and promoted the GEF as a potential
source of funding for strengthening conservation activities. At the same time that the Poland
project became effective in February 1992, the Bank formally proposed the Belarus project. Once
the initial decision had been made, formulation, processing, and approval were rapid. The project
was prepared in June 1992 and appraised in July. Negotiations were held in September of that
year and it became effective in January 1993.
Project Objectives
The objectives of the project were to preserve the biodiversity of key endangered forests (the BPF
and the wetlands and forests of the Berezinsky and Priaptsky Reserves) through institutional
support and investments in applied research and management. The component for the
Belovezhskaya National Park (BNP) was designed to link park management with ongoing GEF-
supported work in the adjoining Bialowieza Primeval Forest in Poland.



2
Components
At appraisal the project was estimated to cost US$1.25 million, with US$1.0 million to be
covered by the GEF grant, and the balance of US$250,000 to be provided by the Government of
Belarus. The project included two principal components:
(a)   Institutional support (US$800,000 including contingencies) to the BNP and the
Department of Protected Areas to undertake biodiversity conservation activities,
including the preparation of a management plan for the BNP, professional
development and training for staff, consulting services to assist protected area
staff implement selected activities, further cooperation with Poland on the
management of the transboundary forest reserves, and technical assistance for
developing ecological agriculture on farms in the buffer zone of the national
park.
(b)   Investments in programs and research (US$450,000) to assist with conservation
of forests and wetland ecosystems, including air and soil monitoring equipment,
a forest gene bank and related archival forestry equipment, and a geographic
information system (GIS).
Institutional Arrangements
The project was managed by a project management unit (PMU), which formed part of the
Department of Protected Areas, located in the Presidential Affairs Office.
IMPLEMENTATION AND RESULTS
The initial supervision reports and the research reports raised at some length the ongoing practice
of feeding large grazing mammals (e.g., bison, deer, and boar) in the preserves as a matter of
concern. It was felt that the result had been to raise the numbers of these species above that which
could be readily supported by the area leading to physical damage, e.g., seedling damage by deer.
However, this issue seemed not to have been pursued, and there is no mention of it in the ICR.
PAR Findings
Summary Conclusion
In retrospect, those involved with the park see two main benefits of the project beyond the
financing to maintain infrastructure, upgrade skills of park staff, and help maintain key scientific
staff during a period of turmoil.
*  First, it encouraged those involved with management of the parks to take a wider view of
these areas and their needs. In that context, it gave them an opportunity to develop a more
interdisciplinary approach to the areas and to evolve appropriate decision-making procedures.
* Second, through international contacts developed under the project, it helped them to
recognize that, if the parks are to be satisfactorily maintained and developed, management
will have to develop a wider range of partners. It can no longer just depend on support from
the central budgets. In particular, it needs to be proactive in generating support, both
internally, through working with members of parliament to keep them apprised of



3
developments, but also through the media, to increase general public awareness of the parks,
both to encourage visitors and to generate general support, and extemally, through
intemational tourism and wildlife umbrella groups.
Progress at Belovezhskaya National Park
Most of the activities initiated under the project have been continued since its completion. The
park currently obtains about half of its operating budget from national subventions and the
balance is intemally generated, principally from forestry activities and tourism. Some sales are
also being made of live mammals, deer, wild-boar, and occasionally bison, as part of the effort to
reduce the numbers of these species, which had been encouraged with supplementary feeding
since World War II. Most research is separately funded from extemal sources, much being linked
to academies and similar institutions.
The park extends to about 87,000 ha and uses are restricted. About 15,000 ha (in three main
tracts) comprise the strict protection areas, which are essentially undisturbed. The major area of
the park, 57,000 ha, is subject to regulated use. This comprises removing larger deadwood and
some "sanitary" cutting, aimed at the maintenance of the present tree composition, or that
recorded in the recent past and agreed to be the natural stands in the area. In significant parts of
the regulated area, the average age of the trees is over 100 years and there are concems that a
rapid die-off could result in a significant change in composition, especially as the seed fall
declines from the older trees. Further problems arose because, between the 1960s and 1990s, the
numbers of bison and deer were increased for hunting purposes. The additional animals increased
the pressure on certain tree species, such as oak and pine, which were being superseded by spruce
and hombeam. Sanitary cutting is aiming at redressing this balance.
Further extensions of the protected area are being made. The first, about 5,000 ha (which may be
extended further), consists of wetlands and bogs, which will be maintained in this condition. The
second, about 9,500 ha, consists of land that was previously under low-level agricultural/forestry
use. Efforts will be made to move some of the bison and other large mammals there, and it will be
used for hunting purposes, along the lines of the game ranches in South Africa. About 3,000 ha is
to be fenced to protect deer and wild boar. Capital costs of these improvements are being partly
financed by private operators of safari-type tours from West Europe.
A buffer zone of about 90,000 ha is primarily under restricted agricultural use. During the 1950s
and 1960s lower-lying areas were drained for cropping. However, given low profitability, there
has been little resistance to proposals to allow the water table in these areas to rise. Since most of
the areas were upstream of the protected area, this action should offset problems caused, in both
the Belarus and Polish parks, by the earlier drainage.
Belarus Ecological Reserves Foundation
The project provided limited funds for the establishment of a foundation with the objective of
sustaining the biodiversity protection program for the foreseeable future. The GEF would
organize the legal and financial structure of such a foundation and encourage contributions from
eco-debt conversion resources and from bilateral and intemational (EU, foundations, etc.)
donors." (Appraisal Report para 3.19)
The foundation was established in 1994 but in its initial years was essentially inactive, and only
limited funding from formal sources has been forthcoming. In 1996 it was proposed to visit the
U.S. to try and generate support, but this was not supported by the Bank as the project was



4
closing. In the last two years, the foundation, which reports to the Department of Presidential
Affairs, has become more proactive. It sees itself more as a promotional organization, seeking to
increase support for the national parks in general (of which there are four) rather than just for
Belovezhskaya alone. It is seeking to generate increased interest in the national parks internally,
so as to increase, or at least maintain, domestic political support, and to increase awareness of
them internationally, with the aim of increasing tourist revenues. In addition to printed material,
the foundation has prepared two films (one on Belovezhskaya), which have aired on local TV, as
well as numerous short news and promotional materials. After the breakup of the Soviet Union,
the number of visitors to National Parks fell. However, many of them were formal groups and
delegations. In the past five years the number of visitors has tripled (45,000 at Belovezhskaya in
1998), with many more being private, which generate more actual spending at the parks.
Externally, the foundation has participated in a few tourism "expos", focusing on contacts with
organizations promoting eco-tourism, and nature organizations, with the aim of generating
increased numbers of foreign tourists to Belarus. In 1998, 3,000 foreign visitors to Belovezhskaya
stayed for more than one day at the park. The foundation is also attempting to develop contacts
with travel/tourism organizations that might generate interest in investment in or near the parks,
as at Belovezhskaya, noted above.
It is not clear that the current organization is exactly what was envisaged at the outset. However,
it does appear to be a pragmatic response to the rather unsatisfactory position in which the
foundation found itself after the close of the project. Focusing on tourism to the national parks
does help generate revenues for them. A broader question is whether it makes sense for the
organization to restrict itself to the national parks, under the aegis of the Presidency. Given that
the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Protection (MNREP) has the wider remit of
managing protected areas as a whole (which in total area are much larger than the parks) and that
there are significant tourism opportunities within them, including for hunting, consideration
might be given to linking the foundation to the MNREP.
Coordination'
The Forest Biodiversity Protection Project was implemented by the Department of Protected
Areas in the President's Affairs Management Department. This link to the Presidency helped in
ensuring action in implementation, not least because it eased the way to obtaining Presidential
decrees when necessary. However, overall responsibility for environmental affairs rests with the
MNREP. This ministry is responsible for management of protected areas as a whole (8 percent of
the national area - including the areas closed to occupation after the Chernobyl disaster), and the
role of the Presidency in the national parks does not help in coordination of policies towards
environmentally sensitive areas. The ministry is also the technical focal point for GEF-funded
activities in the country, but the ability to coordinate has been hampered by the division of
responsibility at the operating level. It is also not clear that the Bank has been able to do as much
as would be desirable to foster this collaboration. The result has been a degree of duplication of
effort as, for example, both ministries have put forward proposals for GEF funding of efforts to
address wetlands policy.
1. The Government notes that improving coordination between the Ministry and Department for Protected Areas was
not a project objective.



5
ASSESSMENT OF PERFORMANCE
Ratings
The audit rates project outcome as satisfactory; sustainability as uncertain; institutional
development as substantial; Bank performance as marginally satisfactory; and borrower
performance as satisfactory.
Sustainability
Park management and the foundation have displayed considerable ingenuity in tapping into new
sources of funding for the management of the national parks. These revenues, and the
government's own subventions, have enabled the BNP to build upon the foundation laid by the
project in the ways described above. However, because of the weak state of the Belarus economy
and finances, the ability to continue to do so remains tenuous. Since the project ended, external
support has been limited and sustainability would be radically enhanced if even a limited level of
long-term support were available. The issue of continued funding to support globally significant
biodiversity is discussed at greater length below.
Bank Performance
Bank performance is rated as "marginally satisfactory." The Bank was proactive at the outset and
responded quickly to the expression of interest in the country and the possibility of fostering
collaborative efforts with the Polish agencies, where essentially none had taken place before.
However, given that this was the first Bank-funded operation in Belarus, appraisal was perhaps
overly rapid, not giving the Belarussians enough time to absorb what was expected of them. This
was apparent in the initial difficulties with procedures in implementation and, if the project had
not been headquartered in the Department of Presidential Affairs, these problems might have
been much more disruptive than they were. Given the small size of the operation, the level of
Bank supervision and general back-up support was creditable. However, supervision focused
almost exclusively on technical issues, using external consultants (biologists and foresters) who
were not closely familiar with Bank procedures.
In a sense, the timing of the operation was unfortunate. In the early 1990s, following the collapse
of the former Soviet Union, the Bank found itself in a position of trying to get lending programs
going in a dozen new countries, in all of which the political, financial, and administrative systems
were chaotic. Especially in the smaller republics, they had had no previous exposure to agencies
such as the Bank and western practices in project management, etc. Belarus was grouped with
Ukraine, Moldova, and the Caucasian republics in one division. The result was an overwhelming
load of project operations, and small, peripheral operations such as this project, tended to fall
through the cracks: the relevant reporting forms appear to have been completed for only half of
the supervision missions undertaken. Similarly, the overall workload left little time for Bank staff
to assist the Belarussians to pursue possible external sources of follow-on funding, thus putting
the long-term viability of the effort at risk.
Borrower Performance
Given the limited size of the grant, project management achieved a great deal. This has been
reflected in the award to the park in 1998 of the European Diploma in Nature by the European
Commnission.



6
The extent of the work undertaken is partly reflects the exchange rate and relative prices, but also
tight management. Almost all of the activities foreseen at the outset were achieved. As noted
earlier in the report, management has also displayed a considerable degree of initiative in
generating some additional sources of funding in generally discouraging circumstances. The
major issue not addressed is the division of responsibility between the Directorate of Protected
Areas in the Office of Presidential Affairs (the manager of the project), which is responsible for
the four national parks, and the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Protection
(MNREP), which is responsible for management of protected areas as a whole,2 and for related
policy. This division of responsibility risks wasting valuable resources. For example, the
Foundation, which reports to the Office of Presidential Affairs, might also promote domestic and
international interest in the protected areas as a whole. For example, hunting tours might be much
more attractive if they could include other areas as well as the parks, given the abundant bird
populations, especially during the fall migrations.
CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS
Conclusions
This project and its companion in Poland were part of the first wave of GEF grant-supported
operations. They were funded under the initial "pilot" phase of the GEF. At that time there was a
significant pressure to get projects up and running in a situation in which experience with this
type of operation was extremely limited and, in these cases, the recipients were not experienced
in dealing with international aid-related agencies. The ICR has noted the major short-term lessons
that may be learned from the initial implementation of these operations. They noted that by more
recent standards, these operations were under-designed and noted issues such as the need for
clearer and more operationally relevant objectives and targets, and the importance of greater
inclusiveness during both the preparation and implementation stages. These issues have been
highlighted in reviews of the GEF program and have been incorporated in subsequent operations.
It is now almost 10 years since the inception of the GEF. This audit will, therefore, not repeat the
earlier conclusions, but will focus on longer-term issues that have perhaps become more apparent
in recent years, relating primarily to the longer term support and management of the unique
biological resources whose conservation the GEF has sought to enhance and maintain.
Funding of global biodiversity. The initial GEF support was predicated on the international value
of the biodiversity resources and the need to protect them against the effects of encroachment in
general and pollution in particular. However, the project activities made no provision for efforts
to obtain long-term funding for the region. Unfortunately this tendency is not confined to GEF.
The park was included on the list of World Biosphere Reserves in 1977 and was declared a World
Heritage Site by UNESCO in 1979. But these honors do not result in financial support for the
resource, although they may help in fund raising.
Presumably, because of the uniqueness and biological richness of the park, its global biological
value may be assumed to continue to exceed that to Belarus alone. On that basis, it might be
adjudged to qualify for continued GEF funding, since GEF is designed to finance "incremental
costs required to achieve global benefits." However, the GEF is not seen as a long-term funding
entity. This leaves open the question of how the "incremental costs required to achieve global
benefits" are to be covered. Given its significant role in environmental funding, it may be
appropriate for the GEF to begin to raise this issue. Otherwise, the benefits it has helped achieve
2. This includes the areas devastated by the Chernobyl accident.



7
may risk being undone. The government and the park management and foundation have made
significant efforts to continue and enhance the actions supported by the project. However, efforts
continue on a shoestring. Given the current exchange rate, a limited amount of hard currency can
go a relatively long way, but some firmer source of external funding would be desirable.
There may be scope for the GEF to take a more active role in fostering such support. The present
pilot efforts to develop country programs as the basis for GEF support are a move in this
direction, since they expect that funding will be obtained from other external sources to
supplement the GEF effort. There may be scope for broadening this effort and perhaps, involving
wildlife-oriented NGOs as sources of funding and in fostering international research
collaboration. Other sources of official funding might also be explored. For example,
implementation of the Kyoto Agreement (if it is ratified) appears likely to lead to the use of
carbon emissions trading contracts. Funding will be required to cover the costs of monitoring
these agreements and might be raised by a surcharge on the contracts. Consideration might be
given to using this source to finance other limited, long-term, global environmental goals such as
preservation of biodiversity. A more general review of the issue may be appropriate in the run-up
to the 10t anniversary of the Rio Conference.
Research institutions and practice. As noted, the project focused on research to assess the
severity of the threat to the forests, which would lead to the determination of a range of responses
to them. Companion projects in Poland and the Czech Republic, which supported similar efforts
in contiguous forests, were used as vehicles to promote cross-border collaboration on this basis.
However, the results in this area had been disappointing. This appears to have been at least partly
a result of the structure of research funding in the former socialist countries, and which has been
largely retained in Belarus. This provides a large role to Academies of Sciences, which disburse
significant research funds. These tend to view research very much from an academnic viewpoint,
its contribution to a discipline, rather than in a problem-oriented mold. Given the short duration
of the project, the research supported was largely based on proposals made by relevant
researchers. They made choices based on this disciplinary perspective rather than from a
problem-oriented one.3 The results of the joint programs on the Bialowieza/Belovezhskaya forest
were published in two volumes: one on the Polish work,4 and one on Belarus.s
In consequence, the results did not lend themselves as much as they might have to the
development of operational programs. This does point up the importance of ensuring that the
existing institutional structures, including operational procedures, are consistent with the aims of
the project.
Lessons
This operation was initiated in the early stages of the pilot phase of the GEF where it was
implicitly assumed that, with the additional support provided by the GEF, countries would be able
to obtain follow-up funding to take the place of the initial GEF input. The lesson for this project
is that this assumption is outdated and that GEF should review whether steps are required to
ensure long-term support for efforts to protect resources of high global biodiversity value. GEF
3. Remember, this was nearly a decade ago, shortly after the demise of the socialist structures in Poland. Attitudes have
changed greatly since then.
4. Piotr Paschalis, Kazirmierz Rykowski, and Stefan Zajaczkowski, "Protection of Forest Ecosystems Biodiversity of
Bialowieza Primeval Forest", Warsaw, 1995.
5. Alexander Luchkov, Vladimir Tolkach, Stephen Berwick and Philip Brylski, "Belovezhskaya Pushcha Forest
Biodiversity Conservation". Minsk, 1997.



8
should consider taking a longer-term and broader nation-wide view of biodiversity and
conservation issues following the model piloted in Mexico. A more general review on how to
ensure sustainability of globally important bio-resources should be raised in the run-up to the 10h
anniversary of the Rio Conference.



9                                           Annex A
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
Key Project Data (in US$ thousands)
Appraisal estimate   Actual at project closing    Actual as % of appraisal
estimate
Total project costs           1,251               1,285                       102
Grant amount                  1,000               1,032                       103
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(in US$ thousands)
FY93      FY94        FY95       FY96        FY97
Appraisal estimate                 300        700        1,00         -           -
Actual                             121        146        442         889       1,033
Actual as % of appraisal estimate    40.3    20.9        44.2         -           -
Date of final disbursement:        May 30, 1997
Note: Actual disbursements in dollars was higher than appraisal estimate due to exchange rate with SDR.
Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle        Date Planned            Date Actual/Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive           2/92                          2/92
Project Summary)
Preparation                         6/92                          6/92
Appraisal                           7/92                          7/92
Negotiations                        9/92                          9/92
Signing                             9/92                          9/92
Effectiveness                      10/92                          1/93
Grant closing                      10/95                          6/97
Source: SAR/ICR



