Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6816
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
(LOAN 1870-TH)
June 1, 1987
Urban and Water Supply Division
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its oontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)                  Baht (B)
Appraisal Year Average (1979)                    US$1 = B 20
Intervening Years Average (1980-85)              US$1 - B 23
Completion Year (1986)                           US$1 = B 26



FOR OIICL4L USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. DC 20433
USA
MUKe flU Dv.wvin-G..w'u
Opetatmm Evaluatanf
June 1, 1987
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Thailand National Sites and
Services Project (Loan 1870-TH)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Thailand National Sites and Services Project (Loan
1870-TH)" prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office. Under the
modified system for project performance auditing, further evaluation of
this project by the Operations Evaluation Department has not been made.
Attachment
This document has a renricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performane
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be diselkxe without World Bank authofiztionl.



THAILAND
NATIONAL SITES AND 8ERVICEs PROJECT (LOAN 1870-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA SHEET.................................................         i
HICHLICHTS  ..oe.eeeeoeoeeoe**o*eeeoeoee,                                 l
lo  INTRODUCTION....*Oeee*O.         .......... .................      1 iii
II.   PRO.8CT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL ........................        1
A. Project  Description ..........  o......... .*.*..*** . e*..   2
III.  IMPLEMENTATION..** *..... .........*. ..... .........              3
A. IZfctiveness               .....   ..ee                       3
B. Revisions to the Projecto......................... ..* .       3
C. Physical Progres                                               4
D. Coss.......  0..............  ....                             8
K,D9    usmnsv******++-****¢****-                                 8
FE  ............................. .                               9
G. Re.o                       r     t     i     n      g          9
H. The Role of the Bank.......                                   10
IV.   OPERATING PERFORMANCME. ..0...... 0*60000*0g" gEeoo.......       10
A. Sites and Services Components..........................**** ** *   10
B. Slum Improvement Componentm. p on........................     11
V.   INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PERFORKANCZ*...............       11
VI.   FINANCIAL PERORMANCE                                            12
A. Sites and Services Coimpogients...o.o....s..............      12
B. slum Improvement Component ........                           14
C. NBA's Financial Position and Policis ..................       15
VII.   ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION........................O.                 17
A. Sites and Services Components..........................       17
1. Slum Improvement Component....                                18
VIII.   CONCLUJSIONS AND LESSONS........... .......... ..                18
A* Conclusion       cus............. .00.00...eo....  *0000ooo00o00  18
B. Lessons Larned...       a                                     19



Table of Contents (cont'd.)
Page No.
ANNEES
1.   Comparisou of Appraisal Estimates and Actual Costs .......    22
2.   Table 1 - Disbursement of Loan by Category .......... ..*.     25
Table 2 - Estimated and Actual Accumulated
Disbursements .......... ..                        26
3.   Status of Sales of Project Units. .......................      27
4.   Table 1 - Sale Price of Project Units ..............,...,.     28
Table 2 - Urban Houehold Income Distribution......0....        30
5.   Table 1 - Calculation of Factors to Convert Project
Costs to 1984 Constant Pricesic...s..             32
Table 2 - Worksheet for Economic Rate of Return for
Lat Kraaa b....a.....                              33
Table 3 - Worksheet for Economic Rates of Return for
Slum Improvement Projects, Phase II       I       35
CHART      Appraisal and Actual Y'iplementation Schedule,****,,#**#*#    36



THAILAND
NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT (LOAN 1870-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the National Sites and
Services Project, for which Loan 1870-TH was approved on June 12, 1980 in the
amount of US$29 million. US$21.7 million of the loan amc.unt was passed on to
the National Housing Authority (NHA) partly as a loan, on the same terms as
the Bank loan, and partly as a grant, and US$1.8 million was provided to the
Bangkok Metropolitan Authority (BMA) as a grant. The closing date of the loan
was December 31, 1985; the final disbursement was made in June 1986.
US$4.5 million of the loan was cancelled in 1985 at the Government's request,
and another US$1 million was cancelled at loan closing.
The PCR was prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Projects Depart-
ment and was based on a PCR prepared by the NHA and other documents contained
in the project file. The PCR was discussed with NRA and government staff
during a visit in October 1986 and their comments have been incorporated in
the report. The valuable assistance provided by the Royal Thai Government and
the project staff met during the preparation of this report is gratefully
acknowledged.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
audit reporting, this Project Completion Report was read by the Operations
Evaluation Department (OED) but the project was not audited by OED staff. The
draft report was sent to the Borrower for comments; however, they indicated, by
telex, that they had none.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT BASIC DATA SHEET
THAILAND - NATIONAL SITES  AND SERVICES PROJECT (LOAN 1870-TH)
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal              Actual or
Item                                                              expectation          current estimate
Total Project Cost (US$ millton)                                              56.4                     44.2
Underrun (Z)                                                                  -                     22.0
Loan/Credit Amount (USs million)                                              29.0                    23.5
Disbursed      )                                                              -                     23.5
Cancelled      )                                                              -                      5.5
Repaid to      )                                                                _                 _
Outstanding to X                                                              -_-
Date Physical Components Completed                                          end-1983                did-1986
Proporticn Completed by Above Date (S)                                       100.0                   100.0
Proportion of Time Overrun (2)                                                  -                     62.5
Economic Rate of Return (2)                                                   21.0                    23.0
Financial Performance                                                                     good
Institutional Performance                                                     good                    good
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original                                      Actual or
Item                                                Plan                Revisions               Est. Actual
First Mention in Files or Timetable                                                                        07/27/78
Government's Application                                      I                        I____
Negottations                                                  J                                            04128180
Board Approval                                                //                                           06/12/80
Loan/Credit Agreement Date                                    717                                          08/08/18-0
Effectiveness Date                                          _//                                            01/07/81
Closing Date                                                12131184                7  /                   12/31/85
Borrower                                                   Kingdom of Thailand
Executing Agency                                           National Housing Authority
Fiscal Year of Borrower                                    October I - Stptember 30
Follow-on Project Name                                     Third Shelter Prolt
Loan/Credit Number                                       Avaitin  megotiatiNs
Amount (USS million)                                          -
Loan/Credit Agreement Date
MISSION DATA
No. of        No. of                          Date of
Item                              Month, Year         Weeks         Persons        Man-weeks         ReLort
Identtfication                              07/78               1            2                2          07/27/78
Preparation I                               01                                                4           03/22/79
Preparation TI                              067                       1                       1          0-6/720/-7 9
Preappraisal                            _0779                  2             4                8           101-7/79
Appraisal                                   11/79               3            4               12           12/20/79
Post Appraisal                              04/80           2T.35-r                          10           0/18
Post Negotiations                           05/80               1            2                2
Total                                                I11.39
Supervision I                               08/80               1             4               4           10/03/80
Supervision II                               l/80_              1             4               4          01/14/81
Supervision III TT____1                                                       3           _   3           05/11/81
Supervision IV                              09/81               1             4               4          01/06/82
Supervision V                               068              0.               1.S                         07/01
Supervision VI                          _038/2               0.5              2              -
Supervision VII                             03/83               1             2               2          04/15/83
Supervision VIII                            11/83            0.5              2               1           01/04/84
Supervision IX                              04/84             1.0             3              3            04/27/84
Supervision X                               I_/84            10                101104785
Supervision XI                              0685               .o                             1           07/10/85
Supervision XII                           _10/8S             0.5               1            03            11/25/85
Supervision XI1I                            02/86            0.5               i            0.5             / 
Completion                               _10/86                                                  
Total                                                 -2.                          -".



- iii -
THAILAND
NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT (LOAN 1870-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS
i.        The project was iesigned to reinforce the first Bank-supported urban
project and was expected tit consolidate NHLts policy changes by supporting a
significantly expanded program of shelter and slum upgrading. The project was
expected to focus attention on NHA's financial management and the reduction of
operating deficits which had been occurring up to this time. It was also
intended to initiate preparation of a comprehensive urban development program
in Thailand's principal cities and support the Government's objective of
developing urban centers in the poorer regions of the country. To this end,
the project included (a) sites and services developments in both Bangkok and
regional cities housing about 6,365 families, and employment opportunities
through the provision of commercial and small-scale industrial areas and
business loans; (b) improvement of infrastructure in about 60 slum areas
affecting about 12,000 households and social/economic support programs; and
(c) technical assistance including advisory services, training and equipment
to NHA s well as advisory services and training to the Ministries of Interior
and Finance and the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration (para. 2.04). The
project succeeded in accomplishing its main objective of providing new housing
which is affordable to lower-income families, and has further supported the
improvement and preservation of the existing slum housing stock. In addition,
implementation of recommendations of studies carried out under the project has
resulted in improvements in the housing finance system, while feasibility and
other studies for regional cities development have resulted in a follow-on
Bank-supported project to improve municipal infrastructure, administration and
the management of local governments and their finances.
ii.       The major problem in project implementation was a delay in acquiring
land for several housing developments which led to a one-year extension of the
loan closing date (para. 3.05). Because of the significant devaluation of the
baht during project execution, considerable savings resulted in the loan
account, and the project scope was expanded to include three additional
housing projects and a building materials loan program which could not be
accommodated under the previous sites and services project (Loan 1536-TH)
(para. 3.02). US$4.5 million was cancelled from the loan account during
project implementation in order to reduce the unnecessary payment of
commitment fees on funds which could not be utilized, and abcut US$1.0 was
cancelled at loan closing (para. 3.19).
iii.      The project's physical investments have generally satisfied their
intent, with the exception of the small industrial plots provided on the
housing developments. These plots could not be marketed due to a lack of
demand resulting from an oversupply and usually lower prices in regional
cities and a number of large industrial developments near the Bangkok project



- iv -
site (para. 6.04). Due to the lack of demand for industrial plots, the small
business loan program could not be implemenced (para. 3.08). Despite this
problem, the housing developments have demonstrated,substantial employment
effects in the commercial and residential areas.
iv.       Regarding cost recovery performance, as expected at appraisal NHA
will recover appropriate costs of the sites and services developments from the
beneficiaries through housing sales and rental of market areas (para. 6.01).
The industrial plots, which could not be marketed as expected, will be sold as
upper-income residential properties to permit full cost recovery of this
component (para. 6.04). Recovery of slum improvement costs is being pursued
through improvements in the administration and collection of property taxes in
project cities and in all cities nationwide (paras. 6.11-6.13).
v.        The project objective of providing the majority of new housing units
to lower-income families, defined as those below the 50th percentile of the
income distribution, was met at Lat Krabang (Bangkok), but more middle-ir.come
residents benefitted at the Chaing Mai and Songkhla developments
(para. 6.10). This was due to various factors including the preference of
lower-income families for immediately habitable housing, which was not
provided on these sites, and NHA's inexperience in marketing the developments
which resulted in adjustment of sales terms, thereby attracting the vrwong
beneficiaries. Other developments implemented later in the project were
redesigned to provide small, complete houses which should be more attractive
to lower-income families.
vi.       Overall, the project was successful in addressing deficiencies in
housing availability, housing policies and NHA's financial position. The
project studies also laid the groundwork for establishing a program of
regional cities development and for improving the administrative and
management capabilities of local governments. Furthermore, project studies
identified measures to improve the administration and collection of the major
sources of local government revenues in an attempt to strengthen the fiscal
base of municipalities nationwide. The economic performance of both the sites
and services and slum improvement components has proved satisfactory with a
weighted average rate of return of 23X (para. 7.05).



THAILAND
NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT (LOAN 1870-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In the mid-1970s, the program of Thailand's National Housing
Authority (NHA) emphasized the provision of heavily-subsidized conventional
housing.  The-1976-80 program, which was far too ambitious for NHA's capabili-
ties, called for the construction of 120,000 housing units in Bangkok at a
cost to Government of B 7,500 million (US$375 million). Because of the subsi-
dies needed to sustain the program, the Government suspended approval of new
projects in December 1977 and asked NHA to prepare an alternative program
which required lower subsidies and which was more realistic.
1.02      Preparation of the Bangkok Sites and Services and Slum Improvement
Project during 1916-77, for which a Bank loan of US$8.6 million was approved
in 1978 (Loan 1556-TH), contributed significantly to the policy reviews which
resulted in a new NHA program in 1978. That project, which was a pilot
effort, was designed to demonstrate the viability of unsubsidized sites and
services development and slum improvement schemes as alternative approaches to
the shelter problems of Bangkok's urban poor. NHA's program for 1979-82
followed this approach and emphasized sites and services development with core
housing rather than construction of apartments and completed houses.
1.03      The National Sites and Services Project was designed to extend the
earlier project in several ways and to address some institutional problems
experienced under it. The first project included sites and services develop-
ment of about 3,000 units, five slum improvement projects, loans to small
businesses and industries in project areas, and technical assistance to NHA.
While coordination between NHA and the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration
(BHA) and the public utilities proved difficult and direct cost recovery in
the slums was not feasible, the project was generally satisfactory. The
second project built upon the approach adopted under the first project by
supporting an expanded slum improvement progran in Bangkok, by extending the
sites and services approach to include regional cities in addition to a
Bangkok program, and by consolilzting improvements in NRA's financial manage-
ment and operating position.
II. PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
A. Background
2.01      In July 1978 a Bank mission initiated discussions on the preparation
of a second NRA project with NRA staff and officials from the Nztional Econo-
mic and Social Development Board (NESDB), the Budget Bureau and the Ministry
of Finance. It was agreed that the project would follow the same principles



- 2 -
as the first project, i.e., supporting sites and services development with
associated commercial and small industrial facilities and upgrading of slum
communities. It would also support Government's development plan objective of
reducing regional disparities by developing urban centers outside of Bangkok
which had previously been ignored. In 1977-78 NHA coniucted housing studies
and subsequently initiated land acquisition procedures in nine regional
cities. Based on these studies and the goals of NHA's 1979-82 program to
focus greater attention on the regional cities, a Bank mission in February
1979 agreed to finance a project for sites and services development both in
Bangkok and the regional cities as well as a slum upgrading program in
Bangkok.
2.02      The project was prepared by NHA staff with the assistance of
advisors financed under Loan 1556-TH. Bank preparation and preappraisal
missions in June and July 1979, respectively, held further discussions with
government staff on various aspects of the proposed project including stan-
dards and methodologies to be used in the slum improvement program and identi-
fication of the regional cities and sites to be assisted under the project.
The main issues identified in the course of project preparation were: (a) the
need for timely land acquisition in the secondary cities; (b) institutional
arrangements for the slum upgreding program, particularly the need for coope-
ration among the agencies involved in infrastructure improvements; (c) employ-
ment promotion in the project areas; and (d) the marketability of core units.
2.03      The project was appraisad in November 1979.  Its objectives were:
(a) to consolidate NHA's policy changes by supporting a significantly
expanded program of shelter and slum upgrading based on them;
(b) to improve conditions in Bangkok slums with about 12,000 households;
(c) to strengthen NHA's financial position through a program of finan-
cial and administrative measures to reduce its operating deficits;
and
(d) to initiate preparation of a comprehensive urban development program
in Thailand's principal cities.
B. Project Description
2.04      As appraised, the project consisted of the following five major com-
ponents:
(a)  Sites and Services in Bangkok:  development of about 3,365 residen-
tial units and 285 commercial shophouse units on a 100 ha site at
Lat Krabang, including ti) land; (ii) infrastructure; (iii) core
houses with sanitary facilities; (iv) materials loans for house
completion through self-help; and (v) health, education and social
facilities. Approximately 4 ha of serviced land were for commercial
and industrial development;



-3-
(b)  Sites and Services in the Regional Cities of Chaing Mai, Songkhla,
Chantaburi, Khon Kaen and Nakhon Sawan: about 3,000 plots on
approximately 50 ha, including (i) land; (ii) infrastructure;
(iii) core houstus with sanitary facilities; (iv) building materials
loans; and (v) developed land for commercial and industrial
purposes;
(c)  Bangkok Slur. Improvement:  basic infrastructure services and
community facilities for approximately 12,OOC households;
(d)  Employment Generation:  serviced industrial plots and loans and
technical assistance for small businesses and industries in project
areas; and
(e)  Technical Assistance:  to NHA for monitoring and evaluation, equip-
ment and training; to the Ministry of Interior (MOI) and BHA for
municipal finance and administration studies; to MOI to help prepare
projects in regional cities; and to the Ministry of Finance, NHA and
the Government Housing Bank (GHB) for a housing finance study.
III. IMPLEMENTATION
A. Effectiveness
3.01      The project was presented to the Bank's Board on June 12, '980, and
the Loan Agreement was signed on August 8, 1980. Signing of a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between the Government and NHA, which was a condition of loan effec-
tiveness, took place on November 4, 1980. Effectiveness was delayed from
November 6, 1980, as originally planned, to January 7, 1981, due to Govern-
ment's delay in preparing a necessary legal opinion on the loan documents and,
more importantly, delay in acquiring land for the project in Chantaburip Khon
Kaen and Nakhon Sawan by October 31, 1980, as stipulated in the Project Agree-
ment (Section 2.10). A revised schedule of land acquisition to be completed
by March 1981 was accepted as fulfilling the loan condition because NHA
appeared to be making satisfactory progress on land purchase in the cities in
question.
B. Revisions to the Project
3.02      Substantial savings under the Bank loan were realized as a result of
lower than expected contract prices and contingencies coupled with several
devaluations of the baht (by 10% after loan effectiveness and another 172 in
November 1984) -9 and UNDP financing of most project consultancy services on a
1/ The baht was devalued from B 20 = US$1 at appraisal in 1979 to B 23 =
US$1 in January 1981 and B 27 = US$1 in November 1984.



-4-
grant basis (releasing some US$1.67 million of the Bank loan). The funds thus
made available were used to expand the scope of project works as follows:
(a) the project's regional cities sites and services component was
increased in October 1984 from the originally planned five sites to
include three additional sites in Phuket, Saraburi and Phitsanulok
with a total of 1,660 units on about 25 ha;
(b) in June 1984 the Bank approved the Government's request to include
under Loan 1870-TH a building materials loan program, which was
originally included under Loan 1556-TH but which could not be
financed under the earlier project due to slow site construction;
and
(c) in 1984 the Bank agreed to Government's request to eliminate the
building materials loan program and build small, enclosed core units
in the remaining sites and services subprojects since this had
little effect on the project's affordability objectives and was
expected to facilitate long-term financing by domestic financial
institutions, which were concerned that low-income residents might
overextend themselves if required to borrow for building extensions
it. addition to mortgage requirements.
C. Physical Progress
3.03      Project implementation was originally scheduled for a four-year
period, January 1980-December 1983, but was not completed until mid-1986 due
to the increase in project scope and delays in acquiring land for the regional
cities sites and services component. The appraisal estimate and actual
implementation schedules are shown in Chart 30976.
Lat Krabang (Bangkok) Sites and Services Component
3.04      Project works consisted of the construction of 3,830 units, almost
200 more than planned at appraisal. Following a good start, with site pre-
paration completed on schedule, procurement of housing and infrastructure for
the Lat Krabang site was delayed for about a year by the need for procurement
document revisions (arising from NHA's experience with a disputed contract
under the earlier project) and a slow review process. Thereafter, progress
was generally satisfactory, with the exception of two contracts. Construction
by BMA of a link road to a nearby industrial estate was not completed until
December 1985 owing to delays in acquiring land for the road, the need to
review design specifications and delays in award of contract due to a dispute
caused by bids which were higher than the government estimate. Construction
of a primary school took longer than expected due to severe floods in 1983 and
the contractor's financial and management problems. The contract was even-
tually terminated in August 1985 when more than 901 of scheduled works had
already been completed, and a new contractor was hired to complete the works.



Regional Cities Sites and Services Component
3.05      Acquisition of land for the Chaing Mai and Songkhla subprojects was
completed by the time of project appraisal, and construction of subproject
works was carried out by contractors with no major problems. Chaing Mai was
completed by August 1983 and Songkhla by November 1983. Acquisition of sites
in Khon Kaen, Nakhon Sawan and Chantaburi was delayed by difficulties in
existing land acquisition regulations which were overcome by early 1983. The
Khon Kaen site was acquired in early 1983 and construction was initially
satisfactory but later suffered significant delays due to the contractor's
financial problems. NHA terminated the contract in June 1985 with about 401
of works accomplished and engaged a new contractor to finish the remaining
works, which were completed by February 1986 as specified. Progress on the
Chantaburi and Nakhon Sawan sites was much slower since the sites were not
acquired until early 1984. However, once contracts were awarded at end-June
1984, construction at the Chantaburi site was completed slightly ahead of the
18 months scheduled. Construction at Nakhon Sawan was divided into two con-
tracts, one for core houses and infrastructure and one for an access road and
drainage. The first contract proceeded satisfactorily and was completed as
expected in December 1985. The second contract was delayed by problems in
planning the works. Previous owners of some plats in the area had donated
them to the municipal office for use as a public lane but the present owners
had no documentation of this agreement and were reluctant to let NHA proceed
with the road and drainage work. NHA therefore had to wait for clarification
from the municipal office before works could begin. Construction was comple-
ted in July 1986.
3.06      The Phuket, Saraburi and Phitsanulok subprojects were carried out
with no major problems. Construction started in January 30, 1985, and the
Saraburi and Phitsanulok subprojects were completed on schedule by January
1986 while the Phuket subproject was completed in April 1986, after a three-
month delay to revise the original layout.
Bangkok Slum Improvement
3.07      This component consisted of infrastructure improvements and support-
ing socio-economic programs in about 60 slums for approximately 12,000 house-
holds. Standard infrastructure improvements consisted of improvements in
drainage, access, garbage collection and fire prevention as well as water
supply, street lighting and minor road works where appropriate. The project
supported the provision of socio-economic programs in the slum areas through
the ccrstruction of six community centers. Project works proceeded in three
phases. Progress was initially slow due to staffing constraints and program
revisions following appointment of a new NHA Governor and subsequent changes
ordered by the Cabinet. Implementation of the first three phases was there-
after generally smooth; however, one contract for Klong Toey at about 951 com-
pletion was not finished due to the contractor's financial problems. The
three phases of the subproject were completed by December 1985. Some 29,670
dwellings were upgraded under the program benefitting about 41,500 families in
56 slums.



-6-
Support for Small Business and Industries
3.08      Project support to small business was intended to provide opportuni-
ties for dependents to supplement household incomes and to create some jobs
near home for primary earners. This support included about 300 serviced
industrial plots located on primary access roads as well as help for entrepre-
neurs in both the sites and services and slum improvement areas in obtaining
financing from the Krung Thai Bank (KTB) and technical assistance from the
Department of Industrial Promotion. A total of US$3.0 million was to be made
available as loans to entrepreneurs in sites and services areas at market
rates from KTB. In addition, about 1,000 enterprises in slum improvement
areas were to benefit from loans totalling about $670,000, extended under a
small business loan guarantee scheme through which NHA would guarantee up to
601 of loans to borrowers unable to obtain the required two guarantors. NBA
has not been able to market the industrial plocs due to a lack of demand
(para. 6.04). As a result, the small business loan program for the sites and
services developments was not implemented. Assistance to small entrepreneurs
in slum projects, however, was somewhat more successful, and 140 loans total-
ing B 1.02 million (US$50,000) have been made to finance new businesses
(para. 4.05).
Technical Assistance
3.10      The project included technical assistance for:
(a)  a Housing Finance Study, with participation of the Ministry of
Finance, the Government Housing Bank (GHB), and NHA;
(b) assistance to NHA for (i) staff training, including field trips for
three to five NHA and KTB staff to observe successful employment-
generating projects in other countries and one fellowship for formal
training in employment generation; (ii) vehicles and equipment for
NHA's slum improvement and regional cities programs; and (iii) moni-
toring and evaluation of the project;
(c) assistance to the Ministry of the Interior (MOI) to carry out
infrastructure feasibility studies preparing for a future Regional
Cities Development Project, a Municipal Finances and Administration
Study, and advisory assistance and training in property valuation
rnd taxation; and
(d) abaistance to BMA to carry out a Financial Management Study to
(i) design and help install planning, programming and budgetary
systems for its operations, as well as accounting a&nd management
information systems; (ii) formulate a five-year capital works
program and financing plan; and (iii) identify measures to increase
the revenue yield of the existing fiscal base and identify
additional revenue sources.
3.11      Consultants for the Housing Finance Study were engaged oni June 15,
1981, about six months later than originally expected. The delay v,as due to
lengthy legal procedures involved in MOF's introduction of a new standard



contract for consultants and MOF's need to secure aJditional budgetary funds
to cover taxes on the consultants' income, which had not been included in the
original budgetary request. The Study was completed approximately as planned
and was well done. A number of its recommendations have been or are being
implemented. In particular, recommendations pertaining to phasing out NHA's
responsibility to provide long-term housing finance and expanding the GHB's
role in this area for lower-income families are being pursued under the
proposed third Bank-supported project with NHA.
3.12      The training program for NHA staff in the field of employment
generation was carried out as expected at appraisal. Consultants provided
assistance to a fworking group within NHA to advise on planning approaches and
policies for industrial promotion and identified pilot schemes on three hous-
ing developments.  A training workshop was conducted for NHA staff, and study
tours to countries in the region and short field trips for executive staff
were undertaken so that NHA staff could gain experience in various aspects of
small business and industrial promotion. While the training program was
judged useful, the knowledge gained could not be put to practice due to the
lack of success of the small industry promotion scheme under the project.
Regarding vehicles and equipment to be purchased for the project's slum
improvement and regional cities components, a number of items were purchased,
primarily for social activities in slum projects. Finally, a monitoring and
evaluation program was set up with consultancy assistance from World Bank
staff to do an in-depth review of the outcome of both the sites and services
and slum improvement components. Studies conducted in a number of housing
developments and slum subprojects have provided useful feedback from residents
concerning the successes and problems associated with the respective
subprojects. While a number of recommendations made in the studies have been
carried out, better communication within NHA could contribute to improving the
usefulness of the studies.
3.13      Consultants for the MOI regional cities infrastructure feasibility
studies were employed slightly ahead of schedule in February 1981, and the
studies were completed satisfactorily. Study results were used in preparing
the Regional Cities Development Project (Ln. 2520-TH).
3.14      Consultants for the MOI Municipal Finance and Management Study were
mobilized in February 1982. The consultants' final reports were not accept-
able to MOI and the contract was terminated. bew consultants engaged in
December 1982 completed the study in April 1983, and the study recommendations
were implemented thereafter. The sensitive nature of the subject area of
study, in particular the sensitivity associated with central/local govern-
mental fiscal and administrative relationships, contributed greatly to the
consultant's poor relationship with MOI's Department of Local Administration,
which was responsible for supervising the consultants. The follow-on consul-
tants were more successful, and their recommendations for improving the
planning, budgeting, accounting and financial management systems of local
governments as well as for strengthening their fiscal base have been or are
being implemented not only in the project cities but in all cities nation-
wide. This component of the technical assistance package was very successful
despite the delay due to the termination of the original consultants.



- 8 -
3.15      The taxation and valuation study and related training program were
completed in August 1983. The program to address administrative deficiencies
and to improve collections of the two property taxes has been successfully
implemented in the project cities and all cities nationwide. Measures
recommended in the study report to establish a valuation profession and a
central valuation authority are also being pursued with further Bank support
under the Land Titling Project (Loan 2440-TH).
3.16      Consultants for the BMA Financial Management Study were employed in
January 1981, slightly ahead of schedule. Like the Finance and Management
Study for the regional cities, the consultant's final reports were not
approved by the Government and the contract was terminated. Again, the sensi-
tive nature of the subject as well as the poor working relationship between
the consultants and BHA contributed to the problem. While a number of useful
recommendations were provided and BHA implemented some of them, full imple-
mentation of the study results was not achieved. It is recommended that the
next Bank-assisted project involving BMA should follow up on this study.
D. Costs
3.17      Actual project costs are compared with appraisal cost estimates in
Annex 1. The total project cost at appraisal was B 1,128.0 million
(US$56.4 million equivalent) including local taxes, duties and contin-
gencies. Actual costs were B 1,056.7 million (US$44.2 million equivalent) or
6% below the appraisal estimate. Lower than expected costs resulted on all
project components primarily due to lower than projected price increases and
lower demand for building materials and small business loans. Some of the
loan funds thus made available were used to expand project activities by
adding three sites and services subprojects and a building materials loan
program for beneficiaries of the Bangkok Sites and Services Project.
S.  Disbursements
3.18      Disbursements from the various categories of the loan are shown in
Annex 2, Table 1. Accumulated disbursements from the loan by semester
compared with appraisal estimates are given in Annex 2, Table 2. Disburse-
ments took place over six years compared to the appraisal estimate of four and
one quarter years. The delay was due primarily to delays in land acquisition
and the expansion of project works. The original closing date of December 31,
1984 was extended by one year to December 31, 1985.
3.19      Even as expanded, the project could not utilize the entire loan
amount, primarily due to several devaluations of the baht.  Government
therefore requested cancellation of US$3.0 million in April 1985 and
US$1.5 million in October 1985. An additional US$1.0 was cancelled when the
loan account was closed on September 3, 1986.
3.20      During project implementation the disbursement percentage for civil
works was increased from 65X to 751 as part of assistance under the Special
Action Program (SAP). This was undertaken to help NBA overcome budgetary
problems which could affect timely payment to contractors. At appraisal it
was expected that the loan would finance 511 of the total project cost, but



- 9 -
because grant funding became available for most technical assistance studies,
the loan amount as a percent of total project cost dropped to about 48%. The
effect of increasing the disbursement percentage under SAP was to raise the
loan amount as a percent of total project cost to S3%.
F. Procurement
3.21      Procurement of contracts exceeding US$l million for infrastructure
and core housing for the Lat Krabang, Chaing Mai and Songkhla subprojects was
carried out using international competitive bidding (ICB) as called for under
the Loan Agreement. Although a number of foreign contractors responded to
contract advertisements, no foreign bid was received. Because of the delay in
acquiring land for the Nakhon Sawan, Khon Keen and Chantaburi sites and the
lack of interest of international firms in small contracts of the type in
question, the Bank approved NHA's request to use local competitive bidding
procedures (LCB) for these contracts. LCB was also used to prepare contracts
for the three sites and services areas added during project implementation
(Saraburi, Phuket and Phitsanulok), off-site access roadts, flood control
works, community facilities and slum upgrading works. All ICB contracts and
LCB contracts for civil works exceeding US$500,000, as well as copies of bid
evaluation reports, were subuitted to the Bank for review prior to award of
contract.
C. Reporting
3.22      A series of 21 quarterly reports were submitted in a timely manner
to the Bank from November 15, 1980 to November 15, 1985. The reports were
also used by NRA management and other departments for monitoring the progress
of the project.
3.23      Unaudited project accounts through 1985 were prepared by NHA and
submitted to the Bank in a timely manner as per the project agreement.
Howevert audited project accounts have been rec )ved by the Bank only efter
about two years of the end of each fiscal year.-   This was due to NHA's slow
processing of financial information and preparation of final accounts and a
lengthy audit process resulting from the need to resolve discrepancies, mainly
in the accounts receivable, An accounting firm was retained by NHA to improve
the processing of financial information up through end-FY83 using a newly
computerized system, which was completed in mid-1985. Further delays were
experienced in processing records of accounts receivable on the new
computerized system. These problems have been largely overcome and a
timetable for receipt of the remaining two overdue audit reports for FY84 and
FY85 has been agreed with NHRA.
2/   No material difference has been observed between the audited and
unaudited project accounts received.



- 10 -
H. The Role of the Bank
3.24      The participation of the Bank in the identification and preparation
of this project reinforced the policy shifts and technical innovations of the
first Bank lending operation which was under implementation during much of
this project. In addition, the Bank's involvement was responsible for
initiating studies which recommended measures to improve the housing finance
system, which was essential for further development of the sector, and to
address weaknesses in loLx 1 government administration and financial
management, which was necessary to support the Government's goal of developing
urban centers outside of Bangkok.
3.25      All components of the project were supervised by the Urban and Water
Supply Division of the East Asia and Pacific Projects Department. During the
implementation period, a total of 13 supervision missions visited Thailand.
An average of about 5 staff-weeks per year were spent in the supervision
effort in the field. The quality of the working relationship between the Bank
and the implementing agency was excellent.
IV. OPERATING PERFORMANCE
A. Sites and Services Componeats
4.01      The sale of project housing units was generally satisfactory, except
for the Phuket and Nakhon Sawan sites where sales have been slow. Four of the
nine subprojects totaling 5,349 units were sold out as of May 15, 1986, and
sales were well-advanced on another three sites by that time, as shown in
Annex 3. Phuket initially experienced difficulties in sales because of delays
in installation of the electrical system by the Provincial Electricity
Authority, which is now resolved. Later sales suffered because of NHA's
attempt to purchase the land for the development from the provincial govern-
ment and convert the tenure status of homebuyers from a leasehold to freehold
basis. An agreement between NHA and the provincial government for purchase of
the land has now been reached and sales are expected to speed up shortly.
Nakhon Sawan experienced difficulties for several reasons, including unfounded
publicity by a local developer who claimed the area was prone to flooding,
delayed completion of the access road which is now finished, and delays in
extension of the water supply system to the site, which is now scheduled for
completion in January 1987. As with Phuket, sales are expected to improve
shortly now that these problems have been resolved.
4.02      The progress of home buyers occupying the sites and extending their
units has been somewhat slower than expected, particularly for the poorer
families. As was the case under the first Bank-supported project, since
security of possessions was a general problem on these types of developments,
the home buyers did not wish to move into the early sites until the construc-
tion required to enclose the units was completed. The financial burden asso-
ciated with completion of the core houses proved to be very great especially
for the poorer families who had to continue to rent elsewhere while the house
was being completed. At the same time, residents were expected to make hire



- 11 -
purchase ptyments and payments for building materials loans. Even after house
designs were modified and fully enclosed units were provided on the remaining
developments (para 3.02 (c)), many home buyers delayed moving until the devel-
opments were more fully occupied. In some cases, the delay in provision of
essential services or utilities contributed to delayed occupancy.
4.03      In general, essential municipal services, utilities and community
facilities are now operating as expected at appraisal.
B. Slum Improvement Component
4.04      Since the first Bank loan, NRA has built up considerable expertise
in carrying out slum improvement projects, and its coordination with other
agencies has improved significantly. Under the project, NHA provided physical
improvements to the slumo while BMA and other agencies jointly took responsi-
bility for the socio-economic prograns. Responsibility for recurring
operations of the physical improvements in 54 slum communities was also turned
over to BMA in July 1985. NHA has actively assisted in establishing community
organizations to enhance the involvement of slum dwellers in the planning of
the improvement programs. Water supply improvements were funded and provided
by the Metropolitan Waterworks Authority under the project.
4.05      Regarding the small business loan program, the Government has
provided B 2.4 million for a guarantee scheme under which qualified
prospective borrowers who have difficulty in securing personal guarantors as
required would be able to secure loans for a small guarantee fee, and NHA
would guarantee the loan repayments. To date, 140 loans totaling B 1,018,000
have been made. The amounts borrowed have been used primarily to set up small
businesses such as tailor shops and foodstalls.
V. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PERFORMANCE
5.01      NHA was the principal executing agency for the project.  Each major
project component was implemented by project teams drawn from NHA's various
divisions under the overall direction of the Assistant Governor of NHA, who
was designated as the Project Manager. The Project Manager was assisted by a
project committee comprising the eight directors of NHA's various depart-
ments. In addition, a Foreign Loan Project Management Office (FLPMO) was
established by recruiting full-time staff with project-related professional
backgrounds from relevant NRA departments. The FLPMO assisted the Prnject
Manager in day-to-day coordination of project activities. Design and con-
struction of the sites and services components were carried out by staff from
the Research and Construction Department, and the Slum Upgrading Office
(raised to Department level in 1982) was responsible for the slum upgrading
component. NRA's project management capability under this project improved
significantly compared to management under the earlier Bank-financed project.



- 12 -
VI. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
A. Sites and Services Components
Cost Recovery
6.01      As with the first project, all costs borne by NHA were passed on to
the beneficiaries. Other expenses incurred by government agencies in support
of the housing schemes (e.g., schools, the BMA link road) were borne by the
Government. As recommended by the Bank based on experience gained under the
first project, NHA priced the land of the sites and services developments at
current market values, rather than at their original purchase prices, in order
to eliminate possible implicit subsidies on land.
6.02      Regarding the recurrent costs of operation and maintenance of the
developments, estate management fees are being charged to the residents and
commercial users, as expected at appraisal. Fees cover all costs associated
with estate management as well as operation and maintenance of the infrastruc-
ture and facilities provided, to the extent that these costs are not recovered
through user charges levied by other responsible authorities (e.g., water
supply, electricity). The current fees provide for the recovery of all costs
of administration including expenses associated with the area office, opera-
tion and maintenance of roads, footpathes, street lighting, sewerage, public
parks and security. However, rather than provide these services over the life
of the developments as expected at appraisal, HBA is taking steps to gradually
turn over responsibility for estate management to the concerned local govern-
ment agencies and to the occupants, to help overcome its past operating defi-
cits on estate management. To date, NHA has turned over complete responsi-
bility for management of the Chaing Mai estate and partial responsibility on
most others. The service fees NUA charges to residents has been calculated on
the assumption that turnover of responsibility for all services would occur
within five years on each development. The service fee ranges from B 160-400
per month depending on the use and location of the plots and is added to the
hire purchase payment, so that residents make only onte payment to NBA per
month.
6.03      The tariffs levied by the metropolitan and provincial water and
electricity authorities currently provide for the recovery of water supply and
electricity costs in line with levels elsewhere in the cities.
6.04      As mentioned before, NUA has not been able to market the industrial
plots due to a lack of demand. In the regional cities there is an oversupply
of these plots usually at lower prices. In Bangkok, the lack of demand is due
to the provision of large industrial developments in the project area by the
Industrial Estate Authority of Thailand. Since NBA will not be able to market
these plots for industrial purposes, it is planning to sell them as upper-
income residential plots so that costs can be fully recovered. At present, 3
of the 18 industrial plots at Chaing Mai have been sold as residential
properties. The remaining plots at the other developments are expected to be
marketed after all residential units in each development have been sold.



- 13 -
Loan Terms
6.05      When the first three developments came on stream (Lat Krabang,
Chaing Mai and Songkhla), the hire-purchase terms required were in line with
appraisal expectations. Down payments were about 5-10% of the sale price for
the cheapest units, increasing to about 201 for the commercial units. Loans
for house purchase would be repaid to NHA over 20 years for the residential
units and 10-15 years for the commercial units at the prevailing market
interest rates, which were 15Z for residential units and 16.5Z for commercial
units. The down payments could be paid in two to three installments but had
to be paid in full prior to move-in by the home purchaser.
6.06      However, when sales proceeded more slowly than they had on earlier
NHA projects, NHA tried to expedite sales by changing the down payment policy
for home purchasers. Beneficiaries were given the option of paying the down
payments in 10 to 18 installments over an 18-month period and were permitted
to move in as soon as construction was completed, even without full receipt of
the down payment. Customers were also given the option of repaying the house
loans over 5, 10, 15 or 20-year periods. This policy now seems questionable
since the NHA developments with the greatest arrears (all of which are outside
the project area) are those where home purchasers have the least investments
of their own. The limited investment by the home purchaser prior to move-in
provides little incentive to make payments on time.
6.07      Building materials loans to complete core units were provided at Lat
Krabang, Chaing Mai and Songkhla. At the Bank's suggestion based on experi-
ence elsewhere, the loans were made in cash only, rather than in both cash and
materials as suggested at appraisal. The loans advanced for the three devel-
opments averaged about B 16,000 per household and are to be repaid over ten
years at an interest rate of 15%. In determining the loan amount for building
materiala, it was discovered that the sum required normally exceeded the down
payment installments received. This meant that the total loan to be provided
by NHA for the core unit and building materials had to be greater than the
value of the unit, and in the case of default, NHA would lose more than it
might be able to recover due to the lack of collateral on the excess amount.
In order to provide adequate loans for building materials but to reduce the
risk of default, the building materials loans required two personal guaran-
tors. However, many home purchasers had difficulty meeting this requirement,
which accounts for the lower than expected demand for building materials
loans. Based on evaluation reports for the first Bank-supported project and
the Chaing Mai development which demonstrated that the financial burden
associated with completion of core houses is too great for poorer families,
the building materials program was eliminated for the remaining sites and
services subprojects and small, complete core houses were provided instead.
6.08      Since industrial plots on the sites and services developments will
not be sold for industrial purposes, the small business loan program, which
was expected to assist entrepreneurs who purchased the plots, was not
executed.



- 14 -
Affordability
6.09      Since all project sites and services developments were executed
below appraisal cost estimates and household incomes grew rapidly at about 15%
per year over the project period, actual sales prices were affordable to the
intended income groups. The sales prices were sufficient to cover the
chargeable costs of the development and to provide some profit. It is
estimated that the units were priced at or near market values and were not
underpriced, in view of the relatively low level of purchase by investors
(estimated at about 10-12X) and the lengthy sale period (ranging from seven
months to mote than one year). A summary of sale prices and hire purchase
payments along with income distribution data are presented in Annex 4,
Tables 1 and 2, respectively.
6.10      Surveys based on significant samples of resident households
occupying all unit types at Lat Krabang, Chaing Mai and Songkhla were under-
taken to determine whether the intended income groups actually received the
units sold.  The best results were found at Lat Krabang where about 75Z of the
families were in the low-income group of B 4,000 per month or less. At
Songkhla and Chaing Mai, survey results indicate more middle-income clien-
tele. Even so, nearly all families selected had previously been renters, and
the units purchased represented their first opportunity for home ownership.
Several factors contributed to these results, including (a) the shortage of
affordable housing for both low- and middle-income families in Bangkok and the
regional cities which created keen competition for the available units;
(b) the preference of lower-income families for immediately habitable,
completed units because of the heavy financial burden associated with
incomplete housing; and (c) the difficulty in verifying incomes to establish
eligibility for units due to the self-employed and temporary nature of the
earnings of many of the home buyers. The best way to ensure that the appro-
priate income groups are reached vould be to provide housing with standards
low enough and in sufficient quantity to meet demand. In this project, the
standards were probably low enough, but the project size could only begin to
address housing shortages in the project cities. It seems clear that the
supply of shelter to lower-income groups cannot be isolated from the issue of
housing in the country as a whole. To help avoid encroachment on the lower-
income housing developments, appropriate approaches, particularly in
addressing deficiencies in the housing finance system, must be developed to
assist middle-income families as well.
B. Slum Improvement Component
Cost Recovery
6.11      Based on the experience of the first project, it was accepted that
cost recovery of slum improvements thiyugh increased rents and the provision
of long-term leases was not feasible.- As a result, this project was
3/   See Project Completion Report for Bangkok Sites and Services and Slum
Improvement Project (Loan 1556-TH), pp. 20-21.



- 15 -
designed to rely on the overall system of urban public finance to support the
slum improvement program. Revenues frorm urban properties in Thailand were
very low because of deficiencies in the tax system and its administration.
Under the project, emphasis was given to strengthening the overall urban
revenue base through a number of measures including (a) a program to
systematically update property registration in the BMA jurisdiction and to
improve collection of the two property taxes; (b) financial studies of BHA and
the regional cities which would identify ways to increase their income from
existing taxes, fees and charges; and (c) a study of deficiencies in the
administration and valuation of property taxes affecting all municipalities in
an effort to identify ways of increasing reven1ues.
6.12      BMA's efforts to increase revenues from property taxes included a
successful increase in revenues from the house and rent tax starting in 1980
and a pilot program to update registrations for the land development tax in 4
of Bangkok's 24 districts. This latter program increased collections from 40S
to 501 of liable properties in the area. However, the process of compu-
terizing and screening data to identify potentially liable properties was too
complicated and time-consuming for citywide use, largely because the various
agencies involved did not use comparable data. Efforts are currently under
way to improve the tax maps in Bangkok under the Land Titling Project 'Loan
2440-TH), which is expected to provide the basis for improved administration
and collection of these important sources of local revenue.
6.13      With the support of project technical assistance for taxation and
valuation (para. 3.15), a program to improve the tax maps and tax rolls in
regional cities has been successfully implemented, and improvement in
collections of the two property taxes as well as the signboard tax are expec-
ted shortly. In addition, increased fees for municipal services will be
introduced in 1987, as permitted by the amended Public Health Act of 1985.
C. NRA's Financial Position and Policies
6.14      Under the project, NHA was to improve its financial performance
through implementation of a variety of measures and in particular was to
reduce its operating deficit by fiscal year 1984. This has been done.
Operating deficits were eliminated in 1982, two years earlier than expected,
and total operating revenue during 1981-85 increased by more than 125X while
operating expenditures increased by only 63%. This improvement is attribu-
table to the introduction of the following measures recommended by consultants
financed under the first project:
(a)  recovery of appropriate costs of new housing developments;
(b) an increase in interest income on hire-purchase accounts due to the
completion of new projects and an increase in onlending rates from
6-121 previously to 15 on projects completed since 1979;
(c) implementation of a zero-growth policy for staff increases;
(d) transfer of responsibilities for operation and maintenance of
infrastructure and facilities provided on housing estates to appro-
priate agencies; and



-16-
(e) increases of previously very low service charges and rents in
projects completed earlier.
6.15      NHA's operating performance for the past five years is summarized in
Table 6.1. In 1985, NBA's net operating profit of B 178.5 million was
equivalent to 21Z of operating revenues and 161 of its equity. Its debt to
equity ratio was 2.9, interest coverage was 1.6, and its net profit (after
covering exchange losses on foreign loans) was B 23 million. With au average
cost of borrowed funds of 8.41, an average cost of total funds (including
subsidies) of 8.1% and an average on-lending rate for housing loans of 151,
NiA had a spread of 6.9Z on its operations for the year. This was adequate to
cover overhead charges and toreign exchange losses.
Table 6.1:  NBA SUtQARY OPERATING PURFORMNCE, 1981-85
(B million)
1981     1982      1983       1984      1985
Operating income                  380.4    549.5     608.9      733.5     859.8
Operating expenditures            228.8    290.1     339.5      354.3     372.3
Met operating income before
interest                    151.6    259.4      269.4     379.2      487.5
Interest (net of subsidy)         152.0    157.3     185.5      290.3     309.0
Net operating income (loss)    (0.4)   102.1       83.9       88.9     178.5
Von-operating income /a               0        0       2.0       (5.4)   (155.2)
Net profit (loss)               (0.4)   102.1      85.9       83.5      23.3
/a   Primarily foreign exchange gains (losses).
6.16      During the project period, government subsidies for NMA's program
were gradually phased out. Under Mik's initial program in 1976/77, all
principal and interest on MHA housing loans with rates above 71 were subsi-
dized. These subsidies to home purchasers sounted to about 751, on average,
of the capital costs of the house. However, starting with the 1978-82
program, subsidies were restricted to supporting only those capital costs
which NHA could not directly recover, i.e., off-site infrastructure for new
housing developments and alum upgrading works. In 1984, subsidies for off-
site infrastructure were eliminated while an increasing share of the cost of
slum improvement projects is expected to be provided by local governments in
the future. Rental housing construction, which required substantial govern-
ment subsidies in the past, has also been eliminated.
6.17      Under the project a housing finance study was carried out which was
to provide recommendations regarding MBA's role in the provision of long-term
housing finarce and the sources of funds required to finance its construction
and hire-purchase operations. The study was successfully completed and has
provided a number of recommendations in these areas which are expected to be



- 17 -
implemented under the proposed third Bank-supported project to NHA. In parti-
cular, the study called for NHA to reduce its dependence on foreign sources of
funds, and arrangements are currently under way for it to borrow from a dores-
tic bank for the first time in a significant way for both construction and
housing finance purposes. In addition, NHA is expect d to gradually phase out
its long-term financing of houses by turning over this responsibility to
domestic mortgage institutions. if successful, NHA would primarily require
short-term funds for development purposes, which it should be able to obtain
from domestic banks. These arrangements should promote smoother implementa-
tion of NHA's development program by reducing its reliance on the Central
Government to arrange and guarantee foreign borrowings for MWA capital works.
VII. ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
A. Sites and Services Components
7.01      In re-evaluating the economic rate of return for the sites and
services component, the same methodology employed at appraisal was utilized
for the analysis. A calculation was made for the Lat Krabang development,
which is considered to be representative of the other housing developments.
The actual costs of land filling, site preparation, on-site and off-site
infrastructure, core housing, labor and materials to complete core housing and
commercial, industrial and community f,cilities were included in the arxlysis,
which were adjusted to exclude taxes.-l Lend was priced at its current market
value rather than the original purchase price. Also included in the cost
stream were the estimated future operation and maintenance costs and NRA
overheads. The actual costs were inflated to represent nrices in 1984 which
served as the base year. Government statistics for annual increases in the
cost of construction materials, labor, machinery and equipment were used to
compute an index for converting actual costs to constant prices (Annex 5,
Table 1). Costs and benefits were considered over a 30-year period.
7.02      Benefits for the housing and commercial areas of the development
were based on imputed rental values of the units. A rent survey carried out
by BRA in 1984 was undertaken for a variety of dwelling types in the vicinity
of Lat Krabang. On the basis of these results, the imputed rental values of
the project units were estimated, considering the unit size, quality of
construction and services provided. For the community facilities, actual
sales prices which were set at market values were used as the measure of
economic benefit. On the basis of these assumptions, which are shown in
Annex 5, Table 2, the qconomic rate of return was calculated to be 23%, which
is the same as the appraisal estimate.
4/   Using the Bank construction conversion factor for Thailand of 0.88.



- 18 -
B. Slum Improvement Component
7.03      The rate of return for this component is based on the third phase of
the slum improvement program, which is representative of results in the first
two phases of the program. As with the sites and services component, in
calculating the ex-post rate of return the same methodology employed at
appraisal was utilized for the analysis. The actual costs of the physical
improvements, including compensation for relocation, construction and
upgrading of access and drainage, and provision of garbage disposal bins,
carts and fire fighting equipment were included in the analysis. Also
included in the cost stream were the costs of community facilities, estimated
future mainten"ce costs and NHA overheads. All costs were adjusted to
exclude taxes.-   The actual costs were inflated, as with the sites and
serviceb component, to represent pi-.es in 1984 which served as the base
year. Costs and benefits were considered over a 15-year period.
7.04      The economic benefits of the slum improvement component are
primarily improved health and environmental conditions and the consequent
increased productivity. These benefits, however, are difficult to quantify.
Increases in imputed rental values of the properties resulting from the provi-
sion of infrastructure has been used to estimate the benefits. Based on esti-
mates by NHA, the current differences in rents paid in improved slums versus
unimproved slums averages about B 100 per dwelling per month. About 28,500
families residing in about 2O,360 units benefited from the improvements in
phase three of the program. Based on these assumptions, which are shown in
Annex 5, Table 3, the subproject produced an economic rate of return of 22Z,
which compares well with the appraisal estimate of 17%. The slum improvement
component has upgraded the living conditions of residents, particularly
improving environmental sanitation, health conditions, access and drainage at
a relatively modest cost (US$32 per capita).
7.05      The weighted average economic rate of return for the sites and
services and slum improvement components is 23% compared to 21% at appraisal.
VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS
A. Conclusions
8.01      This project, which replicated the approaches introduced under the
first Bank-supported project on a larger scale, demonstrated that through the
provision of appropriate design standards, new housing can be provided to
lower-income families which is affordable while at the same time, investment
costs can be recovered. The project has also reinforced the findings of the
first project which demonstrated the desirability of preserving and improving
the slum housing stock, which is generally of good quality, through the
provision of better infrastructure and facilities at a low cost per unit to
help ease the housing shortage facing families in the lower-income brackets.
5/ Using the Bank construction conversion factor for Thailand of 0.88.



- 19 -
The project approaches have become the basis of public housing policy, and
other aid agencies (i.e., USAID, ADB) have participated in similar projects.
The project has primarily benefitted low- and middle-income famijies through
the extension of shelter services in both Bangkok and the regional cities.
B. Lessons Learned
Land
8.02      The major cause of delay in this project was the need to acquire
three sites and services developments for which land was not in hand at the
time of appraisal. This necessitated extension of the loan closing date by
one year and added unnecessary commitment charges on the loan. Future
projects should ensure that the bulk of land is in hand at the time of
appraisal and necessary approvals have been secured for the purchase of any
additional parcels in order to reduce time delays and payment of commitment
fees on loans used to finance the developments. It is also useful for NHA to
have some land parcels both in Bangkok and regional cities on hand in order to
permit the necessary flexibility to adjust its programs in changing housing
markets. Consultancy services included in a recently-approved ADB loan and
the proposed third Bank loan to NHA are expected to study the land market in
Bangk.ik and determine the optimum land holdings required for NHA to effective-
Ily carry out its programs.
8.03      Under the project, two sites and services developments at Songkhla
and Phuket were provided on land leased from local authorities. Based on
experience at the Songkhla site where sales were initially slow due to the
reluctance of prospective customers to purchase the plots because of the
leasehold nature of the development, NHA sought to convert the leasehold land
at Phuket to a freehold basis. While this contributed to some delay with
initiation of sales, it is expected that sales will proceed more smoothly
since land acquisition is completed. It is recommended that future develop-
ments be provided on a freehold basis whenever possible to avoid such delays
and to provide a more secure form of tenure to residents.
Incomplete Core Housing
8.04      As with the first project, incomplete core housing has proven not to
be totally appropriate for lower-income families in Thailand and is generally
unacceptable to central and local government officials as well as NHA manage-
ment. As stated before, the financial burden is too heavy for the poorest
families who must rent elsewhere during house completion and build-out. House
designs for sites and services developments implemented later in the project
were therefore modified to more complete units. The additional cost of the
completed core units compared to incomplete core units plus building material
loans did not affect affordability objectives. It is expected that more
lower-income families will be able to purchase the lower-cost units in devel-
opments where the more complete units are provided. It is recommended that
evaluation surveys be conducted by NHA in several of these developments to
confirm this hypothesis.



- 20 -
Down Payment Policies
8.05      Since sites and services projects were a new approach for NHA, its
staff were inexperienced in marketing the developments. Previously, NHA's
subsidized projects usually sold out in a number of days. When the first
sites and services projects to be completed (e.g., Chaing Mai, Lat Krabang)
were marketed and sales did not proceed as rapidly, NHA changed some sales
terms in order to expedite turnover. For this reason, the down payment terms
were eased to rarmit payment in installments and occupancy of the units prior
to completion of payment. Since many home purchasers delayed making any
payments until move-in, the policy had the effect of providing units without
any down payment. Examination of arrears on NRA developments reveals that the
estates experiencing the most difficulty obtaining payment are those which
required littlc or no down payment (these are outside of the project).  In the
future, it is recommended that prospective customers be encouraged to save
during the construction period, and down payments should be completed prior to
move-in in order to discourage delinquancies later on. NHA also needs to make
a greater effort to explain sales terons and regulations to prospective
customers.
Planning and Coordination
8.06      The project has demonstrated the need for close cooperation both
within NRA and among the various local governmental agencies and utilities
which provide essential services for housing developments and slum projects.
Within NRA, there is a need for clearer policies and better planning practices
to guide the departmental units which implement the housing projects. In
addition, construction management needs to be strengthened to ensure better
quality control, proper scheduling and early identification of bottlenecks.
Firm agreement between NHA and the other agencies needs to be achieved sooner
in the planning process to reduce the possibility of later delays caused by
lack of utility connections or essential municipal services. Project
management arrangements within NUA are currently being revised in order to
improve cooperation among departments. In addition, planning advisors are
expected to be hired shortly under the proposed third Bank-supported project
for NHA to strengthen planning practices and policy development and to improve
coordination with outside agencies.
Support to Small Businesses and Industries in Housing Developments
8.07      The potential for promotion of small industries in Bangkok and
regional cities on the sites and services developments was recognized to be
uncertain at the time of appraisal and, as a result, the provision of serviced
industrial plots, credit and technical assistance was to be treated as a
modest experiment on the developments. The component did prove to be unsuc-
cessful because of lack of demand for the plots. In the future, it is
recommended that NEA not vent,6re into small industrial promotion unless
warranted by specific circumstances which can be backed up by detailed market
analyses and availability of staff who are committed to and can actively
promote the schemes. In these cases, consideration also needs to be given to
the proper incentives required to make the schemes attractive to potential
industries.



- 21 -
8.08      However, despite the failure of this component, the housing develop-
ments have demonstrated substantial employment effects. The commercial shop-
houses are being operated by small entrepreneurs for a variety of purposes,
and a significant portion of the owners of residential units have opened shops
and small businesses on the lower level floors or at the front of the units.



- 22 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 3
THAILAND
NRTIONAL SITES AN0 StRUICES PROJECT (LON 1070-TN)
PROJECT COflPLETION REPORT
Coiioarson of Appraisal Estinates and Rctual Costs
Apopransal Estinate           Actual Cost                   Rctual cost (baht)
Corponent                    --------------------          --------------------          expressed as a I
0'000     USS0 00 /a         0'OO       USf'000 /b         of appraisal cost (baht)
Lat Krabang Sites and Services
Land aocuisition
Proiect site             39,074  1,953.7                32,566  1.628.3
Link road                  6,934    346.7                6,230    311.5
Off-site infrastructure
Northern access road      6.172    308.6                 /c
Link road                50,746  2:537.3                86,362  3,321.6
Electricity               2,080    10t.0                 IC
flood protection             10;709    535.5                /c
On-site infrastructure    152,323  7,616.2                266,003 11,565.3
Landscaping                     461      23.2               /c
Core houses                 170,788  8,539.1                tc
Building naterial loans    12.t28    621.4                  2,927    112.6
Coeunitu facilities
Park/olavorounds           7:323    366.2                Ic
Bus tern./Boat landno        871     43.6                /d
Area offee                 1134      71.?                1,344      58.4
Const. trg center            85?     42.9                Ie
Health center                593     29.7                /d
Day care/kindergarten    3,787    189.4                  Ic
Pri,arv school           11,59?    579.9                 4,290    186.5
Comercial facilities
Shophouses               36,706  1,835.3                 /c
Local narket              1,445      72.3                lc
Wiall business loans         48,478  2,423.9                    0
Design, supy a nit            if                           27,551  1,197.9
Total, lat Krabang      564,809 28,240,5              427,272 18,382.1                   76
Chaing Mai Sites and Services
Land acusition                6 571    328.6               11,203    560.1
Land fill                     6,348    S17.1                Ic
0ff-site infrastructure       4,266    213.3                Ic
On-site infrastructure       16,692    834.6               55,770  2,424.8
Landscaping                     632      31.6                c
Core houses                  33.417  1,670.9                /c
Building material loans       4,505    225.3                1,865      71.7
Corwunitu facilities          3,033    151.7                IC
Coewercial facilities         3,730    186.5                /c
Srall business loans          3,649    182.5                    0
Design, supQ 8 rgt            If                            6,000    260.9
Total, tiaino Mlai       82,843  4.142.2                74,838  3,317.5                  90



- 23 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 3
Sonplhla Sites and Services
Lend lease                    83       4.2                241     12.2
Land fill                   4,367    218.1             Ic
Off-site infrastructure     5,107    255.1              Ic
On-site infrastrucuture     7,656    382.8             38,311  1,665.7
Landscaing                    393     19.7              Ic
Care houses               21,138  1,071.9               Ic
Building material loans     4,588    229.4              3,074    118.2
Co,nuity facilities          839     42.0               Ic
Cowecial facilities         5,313    265.7              /c
SaIl business loans        3,041    152.1                   0
Design, supv  r Mgt         /f                          5,374    233.7
Total, Songkhla        52,825  2,641.3              47,003  2,029.8                89
Other Regional Sites and Services
(Khon Kaen, Nakhon Saman,
Chantaburi)
Land acquisition          12,785    639.3              13,246    575.9
Land fill                 11,214    560.?              Ic
Off-site infrastructure    16,898    841.9               c
On-site infrastructure    33,481  1,674.1             104,245  1,169.8
Landscaping                  343      17.2              Ic
tore housing              65,310  3,265.5              IC
Coevwnity facilities       2,M      138.9              Ic
Comercial facilities       S,040    252.0               /c
Buildin  naterial loans   14,2"    712.2                    0
Sil business loans         5,171    273.7                   0
Design, supu I ngt         /f                          16,461    658.4
Total, Other cities    167,566  8,378.3           133,952  5,104.2                80
...~~- -- -                  .......              .... .. .....
Rdditional Regional Cities Sites and Services
(Phuket, Phitsanulok, Saraburi)
Land acquisition               0      0.0              19,976    868.5
Infrastructure, core
housing. facilities         0O0.                 136,224  5,239.4
Design. supv a Mgt             0      0.0              11,674    166.9
lota;, Rdditional Cities    0      0.0            167,874  6,574.8               n.a.
Bangkok Slum Improvenent
Land acauisition           7,446    372.3              2,530    110,0
Relocation                 5,861    293.2              /9
Infrastructure           151,066  7,703.3             134,661  S,386.4
Cwunitu facilities        19,067    953.4               8,058    322.3
Socio-econpic pror-ams   13,562    678.1                1,991     79.7
Snlal business loans       13,470    673.5              1,018     10.7
Loan guarantee fund        4,249    212.5               2,415     %.6
Oesign, supu a ngt         /f                           7,324    293.0
total, Sltns         217,724 10,886.2             157,997  6,328.7                73



- 24 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 3
Tecmical Rsudn
husing rin    Studp       2331   116.6               2j10    100.0
OM fl,u    Study          $,820   "1.0               S,119   222.6
ssist         to a        2tm6     t3.0              1,45      67.0
sitan  to MI0
Proect reparation    lOtl?    09.4               10o500   50a
rI. finn Study         9,072   453.6              8,100   10.0
valuation Study a Trg   9,765   40..3             5,250   250.0
Totw l,Teical         42,235 2111140             32.,tM   11539.5              79
Aslistance             --                                                     -
Rdditlmnuil Buiding roterll
Low at Ta   Sun  HonR            0      0.0            11,9t     576.8              n.a
Total Project Cost  1.,128,002 %,l00.1         10570    1,153 9"
la Ui *20 ait.
/b OM  a21 Iht dKng 1981* 2 B    during. 1982 to I_*e  19%  2 8dt rm lb_r 19B throqh 1905 a  Ib   2 twefter.
/ inclu led in cost d    site infratre.
/d not included in find  eroet.
/e included in cost of arm office.
/f included in imluiduul line ito5.
/, included in aId auqlsition cost.



- 25 -
ANNEX 2
THAILAND
NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT (LOAN 1870-TU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Disbursement of Loan by Category
(US$ equivalent)
mount               Amount
allocated in      disbursed as of
Loau Agreement          9/3/86
Civil works                                 229800,000         22,715,709.90
Equipment and materials                        680,000             31,719.58
Building materials loans                       790,000            533,872.54
Technical assistance services
and training                                  80,000            241,036.65
Unallocated                                  4,650,000                   -
Total                             29,000,000         23,522,338.67
Cancellation                                                    5,477,611.33/a
/a US$3.0 million was cancelled on April 10, 1985, US$1.5 million on Nover-
ber 22, 1985 and US$977,661.33 million on September 3, 1986.



- 26 -
ANNEX 2
Table 2
THAILAND
NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT (LOAN 1870-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Estimated and Actual Accumulated Disbursements
(US$0000)
Appraisal                                   %
Semester ending                  estimate            Actual             disbursed
December 31, 1980                    250                  0/a              0
June 30, 1981                      1,600                  0                0
December 31, 1981                  6,900                506                2
June 30, 1982                     14,400                540                2
December 31, 1982                 20,550                  -                -
June 30, 1983                     26,450              6,070               21
December 31, 1983                 27,800              8,410               29
June 30, 1984                     28,850             10,731               37
December 31, 1984                 29,000             12,171               42
June 30, 1985                                        13,540               47
December 31, 1985                                    19,060               66
June 30, 1986                                        23,640/b             82
September 3, 1986                                    23,522/c             81
Closing Date           December 31, 1984        December 31, 1985/d
/a Loan became effective January 7, 1980.
/b Due to overpayment to one contractor, part of the disbursement was sub-
sequently repaid to the Bank.
/c US$3.0 million was cancelled from the loan in April 1985; US$1.5 million
in November 1985, and the remaining undisbursed US$977,661.33 million on
September 3, 1986.
/d Date of official loan closure, although on an informal basis disbursements
were processed until June 30, 1986*



- 27 -
ANNEX 3
THAILAND
NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT (LOAN 1870-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Status of Sales of Project Units
Sites & Services      Total           Selling Period          Up to May 15, 1986
Subprojects         units      Started        Sold out        Units         X
Lat Krabang           3,473      06/08/84       07/26/85       3,473         100
Chaing Mai              869      08/16/83       06/17/85         869         100
Songkhla                551      02/06/84       03/01/85         551         100
Khon Kaen               561       11/02/85         -             493          88
Nakhon Sawan            535      04/26/85                        115          22/a
Chantaburi              521      05/25/85          -             490          94
Saraburi                456      07/14/85       01/31/86         456         100
Phuket                  582      03/13/85          -             143          25/a
Phitsanulok             357      09/01/85                        309          87
/a  Sales have proceeded slowly in Nakhon Sawan due to delay in the provision
of access and water supply and in Phuket due to conversion of land from
leasehold to freehold status. These problems have now been resolved, and
sales are expected to speed up shortly.



- 28 -
THAILAND
NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT (LOAN 1870-TH)                                  ANNEX 4
PRWCT3C CO"MLFZM REPORT-
Table 1
bAlk MIX 1' orUM  WOU)WO h,ZI -PVIAII    P0035                              Pag4d 1 of 2
Ito   plot      Cash        bown payment       Hire Purchato 0apeywast(Sht/mal
suilding         Tywo    Projectric
Pro~.@t   unit (aq.N     (OahU   110tuiAEl  ParS&COO(NO)   S Yr.   10 yr. 15 yr.   20 yr.
Plot/Sanitary Coll          cig 94                  o       s"          *1                                             s
Chiang MOL?     458   V~    64,1923        5,48s5      S                                 790.
(Incoapletad)  j    IAt Kfaban       767   84      77,000      7.500       4       -                 -        830
_____________    s ~Ong~a*a       210   76    81.935        6.400       3       -                -        940
1-Storay Rohouaa    PhUket,          103   90    120,045   i13.500        15      2.675    1.790    1,S40     1.440
*  akorn $avan   112   03      97.630       0,000     10o               -        -        1.9
A  Cantaburi        123   83    105,230      15.000     1IS                  
Suaratai         47   80      87,400      7,206.      12      --
Phitamlalk       44   72    94,26S        10,8000    10to                                   9
Al                ~~~ ~~~~33   72    97,43q      14,400  t6   1,905    1,260    1,070       990
SA2 *omaan6                  2     0.4    .1,0            10      2,0)0    1,345    1.145     1,060
A3                      49   72   105,025       14,400      16is       6      10360- 1,175      1.090
1-Stor" P.AOuaaShj    a4S                    46,   OO....S9L                        --1,4
(znccapl.ted)       Cs" la          -216   64    111.930       91300 
I-Twi                124   100    161,140     10,000      15      3,355    2,250    1,935     1,010
1-Storey Raeoue  ra                         ..  .- .- -.--   -        - ..      
(elrthou")                 INK#   &mme.t    140   83    114,625      10000"      10       -                           ,20
*                                                          U                         -I50 0  s,o    i7L  1,060
31    ~ ~   ~    *.~...I. -A41-I  .41-C900.    20              2dols  I-s10    1,29       1,195
52    xtson SAga        21   72    125,065      16,000      10       2,465    1,635    1,395    1,295
33                      71   72    132,660       10,000      1       2,645    1,7551,I0m 1,2m
.31               16   63.129,925.24,000              15 Is.            -                 1,295
02   .                 16   03    120,925       15,000       i5s              -                 1,295
51    PhtMIW                ." *pdA0    .4,                  10       -    .-           -        1,390
82    fitsamutt    5   _72     3 13,1  1   4,400      is-                                 1,440
a;                       3   .72  136,730        14400       IS .-                              1.490
I      ~~~~                                                   ~    ~~~-.   -  _----------
1-Stormy sodamidtac6hed~ 
(Z~~~So4)           L~~~At srAba     272,168    101,400       10,000       4       -        -                 1,105
1-Stormy UoeAsae
(incaoalatad)       C      Le tt *rabaag     705   94    115,000     11,000       4                -        -        1,270
*  !Mw~~~~at       15I4   100       33115                5       ,4         6      2.20     2,000
1-Storm  £ousakta        .                                                              --A4       O        1
(careousem)       jC                   ~1090 +~~t   1                                                                1,690
Csaatabmr        104    63~ 5,2           20,05       1                                   1,695
*   Sraburi           SG   00    132,000      10,2o0      12       -        -        -        1.51ic
C.'s                   ~~~~~72    152,320 2100       1       3,0        05     1!0       159
15!     am gio" a         77    731,903    _31,600            16      3,200    2,130    1,025     1,695
C3                 7           1                               3,305*OO..   2,250   1,930    1,795
Cl.              ~49    721                            ..". if"59
C)  .             ~~~~~~19:  72    140,115  10,000    to       -                           1,745
C4                   .1,72   164,7$5             10,000      is-                                 1,795
________SWAMI    0   . #uket               too  100   23.2,93       25,500      15      4,400    2,96     2,550     2,305
i 2.3tormy Bo""    0  m"  U6       3312         220,050     31,500       3 ~,2,490
cI/                      3       4    14.00       13.000       4      3.270    2,100    1.070     1,745
*               ~~~~~~C2/8  Mat traban   134   64    204.000      30,000       4      4.055    2,715    2.330     2,100
*  /D                __  21   64    166,200       20.000       4      3,445    2,300    I.9M      1,040
C      Snkl              36   120    153,26      13,200       3      3,050    2,150    1.090     1,790



-29 -
ANNEX4
Table 1
;ALA - PIl1V&(' UP  WL0  WOR  W AK -FINAMCI  9NGST
Page 2 of 2
No     plot     cash         DWfye             Nice P,wch.ae 3epayms,nt  ht/ho)
Suiildiq          Typel  Projects         of    loia     price
2-Stovey  ReAooge      01                     14     72     213*595    36           1*      415      270      235       2,195
core houeI22.* "..4
Kharda"   as     72   I22S017 36#O0OA           l        ,0       2e7      2,560    3,395.
03.   4aot4ewa                72 83   .202~8.U   _386000     1 4.f. .s-         . 4    ;,O       2.169
RI39.   )                         212071s..jD,00          10      -      .        .-        12,300
[i   Chantab'jti     Iii  * .231.115           *.00        15                                  2.305
01               d~~~~~~~9 14 .7.43Q       .2.0       I     ;             -        -      ...
02     Phltv.nulak     Jb     72   ~  2 01 5    i27  0-       29   .  -      .              
03                 a                  5     27,OW                                            ,49S
2-Storey Rtowhous.    C        iwe            Sb    100    284d3        3600         5      , 540    2,535    3,v3s   ..1bC.
Nehorn SevnL    9      120 , 383,910  .50.000         10                                'I 2-  -
*  Ci   Khoukan          24     1i8v 3Vm.U0..j440...aa         L  sM.~576   .x.Ss  .3,32f   h3.Ubup
£2  -.     *      * 100   ~~~~~~~306,465    54,000  18      S.940.  3,94       341    3.100t
I  1  I 0,etabri         14     120    284.S10    52,050       I5      -                           2,945
*  2                      4     210    324,510    40.000       is   *               .     -,370
j    j           ~~~    ~~~~25  120    20, 200    26,400  1'    -                            ,170
32  ISrw4mvi           31  I160    225.20043.0                        --                 -      !2,45oi
93,                  200   ~~~256,200    43,800     12      -                           2,68(1
£1  I            ~~~    ~~~12  104    294.150    54,000  10     -                          2,99%..
32$  phitsanulo        18  j104   297,950   t-*'-0           Is    1-0
i33                     12     I"    301,740    54,000         i8s                                3.0W,
Z4         ~           12  4104   309.340   54.000                                       -
2-store  Shpw Ag              QUM46  H"2  4- AU- .4. It..  .A.n.o.... IM0    .. 3i7          i      . .4
P  PMaket  45  jIGO: 445.325~~~~180.oOO           1        .625    b.020    5,026
MI                    _A_+ Eebm  4    3*'2       7"7Q        -4...4  7.43J *,4,705  :4.t4(1,-
Ml               ~~~~~~14   72  405,19S  j72.000        IS    j 0030    5.500  j4.80
32     bhok*aen        21     72      415,170   173,000      1a       6,27S    5,670    4         -lb
..! .....               .L    "             S    72,000       16      9,175___    6*295    5.500 
Mak"nAi.1                  4.                                       -         4,56. 
Saraburi        23     s          20,000        1      2 145001 00;0  15         3,530    .,0
82              ~~~36  164   *390,400   50       1       5 00.i                   4,600
at    PheUMAlok   19 4-.     3977s   172,000                  1                -        4,200   .3,995
.12..       b. ...                l  . 40.5,34.  ,7..&_    -   8      -                  4,49S  :4,200
S  Scegkble      ~~28    so     34Q0,      e,65000       3      6,230    4,31.0    - 
3-Storey Shpou         1I    Let  rabaft~       5    6       8000p0,0                4.6.630    5.920    5.095 
I-Storey SeM." -secg          h                     .    .41A W                                                         I.4,O0   .. 
Un?comp5leted)        Aw/e   Lot szak.an      14     160  , 214,200    30,000        4      4,290    2,870    2,465    2,300
2-Stow.y SeA     ~     /      ~~254    140    395,20                    25.000       4       3.9W)    4,645    2.271.    2,120.
(Incoq.leCed)  01/3                    - sabs" . -.. . --.- --It  -..   .
(IncWleed) Gi/                    44     M       Mift      40,000        4      6,035-  4.050V   3.405    1,261.
Al  &WgMla*     61      I**     "0..1094 740    .3.00 
open-plot             - a/a                       16 0lb     13**S00    17,000        4      2,725    1,795    I,550   '1,o40
fl/C   lAt X9aoen     116      1go    12S.90K4   115,00        4      r2560    1,605    1,4V0    1,sSC.
62/0                  100      3401   1b0.000  j19.00          4      3,035    2,#020    1.730    1,61i0
62/C                   118      u 10  40.,00    17,000         4      3,830   1,880    1,610j   1. 4D(



- 30 -
TEAILAND
NATIONAL SrTES AND SERVICES PROJECT (LOAN 1870-TH)   AM%L4
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT                                        Table 2
Page 1 of 2
URbAN HOUb6HOLD INCOME DISTRIBUTION
(BAHTfMONTH)
BAN8KO
1982
GROUP PERCENTILE    HOUSEHOLD INCOnE         AFFORDABILI'TY        NONTHLY PAYMENT
A     1W-20              ;Oolo           pA(       ?             b(f0            800
a     21-35              4001            5000      20             800      -    IO/
C     36-50              5O01            '000        '           1100     -    15o0
D     51-70              7001    -       '000      25            1750     -    250
E     7o+                90')1 t                   25            '250*
1983
GROUP PERCENTILE    HOUSEtOLD *NCOIE         AVFORDABILI?Y         NONTHLY PAYMENT
A     10-20              340     -       4500      2              680    -       900
0     21-3!              4501   -        5600      "0             QOf    -      1120
C      6-50              5601   -        7800      22            1232    -      1716
S     S1-tO              '8t)           10000      25            1950    -      250
E     l*                10*00.       *             25           2500 +
1984
IAT KRABANG
GROUP PERCENTILE    HOUSEHOLD 105WE          AFFORDABILITY         OTNLY PAYMENT
A     10-20              3800   -        5000      20             740    -      1000
21-35                  S01    -        6500      20            1800    -      1300
*             c      3-50              6401   -        9000      22            1408    -       1980
9     51-70              9000   -       1200(1     25            2251'    -     3000
,J.    ;0'               12000 *                    25           3000 0
GROUP PEACENTILE      HOUSEHOLDG  XCOME       AFCORi;Bl:IT         FONTHLt PAIfEPiT
A     1(-2Q              450k)   -       '  .                             -
1100    -      1500
c     3i-5               7501   -                                1 :50: lo5v    -  2200
j.    ;1-70             IIJIJVI   -     !00l;      ,S.'5                  -     3E50
BGRJf LEACEN'1L*'    HOi.'$EQCLI t,ICME       uFFOF.DA641.1,       NO?HLY FPAIfENT
A     1f.'-20            55,00    -       '0)      2'            I :00     -    140u
t     -1-7' ivt' 1                       i'':^'ll'5    )twiv -    2  140        lu
c      :i-'o                     - ;4;o             :980                   -    2640
0     51-70             12001   *         uO       .S            (*        -
E     70,                16000 I   t5   -                        4000-



- 31 -
ANNEX 4
Table 2
URBAN HOUSkEEOLD INCOME DISTRIBUTION                                   Page 2 of 2
(BAHT/MONTH)
RE61OVAL CIt I
19B2
6RCUP PERCENTILE    HOUSEHOLD INCOME         AFFORDAa'11TY        IONTHLY PAYMlENT
A     20-39              2500   -       300,      2 0           500      -      600
8     31-40              3001   -       350(0    20             600      -      700
C     41-50  '           3501   -       45(l0     2              '70        r-90
0     51-70              4501   -       b50;'    25               1      -    1625
E     70+                6500k                    25 2
1983
CHIANG MAI
GROUP PERCENTILE    HOUSENDLD INCONE         AFFORDABILITY        NONTNLY PAWMENT
A     20-30              2800   -       3300   - 20              5O    -        660
3 1-40                  3301   -       3800      20             660    -       760
C     41-S0              381   -        5000      22             836    -      1100
0     51-70              5001   -        7200     25            1250    -      1800
E     70+                7200 +                   25            1800 .
- -SONGKHXL
GROUP PERCENTILE    HOUSEH(lLD INCINE        AFFORDAMiLITY         ONitLY PAYNENT
A     20-30- 33 *                         500     20           - k0->-          700
8.   31-40               3501   -       4500      20             700    - 
c     41-SQ              4500           5500      22             990           1 210
D     51-70              5501   -       8000      25            1375           2000
E      0t+               60000                    25            2000+
liaS             Q     z
GROUP FERCENTILE    HOUSEHOLD !NCOME         AFFOROHAILITY        NONITHL  PAkMENT
A      2030             3300    -       4000      20J                          600
6j    ;Z-4v              4014   -        50(10    i206i(                -      1Im
5001   ^       a)40    722                  -          "I2fI
£     ''~7?0            .o001   -        350k.,    2d           :5V     -      2125
E     70.                85a0S                    2e            225k
19fi6
GROUP PERCENTILE    HOUSEHOLD INCOME         HFFORDN1LITh         MONTHLY PAttlENT
A     20-                3500   -        4500     20               0      - 
i     31-40              4501   -        5500     2(t            SU(      -     100
41-5%             5501   -        6500      22           1`10      -    1430
b     51-70              6501   -        9500      25           1625      -    .375
E     70+                4500 *                   25            2375 +



- 32 -
ANNEX 5
Table 1
THAILAND
NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT (LOAN 1870-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Calculation of Factors to Convert Project Costs to 1984 Constant Prices
Price indices (1976 - 100)
Construction            Machinery and               Labor
Year             materials                equipment              (CPI, Bangkok)
1983               183.4                    153.3                    192*6
1982               183.6                    148.5                    186.3
1981               177.0                    139.1                   176.8
1980               164.8                    129.5                   155.9
1979               146.1                    119.1                   130*0
1978               118.4                    116.4                    117.9
Annual percentage increases         WRhe
-~~~~~ ~~Weighted
Construction          Machinery and                     average
Year          materials              equipment           Labor       % increase
(60%)                  (15%)            (25%)
1983             -0.2                   4.8               6.3             2.4
1982              6.6                   9.4               9.5             7.7
1981             12.2                   9.6              20.9            14.0
1980             18.7                  10.4              25.9            19.3
1979             27.7                   2.7              12.1            20.1
Year          Factors to convert to 1984 prices
1987                         0*900
1986                         0.900
1985                         0.950
1984                         1.000
1983                         1.024
1982                         1.103
1981                         1.257
1980                         1.500
1979                         1.801



THAILAND
NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT (LOAN 1870-TH)
PROJECT COMPLATION REPORT
Worksheet for Economic Rate of Returni for Lat Rrabang
(1000)
Costs                                                    Benefits
House                       Total    Total 1984       Housing &
Construc-   comple-   Over-             current    constant        comercial  Coimznity
Year        Land /a  tion /b   tion /b  head        O&M /c   prices     prices /d         areas /e   facilities    Total
1980            -    1,266.8          -     199.5       -     1,466.3     2,199.4              -            -          -
1981             -   10,179.8         -   1,070.5       -    11,250.3    14,141.5              -            -          -   w
1982             -   55,590.7         -   4,543.6       -    60,134.3    66,328.1              -            -          -
1983             -   91,139.8         -   5,38&.2       -    96,520.0    98,836.4              -           -           -
1984            -   49,789.3          -   8,562.2  1,378.8   59,730.3    59,730.3        38,839.7           -    38,839.7
1985       94,800.0  21,443.3   55,532.4  3,888.0  4,596.0  180,259.7   171,246.7        60,361.8    13,747.5   74,109.3
1986            -    4,673.0   55,532.4  1,151.6  9,192.0   70,549.0    63,494.1         91,107.6           -    91,107.6
1987            -          -          -        -   9,192.0    9,192.0     9,192.0        91,107.6           -    91,107.6
*                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  .  .             . 
0                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  .  .             .
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                                        .               . 
2015             -         -          -        -   9,192.0    9,192.0     9,192.0        91,107.6           -    91,107.6
Rate of return - 232
/a  Market value in 1985.
7-n Actual costs adjusted by construction converslon factor of 0.88.
7c  Estimated to be 2% p.a. of infrastructure and housing costs.
7if Ajusted by factors in Annex 5, Table 1.
We  Based on assumptions presented on page 2 following..
0



- 34 -
THl1LAND                          ANNEX S
NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PRDJECT (LOAN 1870-TH)    Page 2 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
AssuMptions of Benefit Calculation for Lat Krabana
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__
Type of               No. of            Value/month
building               units               (Baht)
lImuted Rental value
Residential units
Type Al                     286            1,200
A2                     767              800
8                      272            1,000
Cl                    705             1,300
C2                     455            2,000
D                      221            2,000
E                      254            2,000
F                      148            2,170
6                      266            3,000
Commercial shoohouses
H                      268            5,000
I                      188           6,000
Total                3.]30
Miarkat value JA
(Baht)
Community facilities
Kindergarten                            2,224,710
Land for market and industrial plots     6,056,600
Land for primary school                 5,466,200
LA  Market values represent actual sales prices of community facilities sold.



- 35 -
THAILAlN                          ANNEX S
Table 3
NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT (LOAN 1870-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Worksheet for Economic Rate of Return for Slum IMgrovement Projects
Phase III
t8aht million)
--------------------------------------------------------------__-------------__
Costs                           Benefits
Comm-    NHA            Total      Total 1984   Increase
Improve-   unity    over-      /b  current   constant     in rental
Year    ments /a  fac. /a  heads    O&M  prices    prices /c        values
1983     8.12       -       1.98      -     10.10      10.34
1984    24.56       -       7.08      -     31.64      31.64
1985    31.97      0.63    7.41       -    40.01       38.01          -
1986    25.12      1.24    7.24       -     33.60      30.24        22.05
1987     1.32       -       0.39      -      1.71       1.54        22.0S
1988                                 2.07    2.07       1.86        22.05
1989                                 2.07    2.07       1.86        22.05
1990                                 2.07    2.07       1.86        22.05
1991                                 2.07    2.07       1.86        22.05
1992                                 2.07    2.07       1.86        22.05
1993                                 2.07    2.07       1.86        22.06
1994                                 2.07    2.07       1.86        22.05
1995                                 2.07   2.07        1.86        22.05
1996                                 2.07    2.07       1.86        22.05
1997                                 2.07    2.07       1.86        22.05
Rate of return   22%
-----------------------------------------------------------------------__----__
/a Actual costs adjusted by construction conversion factor of 0.88..
/b Estimated to be 2% per year of infrastructure cost.
/c Adjusted by factors in Annex 5, Table 1.



THAILAND
NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT (LOAN 1870-TH)
-Project Completion Report
Appraisal and Actual Implemenktion Schedule
iw      __           .         4 .3        49.4    _ 9.           '9
MEMCO         tM            COJIUTIER    2  34 _    2 3 4 1  2 3 4 1 2 3 4 1 2  3 4 1  2 3 4 1  2 3 4
tAT KRABANG SITES AND SERVICES                          J
kflfuoStUture aw core Homing                  E     E E E EE               n     ~       m
COTunI-y FaC oHies                        _- _-  _  _ _ _
CHAJNG MA  AND SONGKHLA SES AND SERVICES
hiitUctd  wOV                                  win ig         m               
OTHER EGIOAL ClES SITES AND SERVICES
Lcid RUin
fasructure am core Hawi                                         ,                         m m _  _ _
DAMUMO SLLM UPGRADtJG
SMALL SCALE BUSI    LOANS
Upgading Prograrn'
7ECHNIC,& ASIMANCE                                                 L
_____ _ - _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ ___ _ I  _ _ _ 1__d_k_



