Document of                     FILE  COPYi
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2827-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR A
NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
May 23, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their *flicial duties. its centents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorizatlon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           : Baht (B)
$1                        B 20
B 1-  $0.05
B 1 million             -  $50,000
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 square meter (sq m)       -  10.8 square feet (sq ft)
1 hectare (ha)               -  10,000 sq m or 2.471 acres
1 kilometer (km)             =  0.62 mile (mi)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BMA     -  Bangkok Metropolitan Administration
GEB     -   Government Housing Bank
KTB     -   Krung Thai Bank
MEA     -  Metropolitan Electricity Authority
NRA     -   National Housing Authority
SUO     -   Slum Upgrading Office
USAID   -   United States Agency for International
Development
GOVERNMENT OF THAILAND AND AGENCIES
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
Loan and Prolect Summary
Borrower:        Kingdom of Thailand
Beneficiary:    National Ibusing Authority (NHA)
Amount:          $29 million equivalent
Terms:           20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at
8.25% p.a.
Relending
Terms:        $19.4 million of the loan will be relent to NHA on the same
terms as the Bank loan. The remaining $9.6 million will be
provided as a grant to NHA and the other agencies under the
project.
Project
Description: The project will strengthen NHA's low-income housing program,
initiated under the Bangkok Sites and Services and Slum
Improvement Project (Loan 1556-TH), by expanding its slum
improvement program in Bangkok and the sites and services
approach both in Bangkok and in five regional cities, and by
consolidating improvements in NHA's financial management. The
project will also initiate preparation of a comprehensive
urban development program in regional cities, including the
strengthening of municipal administration. The project
includes: (a) the provision of sites and services in Bangkok
(Lat Krabang) for approximately 3,500 residential and commer-
cial units as well as community and industrial development;
(b) the provision of sites and services in five regional
cities (Chiang Mai, Songkhla, Khon Kaen, Ntakhon Sawan and
Chantaburi) for approximately 3,250 low-income housing units
and small-scale industry development; (c) the expansion of the
slum improvement program in Bangkok benefitting approximately
12,000 families; (d) the provision of loans to small
businesses in the sites and services developments and upgraded
slum areas; and (e) technical assistance to strengthen NHA,
to strengthen municipal finance and administration, to study
housing finance, and to prepare urban development projects
in selected regional cities. A total of about 18,400
households will benefit from the project. The main project
risk concerns land tenure in the project slums, almost all of
which are under private ownership. The risk will be
minimized, however, by NHA working closely with the land-
This document has a mstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of theit official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
owners and by the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration (BMA)
enacting regulations to control land use and construction in
improved areas.
Cost Estimate:
% of
Local   Foreign   Total   total
…---- ($ million) -----
Sites and services
Bangkok (Lat Krabang)       14.6       4.8      19.4      34
Regional cities              7.6       2.7       10.3     18
Slum improvement               5.4       1.8        7.2     13
Technical assistance           0.3       1.4        1.7      3
Design and supervision         2.6       -          2.6      5
Subtotal                    30.5      10.7      41.2       -
Contingencies
Physical                     2.7       1.3       4.0       7
Price                        7.5       3.7      11.2      20
Subtotal                  10.2      5.0       15.2       -
Total                    40.7     15.7       56.4    100
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign   Total
…---- ($ million)…
IBRD                  13.3      15.7      29.0
NHA                    16.9      0.0      16.9
Government             5.4       0.0       5.4
BMA                     1.4      0.0       1.4
Krung Thai Bank         3.7      0.0       3.7
Total               40.7      15.7      56.4
Estimated
Disbursements:                      ------------- ($ million) ----------------
Bank FY            1981       1982       1983       1984    1985
Annual              1.6       13.3       11.5        2.4     0.2
Cumulative          1.6       14.9       26.4      28.8    29.0
Rate of Return:   21% (weighted average of sites and services and slum
improvement components), representing 75% of the total
project.
Staff Appraisal
Report:          No. 2879-TH, dated May 16, 1980



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR A NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Kingdom of Thailand for the equivalent of $29 million to help
finance a National Sites and Services Project. The loan would have a term
of 20 years, including five years of grace, with interest at 8.25% per
annum.  The amount of $19.4 million of the loan would be relent to the
National Housing Authority (NHA) on the same terms as the proposed Bank loan.
The remaining $9.6 million would be provided as a grant to NHA and other
agencies under the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Thailand - Toward a Strategy of
Full Participation" (2059-TH) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
September 18, 1978. The Report concludes that Thailand's rapid economic
growth over the past 15 years has led to a significant reduction in absolute
poverty, but that certain income groups have lagged behind this progress. It
identifies the essential characteristics of these groups and points to the
need for continued overall development as well as the initiation of specific
measures to deal with the poverty problem, particularly in rural areas. It
further discusses the constraints on the successful implementation of these
policies. Country data are given in Annex I.
Recent Political Developments
3.        The frequent changes at the top levels of government, which have
characterized recent political developments in Thailand, have mainly reflected
differences in view about Thailand's external relations and about the politi-
cal decision-making process within the country. The government formed in
November 1977, under the prime ministership of General Kriangsak Chomanan,
moved to strengthen relations with Thailand's ASEAN partners and tried to
stabilize and improve relations with its Indochinese neighbors. Progress in
the latter was, however, affected by Viet Nam's involvement in Kampuchea and
the flood of Khmer refugees into Thailand. These developments and the
necessary actions related to caring for the refugees have diverted a consi-
derable amount of high-level Government attention and led to significant
increases in military and other expenditures. General Kriangsak formed his
second administration in April 1979 but came under mounting criticism in the
National Assembly for his economic policies, particularly the petroleum price
increases and his handling of the refugee problem. Faced with waning
political support and increasing public criticism, General Kriangsak under-
took an extensive cabinet reorganization in February 1980. However, this
failed to engender the necessary political stability, and facing a no
confidence vote precipitated by petroleum price and electricity tariff
increases, his government resigned on February 29.
/1 Parts I and II are substantially the same as those presented in the
President's Report for the Mae Moh Lignite Project (P-2800-TH) dated
May 1, 1980, submitted to the Executive Directors under cover of
Secretary's Memorandum, R80-107.



- 2 -
4.        General Prem Tinsulanonda was elected to succeed Kriangsak as Prime
Minister by the National Assembly after receiving the support of nearly all
major political parties. General Prem's new government, formed on March 14,
included leaders from the political parties which supported him. On March 28,
1980, General Prem announced his government's policies on a number of issues
including economic and social development. The statement places high and
immediate priority on accelerating rural development, raising rural incomes
and on measures to improve health and education. Particular emphasis is given
to generating more jobs and it is expected that a rural public works program
similar to the 1975/76 Tambon Program will be a major element in this
strategy. The Government also intends to exert efforts to contain inflation
and a more gradual adjustment of energy prices is foreseen at the same time
that domestic energy resources are being developed. Reforms in monetary and
fiscal policy and efforts to improve the trade balance through improved export
performance are also called for. As discussed below these reforms are
critical to increasing resource mobilization (especially in the public sector)
and reducing the current account deficit.
Past Trends and Recent Changes
5.        Thailand's economic performance since 1960 has been good.  The
average annual growth of real GDP from 1960 to 1979 was 7.9%, or about 4.8%
per capita. Real agricultural growth of nearly 5% was a leading factor
sustaining this expansion. The cultivated area increased by about 4% a year,
water control was improved, irrigation was expanded and the cultivation of
relatively new crops, including maize, cassava, kenaf, sugar and rubber, grew
rapidly. Agriculture has also been a major contributor to export growth. As
a share of GDP, domestic savings fluctuated between 19% and 24%, and total
investment between 20% and 27%. The high level of private investment
contributed to a real industrial growth of 10% per year since 1970. All this
was achieved with a limited inflow of external resources and, until recently,
the debt service gap remained quite low.
6.        The rate of GDP growth declined in the 1970s to 7.6% p.a from 8.1%
in the 1960s. In addition to external factors (the oil price increase of 1973
and its aftermath), the major domestic factor responsible for this decline has
been the increasing scarcity of land. Production has been pushed into less
fertile soils causing a decline in the rate of agricultural growth to about
4.6% p.a. since 1970 compared to 5.7% in the 1960s. In recent years,
inflation has accelerated, amounting to 7% in 1977, 8% in 1978 and 10% in
1979. The inflation in the last half of 1979 was more than 14% and the
expected rates are 14% in 1980, 13% in 1981 and 12% in 1982. Substantial
growth of the agricultural sector contributed to rapid expansion of 11.7% of
the economy in 1978, but a combination of poor agricultural output and adverse
effects of external factors, primarily the oil price increase, reduced 1979
growth to an estimated 6.7%, with little improvement expected for 1980. The
budget deficit is expected to exceed $1.0 billion in FY80 as a result of
increased military expenditures, an increase in civil service pay, and
increased subsidies to public enterprises as a result of the failure to raise
electricity tariffs sufficiently to offset fully oil price increases.
7.        Thailand's terms of trade and prospects for agricultural exports are
now less favorable than in the early 1970s. Thailand is facing restrictions
on some of its exports to the European Economic Community, including cassava



- 3 -
and canned pineapple, and its sugar exports are limited by the International
Sugar Agreement. The balance of payments, which recorded surpluses in
1973-74, has since been running large deficits. The current account deficit
reached $1.1 billion, or 5% of GDP in 1978 and is estimated to be $2.2 billion
in 1979, or about 8.0% of GDP. The overall balance-of-payments deficit for
1979 is estimated at nearly $600 million. The Government has significantly
increased its foreign borrowing from traditional sources, from the Eurodollar
market and from IMF to finance these deficits. Foreign exchange reserves have
also been used extensively. To contain the balance-of-payments deficit, the
Government, in March 1978, raised tariffs on 141 "nonessential" imports and
increased excise taxes on a number of items, most notably gasoline. The
prices of petroleum products were raised in January 1979, July 1979, and
February 1980, for a cumulative increase of about 100% for gasoline. The
current price of gasoline is the equivalent of about $1.80 per gallon (US).
After a proposed power tariff increase of about 55% was rejected in November
1979, a lesser tariff increase of about 38% was finally implemented in
February 1980. This is insufficient to cover the increased cost of fuel, and
subsidies from the oil fund (partly funded by revenues from other petroleum
products) continue. Apart from raising prices, the Government has also taken
some energy conservation measures to contain the oil import bill which is
expected to jump by $1.0 billion in 1980 despite the fact that there will be
only a small increase in the volume of imports. In recent years, government
usury laws limiting borrowing and lending rates have become binding as
inflation has exerted upward pressure on interest rates. The combination of
high inflation rates and the interest ceilings has reduced real interest rates
to near zero or negative levels in the past few years which has led to a sharp
drop in marginal savings rates and high investment demand for funds. Until
January 1980 term deposit rates were limited to 7% for maturities less than
one year and 8% for more than one year. Lending rate limits were fixed at
12.5% and 15%. Liquidity constraints prevented all the demand from being
satisfied and led to de facto credit allocation by the financial sector. With
a view to encouraging domestic savings and curtailing the flight of capital
abroad, the Government raised interest rate limits by 3 percentage points for
both borrowing and lending at the beginning of 1980. The response to this
change has been favorable on saving, the domestic demand for funds, and
external capital flows. It is too soon to tell whether the adjustment is
sufficient, but currently market lending rates are slightly below the limits.
8.        The large growth in incomes over the last two decades has not
been equitably distributed throughout the country, and at present there are
very significant regional differentials in incomes and access to economic and
social infrastructure. The regions are very different in terms of topography,
climate, soils, urbanization, etc., and present quite distinct problems for
future development. The Central Region, including Bangkok, has the highest
per capita income and is better served by roads, telecommunications, schools,
public health and other services than the other three regions, the North,
Northeast and South. Within the regions also there is considerable variation:
farmers who have diversified into cash crops have generally enjoyed sub-
stantial growth in real incomes while the incomes of those who have been
unable or unwilling to shift out of subsistence rice culture have stagnated.
Recent research has shown that inappropriate cropping patterns and agri-
cultural techniques are major factors in much of the rural poverty. This



is most conspicuously the case of the rainfed rice farmers in the Northeast
and North. Since there is a well functioning labor market, the low incomes of
this large group have tended to depress unskilled wages throughout the
economy.
9.        Real concern over the plight of the poor is growing, and observable
improvements in rural living standards is being seen as a major factor in
promoting political stability. In the past several years the Government has
initiated efforts to increase the flow of public resources to the poor rural
areas, including the Tambon program of direct transfers to villages in 1976,
the drought relief program in 1977, the flood relief program in 1978, and the
new village development program in 1979. These programs have been designed to
produce quick and tangible political as well as economic results, but consid-
erably more attention and resources need to be devoted to rural development if
these programs are to have lasting impact. The Government is strongly
committed to rural development and raising rural incomes and is expected to
launch a major public works program in the near future. While the absorptive
capacity in rural areas has increased since the Tambon program of 1975-76,
there is some concern about the efficacy of crash programs in view of the
resource constraints facing the budget and the limitations of implementation
capacity at various levels of government.
Development Prospects and Constraints
10.       In the coming decade, many of the positive features which helped
sustain rapid economic growth over the past two decades will continue to
contribute to future g:owth. These factors include a relatively equitable
distribution of rural land, responsiveness of Thai farmers to improved
technology, provision of infrastructure by the Government, and the dynamism of
the private sector in both industry and agriculture. Also major gains have
been made in family planning in recent years, slowing the annual rate of
population growth from about 3% during the 1960s to an estimated 2.2% in 1979.
The target for 1981 is 2.1%.
11.       Some less favorable domestic factors are emerging, however.  As a
result of very rapid population growth in the 1960s, projected labor force
growth of 3% p.a. necessitates a high rate of job creation. Past growth has
benefited households unevenly and created further income disparities that
could threaten the social cohesion of the country. At the same time,
additional fertile land, which has supported the growth of agricultural
production and exports in the past, is becoming increasingly scarce. In view
of these factors, continued reliance on the past pattern of development may
lead to a deceleration of agricultural and overall growth in the next
decade; persistently large balance-of-payments deficits; higher rates of
unemployment or underemployment; and stagnating or declining real incomes of
the poorer segments of the population, especially in rural areas and among
unskilled workers. These internal factors are complicated by the external
factors of rapid oil price increases and recession in developed countries.
The oil price increase alone will add about $1 billion to the 1980 import
bill, even with no increase in volume, and the current account deficit is
estimated to be at least 9% of GDP. The unfavorable external situation will
require major domestic adjustments and it is unlikely that the overall
growth rate will exceed about 6% in the coming years.



- 5 -
12.        Thailand must shift its economy from a pattern of growth based on
the extension of land under cultivation and on import-substituting industries
to one based on increasingly intensive use of land and on industries producing
for domestic and export markets under competitive conditions. At the same
time it must reduce its current account deficit and increase public savings.
Effective policies and programs will be necessary to ensure that economic
growth is maintained and income disparities reduced, or at least not widened
during this period of transition. In the past, the Government's role has
focused primarily on short-term economic management and the provision of basic
economic and social services. In order to achieve a relatively smooth
transition, the Government will now have to undertake more coordinated
long-term policies and actions in areas of resource management and balanced
regional development.
13.       Agriculture will continue to be the dominant sector since it
directly generates 30% of GDP, provides about 60% of total exports, and
employs 75% of the labor force. However, future growth of the sector will
require more intensive utilization of cultivated areas, continued diversifica-
tion of crops, improved cropping patterns and farming practices, and easier
access to agricultural inputs including credit. All of these imply an
increased government role in the rural sector. But while growth in the
agricultural sector may be expected to remain fairly rapid for some time to
come, the burden of sustaining future growth will have to shift progressively
to the industrial sector. Industry, construction and services will have to
provide an increasing share of employment for the growing labor force. In
1979, industrial production accounted for about one-fourth of GDP and about
one-third of total exports. Manufactured output, which accounted for 90% of
industrial production, achieved an export growth of 24% in 1979, almost double
the growth rate of total exports. While continued growth of manufactured
exports is essential, the large domestic market also offers opportunities for
a balanced industrial growth based on production of consumer goods, agri-
cultural inputs and processing of agricultural outputs for urban consumption.
Our policy dialogue will concentrate on efforts to reduce price distortions,
increase availability of credit, and eliminate impediments to efficient
production for domestic and foreign markets so that the dynamic private sector
can realize its potential for spurring growth and creating jobs.
14.       The principal objectives of the Government's Fourth Plan (1977-81)
are to achieve 7% real growth, equitable distribution of income, reduction in
the rate of population growth, faster generation of employment opportunities
and balanced regional development. Public sector development expenditures
were to double in real terms in relation to the Third Plan. However, the
Plan addresses sectoral issues and strategies only in broad terms, and
concrete policies and programs to meet the Plan's economic and social
objectives are also not spelled out in any detail. The Government has now
embarked on the preparation of the Fifth Plan (1982-86) and the agencies of
the Government are undertaking a number of studies to help ensure that the
Fifth Plan provides an unambiguous basis for the allocation of resources and
the formulation of development policies and program. These studies may help
identify possible areas of Bank lending for structural adjustment.



-6-
Financing Requirements
15.        The implementation of policies needed for a satisfactory rate of
economic and social progress will necessitate a steady increase in public
expenditures over the next few years. This will require much greater efforts
to mobilize both domestic and external resources than in the past. Government
domestic revenue as a percentage of GDP (13.5% for 1975-79) is low compared to
other developing countries at similar levels of development due to low tax
rates, high exemptions and a somewhat below-average rate of compliance. With
expenditures rising, the overall budgetary deficit in fiscal year 1979/80 is
estimated at above $1.0 billion, or over 4% of GDP. The Government has
achieved a modest improvement in resource mobilization through revision of the
tax structure and improved collections. Much greater efforts will be needed
in the future if the reliance on foreign financing - and thereby the deficit
on the current account of the balance of payments - are to be reduced in
relation to the size of the economy.
16.        During the coming years, the demand for external resources will
increase. Despite an average real growth of exports of over 10% and increased
domestic production of primary energy, the projected rise in the price of
imports - led by the price of petroleum - implies that large trade and current
account deficits are expected to persist through the mid-1980s. It is esti-
mated that a 6% overall growth rate can be maintained and the current account
deficit reduced to 4-5% of GDP by 1985 if appropriate policies are followed,
including greater efforts in implementating energy saving measures, promoting
agricultural growth and exports, reducing distortions and excessive protection
in industry, promoting more labor-intensive exports, and postponing major
capital intensive investments until the economy can afford them. This implies
an average current deficit of $3 billion per year in 1980-85, which will
require very large amounts of external borrowing totalling about $18 billion
net over the period.
17.        Official donors, particularly Japan and the development banks, have
been expanding their programs to meet a part of the growing resource require-
ments. The rest has been financed in the Eurodollar market and bond markets,
and by the utilization of IMF resources for 1978/79 totalling about $200 mil-
lion, and Thailand is considering even larger drawings under standby arrange-
ments. The Government has established a Foreign Loan Policy Committee to
coordinate and approve all foreign borrowing by the public sector. The Bank
of Thailand is establishing procedures for recording private borrowing abroad
in order to keep track of total foreign debt. Current estimates of Thailand's
external borrowing requirements exceed those discussed at the last Consulta-
tive Group, and the need for continued concessional aid is perhaps now more
acute. In addition, external agencies, including the Bank Group, have in
recent years increasingly concentrated project lending to Thailand in the
agricultural and social sectors that have high social benefits, but low
foreign exchange savings or earnings. To achieve the level of external
resource transfer that is now required, it is necessary, in selected projects
where the foreign exchange component is low, to finance some local currency
expenditures. Program and structural-adjustment lending should also be
considered.



- 7 -
18.       By 1985, net disbursements will more than double in current terms
for both public and publicly guaranteed borrowing and private borrowing.  The
debt service ratio on public debt (4.6% in 1979) will exceed 10% by 1985, but
should decline thereafter. Assuming a significant level of concessional
assistance, the debt service ratio on total public and private civilian
borrowing (currently about 15%) will rise to about 25% before declining.
Given the diversification of Thai commodity exports and the rapid expansion of
manufactured exports, these debt service requirements should be sustainable if
rapid export growth continues, more domestic resources are mobilized, and
economic stability is maintained.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
19.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank Group in 1950 for a railway
project and, as of March 31, 1980 had received 53 loans amounting to about
$1,600 million, net of cancellations. The sectoral distribution of these
loans has been as follows: $311.5 million for transportation; $316.4 million
for irrigation; $498.7 million for power/energy and rural electrification
(including $65.8 million for a dual purpose power and irrigation project);
$153.0 million for telecommunications; $144.2 million for agricultural and
rural development; $79.6 million for urban development; $52.3 million for
education; and $42.5 million for industry. Thailand has also received six IDA
credits: two credits totalling $54.5 million for education; one credit of
$25.0 million for rural development; two credits totalling $12.5 million for
irrigation improvement; and one credit of $33.1 million for a population
project. In general, Bank Group-financed projects have been carried out
satisfactorily and in accordance with expectations. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as well as
notes on the execution of ongoing projects as of March 31, 1980.
20.       Over the past five years, the Bank has shifted its lending to
Thailand from a program dominated by investments in traditional infrastruc-
ture projects (accounting for over 80% of the lending through FY74) to a
program which places increasing emphasis on assisting the Government's efforts
to reach the poorer segments of its population more directly. Since FY75,
investments in transportation, power, water supply, telecommunications and
industry have accounted for only about 50% of Bank Group lending and more
than half of these, in dollar terms, were for projects specifically designed
to benefit the rural population. The proportion of Bank lending to the
agricultural/rural development sector has trebled, accounting for about 35%
of lending operations since FY75. The design of projects in this sector has
also changed, from exclusively large irrigation projects to a more balanced
program covering irrigation (including land development and support services
to the farmer) and a variety of innovative projects to assist farmers outside
the central flood plain (rubber replanting, livestock, agricultural exten-
sion, and rural development). Projects in the social sectors which prior to
FY75 were limited to three in education accounting for 6% of the program,
have both diversified and grown. In recent years education, population and
low-income housing projects have accounted for about 15% of the program.



- 8 -
21.        The findings of the recent Basic Economic Report verify the
appropriateness of the shift mentioned above, and underscore the need to
move even further in designing programs which help the rural population,
particularly those farmers in rainfed areas who have been largely bypassed by
recent economic growth.  In the agricultural sector, therefore, the Bank is
redoubling its efforts to develop an approach which will help to lift the
rainfed farmers out of a subsistence existence. A combination of education,
agricultural research and extension, credit and improved infrastructure is
foreseen. However, the major problem is the absence so far of a viable
package for the poorest and most remote farmers. Expansion and improvement
of irrigation systems will continue, with increased emphasis on reaching
those farmers with irrigation potential in the northern, northeastern and
southern regions. The program of transportation, electrification, water
supply and telecommunications projects will also continue to have a rural
focus. A key element of the strategy outlined in the Basic Economic Report
is the creation of jobs and stimulation of increased economic activity
outside of Bangkok. The bulk of the Bank Group's urban and industrial
lending will, therefore, be directed to projects which enhance the
attractiveness of regional cities as service centers for the agricultural
economy of those regions. Selected projects in Bangkok will be aimed at
strengthening agencies providing essential services to the urban population
and the development of low cost, replicable programs to meet the demands of
the urban sector, particularly the urban poor, without diverting scarce
resources from other high-priority development needs.
22.        The Bank's Ecrategy of placing an increasing share of its program
into projects alleviating poverty and promoting rural development will be
difficult to execute without considerable technical assistance toward project
preparation. The Bank's regional mission in Bangkok will continue to play
a vital role in helping to identify and prepare such projects. Promoting
overall growth also has a high priority in Thailand and is a necessary element
in the poverty alleviation strategy. The resource requirements for infra-
structure development, particularly for developing energy and its domestic
primary sources, are large, and the Bank is concentrating its remaining
funds in projects where it can have a catalytic role in effecting policy
changes, mobilizing other resources, and directly facilitating growth in
rural areas. The Bank is also expanding its support of the industrial sector
through its economic and sector work as well as selected projects in order
to help promote industrial policy which favors more labor-intensive and
dispersed activities to complement Thailand's efforts in poverty alleviation.
23.        Bank loans and IDA credits, disbursed and outstanding, amounted to
$459.3 million, as of December 31, 1978, representing about 26% of public
external debt (disbursed and outstanding). The Bank Group's share of public
debt service payments in 1978 was 29.7%, or 7.1% of total debt service
including private debt. This is not excessive in view of Thailand's modest
overall public external debt (8.3% of GDP in 1978). In addition, although the
level of Bank commitments is expected to increase over the next five years,
the Bank Group's share is below 30% of total public external debt as Thailand
has diversified its borrowing program. The Bank Group's share in total debt
outstanding is expected to fall below 20%, and its share of total debt service
would not exceed 10%.



-9-
24.       As of March 31, 1980, IFC had made commitments totalling about
$83 million in nine projects in Thailand. IFC's investments have been
primarily in industry and in the development of financial institutions aimed
at mobilizing domestic resources and providing financing to smaller
enterprises. Prospects for increased IFC operations in Thaliana have been
enhanced by expanding private sector investment activity; consultations with
the Government have identified several areas where IFC's assistance may be
needed.  These areas include very large and complex projects such as a
proposed sponge iron project and a soda ash project to serve the ASEAN
community; projects in the petroleum and downstream petrochemical sector;
and projects in the agricultural sector. In addition, IFC expects to
continue to help traditional manufacturing projects and to assist in
financial institutions and money market developments.
PART III - URBAN SECTOR
Urbanization Trends in Thailand
25.       Approximately one fifth of Thailand's population lives in urban
areas. The urban population has been growing at about 5% a year during the
past two decades, compared to rural growth of about 2.5% per annum./l The
urban growth rate is likely to increase during the 1980's due to expansion
of the labor force as a result of earlier high population growth rates and
the diminishing supply of unoccupied agricultural land.
26.       Bangkok dominates Thailand's urban sector.  Its 5 million
residents account for just over 60% of the urban population and 10% of the
national populace. About 27% of Thailand's gross domestic product is
produced in Bangkok, and its residents enjoy substantially better infrastruc-
ture services than elsewhere in the country. Bangkok lacks a well-defined
central business district, and exclusively residential areas are rare except
on its periphery. The inner core of the city is densely populated with an
average gross density of 500 and ranging up to 1,200 persons per hectare.
27.       While Bangkok's primacy continues, another trend in Thailand's
urban development is the growth of regional cities, particularly outside
the Central region. Excluding Bangkok, the proportion of the urban population
living in towns with more than 20,000 residents has increased from 13% to
nearly 70% over the past three decades. Of the country's ten largest cities,
only Bangkok is in the Central region; the rest are evenly divided among the
Northern, Southern and Northeastern regions and range in population from
60,000 to 110,000.
/1  The national growth rate is estimated to be 2.1% for the current
year.



- 10 -
28.       Open unemployment and absolute poverty are relatively limited in
Thailand's cities compared to other developing countries. The private
sector has been vigorous, characterized by competitiveness, small firms and
price responsiveness. The market for unskilled labor, which accounts for
almost three quarters of total urban employment, operates efficiently.
Mobility is high and unemployment low for unskilled workers, and sectoral
and regional differences in wage rates for unskilled jobs appear to be
small. National urban unemployment ranged from 1.5% to 4% during the 1970s,
and it has been a problem mainly confined to the young. Bank analyses
indicate that the percentage of the urban population with incomes below the
estimated absolute poverty line decreased from 16% to 14% between 1968-69
and 1975-76.
Urban Government
29.       While Bangkok is governed by the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration
(BMA) and each regional city has its own municipal administration, in prac-
tical terms there is little evidence of an effective system of urban self-
government in Thailand. The municipalities have inadequate, inflexible
financial bases even to maintain existing services satisfactorily and are
heavily dependent on central government financial support, which is
accompanied by a tight system of administrative and financial controls
exercised by the Ministry of the Interior. The municipalities also lack the
qualified manpower needed to plan and execute development projects. One way
to strengthen the local fiscal base and increase autonomy would be to improve
property registration and taxation. The Land Development and Hbuse and Rent
Taxes, which together constitute a form of property tax, are levied at low
fixed rates on values generally well below market prices and are subject to
extensive exemptions. Under the project, the Government will undertake
studies of property taxation and of other aspects of urban financial manage-
ment to determine ways to increase revenues (paras. 50 and 66).
Shelter and Slum Development
30.       Thailand's main urban housing problems are environmental and service
deficiencies, especially in expanding slum settlements, rather than problems
with the quality of the housing stock. Approximately 30% of Bangkok's
population lives in slum settlements defined by crowded and insanitary living
conditions, and the limited evidence available suggests that comparable
proportions of the urban populations of several of the main regional cities
also live in slums. Large, dense slums are, however, rare. Instead, small
pockets of slum housing usually containing 100 to 400 families, tend to be
scattered throughout the cities. Squatting is also rare; most slum residents
are either owner-occupiers or pay rent to a public or private landlord. The
main environmental problems in the slums are inadequate drainage, solid waste
disposal and access. Most slums have standing water, which is often polluted,
and are subject to periodic flooding. Although the poorest families tend to
be concentrated in the slum areas, families with a wide range of incomes live
in those communities.



- 11 -
31.       New, formal-sector housing is affordable only by middle- and upper-
income families. Financing for this type of housing is available on a limited
basis from the Government Housing Bank (GHB) and commercial banks. GHB lends
only for middle-income housing in Bangkok. Although its lending operations
have grown from about 3,000 loans totalling $19 million in 1976 to about 7,000
loans totalling $54 million in 1978, it still serves only a a small share of
that market. Commercial mortgage lending is very limited, especially under
the tight financial market conditions currently prevalent in Thailand, and is
accessible only to upper-income families.
The National Housing Authority
32.       The National Housing Authority (NHA) is responsible for providing
rental and hire-purchase housing for low-income families; it also provides
middle income housing which it sells at a profit and housing for employees
of other government agencies. During the mid-1970s, NHA's program for
low-income groups emphasized conventional apartments and detached and semi-
detached units which were heavily subsidized. The program for 1976-80 was far
too ambitious for NHA's capabilities, calling for 120,000 units in Bangkok,
and required substantial government subsidies. As of October 1979, NHA had
completed only about 17,800 units under this program; another 14,200 units
were under construction. Because of the subsidies necessary to sustain the
program, the Government had suspended approval of new projects in December
1977, and asked NRA to prepare alternative policies requiring lower subsidies
and a more realistic construction program.
33.       Preparation of the Bangkok Sites and Services and Slum Improvement
Project during 1976-77, for which a Bank loan of $8.6 million was approved in
1978 (Loan 1556-TH), contributed significantly to the policy reviews. The
project was planned as a pilot effort to demonstrate the technical and
financial feasibility of unsubsidized sites and services projects and of slum
improvement schemes as alternatives to conventional, higher cost approaches.
Although the project was relatively small and did not involve policy
agreements covering NRA's program, its preparation provided an opportunity for
the Bank to review the program and enabled NHA to analyze alternative
approaches in considerable technical detail.
34.       NRA's 1978-82 program, approved in principle by Government in 1978,
emphasizes sites and services developments, with substantially reduced
subsidies, and slum improvement. It includes about 32,600 units in sites and
services developments and only 9,000 conventional units in low-income rental
projects and profit-making schemes. The cost recovery principles provide for
full recovery of land and dwelling costs for all income groups, although
subsidies are retained in the form of progressively graduated recovery of
infrastructure and overhead costs. The 1978-82 program also provides for the
improvement of slums housing 26,000 families. During 1977-78, NRA began
projects in ten slums housing 4,540 families (including projects in five slums
with 3,600 families in the first Bank-financed project). Projects in another
21 slums accommodating about 4,740 families were started the following year.
Although the scale of the 1978-82 program is much more realistic than the



- 12 -
1976-80 program, NHA recognizes that initiation of all of the projects
identified will probably take longer than currently programmed.
First Project Experience
35.       Progress on the first Bank-financed project has generally been
satisfactory. The project includes a sites and services development at
Tung Song Hong with about 3,000 units, five slum improvement projects,
loans to small businesses and industries in project areas and technical
assistance to NHA. Although the Tung Song Hong project has been somewhat
delayed, it is now proceeding satisfactorily. Moreover, contracted costs
for the infrastructure and core housing have been slightly below the
appraisal estimate. The first residential zone should be ready for occupa-
tion in late 1980. Considering that the slum improvement program is a new
activity for NHA, the overall results have been encouraging. Physical
improvements in the slums had almost been completed by the end of 1979, only
slightly behind schedule. The main problems with the slum improvement
components have been institutional. Direct cost recovery in the slums for
improvements other than water and electricity has not proved feasible and
coordination among NHA, BMA and the public utilities has been difficult.
Initial experience with the small business lending program in the slums has
been promising, although some potential borrowers have apparently had
difficulty securing the two personal guarantors required in lieu of
collateral. As part of that project's technical assistance, consultants
designed a new financial management system, being adopted this year, and NRA
is studying ways to implement modifications to its financial policies
recommended by the consultants.
Bank Involvement and Strategy in the Urban Sector
36.       Public services in the Bangkok metropolitan area are often provided
at prices which do not reflect their costs, and which in some instances are
less than those paid by residents outside the capital. If Bangkok is not to
absorb resources which are needed elsewhere in the economy, the full costs of
services supplied to its residents must be recovered. The development of
low-cost, replicable programs and of policies which recover the full cost of
services is thus one of the major objectives of Bank lending in the urban
sector.
37.       In addition to the Bangkok Sites and Services and Slum Improvement
Project, cost recovery and efficiency have been considerations in two other
loans the Bank has made to date which directly benefit Thailand's urban
sector.  A primary objective of the Bangkok Water Supply Project, financed by
a loan (1021-TH) of $55 million in 1974, was to increase the financial viabi-
lity and independence of the Metropolitan Water Works Authority through the
introduction of tariffs which reflect the actual costs of delivering water to
the consumer. While physical implementation of the project has been success-
fully completed, strengthening of the Authority's financial position has not
been fully realized, largely because of the Government's failure to allow
tariffs to increase with costs. The Bangkok Traffic Management Project, for
which a loan (1638-TH) of $16 million was made in 1979, is designed to increase



- 13 -
transport capacity through selected, low-cost improvements. Appropriate
pricing policies are being explored as a means of recovering the costs of
relieving congestion from road users.
38.        The second consideration in the Bank's urban strategy is the
enhancement of regional cities in order to attract industries which can pro-
vide productive employment and service the consumer needs of the agricultural
hinterland. This would support the Government's policy of developing the most
prominent regional centers to channel growth away from Bangkok and the central
region, because of the wide disparities in regional income distribution. It
is also consistent with a conclusion of the Bank's 1978 Basic Economic Mission
for Thailand that a much larger share of resources must be channelled to the
provinces to stimulate and support the rural sector if Thailand is to
continue growing while distributing her wealth more equitably. Projects
which are under consideration to meet this objective include a provincial
water supply project which has recently been negotiated and a regional cities
project which will be prepared under the proposed project. The proposed
project includes sites and services development in five regional cities.
Project Cities
39.        Until recently, NBA's program had been concentrated in Bangkok,
where the housing need is quantitatively greatest and where the largest
number of slum dwellers and low income families live. During 1977-78, NBA
conducted housing studies in nine regional cities, and, after identifying a
shortage of housing for low income groups, initiated land acquisition
procedures. The components of the proposed project in Chiang Mai, Songkhla,
Khon Kaen, Nakhon Sawan and Chantaburi are intended to be the initial phase
of an NHA sites and services program in regional cities. They were selected
on the basis of identified shelter needs, the size of the low income popu-
lation, the city's importance in the regional economy and the availability of
a suitable site. Together with Bangkok, they present a wide variety of urban
environments.
40.       Bangkok's administration has not responded adequately to the
city's transformation to a sprawling metropolis of over five million during
the last quarter century. Consequently there are deficiencies in most of
the main urban service systems, and the environment has deteriorated
markedly. In 1979 approximately 1.5 million people (30% of the city's
population) lived in about 300 slum areas. With the exception of the Klong
Toey slum, these areas tend to be relatively small, with between 200 and 400
families; they are scattered throughout the city, integrated into its highly
mixed land-use pattern. In the 108 slums surveyed by NHA during 1976, 50% of
the households had monthly incomes under B 1,500, compared to 16% in the
metropolitan area as a whole according to the Government's 1975-76 socio-
economic survey. As a result of poverty and environmental deficiencies,
malnutrition, intestinal infection and respiratory diseases appear to be the
most significant health problems in the slums.
41.        Each of the regional cities included in the project is a provincial
capital. Chiang Mai is an historically important city in the Northern region



- 14 -
and a popular tourist center. It is Thailand's second largest city, with a
municipal population of 107,000 in 1978 and a surrounding urbanized area with
another 40,000 residents. NHA estimates that 10% to 15% of the municipal
population lives in slums. Songkhla is an old port city on the Gulf of
Thailand in the Southern region with about 65,000 residents. Although
Songkhla's economy has suffered somewhat from stagnation of the coastal
fishing industry, recent growth in the rubber industry, the projected com-
pletion of a bridge and coastal highway to the north and planned investments
in a deep seaport and industrial estate should considerably alter economic
conditions. Approximately a quarter of Songkhla's population lives in slums.
Khon Kaen, located in the center of the poorest region, the Northeast, is an
important commercial and marketing center. Under the Third National Economic
and Social Development Plan (1972-76), the Government endeavored to develop
the city as a growth pole for the region through an investment program in
public facilities (including a new airport, television station and
university). Concommitant improvements in infrastructure, however, were not
made and the city has experienced little industrial development. Khon Kaen
had a population of about 85,000 in 1978, and its average growth of
approximately 5.6% a year during 1970-78 was the highest among Thailand's
major cities. Nakhon Sawan, which had a population of 56,000 in 1978, is
located in the Northern region and is one of the principal service centers in
the area; it is a trans-shipment point for rail, road and water transport.
Chantaburi, is a trading and small-scale manufacturing center with about
30,000 residents in an area of eastern Thailand known for its fruit.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
History
42.       The general scope of the project was agreed between NHA and the Bank
in August 1978 and was prepared by NHA staff with the assistance of advisors
financed under the first project. Bank missions reviewed the progress of
project preparation in February and July 1979, and the project was appraised
in November 1979. Negotiations were held in Washington in April 1980. The
Government delegation was led by Mr. Nikorn Praisaengpetch, Charge d'Affaires,
a.i., of the Royal Thai Embassy, assisted by Mr. Jaru Srichalumpa, Deputy
Governor (Finance) of NHA and Mr. Pravit Klongwathankith of the Ministry of
Finance.
Obiectives and Description
43.       The proposed project will reinforce policies and objectives ini-
tiated under the first project by: (a) consolidating NHA's policy changes
through support for a significantly expanded program of shelter and slum
upgrading; (b) strengthening NHA's financial position through consolidation
of improvements recommended by its fiancial advisors; and (c) initiating
preparation of a comprehensive urban development program in Thailand's
principal regional cities. The project includes sites and services
developments at Lat Krabang in Bangkok and at sites in five regional cities,



- 15 -
expansion of the slum improvement program in Bangkok, provision of loans and
technical support to small businesses, and technical assistance for housing
finance, project preparation and municipal administration and finance.
Details are provided in a Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2879TH dated May 16,
1980) which is being distributed separately. Supplementary project data are
given in Annex III.
44.       Bangkok Sites and Services.  The project will finance the first
of several phases on a 353 ha site owned by NHA at Lat Krabang which will
eventually accommodate up to 90,000 residents. The project provides 100 ha
of developed land for approximately 3,500 residential and commercial units,
and industrial areas and community facilities including a health center,
primary school and a training center. The Lat Krabang site is located 4 km
from an industrial estate being constructed by the Industrial Estate
Authority of Thailand with the assistance of a loan from the Bank (Loan
1492-TH). A road linking the site to the industrial estate, to be provided
under the project, will help to establish these two areas as growth elements
in the development of what could becone an important satellite center in
eastern Bangkok.
45.       Residential lot sizes in the project areas will range from 83 sq m
to 200 sq m to attract a mix of income groups and provide cross-subsidies for
low-income purchasers. About 60% of the residential units will be affordable
by households below about the 30th percentile. A variety of plot options are
provided, ranging from open plots with water and sewerage connections to a
two-story rowhouse. All built structures are designed to permit future
expansion.
46.       Bangkok Slum Upgrading.  The project will support NHA's ongoing slum
upgrading program in Bangkok and provide for the improvement of an annual
average of 20 to 22 slums housing approximately 4,000 households. A total of
about 80,000 people will benefit from the program over three and a half years.
The slum improvement program consists of infrastructure improvements, socio-
economic programs and a small business lending program through the Krung Thai
Bank (KTB). Standards for infrastructure improvements will be comparable to
the first project and emphasize a low cost approach with minimum displacement
(less than 5% of households).
47.       Regional Cities Sites and Services.  The project will provide
affordable housing opportunities for low income families in the regional
cities of Chiang Mai, Songkhla, Khon Kaen, Nakhon Sawan-and Chantaburi. A
total of about 50 ha of land will be developed to provide about 3,000 resi-
dential and 250 commercial plots. Approximately 75% of the plots provided
will be affordable by families with incomes between the 15th and 25th
percentiles of the estimated income distribution for regional cities. All
sites will be provided with access, water, sanitation and community services,
including a multipurpose community center and, where appropriate, schools as
well as a range of on-site development options. The projects in Chiang Mai
and Songkhla, where NHA owns or leases from Government land suitable for
development, have already been designed. The plans for Yhon Kaen, Nakhon
Sawan, and Chantaburi will be prepared on a programmatic basis following the
approach adopted for Chiang Mai and Songkhla. NHA is currently purchasing
sites in these three cities. In response to newspaper advertisements, during



- 16 -
late 1979 a large number of parcels in each of the three cities were offered
for sale to NRA at fixed prices. The offers have been reviewed and suitable
sites selected. NHA confirmed at negotiations that it will complete acqui-
sition of sites in these three cities by October 31, 1980 (Section 2.10 of the
draft Project Agreement).
48.        Building Materials Loans.  Loans for house improvements will be made
available to purchasers of serviced sites to be repaid over 20 years at the
same interest as the hire-purchase agreement (para. 64). Loans will range
between B 7,500 and B 20,000, the amount a household can borrow being limited
so that its total monthly payments, including plot purchases and materials
loans, do not exceed 30% of its income.
49.        Employment Promotion.  Small business and industries will be
promoted in the sites and services components by providing serviced industrial
plots on hire purchase terms with payments up to ten years and by providing
access to credit and technical assistance. The vocational training and the
small business loan program conducted under the first project will be expanded
to include the slums improved under the proposed project. A small business
loan guarantee scheme will be established to provide better access to credit
to slum entrepreneurs with viable project ideas.
50.        Technical Assistance.  The project includes four types of technical
assistance: (a) 5 man-months of advisory services to assist NHA in monitoring
and evaluation, and in training to support the expansion of NHA's slum
improvement and regional cities programs; (b) 12 man-months of advisory
services to assist t e Ministry of Finance, NRA and GHB to carry out a study
of housing finance tc identify measures to mobilize additional domestic
resources and to increase low-income families' access to housing finance;
(c) 50 man-months of professional services to assist the Ministry of Interior
prepare project proposals to deal with infrastructure deficiencies such as
flood protection, drainage and sanitation, slum improvement, and solid waste
disposal in the cities of Chiang Mai, Hat Yai, Khon Kaen, Nakhon Ratchasima
and Songkhla; and (d) 107 man-months of professional services to the Ministry
of Interior and BMA in the fields of municipal finance and administration,
property valuation and property taxation, including training of staff (see
para. 66).
Executing Agency and Project Implementation
51.        NRA will be the main executing agency for the project.  It is a
semi-autonomous state enterprise responsible to a Cabinet-appointed Board of
Directors under the Ministry of Interior and managed by a Governor appointed
by the Board. It has four departments, including the Policy and Planning
Office, and a staff of over 1,500. NRA has been able to attract well
qualified technical staff, but still requires strengthening at the middle
management level. The expansion of activities during 1976-80 strained
implementation capability, and delays and cost overruns have been common.
Pressures have eased recently as projects have been completed and as managers
have been trained and experience gained under the first project.
52.        On the basis of the recommendations of the financial management
study under the first project, NRA is strengthening its internal financial



- 17 -
management by reorganizing its Finance Department and introducing a new
accounting and management information system. An interdepartmental Management
Coordination Group concerned with policy issues and monitoring has also been
established.
53.       NRA's financial position has been characterized by its dependence on
government and foreign borrowing for capital funds and by persistent operating
deficits. The housing finance study included in the technical assistance
component of the proposed project will make recommendations about how NHA
might obtain funds more regularly from the private domestic market. NRA's
balance sheet for September 30, 1979, shows an accumulated deficit of $3.5
million, and the financial management study undertaken under the first
project projects a cumulative deficit of $13.2 million for 1979-83, assuming
the 1978-82 program is implemented on schedule, inflation averages 10% a year
and NHA's financial policies and practices are not changed. In order to
reduce deficits, the consultants recommended that NRA should raise rents
and/or sell its rental units, increase interest rates in order to reduce
subsidies on hire-purchase sales, reduce expenditures on estate management
services and increase charges for them and limit expansion of its staff. In
early 1980 NRA raised the interest rate for its hire-purchase sales from 6%,
8% and 10% to a uniform 15%. During negotiations assurances were obtained
that NRA would (a) maintain its present staff level during the next four
fiscal years; (b) submit a program to the Bank by December 31, 1980, to
eliminate its operating deficit by fiscal year 1984; (c) review with the Bank
by August 31, 1981, the recommendations of the housing finance study regarding
its borrowing policies and capital structure; and (d) prepare an annual
construction program, budget and four-year financial forecast for review with
the Bank by July 31 during each year of the project, starting in 1980
(Sections 3.04 and 4.03 of the draft Project Agreement).
54.       The project will be implemented over a four-year period, 1980-83.
For sites and services development, NRA will employ the same arrangements as
have proved satisfactory under the first project. Teams with designated
project leaders will be formed to implement each major component. NRA's
Design and Construction Department will complete designs and supervise
construction by contractors. NHA will operate an office at each project site
to collect hire-purchase and materials loan repayments, disburse materials
loans, support self-help housing construction, enforce building regulations,
perform some maintenance services and provide security. NRA will appoint a
Project Manager to monitor and coordinate project implementation and to liaise
with other agencies. The municipalities, the Metropolitan Electricity Author-
ity (MEA), Provincial Electricity Authority and Provincial Water Works
Authority will be responsible for the provision and recurrent management of
some off-site infrastructure and community facilities, electricity and water
supply. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that all infrastructure,
utilities and community facilities constructed or installed in connection with
the project would be adequately equipped, staffed, operated and maintained by
the respective authority or agency (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
55.       The slum improvement program will be implemented primarily by NHA's
Slum Upgrading Office (SUO) using procedures similar to those which have
evolved under the first project. The SUO works with community committees in



- 18 -
each slum to identify needs, solicit the residents support, help arrange for
demolition and relocation when required and organize various socio-economic
programs. SUO designs physical improvements and supervises construction,
except for electrical works which are done by MEA. BMA will provide garbage
services and run community centers provided through the projecL, and the
Metropolitan Water Works Authority and MEA will be responsible for operating
the water and electricity systems, respectively.
56.      In order to reduce interagency problems experienced during the
initial years of the slum improvement program, assurances were obtained during
negotiations that a Coordinating Committee composed of representatives from
concerned agencies would be established by October 31, 1980 (Section 3.06 of
draft Loan Agreement). The committee will be responsible for reviewing the
selection of slums and composition of the program, confirming the various
agencies' budgetary and staff inputs and resolving interagency problems.
Almost all the slums to be improved in the project are located on private
land. In order to prevent landlords from redeveloping improved residential
properties for commercial use, BMA will take all appropriate measures within
its powers to regulate land use and construction (Section 4.03 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Small Business and Industries Promotion
57.       NRA will promote small industries in the sites and services develop-
ments by selling serviced land with term financing and by arranging for
agencies of the Ministry of Industry's Department of Industrial Promotion to
provide technical and managerial assistance. The Krung Thai Bank (KTB), a
Government commercial bank with branches in all the regional cities, will make
loans on commercial terms to small businesses and industries in the sites and
services developments as well as the slums, as in the first project. The
small business lending program will be modified by the introduction of a
guarantee scheme to help qualified applicants who cannot obtain personal
guarantors to gain access to the loans. NHA will guarantee up to 60% of a
loan, and a guarantee fee of about 1% or 2% would be charged. The scheme is
intended to be self-financing, with interest and guarantee fee repayments
offsetting losses. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the
scheme will be introduced with arrangements satisfactory to the Bank by
October 31, 1980, and that KTB will provide funds for loans to small
businesses and industries in project areas from its own resources (Section
3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
58.       The total cost of the proposed project is estimated to be
$56.4 million of which local taxes and applicable duties are estimated to be
$1.3 million. The cost estimates include provision for physical contingencies
in the range of 13% to 15% depending on the type of work and the level of
engineering design completed. Price escalation for civil works and equipment
over the four year project is based on the following assumptions: for local
costs, 14% in 1980, 13% in 1981, and 12% in 1982 and 1983 and for foreign
costs, 10.5% in 1980, 9% in 1981, 8% in 1982 and 7% in 1983.



- 19 -
59.       A Bank loan of $29.0 million is proposed to finance the estimated
$15.7 million foreign exchange costs of the project (28% of total cost), as
well as $13.3 million of local costs. Overall, the loan would finance about
51% of total project costs or 53% of the total costs less applicable taxes and
duties. The loan would be made to the Government. $25.5 million of the loan
would be passed to NHA under a subsidiary loan agreement between the Govern-
ment and NHA, ratification of which is a condition of loan effectiveness. Of
this amount, $16.4 million (67% of the Bank loan) would be lent on the same
terms as the Bank loan and $6.1 million would be passed as a grant, together
with $5.4 million of Government funds, for infrastructure and other costs
which NHA cannot recover.  The remaining $3.5 million of the loan would be
used for construction of the link road at Lat Krabang and for carrying out
the various studies. NHA would bear the risk of fluctuations between the
dollar and the baht on the portion of the Bank loan onlent to it, while the
Government would bear all other exchange risks. The KTB would provide about
$3.7 million (7% of total project costs) from its own funds for the small
business component of the project, and BMA would provide $1.4 million (3% of
total project costs) for land acquisition and construction of the link road
at Lat Krabang. NHA would be required to provide the remaining 30% of
project costs ($16.9 million), from its own sources of funds or other
borrowings. The Government has indicated that it intends to seek grant funds
to finance the housing finance study and technical assistance to the Ministry
of Interior and BMA, which are estimated to cost $2.0 million. Preliminary
discussions have already been held with UNDP regarding this assistance. If
grant financing can be obtained for any or all of this assistance, the amount
of the loan proceeds passed on to NHA would be increased correspondingly and
applied toward the cost of civil works.
60.       NHA has recently negotiated a loan guarantee agreement with the
United States Agency for International Development (USAID) for support of its
sites and services and slum improvement projects on a programmatic basis.
USAID-guaranteed loans can be used for expenditures benefitting households
below the median urban income. As a result, it is likely that a significant
portion of NHA funds required for the project would be provided from the
proceeds of USAID-guaranteed loans to be made by United States investors such
as insurance companies and other fiduciary institutions.
61.       The hire-purchase of residential units and the building material
loans would be made at a market interest rate equivalent to GHB's rate for
housing construction loans to individuals at the time of sale and would be
repayable over 20 years. Hire/purchase payments for commercial and
industrial plots would be made at commercial market interest rates, repayable
over 15 and 10 years, respectively. KTB financing for small-scale
entrepreneurs would also be made at commercial market interest rates.
Interest rates were raised by an average of 3% in January 1980, and, as a
result, are now positive in real terms.
Procurement
62.       Civil works contracts will range in value from as little as
$300,000-$400,000 for small groups of slums to about $5 million for the Lat



- 20 -
Krabang infrastructure and core house development. All contracts of more than
$1 million each, totalling about $27.9 million, will be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Civil works contracts of less than $1 million each, amounting to a total of
$3.8 million for sites and services works and $7.8 million for slum upgrading
works, will be awarded according to Government's procedures for competitive
bidding advertised locally which are satisfactory to the Bank. Due to the
value and size of the contracts involved, as well as the need to undertake the
upgrading works in close coordination with local communities, such contracts
would not be suitable for international bidding. Goods will be grouped to the
extent practicable to allow bulk procurement. For vehicles, equipment, and
materials, all contracts over $30,000 amounting to a total of about $630,000
will be let after international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines. For the purpose of bid comparison, local manufacturers would
receive a preference of 15%, or the level of applicable customs duties,
whichever is lower. Contracts for vehicles, equipment, and materials
estimated to cost less than $30,000 each, totalling about $1.4 million,
including procurement of materials for home improvement, will be tendered on
the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, except that contracts of
less than $5,000, but not exceeding $75,000 in aggregate, may be let after
prudent shopping.
Disbursements
63.       Disbursements from the loan will be at the following rates:  for
civil works, 65%; for equipment, vehicles and materials, 100% of the foreign
cost of directly imported goods, 100% of the ex-factory cost of locally
manufactured goods, and 65% of the total cost of other goods locally procured;
for technical assistance and training, 100% of total expenditures; and for
building materials loans, 65% of total expenditures. A maximum amount of
$100,000 is recommended for retroactive financing for the construction of the
access road, bridge and flood protection works at Lat Krabang (scheduled to
begin in June 1980) in order to allow works to move ahead before the heaviest
rains beginning in August-September and to provide housing for factory workers
at the Lat Krabang industrial estate scheduled to begin operations in 1981.
Disbursements for all items would be made against standard Bank documentation,
except expenditures for materials loans for self-help construction which would
be disbursed against statements of expenditure with the supporting
documentation retained by NHA and held for inspection by Bank supervision
missions.
Cost Recovery. Affordability and Replicability
64.       For the sites and services components, the actual cost of land
acquisition, site preparation, on-site infrastructure, core housing,
commercial and industrial facilities, design, supervision and management
costs, interest during construction and an appropriate portion of off-site
infrastructure would be directly recovered by NHA through hire-purchase sales.



- 21 -
Differential land pricing will be employed to apportion a greater share of the
costs to plots with locational advantage to cross-subsidize sales to lower-
income families. Residential plots will be sold with down payments of 10%,
with the balance to be repaid over 20 years at the interest rate which is
charged by GHB at the time of the sales. The two least expensive options to
be offered at Lat Krabang and Chiang Mai, where design work has been
completed, account for 31% and 61% of the plots in the respective cities, and
are affordable by households below the 15th and 24th percentiles of the
estimated household income distribution for the cities respectively. Charges
for plots at the other sites and services projects would be comparable. As
under the first project, appropriate safeguards would be employed regarding
beneficiary selection criteria, occupancy and the subleasing of plots. Costs
will not be directly recovered for the portion of off-site infrastructure not
subject to direct charges and community facilities normally paid for by public
agencies. All of the sites and services components are internally
self-financing and thus provide replicable models of projects which serve
low-income families without subsidies.
65.       Under the first project, the cost of improvements in the slums not
recovered through direct tariffs were to be recovered through increased rents
on public lands and through voluntary contributions from private landowners.
In practice, direct cost recovery has proved infeasible. Private landowners
have generally refused to contribute to the program, and there has been per-
sistent resistance from tenants on public land to pay charges not levied on
other, more affluent residents. Even if increased rents were a feasible cost
recovery mechanism for slums on public lands, the applicability of this
approach to a city-wide program would be limited because most slums are on
private lands.
66.       In these circumstances, reliance must be placed on the overall
system of urban finance to support the slum improvement program. This
approach is particularly appropriate in Bangkok since virtually all of the
slums suitable for improvement could be upgraded by the mid-1980s at costs
which would represent 1% or less of total public capital investment in the
city. However, revenues from urban properties in Thailand are very low
because of deficiencies in the tax system and its administration. Measures
will, therefore, be undertaken under the project to strengthen the urban
revenue base. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that: (a) BMA
and the Ministry of Interior would employ consultants by March 31, 1981 to
conduct financial management studies which would, inter alia, identify means
to increase income from existing taxes, fees and charges and review with the
Bank the results of the study; and (b) the Government would review with the
Bank by December 31, 1980 a program under which BMA would systematically
update property registration and improve collection of the Land Development
and House and Rent Taxes (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Technical assistance to support (a) is included in the proposed project.



- 22 -
Monitoring and Evaluation
67.       Because NRA has experienced difficulties identifying appropriate
consultants to monitor the first project and wishes to strengthen its own
monitoring capabilities as part of its regular management information
system, the Office of Policy and Planning will monitor and evaluate the
proposed project. The Office has recently been reorganized, and a Monitoring
and Evaluation Division is being created to review all NHA projects from
initial planning through occupation. The Division's studies will be reviewed
by the Mlanagement Coordination Group. The research design and evaluation plan
for monitoring the proposed project will be based on experience gained during
the first project. Technical assistance to support NHA's monitoring and eval-
uation is included in the proposed project. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that NHA would prepare a plan for the monitoring and evaluation
studies for discussion with the Bank by Ilarch 31, 1981, and review the results
of the studies with the Bank as they are produced (Section 2.02 of the draft
Project Agreement).
Benefits, Justification and Urban Poverty Impact
68.       The project would expand the slum improvement program in Bangkok and
extend the sites and services approach to provide low income housing in five
regional cities as well as in Bangkok.  The slum improvement component would
improve environmental conditions and enhance the skills and economic opportu-
nities of approximately 12,000 low income households during the next four
years as part of an ongoing program.
69.       The sites and services components would make serviced residential
units available to low-income families who would not have been able to afford
to buy their own houses through the private market. The 3,400 residential
units and supporting facilities to be provided at Lat Krabang would complement
the Bank-financed industrial estate to create the nucleus of a satellite
center in eastern Bangkok and help relieve congestion in the inner city. Over
3,000 residential units will be provided in five regional cities, making
housing available to low income families outside Bangkok and supporting the
Bank's strategy of encouraging public investment in Thailand's poorer regions.
The commercial areas and small industries plots and loans would provide about
6,000 employment opportunities close to home for primary wage earners and
their dependents.
70.       Quantitative evaluation of the benefits of the slum improvement and
sites and services components of the project are based respectively on the
estimated increase in rental value of properties after improvement and the
imputed rental value of plots in three of the sites and services developments
for which detailed information was available. The estimated weighted
internal economic rate of return for the three sites and services components
which have been designed and for the slum improvement component, which
together account for 75% of total project costs, is 21%.



- 23 -
71.       Approximately 14% of Thailand's urban households have incomes below
the estimated absolute poverty line. It is estimated that 50% of the expendi-
tures for the Bangkok slum improvement program would benefit families below
the poverty line, and 11% of the beneficiaries in the sites and services
conponents would have incomes below the poverty threshold. These components,
which account for 92% of project costs, would have a combined urban poverty
content of 19%. On-site jobs in the sites and services components are
expected to go mainly to the dependents of low-income families living there.
The average cost per job created is estimated at $7,500 in Lat Krabang and
$6,000 in the regional cities. Loans in the slums are expected to be made
primarily to artisans, household industries and family shops. The cost per
job is expected to be as low as $250 to $400 for many loans in the slums.
Project Risks
72.       The main project risk concerns the slum improvement component, with
specific regard to land tenure aspects. The risk stems from the private
ownership of almost all of the project slums that could result in problems
ranging from securing the landlord's prior permission for carrying out the
project to the possible displacement of poor families caused by subsequent
land use changes or immigration of higher income families. NHA will be able
to minimize this risk by working more closely with the landowners, and BMA
will take all appropriate measures to control land use and contruction in
improved residential areas (see para. 56).
73.      Small business lending in the slums presents some risks of default
and of excessive reliance on the proposed guarantee scheme. However, the
limited experience to date with small business loans under the first project
has been favorable, and NRA will continue to maintain a close relationship
between the community and KTB.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
74.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and NHA, and the Report of
the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed separately. In addition to the features of
the Loan and Project Agreements which are referred to in the text and listed
in Section III of Annex III, the following feature is of particular interest;
namely, that an additional condition of effectiveness is that the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement specifying the terms and conditions for relending the pro-
ceeds of the proposed loan to NRA has been duly authorized or ratified
(Sections 3.01(b) and 6.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
75.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 24 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
76.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loi
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 23, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 25 -
ANNEX I
_ THILND - SOCIAL INMICATOES DoA   ST                Page  1  of  5
LAWD AREA (TROOSAID SQ. IN.                 THAILAND                   RUUt    GWU?T =  ADJUSTER A    'FAGS
TOTA4 l         514 0-x    UAT                                                             NEXT l
ICUL ALY        179.6                                TRan                         sNuz E1C     NIRCOg
iffO  l    1970 A   sTxnATI A       RECION /c  GCOIP Ld    GRUTc la
GNP PU CAPITA (USS)                 100.0       210.0    490.0            528.9      467.5     1097.7
ElERGY CONSUPTION PEI CAPITA
(KIOGRAMS OF CO4L EQD1VAL8V)      64.0       247.0    308.0           371.1      262.1       730.7
POPUAII ON AND lVITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION.,MID-TEAR (Ml LONS)     26.4        35.7      43.3
031 POPMLATION (PFGET OF TOTAL) 12.0           13.0      14.0            27.4      24.6        49.0
90PULATION MROJTIONS
POPULATION IN YRS 2000 (NlLLIONS)                      69.0
STATO114T POPULATION (BILLIONS)                       105.0
TM  STATIOARY POPDLAON  IS  ACHD                     2095
POPULATION D0SITY
PEr sQ. DI.                      51.0        69.0      84.0          154.8       45.3        46.6
Pt  SQ. Di. ARICMLTUAL LAND    204.0        251.0    244.0           566.7      149.0       140.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTrg (PrCUT)
0-14 nRS.                        44.7        46.2      45.0           41.3       45.2        41.3
15-64 YES.                        51.6        50.8     52.0            54.9       S1.9        55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  2.7         3.0       3.0            3.3        2.8         3.5
POPULATION GWTH RAn  (PUCZT)
TOTAL                             2.8         3.0       2.8            2.4        2.7         2.4
URN                               5.1         3.6       3.5            4.3        4.3         4.5
CRUDE BIRT! RATE (PER TDDUSAD)     46.0        42.0      32.0           30.2       39.4        31.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TROUSAD)     17.0        12.0       8.0            8.3       11.7         9.2
GROSS UEPRODUCTION ELAT!             .          3.2       2.2            2.1        2.7         2.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TROUSADS)       ..       203. OA   527.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MaUlTD  om)    ..          27.4      32.3           34.1       13.2        34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
EDEX W  OOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         68.0       100.0    110.0           106.2       99.6       104.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REOUIREIIETS)                  96.0       103.0    107.0           104.1       94.7       105.0
PrOTEINS (GRAKS PQ DAT)          43.5        52.2      50.0           57.4       54.3        64.4
OF WEIGc  ANIMAL AND PULSI      8.4          ..      14.6           16.9       17.4        23.5
C5ILD (AGES 1-4) MRTALITY RAE      15.0         9.0       6.0            4.8       11.4         8.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BRTH (YEAS)   51.0          57.0      61.0           61.1       54.7        60.2
IWANT MORTALITY RAT! (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..        8LI   68.0               46.6       68.1        46.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        17.0     22.0            21.9       34.4        60.8
URBAN                              ..         ..      49.0            46.2       57.9        75.7
RURAL                              ..         ..       12.0           12.8       21.2        40.0
ACCESS TO EZAETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              *-        17.0     40.0            28.4       40.8        46.0
URAN                               . .       65.0      58.0           65.0       71.3        46.0
RURAL                              ..         8.0      36.0           14.7       27.7        22.5
POPULATION ?ER PHYSICIAN         7800.0      8420.0   8370.0          3790.5    6799.4       2262.4
POPULATION PER SURSING PElSON    4900.0      3340.0    1510.0         1107.4    1522.1       1195.4
PC-LTATION PER HOSPITAL 3ED
TOTAL                          1340.OLf     890.0    800.0           613.3      726.5       453.4
URBAN                              ..       280.0    '40.0           203.6      272.7       253.1
RURAL                              *-      1380.0   1290.0          1110.3    1404.4       2732.4
AIMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        31.0      33.0           23.9       27.5        22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
-OTAL                             5.5if       5.8       5.5            5.2        5.4         5.3
URBAN                             5.3/f       5.9       5.5             ..        5.1         5.2
RURAL  -                          5.6Lf       5.8       5.5             ..        5.5         5.4
AVERAGE IUM3ER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..          ..       2.4             ..         ..         1.9
URBAN                              ..         ..        2.2             ..         ..         1.6
RURAL                              ..         ..        2.4             ..         ..         2.5
ACCESS TO MLECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..         ..       24.6             ..        .1         50.0
URBAN                              ..        63.0L       ..             ..       45.1         1.7
EURAL                              ..        13.0       ..              ..        9.9        17.3



- 26 -                                          ANNEX I
THAILAD - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                 Page  2  of  5
REFZRZNCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED )AA)AES
THAILAND                       -             (OST RECENT ESTIMTE) -
SAME        SMEE    NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOCRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /0
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMAY:      TOAL                  83.0         81.0      83.0             97.9       82.7        102.5
MAUE                  88.0        85.0       86.0            98.7        87.3        108.6
FENAI.                79.0        77.0       79.0            97.4        75.8        97.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 12.0         18.0      26.0             42.2       21.4         33.5
MALS                  15.0        21.0       29.0            46.7        33.0        38.4
FDKAI                  9.0        15.0       22.0            40.9        15.5        30.7
VOCATIONAL EOL. (E Of SECONDARY)    19.0            24.0       13.0            12.5         9.8        11.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            36.0         35.0      30.0             32.5       34.1         35.8
SECONDARY                          20.0         16.0      21.0             25.8       23.4         22.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        68.0         79.0      82.0             S4.1        54.0        64.0
CONSUttTION
PASSENGER CABS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0          5.0       6.4              6.1        9.3         13.5
RADIO RECEIVERS P!R THOUSAND
POPULATION                          6.0         78.0     131.0             84.4       76.9        122.7
TV RECEIVERS PER TaOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.3          7.0      17.0             22.4       13.5         38.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENEAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
TlOUSAND POPULATION                  11.0         24.0        ..             24.2       18.3         40.0
CINEMA ANIUAL ATrENDAMCE PM  CAPITA   ..            ..       1.7              3.6        2.5          3.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LAOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    12757.0        16163.0   18514.0
FEMALZ (PERCENT)                   48.3        47.3       46.9             36.7       29.2        25.0
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)              83.7         79.9      77.0             54.6       62.7        43.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  4.4         6.0         8.0            16.3       11.9        21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                51.3        46.6       45.6             40.7       37.1         33.5
HALE                                 52.7         49.3      48.6             49.9       48.8         48.0
FEMALE                               49.8         43.9      42.6             31.0       20.4         16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0          1.1       1.1              1.1        1.4          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   21.8/h        23.8/i    14. O/           14.9       15 2        20.8
HIGCEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  5O.97i?      49.77-1  42.271            46.8        48.2         52.1
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.2z7h        6.17      7.6/1            6.2        6.3         3.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.97h        15. 97i    19.1           16.8       16.3         12.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOMIE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           .      126.0            193.1      241.3       270.0
RURAL                                ..           .       94.0            128.7      136.6        183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           .      115.0            136.8      179.7       282.5
RURAL                                 .           ..     108.0             96.8      103.7       248.9
EST;MATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 .           .       15.0             32.0      .24.8        20.5
RURAL                                 .           .       34.0             52.5       37.5         35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weigbted geometric means, excluding the extreme
ralues of the indicator sd the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries aong the
indicators depends on availability of data snd is not unifora.
/b    Unless ocher.ise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most lecent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    East Asia & Pacific;   /d  Lover Middle Income ($281-550 per capita 1976);   /a  intermediate Middle
Er.co,. (S551-1135 per capita. 1976);   if  1962;   ai Percent of population in Bangkok metropolitan
area;   /h  1962-63;   /i  1968;   /j  Preliminary data for 1975/76, due to lack of data on national
basis, the methodology  `or aggregating the available regional data overstates incomes of lo. income
groups and understates income of higher income groups.  Thus, this data is not suitable for any
analytical :omparisons;   /k  Government-  /L  1964-1965.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



- 27 -                                                                         ANNEX I
DFNT OpO SOCIAL IMICATORS                                                                Pa2e   3   of   5
Notes:  Although the dtis ar  ds  from  souce  generally Judgd the meat   th,utSrttice sad reliable, it should als  be noted that they may not be inter.-
tisnally ooanp-bahi becaus  of the lab  of stadadined definition   ad concepts used by differet cootries in o-iletiag the date. The data ar, nonetheless,
use ful to desc.ribe orders of magnitude, indicate trends, and charnterie co          -eejoy differece  het-ec  coutrie..
The adjosted grou ep       e  for snob indicator ar  ppulatio-eeighted geometric meas  esoldlg the .otreo   -nors of the indiontos  nd the mast poysuited
.oootry io snob group.  lie to Ikc of data, group avrages of all indicators for Capital Surplus Oil Eqprtees and of indicatora of Acoe..s to Voter sd Soorto
Diopo-i, dousing, lhoom   Distributioo sad Poverty for other coutry groups ar  popaltio-seighted geomtric  -ea  cithout noolusos, of the .otesme  -nue  and
the most populated coutry.   io,       h   oesso  coutries  ns  the indicator- eed   caeia hyo  dta sad ~isnot -aifo.-. otion meet be  oerxemied
inrltn -vrges of oneindicator to sather   Thsf         veae   remai ueu  a   priai    of " etd' a s   hin copaing the vaIse. of one
indicator  t n time a.Dng the coutrY sad referenc  geouc..
rABS Allis (thoassd sq.k.)                                                                  Acoetsa    ;to loet tDspsa  (preto   ouain  -ttl  ys,a    ua
Total-To1        sufasnosoprising lend arc  sad inland esters.                              Nubro epe(oa,uban, sa- ua)srd -                  -     by ertadispsln
Agricultural -  Moot recent estimate of  -giutrlae  used temporarily                        percetages of their respectice populations. Eorts dispose: may include
or perasactly for crps, pastures, maret sad bitohen gredeos or to                         the c.odeotion and dispea.l., sith or cithout treatast, of human            .t
lie f anon.                                                        sa~~~~~~~~~~~d caste-ester by eater-bose system   or the use of pit privies sad s-slla
tiP PEP CAPITA (01$) - liP per ospit .etimates at curet enkt prics                          76a9jna                  nli  - fponlatios divided by  ..nbcr of p-atlinig physicisa
cacltd byus    oovrlnmthod no World Saab Atlas (1976-78 basis);`quaife frma                                  idscolt   lvrtyee.
-                    1~~~~~~~~~~960, 1970 , sod 1978 data.                                                    Populat ion per Nursing Person - Population dicided by outer of practicing  -al
gicoYoC:SU7oMLIOi PER CAPITA - Annua o--uPtion of  -oercisl enegsd female grdutenurses, Pyntlc-l nures, sad asoactst nures
(olsd lpite, perlem   ontura  gas sad hydro-,  uolsa  sad geo-                        "_ti.oofr.osnts  fd - total. sys -sd rura  - Ppro1lt Ioc (total, -rl-,
thera  ele triciy   In  i1gr-n  of cil1 equivalent per capita; 1960,                        nod rura) divided by their r..spectie nuber of hospital beds n=llble in
19.70,sd 1976 data,                                                                         public and pri-ste genera  sad speciaicd hontpital sad -eisilitot-c  cet-e.
H.spstalo ar  estnblisu-tnt  pereanetly staffed by at lenot one PhYs1icia
POPUIATIONl ADl VITAL STATISTICS                                                              E.tablinharato providing principally custodial car  are not ioolu,dsd  or.aI
-                   ~~~~~~~~~Total Populstiu..  mid-Year iilliono) - As of July 1; 1960, 1970, sad               hoepitalo  houcre, include health nod medical centersnot pe-mne.tLy sctfed
1977 dats.                                                                               by a physician  (ht by a medioal  sitn,nre  mnfe,ec.   hi ofe
Urch    Population (percent of total1) - Rntic of urb   to total population;                do-patient  --ordntion sod pr-cide a limited rane of medical faclities
differen.t defiiltiono  of urba  a.. smy offect  -op-raility of data                   AdmIssions per Hlosnita1 Sad - Total number of admissions to or dluchargec fron
og .countries; 1960, 1970, sod 1975 dntn                                               hospitals divided by the outer of beds.
Poecl:int1   rojeotion.
Population in yen   000 - Corret populatioc projetions nc  basd on                    OMINGlI
195ttl Iouaion by .ge sad  ro end their mrtality sad fertility               Aveage uSsr of Hou..hold (persons -Per household) - total, urban, sad  -url1
rates. Prjetlco paratres for  ortality rates coprise of thoer                          A houoehcld coasisto of a group of indleiduao  hb. share licicqorer   o
lcvel  n-suing life ropeettoy at birth iorening cith cosatrys.                         choir main -.I.o.  A hoarder or lodger ony orey not in  -oclded in the
pe  cpto bi on_ leve, nod female life espectayst ebilang athoshild for statistical purposes.
77. 5 proro.  The yarantoro for Fertility rnte also hare three levels                Acreage                ..be .o..rno  per ron- - total ura,ad rucl - Acrea geooe
a-Iinulg decline in fertility accrding to incm   leve  sad past                        of p.ea.e Poer romin all urIsa, sad Irrlccpid  -octio...l d-oriis-.
saly   soln  perforeune. Enob  -uuty in then atiged sac of these                   repe-ti-cly.  Sn-lllgo e-clude n_s-pernanet ot-utore  sad  ocop-dt p0--c
n   obInations of eortnlity sod fertility teenda foe projection                  Acoesat toElectrjicity (percen,t ofidnellingo~) - totol, orbsa  sd rurl .1        Zo
poe- co                                                                                 etl ldeelinga nith cl_tricty  inivng quarters no peecentogo
StstionaP popultion  - In.  a ottio...ry populatio  there is no groth                     toto1, urhso  sad rurlueligo espeticrl.
--0c  tie birth rote is equal to the death rotc, so  als  the age
et-utur  cesion cootst. This is shieced only after fertility rates                 EitiATION
heclice to the repl-met I-el of unit net repe-d-tio rate, uh.o                       Adjunted Enrollmet Ontico
enc h geeato     -f    c  rcpla-   itself  -ontly.  Thc stationa.ry pops-              Primar  school --ttl   nc d f-ane-GIr.s. total, sale soicl   uoi
inui-  doe sootisated on tic Sno. of the projected chaateriotico                         mast of all ages at the prisary level as per-ctagos of ecpct:c  ena
ci  toPoP,latic  io the pear 2000, sod tie rote of declioc of fertility                   -chol-age popultices; no-11y in-ludrchlde  agc011  --ar  htt
roe tot Iep_ceect level                                                                   tdu d fo  diffor..ot lengthn of primary education;  ce:...ct:i oith
Year otatlocsy popultion in reactd - The year  hen statiocary popultico                     onineenoldu-tionccclutas  ....cod 1GO Purre  tslicete   pp
nie,ha  bcn renohed.                                                                   ar   co   roos  h   fiilshool .ge.
Population Iteacity                                             Iccoodari' nohc:.l~ _ total  soe nod femle - Conputed ai at  -c  on. il-ey
Per 00. in..  Mld-yea  population per square kiloter (100 hectarcs) of                      eduction reqoirc  no leat four yearn of nppro-ed pri-any -r.-rotieo
t' talaea                                                                                proIdes  genra v-1     tcni -o tcachr trsining i-str-ti-.. ice Ipopilo
Pcr 0g. b.urclu    lend - Cnpoted on ab-o  for agricultural land                            usualy of 12 to 17 pears of oge; c-rr-pondnc ..         orcr e ....oc-olly
only.                                                                                     -ucloded.
Population  g struture  ocrnt) - Children (0-lb year),  -uking-uge                          Ocnlolerolet-eocco                      odary) - Voostio...l i-tit.iti..o  to ic~Ie
(bbper)  oo   eied (65 peora sad over) 00 P-rctugr  of mid-pear                           techoial, indotisi,-or other progro    ohich op-rte i-drpeodect1yicn
pouato;  90, 190, sad 1977 data.                                                     deprtmentu of -e-od-y inatitotiono.
P.;cutlation orueth Once (percet) - total - Annua orveth rIte. of total mid-                Popil-tesoher c-tic - pris-ry sod sec...da,- Totol Itunt  ecI'd i
year ppulot I.. for 1950-hb   lh-SO,-sd 1970-77.                                            priesry sd oec.edary leve1  divided by  ubeen of tcaocr  i cot.r  -oc-
PouainIoth Sat  (peroIt)  -uban - Annua groth rItc  of orha                           oponding lelel.
poIcilticoc fo  NO7-ho  1-70, acd1970-75.                                                 Adolt literay rot  (percet) - Lit-cte adolti table to reo aod unte) on
Crude Birth   t O cpe (c  thousand) - Asa  Ine birtus Pen thounod of sid-                     a p-etoo  of total adult population  ged 15 pen-  od oce,.
year population;1 19     190  end177data.
Crude heath Rote  pertbounsad) - A-oun  deatho pee th-ossd c1idn-pea                   C0NSU 4P     GetO
ppu latic;     5  1970, end 1977 data                                                  PassngrCs (per thounsd ppolati.n)-Picororo osicma..e0c
Ir-so  eproduct190Ote   irAg,   nubroIduhesnoe, i-ba                                         rting leoo thso right perenon; ee- ldnaahloes   erc  sdnltr
inbenris repoutic  peio  ifl sic  dopereocapreset age
opc fic fortility rntro  ualy fto-e-ps  se-ruga codintIgi q16o,                      Rndic Peccioec  Pno  thcosd cpulatico) - All typpe  of  ---ier  ie r-di-
7197, sod 1975.                                                                          tecadeatot  general public per thco-o  of popuit-c; coo ,d-nuIIo,eccco
psaily P1_im- - Alccptors. Aocal (tih-sdo) - Acul number of                                 r-ci-eroioo-otrieo  sod In ysoro nhes  eciscrt-t-  of root-t    -i
_ccptorn of birth-control de-ice   odre  -.pi-e. of national famdly                      effect; data for reet yeses an  tot he  -op-bolence .c oo, t ries..
pbs_tiog progsa.                                                                         sholiohed liomely.
PF-ilo Plsoin -    UIner  (--cetf earn-ed women) - Percentage of sried                   TV Rscei-er  (per thoassod popultin -. TVrcor   fir broudo st t. g--L
ecrIf child-hearing age It5-h4 ye.r-) cho  -  birth-control d-i-r                     public pee thososad popuaton   ecebdeulieedTecer
to cll  -ired ssen in nos  ngr group.                                                    sod in y.ea C see regi ortioo  TOVet  s In effect.
-71 I(O) - Ind..  f pNero-pptr Ciroultion(e  iusdppltc)-hcnteuesetcltc
P001 AlItp-iCpitITI196cf2'daily genoelintroaoppr,dfndaoaproia   uiotc
~""SdfsfPoo  Podatis pe  apia 196-7-ih)    luoof  ercaptadenoted prisiriy to recoding genral ..n.   It Is conidered to to"oly
s lpeodontion of allfoo  ccsditi-s  Prodution  -ncld.nesaed and                       if itappesrut least fou  timeoaseei.
feed sod i on calendaryear bnin.  Co-ditieaoo-r pries   goods                          Cinem  An..uoI Attendance per Capita nec ivar-haned  -c the cotr b          i'ot.
(o .gae--r instead cf sugar) chih are edible sod coZintaicotricoto                  o..d d-esg the year, i-luding adi coiso  to deice -invIsos     cc  not: to
(eg.cffee nod ten ar -slded).  Aggregate production of each co-ntry                   ooit-
us tased co natioala     'egeprdue  pIce sn-ights.
Per ..Pit. non>   f  -alorn  (percent of renlremrItn   - Computed frce               LABOR PORCE
-ergy equivalet of net food supplies .anslle in coutry Per c-pita                    Total Labor PFrc  (th-oada) - &-noicaIly  etiocP......c .
Per day.  A-ilable c-pplies  -opeice domeiti  Product-c, inporto lens                  f-ren  a   nalpe   u   oldinMsscos   td-cto,c                         heit
coot,  n   hoogco in  t-ck.  iN~t oupplenu lde soid feed, seeds,                 in oaiuacutriesae  co.t -oepa-ble.
=usti~ti- usd is food pro...o-cg, end 1-nac  in distcrIbution. Requiec-              p    alro       )    - Pcnl  Iat- f.e.. .a pere..tsge of tital mie  orr
e     -tcreti-ted by FAO base.d Ic phyoioiogiealIeed   for nosa                    i-tts,(reh          - Lshe  orc  in fareing, forestry, bunting nod
u-ticitylad health --sid-e Mc  ci  nn    teaperator, body cighta,                      fishing nope-entage of total labor fore.
agn nodtshc diotrihuti-no  f P.popolti o, sod shooing 10 prrorot for                 Industry (percent) - Lab e force onmsg  c-truCtIoc,  -ofoctoe,   nod
usteat      . h-Iohd mod,                                                             electricity,oter and ga  no peevescage  f tota1lbico  force.
Per onPita ouppy of Protci  (grao cer day) - Prothem  content  fPpen                   Paticipation Ste cec-t) -  totl mal, sd i'eale -P-et-opotioo  o
ceIta oet supply of food per day.  etspply of food is deni-d asatnt   ae   r   optd a   oa,ml,sdfnl   oc   o                                                    opr
abov.-   equirsnento  for allcoutres. tblinhed by 010 p-oide for a                     ..ectges of total,  ole sad female population of oIl   _nep-ctiely;
nicinos allsoerof6h  grsn cf tots1 proteo per Amp and 20 grsm  of                      1960, 1970, sad i975 data.  Thc  ae -   ILOc partioiptiocratr  reflrott-g
-1sa  sod palno Protei, of ohich iS ges  should he animal protein.                     agr-scaIt-uctur  of the population, sad long time trend.  A fec entiate-
Th es  stndrds ar  1oor than thos  o If 75 grem   of total protein nod                 ar-rsstinlsuoe.
23S-go  of  oisal protein assoavrge for the  -Ird, proposed by PAO                   ronolo Dpedency nti, -  Patio of populatio  under 15 sad I5 sad 0-cr t
in tic  ihOd Word PFdsrey                                                               helbr  oc  in age group of i5-6i yearn.
P r -Poitacrote~is -uPPlo from  oial sod pulse - Protein  supply of food
deie   rsaimla and pussi   rMope  da.IIsOsE DISTlllflfION
Child1 ( s I-u  MotliyOts(er thouad) - Adoun  detsprtonaetg   fPiaeicme (both In cah sad bind) - Recel-d by richest
to ngc oroos 1-b yer_, to ehildie- in thin age groP; fr mot denel-                       5 percet, richest  0 percst,Poorest WPPperoet, asd po-r-t 40 percent
opi.g  -cute.  dots d-ric-d fron life cables-fhushls
HEALT0                                                                                     iPOVETY TAPGiT GROOr
Life& petanyp atr birth (cram    -_Aerrage aomcr of years of life                         tEtiested Aboslote Pccccty I-om  LveI (US$4 per capibta).1 urba so rural
ressaicing at birth; 1960, ~197,  sd 1977  data                                   Absolute porerty inom  leve  io that incm-         ee   ec   ho      iia
Sofant Mortality Rote (pe,r th-used) - A-..Il dcatho of infata under on_trittios-ll   deqoate diei~t pluo oeential no-f-nd -eqirmnects  to eon
year of age per thousad lice birtho.                                                      affordable.
Acorna to Safe Water percent of noeclatioc  - toa  ubn,sdo                     Estimated Relative Poverty InoeLvl(Sprcpita) - urban sad carl
eNb-r of pcple (oa,rb,sdrul)ith  -easonble ar.n. to                                       uRaI relative povrty incoelee i s-   1  om-third  f s-erge per capita
sale cator supply (includes treted suface  aters or untreated but                         personal I=m   of the coutry. Urban loi in deriued Pros the rura  level
un-scaiotc   esto  ouca  shot from protected horehol, springs,                            sith adj.t. a  for higher cost of living in urban   ..ran
and saitary melo  n  percentages of their repectiv  Pop.          cin In               Estimated Poplation hel    AbsoluetPnert labme red
aurb-an rso a public fotuntoanr ntsdpest located nt mer  thnrrl-Pren   fpplto    (arha  sdymral   b  ar    h uepoor
..0 m tesfrom n house may be conidered as being  ithin resnal
Ioes   f  hth   house.  In rura  aren. reasona.ble anma  -Iud imply
that the ho...-ife or m.eter  of the hos..chold do not have to spend a                                                           EcoinoicndSocial Data Di-uis
disproportiona.te port of the Amp in frtching the feallys eater needs                                                       So-oic AnaIysis and Projeotiona Departmet
August 1979



- 28-
ANNEX I
Paee 4 of 5
ECOOflIC 16V1LP069T 96TA S811
A"ta                                                      PIolantad                                 Grtt-    ath     1                   1965 sha..
1949        1970        1976        I197          1979 1         1979        190          1985        1965-7 7     19 77-79     1979-85      1985-0       of CDP (II
.,:noen  domestic  product   r~~~~~~~.843.9    10, 32 3.0    1 5,71.  6636       8189I.35?                2,9.    29,256.7                7. 7         7.6          7.1           7.0         I.S.O
2.  (ial,,e line  trros of trade  -44.3  42.8     -507~~~~             ~        ~      ~~~.17  -991 1189 1238. 4    -1.6 73.0   -1.962.                                                  -.
3.  Cross domestIc  l..comr   ~~~~~~6, 799. 5    1 0,36'5.9  5,206.9  5,7007.4   17,003'0.09    1.5.8   19, 216.9    2 7,293.9             7 .2         75.0.0                                  96.8
.059.9    29.9         3. 699. I4    ,609        4,9.            ,8.         .404        7579             96            6.7         67.9                       25
-1,593.2    -2.274.6   -~~~3,0. -,569        5179         -5,077.4       9,1.      -8.04.3             .             .            5           97           7.
:I'tsolotd  for TOT        -I599        -,375       -,0.7        -,2.           ,089        ..3.0   -4.739.1    4,091.5                 7.1           4.3          9 . 0         9.9          21.0'
`7-   u'p-djusted
tot TOT                             117.0        61.9        399.6        932.1         84 7. 9    -1.243.9    - 1.403   -1,699.3                                                                   2.5
6.Tota ,,   e.t o                     5,30.3       9,0.        1,1,709.5l   1,2,370.3    13,062.       14,236      15,9.        20,721.2           7.3          7.2          6.5           6.1          24.51
0.  Ir,orntsenc               1,~~~~~~~~~~~~~609.2  3030.6  383.8   4,69.2       4,1.          5,8.           530.8   8a062.0             95          10.2          767.5                      2.
10.  t.ocloou I ouvfo4t        ~~~~~~~~1,576.4  2,500.9  3,421.7     3,312.5       3,908.1       3,901.5    4,011 .1      6,125.8          6.45          8.5          79.6                      22.1
for T07                           1,697.2     2,359.7      3,495.5      1,337.1      3,967.4       3,963.4      4,129.5     6,572.2           6.           97           P99.3                      22.2
I> 31 Mrt. curen   ol$                    4,052.9    6,543.3   16, 284.3    19,196.9        21,881.8      25,214.1    29, 590.9   59,776.6          13.3          1 7.         75. 1s13.4
A4rtcuIaorO                 ~~~~~~       ~~~~~~0.391  0.366  2.301  0.281       0.271         0.264        0.258       0.239
2-  Industry                   ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~     ~ ~~~~0.20   0 .227  0.,269  0.,28  0.290  0.30        0.309        3.335
73   Sa'ta                                 0401         0.2         0.43         0.S          0.430         0.6032       0.432       0.437
I-.Prce  11975 - 1001
F p-rt prIce  odes                    46.43        69.04       91.65        99.35         90.55        111.65       250         121.40          5.           12.7         7.12          5.1
.tpntpIce  iodas                    47.76        47,15.     105.75       14.1          123.05       14.66        169.9 1     22.2             75            .            .            5.0
3.  Ter-  of trade  loden                  9.2         101.8        96.67        79.30         79.50        75.61        73.64        75.60        -1.9           5.5          1.1           8.1
4.  MII  deflato    1075                   59.22       63.39       103.64       108.82       '1.0          130.00       143.00      204.32          5. 2          6,9          7.3           6.0
I.  Aenaul ausroge rnch-Ita  at       20.00       20.88        20.60       20.40         2039
r.   lucred indioator.                                  1965-72      1977-79     1979-85       1995-90
i.ICO                                                 3.56         3 .32       3.80          3.97
2.  Impor  elamiof' tI.09                                            0.87         0.95         0.9
3.  A-arage  -1-ora  -otna rat                           0. 0        0.21         0.1            .24
4.  MargInal natIonal actojs  rats~~~W          0.1          01          0.3           0.2
5.   sot/0                                               0.27        026          0.26         0.26
6. loasmatltp                                     0.27        0. 26        0. 27         0.20
I.  Rocregap/COP                                        0.04         0.06        0.05          0.03
lbs addt                           Labor forc  Ic                           0.4-        -nmksr th k_
F.  uot Labor Forc   -d Prudootlol, 1a 1975                          989 N                     illisNolIne                       I                                     Z  af -,e-n
Oorlcoltore                                    ~~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~                           ~~~~~~~4:,559  31.3  13.4  75.7     340        41..5
2. Iruer                                                          4,44         304                         1.4          7.9                           3,17        356.7
7 . tr-c                                                            5,598         38.3                       2'.9        16.4                           1,.9 3 0    235.4
Total/ .acerat                                            14.599        106.0                      17.7        100.0                             920        100.0
F. PublIc Flnoc  10 of COP) lCantrl Couer.anl                1965         1970        1974          1975         1976        1977 ft      1978
Current recanue                       ~~~~ ~ ~~~~ ~ ~~~~ ~~13.3  13.9  14.5   13.6        13.4         14.0         14.6
2.  Tan ranenus                           ~~~~ ~ ~~~~ ~ ~~~~                                             ~           ~~~~~123  125  135 1. 21  12.  13.
3.  Corrent anpandltures               10.5        ~~~~ ~ ~~~~          ~ ~~~~           ~~~12.6  10.7  12.  13.0  118 13.2
4.   odtayaRtg                                           2O.9          1.            I.          1.          0.6          II2          1.4
5.  Total pobict Io.t..     e                             6.5         7. 7         3.9          4.9          5.3          5,4         5.3
C. Peel Imoorts ICunran~t 000 utlIloonI                65.0       112.0        628.          711.7       933.7        923.0      ,1.
10 oftota  Imprts Iol.  0018.3                          9.0         14            20.0        21           19.7        1.
Lb  At curen  esbet pmb-..



-  29 -                                                         74L  °t 
IALANCE O? PAYMENTS.- r0T778A1. 45710TA9C!. MAfT ANID C812705ICTH187.
(Current 0S0 .Illlue.)
Actual                                              Protected
1973     1974     1975     1976     1977      1978J/    1979       1980      1965      1990
Suenars of lo1o.c. of Pevoente
Erport. (I-cio.dtg NFS)                            2,084.7  3,025.4  2,794.5  3,490.6  4,029.3   4.930.7  6,300.0   7,660.0  12,835.0  24,967.7
Iport. (IncludIng NFS)                             2,258.3  3,353.2  3,487.3  3,911.9  5,093.8   5.919.2   8,140.0   9,460.0  13.904.5  24,650.4
lesource balance                                    -173.6  -327.8  -609.8   421.3 -1,064.4    -989.2  -1,840.0   1,800.0  -1,069.5          317.3
Met factor -.C.le  Income                            -20.8    -0.7        5.4   -41.6   -72.5   -154.5   -210.0   -300.0   -925.0  -1,412.5
Net tuteccot payment.                                 7.0    36.0    69.0       26.1    -4.0    -69.4   -100.0   -210.0   -766.9  -1,170.7
Of  iIch on publIc M l LT Io.n.                  -25.1   -28.1   -34.5   -44.3   -64.5   -101.8   -133.1   -174.5   -487.1    -882.0
Direct  -nveuteet Income                           -28.0   -37.0   -64.0    -66.1   -68.5         -72.8    -75.5      -80.0    -192.5   -290.0
Wockera r-mctta-ce. (net)                            0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      22.9      24.5       34.4      48.2
Current tra--lern (not)                               145.5    241.0    80.1      22.8     39.3      40.4      60.0      80.0      100.0     110.0
a1lmn.e on -crrut accoot                             48.9   -87.5  -605.3  -440.0 -1,097.6  -1,103.4  -1,990.0  -2,020.0  -1,894.5   -985.1
Prlv-te dlrect Inveotmeut                             67.0    135.6    85.5       79.1    106.1      50.0      60.0      75.0     276.3      487.0
-Grout. 4gc-nt-11ke flo                                0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Fublic M & LT loaao
Dibhr--ecta                                         69.0    95.9   149.2    241.7    362.6        739.5    900.0   1,010.8   1,960.4   2,697.6
Aoortlmation                                       -28.9   -32.3   -38.7   -43.4   -87.8    -90.7   -164.1   -222.1   -620.1  -1,092 .7
Net dlmbhr.-mucn.                                   39.2      63.5    110.5    198.3    274.8     648.8     735.9     788.7   1,340.3   1,604.9
Other M 4 LT loan.
Di.bor-emootm                                       178.9   326.2    299.6    279.7    311.8      501.3    900.0   1,150.0   1,393.0       462.2
Armortioti.o                                      -223.1  -197.2  -235.1  -245.9  -264.2   -467.2   -520.0   -600.0   -850.6  -1,167.8
Net disbur-.enet:                                  -44.2    129.3    64.5       33.6     47.6      34.1     380.0     550.0      542.4   -705.6
Doe of 0IMF ceanurcem                                  0.0      0.0      0.0      77.1      1.8     181.4     200.0     200.0    -30.0         0.0
Short-term  capitol trannantiono                      42.0      35.5    127.5    136.2   256.2       84.0     120.0     250.0     180.1      252.6
Capital trau .atitnn NEI                               57.9    96.3      77.2   -11.4    136.2   -371.9         0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Change In reseree. (- - io-reaao)                   -113.0  -392.7    140.1   -73.0    275.0        476.9    494.1      176.3   -414.8   -654.5
Net foreign e-ohoge re--rona /b
(end of period)                                  1,306.0  1,599.0  1,406.0  1,444.0  1,135.8      659.9     166.0      10.0   2,634.5   5,320.9
Gro-t mod Loa  Coctcmest
Official gcaotn                                        0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Total publIc M 4 LT luau.                             87.1    436.5    223.4    372.3    633.0   1,220.0
IBRD                                                 15.0    142.0    95.0    158.0    137.8      256.0
IDA                                                 25.0       7.0      0.0      0.0      8.0      33.1
Other mltilaterol                                    4.4      77.2    62.7    92.1       47.0     194.7
toveromoota                                          24.0   200.5    47.7       22.2    106.4     312.0
Of ok ch neutrally plaroed econooea0                        0.0       0.0      0.0      0.        0.0
ttpplie                                              0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0
fInanctal Inmtltutlooa                              16.7      9.7    18.0    100.0    341.9       423.7
Other n 4 LT loon- (fuere avaIlable)                  178.9   415.9   392.5    360.2    348.9       531.8
Memorandum temo
Crant ele-nrt of total rc itmects (X)               44.600   31.400   16.700   11.500   10.200    14.869
Average lotereut (0)                                 0.044    0.057    0.076    0.081    0.080      0.072
Average  o turfty (ycaro)                           29.100   23.800   23.500   18.500   14.000    12.832
Media- md Loon-Torn Oebt (DOlborned ocly)
Tntal debt ontutodlng (DOD cod of peniod)            903.9  1,160.7  1,345.6  1,606.8  1,931.9   2,691.0
Innludifg undOubun-ed                              1,182.4  1,770.0  2,009.5  2,404.0  3,145.9   4,594.3
Public debt nervoce                                  -54.9   -60.4   -73 .2   -87. 7   -152 .3   -202.9
Int reat                                             -25.1   -28.1   -54.5   -44.3   -64.5   -100.7
Other M S LT debt mervine                           -255.8  -266.8  -314.5  -245.9  -338.3   -590.8
Total debt  -ecolce                                 -310.7  -327.2  -387.7  -333.6  -490.6    -796.7
Debt Burden (05
Debt morvtce ratIo                                    14.9     10.8    13.9       9.6    12.2        16.1
Debt mrvin ratio /4                                   10.2     12.0    16.2       11.5    13.9       17.6
Debt -ervtr/CDP                                        2.9      2.5      2.7      2.0      2.7        3.6
Public debt ..nv.ce/Governrotreveue                    4.3      2.5      3.5      3.7     4.4         6.3
Term (X)
Interest on total  OD/total dlub-ree.ente             5.7      5.5      5.6      5.4      5.7        5.6
Total debt nonvlce/lovernocttrceue                    12.4     11.8    11.9      10.7     12.0       19.6
Dereadmoco Littor for M 6 LT l)nbt (t)
Crom.  dlnbo-roeerrte/iepuor  (Inclodlog NFS)         11.0    12.6    12.9       13.3      10.9      21.0
Nlet tranafoc/rporta (Includlog NFS)                  -2.8      2.8      1.8      6.8       2.0      10.2
Net tracafer/groo. di6bounr--to                      -25.3    22.5    13.6       36.0      18.4      48.7
tcrcaoure (X )
tt8D dobure--rt/O-rnoS   ntol daborh-eo-nt.           14.8      8.0      9.1      8.3     12.0       9.3
lank Group dieb--nooootalgro..  ntel dilbur.ee.e.t    14.8      8.3      9.7      9.5     13.6       9.9
18R  D8D/total 130                                    24.2    20.8    20.0       18.6     17.9      20.2
Smu COep DODD/total tOD                               24.2    20.9    20.4       19.2     18.9      21.3
t0D 8   bt -neroc/tntl debt  -orcice                   8.0      8.0      8.3     10.9      9.8       7.8
tak Cro-P debt .mnce/totl -er-cle                     8.0      8.5      8.3    10.9       9.6       7.8
.tetrmal Debt (Dieb.r,ed on_l)                      Out.antndie 12/31/78
(Cfrreot vS5 millloo.)                              Anount       0
00R0                                                 434.8      24.5
look troop                                           459.3      25.8
Other moltlate-ol                                    257.5      14.5
Covern-eoto                                           549.2     30.9
Of ihi4h cootrelly plooned ecomoeloes /c             0.0       0.0
S.pplleem                                              9.0       0.5
FPnarnal intletotinn.                               502.1      28.2
Boodo                                                  0.0       0.0
total public H I LT debt                            1,777.1    100.0
Other M 4 LT debt                                     913.9     51.4
Total public debt (locladin.g uodieburnd)          3,680.4    207.1
Total H 6 LT debt (locludlog undlnbon.rd)          4,594.3    258.5
P r.rl t.t.ary.
/b  Net foceigo aoete: dS0 eqol-lert of Line 31.                                                                                      October, 1979
s  lncldeas CHEA count.. ea, Peoplen Ropoblic of China, North Korea, North Vl.etm
/d Oncbodi.g net dlrent I-ce-tmeet Income.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND /a
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1980)
Loan or                                                                  Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                   Less Cancellations
Number Year         Borrower                           Purpose      Bank      IDA  Undisbursed
Twenty-four loans and one credit fully disbursed                   388.90    5.50    -
822   1972   Kingdom of Thailand                     Education      15.40        -    2.78
864   1972   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom           37.00        -    0.77
870   1972   Kingdom of Thailand                     Highways       28.60        -    -
369   1973   Kingdom of Thailand                     Education           -   19.50    2.59
461   1974   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation          -    7.00    0.95
977   1974   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power          75.00        -    8.34
992   1974   Industrial Finance Corporation
Thailand                             Industry       11.70        -    0.20
1021  1974   Metropolitan Water Works Authority   Water             55.00        -    0.11
1149  1975   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    95.00         -   67.58
1198  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Rural Dev.    21.00(TW)   -    8.84
1199  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Livestock       5.00(TW)   -    3.05
1243  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Rubber         50.00        -   31.58
1253  1976   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom           26.00        -    4.29
1271  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Education      31.00        -   20.25
1327  1976   Industrial Finance Corporation of
Thailand                             Industry       25.00        -    7.42
1393  1977   Kingdom of Thailand                     Agriculture   28.00         -   20.75
1468  1977   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    55.00         -   37.67
1485  1977   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power          50.00        -   26.04
1492  1977   Industrial Estates Authority of
Thailand                             Industry        4.80        -    3.12
767   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Population         -   33.10/b 33.01
1519  1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Transport.   110.00         -   64.32
1527  1978   Provincial Electricity Authority        Rural Elect.  25.00         -   22.61
1556  1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Housing         8.60        -    7.64
S-10  1978   Natural Gas Organization of
Thailand                             Natural Gas    4.90         -    0.21
1620  1978   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom           90.00        -   90.00
1630  1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    17.50         -   17.18
1638  1979   Kingdom of Thailand                     Urban          16.00        -   14.00
1662  1979   State Railway of Thailand               Railways       16.70        -   16.70
1690  1979   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power          80.00        -   80.00



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
Loan or                                                               Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                Less Cancellations
Number   Year         Borrower                   Purpose           Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
913      1979   Kingdom of Thailand            Education              -    35.00   35.0
929      1979   Kingdom of Thailand            Agriculture            -    25.00   25.0
1752     1979   Kingdom of Thailand            Ag. Extension       40.00      -    40.0
1773     1980   Petroleum Authority of         Natural Gas
Thailand                      Pipeline         107.00/d         107.0
1787     1980   Kingdom of Thailand            Irrigation          80.00            80.0
Total                                                       1,598.10  125.10  879.0
of which has been repaid                                    214.70    0.09
Total now outstanding                                       1,383.40  125.01
Amount sold /c                      68.62
of which has been repaid          43.21                      25.41
Total now held by Bank and IDA                              1,357.99  125.01
Total undisbursed                                             782.45   96.55
/a  This summary includes Bank Group loans/credits signed as of March 31, 1980
/b  Of which $3.1 million is Norway grant participation.
/c  Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.
/d  Includes refinancing of Loan S-10-TH ($4.9 million).



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1980)
Amounts ($ million)
Year        Company               Type of Business           Loan    Equity    Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Cement and Construction
Aggregate Co., Ltd.      Materials                 0.30        -       0.30
1964/  Industrial                Development                    -    0.38       0.38
1970     Finance Corporation       Finance Company
of Thailand (IFCT)
1969/  Siam Cement Group         Cement and
1975/                              Construction
1978/1979                          Materials                28.33    4.24      32.57
1977   Mutual Fund Company       Money and Capital
Limited                  Market                        -    0.29      0.29
1977   United Sugar Terminal   Food and Food
Limited                  Processing                2.50    0.20        2.70
1978   Siam Commercial Bank    Small and Medium
Scale Industries          2.00       -       2.00
1979   Bangkok Glass Industry
Company, Limited       Glass Containers            4.85    0.25        5.10
1979   Siam City Cement          Cement and Construc-
Company, Limited          tion Materials          36.00    4.00      40.00
1979   Thai Orient Leasing
Co. Ltd.               Capital Market                 -    0.15       0.15
Total gross commitments                             73.98    9.51       83.49
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                           48.86    2.56      51.42
Net held by the Corporation                          25.12    6.95      32.07
Total undisbursed                                   34.00        -      34.00



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
(As of March 31, 1980)
Loan No. 822 Second Education Project (Kasetsart University); $15.4
Million Loan of May 24, 1972; Effective Date: August 22,
1972: Original Closing Date: June 30, 1978; Current
Closing Date: July 31, 1980
Although the technical assistance and educational aspects of
the project are largely on schedule, civil works are about three years
behind schedule with consequent delays in furniture and equipment procure-
ment. The delays in civil works result from delays in contracting archi-
tectural consultants, completing tender documents, and awarding contracts.
These delays also reflected ineffective management which has begun to improve
after the recent formation of a commission of senior officials to coordinate
project implementation. Consequently, civil works are expected to be
completed by June 1980 and equipment procurement, by September 1980. The
specialist services program under the project is nearly completed. Out of
26 experts, 21 have completed their assignment and the remainder have been
recruited. Recommendations of experts for improvement of teaching, research
and extension activities are considered worthwhile and have been implemented
by the university staff. All the fellowships have been awarded; nearly all
recipients have completed their training. Total project cost will exceed
appraisal estimates by about 35%.
Credit No. 369 Third Education Project; $19.5 Million Credit of April 11,
1973; Effective Date: August 8, 1973; Original Closing
Date: June 30, 1978; Current Closing Date: September 30,
1980
All project components are virtually completed except the Teacher
Training Colleges (TTC) component which is about three years behind schedule.
Good progress is generally being made in the pedagogical development of
project components except at Songkla University where the attraction of
teaching at Bangkok universities is resulting in high staff turnover.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project implementation.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
Loan No. 1271 Fourth Education Project; $31 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: February 9, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Progress in project implementation follows approximately the
appraisal estimate. There have been no significant delays in civil works
or procurement of furniture and equipment. Nearly all fellowships have been
awarded. Staff training programs are on schedule but need to be improved, as
does supervision by the Ministry of Education of its nonformal education
programs.
Credit No. 913 Fifth Education Project; $35 Million Credit of June 28, 1979;
Effective Date: October 12, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1985
Good progress is being made in project implementation: (i) the
Central Procurement Unit has been established; (ii) sites for all first phase
institutions have been acquired, and construction is expected to be completed
by mid-1981; (iii) Phase I sketch plans and lists for most furniture and
equipment have been prepared; and (iv) technical assistance consultants have
been identified and partly contracted.
Loan No. 864 First Telecommunications Project; $37 Million Loan of December
5, 1972: Effective Date: March 1. 1973; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1977; Current Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project is lagging a few months behind the revised time schedule
established in 1975 due to delays in procurement. The Bank loan is fully
committed and as of March 31, 1980, $0.8 million remains to be disbursed.
Nearly all of the local telephone network expansion has been completed.
Loan No. 1253  Second Telecommunications Prolect; $26 Million Loan of June 11,
1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31. 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Procurement action on
all Bank-financed items is complete. The Bank loan is fully committed and
$21.7 (83%) had been disbursed as of March 31, 1980. Local telephone network
expansion is a few months behind schedule. The project is now expected to be
completed by the end of December 1980, 11 months behind schedule, and to be
fully disbursed by September 1981.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Loan No. 1620 Third Telecommunications ProJect; $90 Million Loan of
October 4, 1978; Effective Date: January 3, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Due to a delay in the borrower's decision on standardization of
switching equipment and cables, action on procurement has been delayed by
about 9-12 months. Waiting lists have been introduced in all telephone areas
and procedures for giving new connections revised. Progress on implementation
of other project components is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1519 Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project: $110 Million
Loan of March 23, 1978; Effective Date: June 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Progress is generally satisfactory. Procurement of maintenance
equipment is under way, and most contracts have been awarded. Construction
of project roads is well under way, with most contracts on schedule.
Loan No. 1662 Fifth Railway Project; $16.7 Million Loan of April 23, 1979;
Effective Date: August 22, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Progress on project implementation is satisfactory.
Credit No. 461 Northeast Irrigation Improvement Project: $7 Million Credit
of February 19. 1974: Effective Date: October 7, 1974;
Original Closing Date: June 30. 1979: Current Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
The project will be completed two years behind schedule as a result
of initial delays in appointing consultants and in procuring earthmoving
equipment. Work on rehabilitation of main canal systems has been completed
and the pace of construction of tertiary canals has improved considerably.
The current estimate of project cost is $30.3 million, compared with $12.5
million at appraisal. This increase is due to inflation being higher than
foreseen at appraisal, the decision to provide new tertiary canals over an
area of 34,700 ha rather than the 21,500 ha assumed at appraisal, and the
adoption of higher standards for tertiary development than envisioned at
appraisal. The higher costs are compensated by increases in projected
commodity prices and the economic rate of return is now estimated at 24%
compared to 22% at appraisal. Progress on the rainfed rice component has been
affected by management difficulty in integrating the work of several different
disciplinary groups.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
Loan No. 1630 Second Northeast Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project:
$17.5 Million of December 4. 1978: Effective Date: May 9,
1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
The consultant's contract was signed in March 1979. Work by
contract is delayed but "force account" work began in early 1980. Procurement
of vehicles and equipment is delayed due to difficulties in reconciling the
language used in existing bidding documents with recently introduced
government regulations on procurement.
Loan No. 1149 Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of July 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Major civil works are behind schedule, but project completion is
still expected by mid-1984. Construction work on the diversion dam is
progressing well and RID expects to award a third canal contract in
time to commence construction during the next dry season. About 4,500 ha of
on-farm development was completed in 1979. Thus, total area provided with
on-farm development is now 9,000 ha or 10% of the project area. All studies
financed under the project are proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1468 Second Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project; $55 Million
Loan of September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 23, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Equipment procurement is progressing satisfactorily. Rehabilitation
and on-farm development works on about 15,500 ha were completed in the 1979
construction season bringing the total area developed to 22,000 ha, which
is in accordance with the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1787 Eleventh Irrigation Project: $80 Million Loan of
February 17, 1980; Effective Date: April 2, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
This loan became effective on April 2, 1980.
Loan No. 1198T Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project; $21 Million
Loan of February 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
After a delay of one year in appointing consultants, satisfactory
progress is being made on the engineering of village roads. The first con-
tract for construction of 114 km has been completed and work has begun on
two contracts for a total of some 250 km. Procurement problems have
delayed the water supply components, but most of the drilling equipment has
now been delivered, drilling crews have been recruited and are being trained.
The rural electrification component has been completed, and progress on
agricultural extension and land settlements is satisfactory. After a slow
start-up, the Upland Crop Improvement Component is progressing satisfactorily.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
The program management, with the assistance of a recently appointed program
advisor, has undertaken a critical review of past work and is gradually intro-
ducing an innovative program of research to help solve the problems of upland-
crop farmers in the Northeast.
Credit No. 929 Northern Agricultural Development Project; $25 Million
Credit of June 28, 1979; Effective Date: October 12. 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Preparation for the first year of project implementation have been
satisfactory, particularly in view of the fact that the implementing agencies
have no prior experience with Bank-supported projects.
Loan No. 1199T Livestock Development Project; $5.0 Million Loan of February
27, 1976: Effective Date: May 25. 1976: Closing Date: June
30, 1981
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily but disburse-
ments remain about eighteen months behind appraisal estimates. The seed
production and pasture development programs are progressing well and the
loaned-bull and artificial insemination program, hitherto hindered by the
delay in importation of cattle, are improving.
Loan No. 1243 Rubber Replanting ProJect; $50 Million Loan of September 13,
1976: Effective Date: January 14, 1977; Closing date: June
30, 1981
The project is one year behind schedule due to procurement diffi-
culties and initial delay in loan signing as well as in agreeing on the
formula of fertilizers to be procured through ICB. Implementation is
improving, however. Staff constraints have delayed completion of the
socio-economic survey of rubber smallholders.
Loan No. 1393 National Agricultural Extension Project; $28 Million Loan
of May 17, 1977; Effective Date: September 1, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Supervisory staff have been appointed in all 33 project provinces,
and remaining vacancies are expected to be filled by end-1980. The quality of
training, particularly that for subject matter specialists, can be further
improved. Efforts to rectify shortcomings in the quality of leadership and
technical support are being made in the weaker provinces. Excellent extension
results have already been achieved, in particular through the extensive use of
small pumps for dry-season cropping by small farmer groups, and in improve-
ments in home gardens. The civil works program is about two years behind
schedule because of high inflation and, untll recently,



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
the low unit cost ceilings for civil works set by the Budget Bureau. It is
expected that contracts for all remaining civil works will be awarded before
October 1980. Procurement of vehicles, equipment and materials is on
schedule.  Disbursements are lagging through the delays in the civil works
program. Consultants continue to provide excellent assistance.
Loan No. 1752 Second National Agricultural Extension Project; $40 Million
Loan of September 18. 1979; Effective Date: December 18, 1979
Closing Date: December 31. 1985
This loan became effective on December 18, 1979, and implementation
progress to date is satisfactory.
Loan No. 977 Srinagarind (Ban Chao Nen) Hydroelectric Project; $75 Million
Loan of April 15, 1974; Effective Date: June 14. 1974:
Closing Date: December 31. 1980
Civil works under the project are nearly completed. The
installation of the turbine generating units is expected to be completed on
schedule. Project costs are likely to be about 30% higher than appraisal
estimates, due mainly to additional grouting work required beneath the main
embankment. The progress on resettlement has been satisfactory, and all of
the families affected have now been resettled.
Loan No. 1485 Pattani Hydroelectric Project; $50 Million Loan of
September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The construction of the main civil works is proceeding satis-
factorily. Implementation is about one month behind schedule. The initial
delay was caused by slow mobilization of the contractor and poorer-than-
expected rock conditions at the downstream ends of the diversion tunnels.
Orders for all major equipment (financed by the Kuwait Fund) have been
placed. Construction for the resettlement component is progressing according
to schedule. Disbursements are generally in line with appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1527 The Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $25 Million
Loan of March 9. 1978; Effective Date: June 7, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
After an initiating delay in procurement, progress on project
implementation is satisfactory.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Loan No. S-10 Natural Gas Development Engineering Project, $4.9 Million Loan
of July 28, 1978: Effective Date: September 25, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30. 1980.
All the project preparation activities and preliminary engineering
have been completed. In July 1979, the Borrower, the National Gas Organiza-
tion of Thailand, was taken over by the Petroleum Authority of Thailand who
is the Borrower for a loan of $107 million for the Second Gas Pipeline
project.
Loan No. 1690 Bang Pakong Thermal Power Project; $80 Million Loan of
August 9. 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This loan is not yet effective.
Loan No. 1773 Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; $107 Million Loan of
February 15, 1980: Closing Date: December 31, 1983
This loan is not yet effective.
Loan No. 1021 Bangkok Water Supply Project; $55 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Effective Date: December 2, 1974: Original Closing
Date: June 30, 1979; Current Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Physical work on the project is proceeding satisfactorily. The
quality of construction and the performance of consultants on supervision
of construction of the IBRD portion of the project is good. Because of the
initial delays in contract awards, the project is expected to be completed
by the end of 1980. Due to inadequate tariffs, which were last revised in May
1972, MWWA's financial performance continues to be poor. Although MWWA's
proposals for raising the water tariffs in line with increased operating costs
were approved by Cabinet, parliamentary opposition has put these tariff
increases in abeyance.
Loan No. 1556 Bangkok Sites and Services Project; $8.6 Million Loan of
June 15, 1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Progress is generally good with only minor delays in implement-
ation. Current cost estimates for civil works are below appraisal esti-
mates.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Loan No. 1638 Bangkok Traffic Management Project; $16 Million Loan of
January 25, 1979: Effective Date: April 25. 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
After an encouraging start, the project's overall progress has
slowed. The most pressing concern is to strengthen the role of OCMRT in
guiding project implementation.  The policy package featuring area road
pricing has made little progress in gaining acceptance. Recently, a healthy
dialogue on the role of various agencies took place that may help to push
the implementation of the project. Tangible project progress to date has
been largely limited to the installation of a computer-controlled traffic
signal scheme which has been a technical success.
Loan No. 1492 The Minburi (Lat Krabang) Industrial Estate Project; $4.75
Million Loan of December 5. 1977: Effective Date: March 24,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
On-site infrastructure has been progressing. Bunding, drainage,
and three of the four deep wells have been completed. Substantial progress
is being achieved in :oad construction, sewerage, and water distribution.
Land sales have been 'ery encouraging with nearly all of available plots
either firmly committed or being negotiated, and are well ahead of appraisal
estimates. These sales have been achieved at an average sales price of B
300,000 per rai, as compared to projected sales price of B 250,000 per rai
in the appraisal. In order to accommodate substantial demand for the Export
Processing Zone, IEAT has enlarged this area to 30 ha. The estate's full
development is expected by mid-1980.
Loan No. 992 Second Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT)
Projlect; $12.0 Million Loan of June 4. 1974; Effective
Date: September 4, 1974: Original Closing Date: September 30,
1978; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Since June 1974 when the loan was made, IFCT's financial condition
continued to be good. The loan is fully committed and nearly disbursed.
Loan No. 1327 Third IFCT Project; $25 Million Loan of December 8, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: December
31, 1980
The loan commitment rate was initially slower than expected
because of sharply depressed investment climate in 1976. This has much
improved. The IFCT's capital structure and liquidity position have
improved, however, with successful share capital increases. Satisfactory
progress has been made on the institution-building aspects of the project.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Credit No. 767 Population Project; $33.1 M4illion Credit of February 27, 1978;
Effective Date: June 30, 1978: Closing Date: December 31,
1981
Due to initial staffing problems, key project activities were held
up initially and major elements of the project are about six months behind
schedule. The Ministry of Public Health is, however, taking appropriate
action to strengthen project management, improve coordination and remove
impediments to implementation.



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
THAILAND
NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare the project: One and a half
years.
(b) Agency which prepared the project: National Housing Authority.
(c) First presentation to the Bank: August 1978
First mission to consider the project: February 1979.
(d) Appraisal mission: November 1979.
(e) Completion of negotiations: May 2, 1980
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: October 1, 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Borrower has agreed to:
(i) ensure that all infrastructure, utilities and community
facilities constructed or installed would be adequately
equipped, staffed, operated and maintained by the respective
authority or agency (para. 54);
(ii)  establish by October 31, 1980 a Coordinating Committee
for slum improvement comprised of representatives from
concerned agencies (para. 56);
(iii) ensure that BMA takes all appropriate measures within its
powers to regulate land use and construction in improved areas
to prevent landlords from redeveloping them for commercial use
(para. 56);



- 43 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(iv) introduce a loan guarantee scheme under arrangements satisfac-
tory to the Bank by October 31, 1980, and ensure that KTB
provides loans to small businesses and industries in project
areas (para. 57);
(v)  ensure that BMA and the Ministry of Interior employ consul-
tants by MIarch 31, 1981 to conduct financial management
studies to identify means to increase income from existing
taxes, and review the results with the Bank (para. 66); and
(vi)  review with the Bank by December 31, 1980, a program under
which BMA would systematically update property registration
and improve collection of the Land Development and IDuse and
Rent Taxes (para. 66).
(b)  NHA has agreed to:
(i)  acquire suitable land in Khon Kaen, Nakhon Sawan and Chanta-
buri for sites and services development by October 31, 1980
(para. 47);
(ii)  maintair its present staff level during the next four fiscal
years (para. 53);
(iii)  submit a program to the Bank by December 31, 1980 to eliminate
its operating deficit by fiscal year 1983 (para. 53);
(iv)  review with the Bank by August 31, 1981, the recommendations of
the housing finance study (para 53);
(v)  prepare an annual construction program, budget and four-year
financial forecast for review with the Bank by July 31, during
each year of the project (para. 53); and
(vi)  prepare a plan for the monitoring and evaluation studies for
discussion with the Bank by March 31, 1981 and review the
results of the studies with the Bank as they are produced
(para. 67).
(c) An additional condition of effectiveness is the authorization or
ratification of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government
and NHA (para. 59).






THAILAND
NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT                                                                                                                           RANG
LOCATIONS OF PROJECT COMPONENTS IN                                                                                                                       RANGST
BANGKOK METROPOLITAN AREA                                            ,-
Pse-ios p-o-t(Lo- 1556THdL
*  Poseut ol slum i,p-o.e-et os P19BO-19831                                                                       \
*  Slb.    m poemnu  reos(G  ninerire pro1ecs, 1978-1979) /,>I  -2
A  SI oe  1proem=nt oreos Gonerimees puoieoi 979-1980 )/
LAND USE, 1976
Gooerr ment areos|    S                                                                   t       \
=i tiner servhce o res-
Pprks and open spaces
E.     . Cs-srsc o I00d hWgh aensir- housmg areas
Medium der-soy housin areas-
V Z  Low dessis9rouseirgoros 5 eoa~9||: l   
Vonoor:3rosroyolrooareos             /( 7(7         4'rw -11            - X          >;  
E      11g       1-/ X              11  tJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ tto4X" - ; -7/AI Ai 1111
Mar narmer a roaxds    _                     r_i1r iX/                  o-         r               l //
rim  R:lwJt5 sfler 050, , o  THONB UR
iOsspOsings ond r5.i.s esir, y OKr
iOYc PlW.ss\         -     ,    .   /oOLI ,ua c  TO
PEHAI  AND     I '1
Are 
' GoB! aef~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AHN 
\ 10S         I  2          0:   4      5       0                 ,i                                           r                       
~~~~~~~~ 5. th           IIj -T' (    z/
==~~~~~~~~~~ 1                                2)            4 
X tf                                                                                           0--~~MLE
-1r fv;  rIf xlsv Ivfr.  o






IBRD 14826
C.    H i XN A                                                                                                                                                                                       APRIL 1980 
C Li   ES<R> b ASite Plan and Land Use
BJRigMA7 SARP 4'THAILAND                                                                                                        COMMERCIAL AREA
,r.IPRt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RLES ~~~~~~~~SMALL NDUSTR AL AREA
F. *'ftM < :,  NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
T                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RESIDENTIAL AREA
'lol  .\ > A~L                      Chiang  Mal                                                          '// /  OPEN SPACE / RECREATIONAL AREA
) 8 TBA A:lDA  ,4e                  PROJECT  LOCATION  AND  SITE  PLAN                                                                                                                    _
-18'49' CH\ANG  MAI                                  PROJECT y TE 
Laind UseRSIETL
|         and Location of Project Site              I NDUSTAL 
- PRINC PAL SLUM AREAS                                                                               C
,,,,g,W,~~~~~~~~~~~~~---  AREA BOUDAIE    18X'49
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AU CIPA BOUNDAR E
7~~~~~~~~~
T~~~~~~K-                                                                     h ,  na   p  bal6  been  prepa fed  by  the  W o yld  Sank  'a  Se taf  eo lt,o,velr    v o  the  0,0000nc
05100           2000 METERS                                                                   5           100           200 METERS        oteraders /nof th reor toQ wh&e n ,toatahe  The OpOtea pored Bankfd the
9°'58'               9E659                  PhSE                 PPC'\






__________________________________________________________________________________                                                                                        IRRD  14827RRD   14827
MARCH IC8D
THAIALAND
NATIONAL   SITES  AND   SERVICES  PROJECT                                                                                                                                                   SITE PLAN AND  LAND USE
SONGKHLA   PROJECT LOCATION AND SITE PLAN                                                                                                                                                           MER% AA
COMERIET AL AREA
C<L                                                                    C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MALL SCALE INDESTR AL AREA
100-35 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N\5COMMUEN TY FACHIITIES
SONGKH-LA LAND USE AND LOCATION  OP PROJECT SITEk                                                                                                                                               EDUCARTGNAL FACILITIES
.  .OPEN SPACE  RIELREARIONAL AREA
P RCJECT SIRE
LAND USE,
REDIDENRIAL
COMMERCIAL
* PRINCIPAL SEEM  AREAS
PU                                        -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~           ~~~~~~~~~~THROUGH ROADS  7CtT'1      \           j'         'N
OR-HEE ROADS
HAILROADS                                                      5
AREA BOUNDAR ES                                     N          Q                 i~>\<
MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIESs                                         S
-INTERNATIONAL BOUENDARIES 
P12'                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7-12'                                                                5     
c Ff*                                                                                                       N  NN'\A
'N                                                                                                                                                             f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~''k N\
IIIA AND ~     A A                                                                                                                    s
n                                                                                                                             -           -S~~~~~?-7C
RGRJ~~~~~~~~A  'U~~~~~~~~...  PEp  E                                                                                                                                                               /~~~~~~~~~~~-1 
>  7%RM<           ½                                                                                                                                                                                 7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ,  5  5  ooam c 
5o'')                                                                                            METER
;  \  W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\ \NAM ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~b.. ..
'<Cr-IA   '                                                                                                                                                                                            55~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....
'I~~  R~~KIRMPLECRIE10#36






IBRD 14828
T HA I LA ND                                                WTYPCA                      AAAY 1980
NATIONAL SITES AND  SERVICES PROJECT                                                   NETWORK
LAT KRABANG SITE PLAN AND LAND USE                                                                        - 
a-14
-7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AI
0  5  IC    0 R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~ ~~EXISTING
1-3,<  MALo SC' i.=ERSs'INDLYY'' APED             iENTRANCE
0X 0  CR0,            ODYRYLYAG    SiNES  1'C                                                          /, _N
1<       > A= l   RE                                          EACILS                   NETWO.K      j, .NE
R___  TESIDENTIAL AREA                TYPICALE
COMNIYFAIITE                    STORM DRAINAGE IF
/1UCAINAL FACILIT S             NETWORKNAL
____   COMMERCIAL  FACIL TIES                       --
OPEN  SPACE 0 RECREAYION  AREAS  ---  p,F  20   5pm5
TVEP  SC                                        ( i            i, , .  - .  |1  | SMALL SCALE  NDUSTRY AREAS  h- D 2025 cm
LAY.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
-            ~~~~~~MAIN   ROADS                  Co 0___40__ __
-                          IY     O       U/ b   : Wj SECONDARY ROADS                             PL
U          ~~~~~MAIN PEDESTRIAN, ROADS0
PHASE  I S
,  /       III              CEW~~~~~Et             RIVERSSEWF
ftg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - - - - - -   ---  --
TYPICAL
NETWORKI
PHASE 11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-       L                                               SWRG
e/ -  * -    -   -     -    -   -   -     -    -    -     -     - - - - - - -v                                        - 
///  YA|0    ICR _  ______  METERS 30                                            4 T aaAo  | 
F-=7  1/
P { } Mtu ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a0 bEa,odRsha M 0h, Mpo  zQ   vMo  awxop,aY,,a oY.  _~a Aha Sa Y   -






IBRD 14829
'    .,,100-C- H I N- A
BSRMA  'A&''            2
'tPENt'->f 
t X         X X         r   > IZ~~~~~~~~~~~M. 4 
..P...    lET
' i I I w ^- X I~~ \  > NAM
/              ) ~~~~THAILAND
, >111 1 111 kIII~~~~~~~~~~~ROD 1 ,1P)-__ ACCESS 3.60m. WIDE, R.C. SLAB
I  /IJI J   111   1  I    X 1t 11 1 1t1  11 1         ~ON GRADE WITH CONCRETE PIPE
,C4D  Qts/X0d} >32Wu~~~~~~~~~O AgCGRADOE 0WITHCONCRETE PIPE
, ll.m  1 }   nltSX,                              X   ~~~~~~~~~~~GA RBAGE COLLE CT ION POINTS
/2S1/  <_/eFj/  Od/0f,S1MES(g/                     _      ~~~~~~~eXISTlNG DITCH
ln * * [~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
"  /// te1,121,                     1   / 
I            L JID/[    IN'I
'J> C/,7Qt,7w /                                    THAILAND                   I A
- 1-   wx1,22 11<2/NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
1>//</tS /Xggx BANGKOK SLUM UPGRADING COMPONENT
/07hW   111QUI             Typical Slum    Improvement Plan
Th,s ..p hts baen pvrt.p d by the     >  0
,b.sntctotteerdtax by lht/g/             3 Od                    20     40      60     8,0   100
b-ed.nomn.dnsu- -o the ~ \-/P                                             METrERS
do not mply.  X                                                                A th3.t'm WIDE RC ShL
,,d - -lh 19. --.-            s-~.I ,                                        ACS  .C.WIE  ..SA
or ccptt- ncaf-sh bo.-drit 4  
MARCH 1980



