OCUMENTS        LOAN NUMBER 1870 TH
Loan Agreement
(National Sites and Services Project)
between
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                              , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1870 TH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1980, between
KINGDOM OF THAILAND (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNA-
TIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (here.inafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out in part by the Bor-
rower's National Housing Authority (hereinafter called NHA) with
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to NHA part of the proceeds of the
Loan as hereinafter provided;
(C) the Project will be carried out in part by the Bangkok
Metropolitan Administration (hereinafter called BMA) with the
T;orrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Bor-
rower will make available to BMA part of the proceeds of the Loan
as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and NHA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of thE Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have


﻿-2-
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and NHA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project
Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project Agree-
ment;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and NHA pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(c) "GHB" means the Government Housing Bank;
(d) "KTB" means the Krung Thai Bank Limited;
(e) "MEA" means the Metropolitan Electricity Authority;
(f) "MWWA" means the Metropolitan Water Works Authority;
(g) "PEA" means the Provincial Electricity Authority;
(h) "PWWA" means the Provincial Water Works Authority; and
(i) "SU0" means the Slum Upgrading Office in the Research
and Construction Department of NBA.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty nine million dollars ($29,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and one quarter.per cent (8.25%) per annum-on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Intere.st and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Sectiod 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement,
the Borrower shall cause NHA to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations therein
set forth, shall take or cause to be taken by BMA, GHB, KTB, MEA,
MWWA, PEA, PWWA, and the other agencies and authorities of the
Borrower and of any political and administrative subdivision of
the Borrower concerned in the execution of the Project, all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable NHA to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the equivalent of twenty-five
million five hundred thousand dollars ($25,500,000) out of the


﻿-4-
proceeds of the Loan available to NHA, partly as a loan and partly
as a grant, under a subsidiary loan agreement t be entered into
between the Borrower and NHA under terms and conditions satisfac-
tory to the Bank, provided, however, that in the event that funds
shall become available to the Borrower from any other source for
the purpose of carrying out in a timely manner any or all of
Part E (ii), (iii) and (iv) of the Project, then the amount of the
proceeds of the Loan to be made available to NHA as aforesaid
shall be increased accordingly.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall (i) cause BMA to carry
out Part A (vii) of the Project (construction of the link road)
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, engineering and public utility
practices, (ii) for such purpose make available out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan to BMA, as a grant, the equivalent of approxi-
mately one million five hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,000), and
(iii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, cause BMA to
procure all civil works to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan under Part A (vii) of the Project in accordance with the
provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement (for which
purpose all references in such Schedule to NHA shall be deemed to
be references to BMA).
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall (i) carry out the housing
finance study under Part E (ii) of the Project through its
Ministry of Finance, with the participation of NHA and GHB, (ii)
provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, all funds and
facilities required for the purpose, (iii) by December 31, 1980
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank to
assist the Borrower's Ministry of Finance, NHA and GHB to carry
out such study, and (iv) by August 31, 1981, review with the Bank
the results of such study and a program to implement its recommen-
dations.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall through its Ministry of
the Interior by March 31, 1981, employ, under Part E (iii) of the


﻿-5-
Project, consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditio-  of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank to
assist in carrying out a study of municipal finance and adminis-
tration which will, inter alia, identify measures to increase
revenues from existing taxes, fees and charges, and review with
the Bank the results of such study.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) review with the Bank by Decem-
ber 31, 1980, a program to be carried out by BMA to systematically
update property registration in its jurisdiction and to improve
collection of the Land Development and House and Rent Taxes; and
(ii) cause BMA, by March 31, 1981, to employ, under Part E (iii)
of the Project, consultants whose qualifications, experience, and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank to assist BMA in carrying out a financial management study
which would, inter alia, identify measures to increase revenues
from existing taxes, fees and charges, and to review with the Bank
the results of such study.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall by March 31, 1981 or such
other date as the Borrower and the Bank may agree employ, under
Part E (iv) of the Project, consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank to assist in the preparation of future urban
development projects in selected regical cities.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, by October 31, 1980,
establish or cause to be established, with powers, responsibili-
ties and composition satisfactory to the Bank, a committee to
coordinate the implementation of slum improvement and employment
generation activities by the agencies and authorities concerned.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall cause KTB to: (i)
provide the funds and resources required for the lending program
for small businesses and industries under Part D of the Project
on prevailing market terms for commercial and industrial loans;
and (ii) prepare quarterly reports on progress of such program for
submission to the Bank through NHA.
(b) The Borrower shall, by October 31, 1980 or such later
date as may be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, introduce
and thereafter maintain during the implementation of the Project
under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, a scheme to guarantee
a portion of each loan from KTB under Part D of the Project to a


﻿recipient approved by NHA in a slum improved by NHA, such guaran-
tees to be available in an aggregate amount equivalent to at least
two hundred and ten thousand dollars ($210,000), and for which
guarantees the recipients will be required to pay an appropriate
fee.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or
distribution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority
for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that -effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason
such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on
assets of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, the
Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an
equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or


﻿-7-
any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause: (a) all infrastruc-
ture, utilities and community facilities constructed or installed
under or in connection with the Project to be adequately equipped,
staffed, operated and maintained by the respective agency or
authority concerned; and
(b) BMA and other municipal authorities concerned to provide
satisfactory garbage collection services in Project areas under
Parts A, B and C of the Project.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, with respect to each slum
area improved by NHA, and by the time of completion of. the basic
infrastructure improvements in that area, cause BMA to take
all appropriate measures within its powers to regulate land use
and construction in that area to ensure, inter alia, that private
landlords will not redevelop improved residential properties for
commercial use throughout the economic life of the infrastructure
improvements.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause BMA to prepare and
furnish to the Bank, by December 31, 1981, for review by the Bank,
a plan for future development of the area surrounding the Lat
Krabang site to be developed under Part A of the Project and the
industrial estate being constructed by the Industrial Estate
Authority of Thailand with Bank assistance under Loan No. 1492-TH.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall ta4e, or cause to be taken:
(a) all such action as shall be necessary to transfer
or lease to NHA, as and when it is needed, all such public land or
rights in respect of public land as shall be required by NHA for
carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after such transfer or lease, an English translation of evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of
land are available; and
(b) all reasonable measures to ensure that the execution
and operation of the Project are carried out with due regard to
ecological and environmental factors.


﻿-8-
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall cause its appropriate
agencies and authorities to provide, from their -wn resources, in
slum improvement areas, high priority social and economic pro-
grams identified by SUO, which shall for such purpose solicit
the views of local residents and community committees.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall, through its Ministry of
Education, construct, in a timely manner, the secondary school at
Lat Krabang, and provide all resources necessary for such purpose.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that:
(a) NHA shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement
or obligation of NHA under the Project Agreement; and
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that NHA will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof namely, that the event specified in
paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and
shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice -thereof
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and NHA.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and NHA.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:


﻿-9-
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by NHA, and is legally binding upon NHA in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and NHA and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and NHA in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date /frvemhx- 6, /9O  , is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Bangkok
Thailand
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINANCE                            TH-2823
Bangkok
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
By SI [19OA llm'qn6
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works                 22,800,000         65%
(2) Equipment and mate-            680,000
rials
(a) imported directly                         100% of for-
eign expendi-
tures
(b) manufactured                              100% of local
locally                                  expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) other locally                             65%
procured
(3) Building materials             790,000         65% of loans
loans                                         disbursed
(4) Technical assistance            80,000         100%
services and training
(5) Unallocated                  4,650,000
TOTAL             29,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for


﻿- 12 -
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement except that withdrawals
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $100,000
may be made in respect of Category 1 on account of payments made
for such expenditures before that date but after May 1, 1980.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds


﻿- 13 -
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limitina any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Part A:   Sites and Services in Bangkok
Development of about 3,500 residential and commercial shop-
house units on a 100 ha (equivalent to 625 rai) site at Lat
Krabang, including (i) site preparation and on-site infrastructure
consisting of roads, drainage, water supply, sewage treatment
plant, sewerage and electricity connections, and flood protection;
(ii) core houses with sanitary facilities; (iii) building mate-
rials loans for house completion through self-help; (iv) community
facilities; (v) areas for commercial use and for small-scale
industry; (vi) off-site infrastructure including an access road
and power supply line; and (vii) a road (approximately 6.7 kms in
length with 8 m wide paved surface) linking the above site to the
industrial site at Lat Krabang.
Part B:   Sites and Services in the Regional Cities of Chiang
Mai, Songkhla, Chantaburi, Khon Kaen and Nakhon Sawan
Development of about 3,250 residential and commercial shop-
house units on approximately 50 ha (equivalent to 312.5 rai),
including (i) site preparation and on-site infrastructure; (ii)
core houses with sanitary facilities; (iii) building materials
loans for house completion through self-help; (iv) community
facilities; (v) areas for commercial use and for small-scale
industry; and (vi) off-site infrastructure.
Part C:   Bangkok Slum Improvement
Provision of basic infrastructure services, community
facilities and socio-economic programs for approximately 12,000
households;
Part D:   Employment Generation
Provision of loans and technical assistance for small
businesses and industries in Project areas.
Part E:   Technical Assistance
(i) Strengthening of NHA through the provision of about 5
man-months of advisory services in monitoring and
evaluation, selected equipment and training of staff.


﻿- 15 -
(ii)  Carrying out of a study of housing finance (focusing
primarily on sources of funds and institutional rela-
tionships and practices) through the provision of about
12 man-months of advisory services to the Ministry of
Finance, NHA, and GHB to identify measures to mobilize
additional domestic resources for housing and to in-
crease low-income families' access to housing finance.
(iii) Strengthening of municipal finance and administration
through the carrying out of studies and through the
provision of about 107 man-months of advisory services
to the Ministry of Interior and BMA in the fields of
municipal finance and administration, property valuation
and property taxation, and training of staff.
(iv) Preparation .of urban development projects in selected
regional cities through the provision of about 50
man-months of professional services to the Ministry of
Interior.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1983.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning March 1, 1986
through   March 1, 2000                     965,000
On September 1, 2000                           1,015,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 17 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years                             1.25%
before maturity
More than three years but                             2.50%
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                               4.55%
not more than eleven
years before maturity
More than eleven years                                6.60%
but not more than
sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years                               7.40%
but not more than
eighteen years
before maturity
More than eighteen years                              8.25%
before maturity


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of     ,1982
FOR SECRETARY


