FILE      COPY                 RESTRICTED
Report No. P-6.4 1
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON THE
PROPOSED LOAN
TO BRAZIL
FOR A HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
September 27, 1968



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMYENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON THE PROPOSED
LOAN TO BRAZIL FOR A HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $26.0 million to
Brazil.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In September 1967, on the occasion of the presentation of the
loan for the livestock development project, the President recommended
to the Executive Directors that it would be appropriate for the Bank
in its future lending to attach high priority to transportation.
3.        The reform and development of the transportation sector are
of major importance in the continuing growth of the Brazilian economy
and in the control of inflation. The rapid expansion of production
and markets requires large investments in transportation facilities -
about one-fourth of the Federal Government's expenditure for investments
is in the transportation sector. Moreover, some of the transportation
entities, particularly the railways, incur large deficits financed by
the Government and need major organizational and operational changes and
new investments to approach financial viability. In 1967, despite re-
duction in previous years, the current deficit of the federal railways
was about $140 million equivalent and accounted for more than one-third
of the Federal Government's total budget deficit.
b.        The Bank's recent association with the transportation sector
goes back to 1965 when, through a technical assistance grant of $1.5
million, it participated in the financing of, and supervised, the first
phase of a transport survey comprising the railways, coastal shipping,
the ports of Santos, Rio de Janeiro and Recife, and highways in the
States of Minas Gerais, Parana, Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul.
These studies have been completed recently. A second phase of the
survey, partly financed by the UNDP and the AID and supervised by the
Bank, covering highways in the remaining states outside the Amazon
region is currently in progress.
5.        During last year there has been a continuing exchange of views
between the Bank and the Government regarding the implementation of the
recommendations of the completed studies and the reform of the transport-
ation sector. The Bank informed the Government that it would hope to be
able to provide a continuing and significant financial support of projects



- 2 -
in this sector, provided that the Government formulated an acceptable
program for the reform of the sector and provided that there were satis-
factory progress in its implementation.
6.        The Government has formulated a three-year program of organiza-
tional and operational improvements in the transportation sector and for
investments in transportation projects. An outline of the program, in-
cluding a time schedule for its implementation, has been communicated
to the Bank in a letter from the Government. (A translation of this
letter is attached to the report.) I expect that, if the Government
follows the course outlined in this letter, a basis would be laid for
the efficient functioning of Brazil's transportation system. These
policies would also contribute to an improvement in general economic
performance by reducing the substantial burden of the transport sector
subsidies on the federal budget.
7.        The project now before the Executive Directors is the first
to emerge from the completed sector studies. Formal negotiations of
the proposed loan began on September 3, 1968 and were completed on
September 12, 1968. The Government was represented by Messrs. Eliseu
Resende (Director General of the National Highway Department and leader
of the negotiating team), Jaime Alipio de Barros, Rafael Assuncao, Wando
Borges, Francisco Magalhaes Gomes, Raimundo Mesquita and Mrs. Maria Luiza
Magalhaes Gomes.
8.        The proposed loan and the two power loans being presented to
the Executive Directors simultaneously, would bring the number of Bank
loans to 26 and would increase the total Bank lending to Brazil from
$558.1 million to $633.0 million, net of cancellations. The following
is a summary statement of Bank loans to Brazil as of August 31, 1968:
Loan                                           Amount less
No.  Year         Borrower          Purpose  Cancellations  Undisbursed
-(US million)
Loans fully disbursed               267.0
403   1965   Central Eletrica de
Furnas - Estreito I      Power       57.0           39.5
40   1965   Centrais Eletricas de
Sao Paulo - Xavantes     Power       22.5           17.9
442   1966   Centrais Eletricas
de Minas Gerais         Power        49.0           46.1



-3-
Loan                                                Amount less
No.   Year         Borrower           Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
t"UST million)
474    1966   Central Eletrica de
Furnas - Estreito II     Power           39.0             39.0
475    1966   Cia. Brasileira de
Energia Eletrica         Power            6.2              6.1
476    1966   Cia. Forca e Luz
do Parana                Power            8.1              8.0
L77    1966   Cia. Paulista de
Forca e Luz              Power           41.0             4o.3
478    1966   Cia. Forca e Luz
de Minas Gerais          Power            6.3              6.2
516    1967   Brazil                   Livestock        40.0           40.0
526    1968   Cia. Yinera de           Aluminum
Alumino - Alcominas      manufacture     22.0             21.5
Total (less cancellations)              558.1
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others:                   132.3
Total now outstanding                   125.8
Amount sold              10.5
of which has been
repaid:                6.6             3.9
Total now held by Bank                  h21.9
Total undisbursed                                        264.6
9.        The above undisbursed amount includes $40 million of the
livestock project loan signed in September 1967, which became effective
in December 1967. Disbursements of this loan have been delayed because
several months were needed before the regional project offices could
begin to function. Although the Bank has some reservations about the
arrangements made for carrying out the project, it has agreed to begin
disbursements, while closely watching the initial operations of the
project. The above table also reflects the delays in disbursements on
some of the recent loans for electric power projects. The reasons for



- h -
these delays were last explained to the Executive Directors in the Presi-
dent's Report (P-573) dated December 28, 1967. Work on the projects is
now progressing normally.
10.       IFC has made investments in 9 companies for a total of $31.7
million (net of cancellations). The following is a summary of the IFC
investments in Brazil as of August 31, 1968:
Amount       Undisbursed
($ million)
Investments fully disbursed                    15.0
Investments not fully disbursed                16.7           4.3
Total (net of cancellations)                   31.7
of which has been repaid to the
Corporation:                                 3.4
28.3
Amount sold                                     7.8
Total now held by Corporation                  20.5
Undisbursed                                                   4.3
11.       The Bank is actively cooperating with the Government and private
agencies in Brazil in preparing projects in transportation, agriculture,
electric power, industry, mining, education and water supply which would be
suitable for financing by the Bank.    I do not expect to present any loan for
these projects to the Executive Directors during the current fiscal year.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
12.       BORROW.IER:                 - Brazil
PURPOSE:                    - To help finance: (a) the construction
and paving of three highways totalling
165 km; (b) the paving of four high-
ways totalling 264 km; and (c) the
detailed engineering and supervision
of the proposed works.
AMOUNT:                     - The equivalent, in various curren-
cies, of $26 million
AMIORTIZATION:              - In 25 years, including a 1< year
period of grace, through semi-annual
installments beginning May 15, 1973
and ending November 15, 1993.



INTEREST RATE:              - 6½ per cent per annum.
COMIffTIT CHARGE:           - 3/h of one per cent per annum.
ECONOMIfC RATE OF RETURN:   - 13 to 40 per cent on individual
roads; 21 per cent on the project
as a whole.
PART III - TIE PROJECT
13.       An appraisal report entitled "Akpraisal of Highway Construction
Project - Brazil" (TO-668a) is attached.
li.       The project comprises the construction and paving of seven
Federal and state Highways with a total length of U29 km in the States of
Minas Gerais, Parana, Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul and consulting
services for the detailed engineering of these highways and the supervision
of their construction. The highways included in the project were identified
by a Bank mission in 1965 as being of high economic priority in view of
their traffic potential. Subsequently, detailed feasibility studies were
conducted by consultants as a part of the first phase of the transport
survey.
15.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $65.5 million. The
proposed Bank loan of A26.0 mill-ion would cover about hO per cent of the
total cost and would comprise the following:
(i) Construction - $23.9 million for financing hL per cent of
the construction cost of the higlways included in the project.
(ii) Detailed Engineering and Supervising Consultants - $2.1
million for financing foreign exchange cost of detailed engineering and
consulting services to supervise construction. This amount includes retro-
active financing of $0.3 million for the foreign exchange cost of detailed
engineering incurred since ADril 1, 1967. Qualified consultants of inter-
national repute were employed to ensure adequate engineering.
16.       The agency entrusted with the execution of the project on behalf
of the borrower would be the National Highway Department (D.N.E.R.). Of
the seven roads included in the project, two would be constructed by the
Federal Government and five by the -itate Governments of Ninas Gerais, Parana,
Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul. Prior to the effectiveness of the
proposed loan, the Federal Government would enter into agreements satisfac-
tory to the BDnk with State Governments regarding arrangements for the con-
struction of roads by the State Governments. The agreement would also ensure
that the State Highwfay Departments are strengthened and reorganized on the
basis of ccmpleted studies. The Federal Government aims at a gradual trans-
fer of all highway construction and maintenance functions to State highway
departments. By eliminating overlapping construction and maintenance organi-
zations, this would lead to a more efficient use of available manpower and
finances.
17.       A revolving fund would be set up by the Federal Government to
make and receive payments in respect of the project. The establishment



- 6 -
of the revolving fund would be a condition for the effectiveness of the
proposed loan. The proposed agreement between the Federal and State
Governments would include arrangements for the State Governments to
pay to the Federal Government, which would administer the revolving
fund, their share of the cost of the project.
18.       Contracts for construction and paving would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding. Arrangements for the import
of equipment, agreed to during loan negotiations, would ensure equal
treatment of domestic and foreign contractors. An existing law and a
decree, not yet declared effective, would permit duty free import of
equipment by contractors for the project, if no similar equipment is
produced domestically. If such equipment is produced domestically,
duty free import of equipment would be permitted if the price of the
domestic product is more than 15 per cent above the c.i.f. price of
the imported equipment. The proposed loan would not be made effective
until the decree had been made effective.
19.       To ensure in an inflationary environment disbursement of the
Bank loan in accordance with the progress of the work, disbursements
would be made on the basis of unit costs expressed in dollars. Dis-
bursements of the loan would be bO per cent of the cost arrived at by
applying the dollar unit costs to corresponding physical work done from
time to time. Measured in local currency, the contribution of the Bank
to project costs would be less than 40 per cent if the exchange rate
changes lag substantially behind domestic price changes.
20.       The foreign exchange component of the project is $16 million,
less than 25 per cent of total costs. A Bank loan equivalent to L0 ner
cent of the cost of the project appears justified. Financing of Brazil's
external capital requirements calls for some financing of the local cur-
rency cost of projects, particularly in sectors with a relatively low
foreign exchange component. Moreover, the need for the Bank's assist-
ance in programs for reform and institution building is particularly
important in sectors such as transportation and agriculture, where pro-
jects have a relatively low foreign exchange component and where bi-
lateral external finance is less easily employed.
21.       A maturity of 25 years, including a 1a½ year grace period, is
recommended for the proposed loan on project grounds. This term would
also be consistent with Brazil's debt servicing capacity.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRIUNETS AND AUTHORITY
22.       The draft Loan Agreement between Brazil and the Bank and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III (Section 4 (iii))
of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, are being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors.



- 7 -
23.       The draft Loan Agreement generally conforms to the pattern of
agreements for highlway projects financed by the Bank. For legal and
administrative reasons there are no project agreements between the Bank
and the individual states whose highway departments are to be assigned
responsibility for execution of certain parts of the project. Instead,
the draft Loan Agreement provides for a set of agreements to be entered
into between the federal and the respective state governments with the
aim of achieving the objects which would have otherwise been attained
by means of individual project agreements. Other special features of
this project are referred to elsewhere in the report.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
24.       A Bank economic mission visited Brazil earlier this year.   Its
report (14H-18ba) is being distributed to the Executive Directors together
with this report.  It concludes that the new Government is generally con-
tinuing to follow reasonable stabilization and development policies and
that Brazil remains creditworthy for substantial amounts of external
lending.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE ITTH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
25.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOPII'ENDATION
26.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to Brazil in an amount equivalent to U.S.
$26,coc,oo0.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to Brazil in an amount in
various currencies equivalent to twenty-six million United States
dollars (US$26,000,0cc), to mature on and prior to November 15, 1993, to
bear interest at the rate of six and one half per cent (61½%) per annum,
and to be upon such other terms and conditions as shall be substantially
in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Loan
Agreement (Highway Construction Project) between Brazil and the Bank, which
has been presented to this meeting.
Att.                                         Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
September 27, 1968



Translation of the Government's
Letter on Transportation Policy
MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT
Rio de Janeiro
August 29, 1968
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C., 20133
Gentlemen:
1. Brazil has undertaken a series of studies of the transport
sector with the assistance of the WIorld Bank, the United Nations Develop-
ment Programme and the United States Agency for International Development.
The first phase of the Transport Survey, consisting of studies of the
federal and state railways, highways in the States of Minas Gerais, Parana,
Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul, the Ports of Santos, Rio de Janeiro
and Recife, and coastal shipDing, has been comoleted.   A second phase of
the Survey, comprising highways in the remaining states, is in progress.
These studies have been undertaken by the Government for the express
purpose of using their conclusions for the reform of the transportation
sector, in accordance with the national economic situation, an( for the
determination of future investment priorities, with due regard for the
demands of national security, for those of a social nature and for
national integration.   The M4inistry is now reviewing the reports on rail-
ways, highways and ports emerging from the first phase of the Survey.   It
is essentially in agreement with the main conclusions of these reports and
has accorcingly initiated several measures, which are described in this
letter.
2.  The Government has drawn up a Stratevic Development Plan for
1968-7C, covering inter alia the transport sector. Some of the measures
just referred to are included in the Strategic Plan, which will make it
possible to achieve some of the desired objectives. The Plan comprises
a program of investment and its financing, and specifies the measures
that the Government intends to adopt to improve the management, operation
and finances of the transport sector. These measures are intended by the
Government to lead to a more efficient use of the funds, manpower and
physical facilities available to the sector. A major objective of this
policy is the Government's intention to reduce the large operating deficits
of some of the transportation entities, such as the railways.
3. The following are the most important measures that the Government
proposes to implement in railways, highways and ports by 1970:



I.    Railways
(a) Consolidation of the Railway System
4A. The Government proposes to consolidate the present federal
and state railroad networks, embracing 22 railroads, into a single
system with four regional superintendencies. This unification is being
studied by a commission made up of representatives of the Federal Govern-
ment and State of Sao Paulo, whose recommendations on the legal, adminis-
trative and financial aspects of the merger will be submitted during the
third quarter of 1968.
4B. The regional organization recommended by the consultants, how-
ever, is already being introduced into the federal railroads and will be
reviewed when the above merger is put into effect. It is planned to
establish three regional superintendencies early in 1969 (northeast,
center and south), coinciding with the geo-economic regions of the country
and grouping the operational units located there. The regional superin-
tendents will be selected during the third quarter of 1968, and will take
an active part in organizing the regional offices. The new organization
will be introduced gradually, so as not to interfere with the continuity
of railroad operations. It shiould be completed by 1970.
(b) Organization of the New National Railway System
5.   The federal railroad system is an autonomous mixed-economy
enterprise administered by a Board of Directors, composed of a Chairman
and Directors, with the assistance of a Consultative Council. The Board
of Directors is responsible for the operation of the railroads and their
auxiliary services, including the construction of new lines. The Chairman,
implementing the resolutions of the Board, is responsible for the day-to-
day management of the enterprise, giving an account of his actions to the
Minister of Transport, who represents the Federal Government at the General
Meeting of Stockholders. Any ministerial agency connected with the rail-
roads will act as a staff agency of the Tiinistry of Transport and will lIave
no direct supervisory authority over the railroads.
To facilitate the merger, the setting up of the regional systems and
the performance of the new activities undertaken, the statutes of RFFSA
will be amended to confer greater flexibility on the management. A draft
of the statutes has already been prepared and is to be submitted to the
General Meeting of Stockholders during the third quarter of 1968.
6.   During the second half of 1968, the Federal Railroad System
will engage a specialized consulting firm to render technical advice to
its staff and, jointly with the staff, to study the reorganization of its
services and the implementation of any measures that are considered neces-
sary. In the course of 1969, operating, statistical and cost-accounting
criteria, standards and procedures, as well as tariff-setting and commercial
policies, will be analyzed and reformulated.



-3-
(c) Personnel
7A. The railways will conduct a survey of their personnel to
determine actual needs and draw up a program to correct existing dis-
tortions. At the same time, they will consider a wage policy that will
enable them to recruit and retain personnel with the necessary skill and
experience.
The federal railroad system has defined its rational personnel
establishment at 131,0CO employees on the cotpany's payroll, based on
its existing organization and operating methods. This number was reached
in 1968 and represents a reduction of 23,000 employees since 1963.   Further
reshuffling will take place throughout 1969, and redundant staff will have
to be pensioned off, dismissed, transferred, or placed at the disposal of
the Government. It is hoped that by 1970 RFFSA's payroll will have been
cut back to 120,000 employees, representing fewer thar 5 men per km of
line, which is a perfectly reasonable index.
7B. A working party has been set up by RFFSA to consider revision
of the legislation governing the staff of the enterprise. Its findings
are to be submitted during the final quarter of 1968.
(d) Accounting
8.   The system of accounting will be studied by the above-
mentioned consultants and the staff of the railways with a view to
updating the schedule of accounts and introducing modern cost accounting
in the railways. One basic purpose of the accounting reform will be to
provide a rational basis for the reform of the tariff structure.
An auditing office already established within the federal system
is advising the accounting services of the various operating units and
laying the bases for a mechanized cost accounting system. On these founda-
tions, with the assistance of the technical consultants recommended, it is
hoped that by the first half of 1969 the accounts will have been completely
reorganized and the new system introduced in the regional superintendencies.
(e) Operations
9.   Simultaneously with the merger and reorganization of the
present operating units, the railways will revise their operating methods
in order to improve the efficiency of railway operations.
Uneconomic stations are gradually being closed down. In the
federal system, 202 stations have already been closed or doTmgraded to
simple halts, and a program is being drawn up to eliminate a further 21b
stations by December 1969. The cancellation of some trains has been
facilitated by improved timetable scheduling and better composition. In
addition, during the first half of 1969, an entirely new operating system
will be introduced to meet the needs of the regional structure, in collab-
oration with the technical consultants to be engaged. This system will
affect train formation, communications and leave systems, reorganization
of workshops, supply and maintenance depots, yards and facilities.



(f) Tariff Policy
1C. Beginning- in January 1969, the tariff policy will be oriented
by competition in the transport marlcet, with any charges resulting from
unprofitable operations being allocated to the sectors concerned.   The
formulation of the new tariff system - which show,s the cost of trans-
portation for each specific, regional category of traffic and represents
an aggressive policy aimed at winning a larger share of the market -
should be completed by the third quarter of 1969, through the joint efforts
of the technical consultants and RFFSA's railroad team.
(g) Uneconomic Lines
11. The program for closing uneconomic lines, in pursuance of Decree
No 58992 of August 4, 1966, is well underway.
The railroads have already suspended traffic on 75% of the 6,16C km
included in the basic program, which is scheduled for completion by 197C.
At the request of the railroads, the Standing Committee that is following
up the execution of the program has already expanded it to 7,3CC km. This
revised program is to be completed - and the alternative highways constructed-
by 1972.
12. New lines, the planning and/or construction of which is already
in hand, will be dealt with as recommended in the *Aurvey Report unless the
considerations referred to in Paragraph 13 below are applicable. Con-
struction of those new lines which the Survey Report has identified as
uneconomic will be stopped immediately. In cases recommended to be re-
studied by the railways, further planning and construction will be stopped
as soon as possible and, in any event, not later than the middle of 1969,
if the study indicates that the new line would be uneconomic.
13. WAherever the maintenance or construction of uneconomic facili-
ties, inclucing railway lines, is found by the Federal Government to be
justified on grounds other than economic, and the Federal Government deems
it necessary that these facilities be maintained or constructed, the rail-
ways will be reimbursed for construction expenses and net operating losses
out of the federal budget, and the expenses will not be charged to the
railroads. However, the Federal Government will make an effort to restrict
such exceptions to the absolute minimum consistent with national security
and social conditions.
14.  The investment program for 1968/7C, as approved by Law No65L50
of June 5, 1968, will be reviewed periodically, at the intervals laid down
in the law, in conformity with the instructions contained in the Strategic
Development Plan for 1968/70.
(h) Deficit
15.  The main purpose of the above policy is to assure the railroads
of a completely viable financial system that will make them increasingly
independent of subsidies from the Federal Government.



The true size of the railroad deficit in RFFSA is now being quanti-
fied through the introduction of accounts standardization, by which. it
is sought to define the charges arising out of government demands, such
as low rates for carrying certain goods, provision of free services,
maintenance of unprofitable sections, trains and services, granting of
fare privileges to former staff, in addition to the discriminatory taxes
on rail freight rates, the amounts of which will be recorded in the accounts
as notional receipts. Quite aDart from this new truth in accounting, the
steady reduction of the deficit ought to produce an operating factor of
2.0 in 1968, whnich will be the best performance index attained by RFFSA
since 1959.
II.   iLghwa"s
16. The objective of the Government's highway policy is to create
a roads infrastructure which will be efficiently integrated with, and com-
plementary to,other means of transportation. This involves the develop-
ment of rational investment programs based on sound economic criteria
and the creation of efficient national and state organizations to share,
in the most efficient manner possible, the responsibilities for planning,
constructing and maintaining the national roads system. The Government's
directives in this respect hold that road users must pay the cost of the
road services offered.
Accordingly, the following measures will be taken in the course of
the next three years:
(a) Delegation of Construction and M4aintenance Functions to
State Highway Departments
17.  A study of the organization of the Federal Highways Department
is already underway and will be completed by the end of 1968. On the
basis of this study, the Government will formulate in early 1969 a pro-
gram for the reorganization of the Federal Highways Department, with
particular emphasis on its planning, regulator and supervisory functions.
The study will also attempt to coordinate the work of the State
Highway Department with the program to be adopted, so as to en: ble tUlem
to take over from the DNER the duties of construction, paving, maintenance
and policing of federal highways.
The transfer of these responsibilities to the State Governments will
be effected gradually, as regional conditions, the capacity of the high-
ways agency, and the nature of specific projects permit.
In effecting this delegation, the Federal Government will ensure
that the states implement the recommendations of the Survey Report regard-
ing the organization of their higlhway departments.



-6-
(b) User Charges
18. The Government is studyi.ng tlhe possibilitfes of reforming the
present system of user charges so that there will be a broad correspondence
between the use of highways by particular classes of vehicles and the
economic costs of constructing, maintaining and administering the National
Roads System. Toward the end of 1968 the IlLnistry will submit its final
proposals to that effect to the country's financial authorities, with a
view to analyzing the probable repercussions on Brazil's economic and
financial policy. The Government's conclusions will be reported to the
World Bank.
(c) Investment Program
19. The Government intends to base its investment program on the
highway construction priorities recommended in the   urvey Report, with due
regard for the national economic situation. Moreover, it intends to main-
tain, within the IMinistry of Transport, a continuous planning process to
update the Master Plan on the basis of current and subsequent detailed
studies on the technical and economic feasibility of proposed highways,
seeking at all times to make the investments that will yield the best
return.
III. Ports
20. The Government's policy on ports is to decentralize the adminis-
tration by setting up autonomous and financially viable entities respons-
ible for their operation, to adopt specific measures for introducing an
accounting system, and to set port charges on the basis of the cost of the
service rendered at a reasonable level of efficiency. To achieve these
objectives, the Government intends to take the following measures:
(a) Decentralization of Port Administration
21. The Federal Government will have to take the necessary legis-
lative and administrative steps to set up corporations in the above ports.
In the first half of 1969 inventories of the assets of the principal ports
will be conducted, after which the corporations will be set up.   The states
and municipalities in which the ports are located, as well as business and
industrial interests, may participate in these corporations.
(b) Accounting, Tariffs and Port Operations
22. It is proposed to introduce a modern, commercial accounting
system in the ports of Rio de Janeiro, Santos and Recife. By December
1968 qualified consultants will be retained to ijork on the existing plan
to introduce such a system in the ports. This work should be completed
during the first half of 1969, so that the system can be introduced during
the second half of the year.



- 7 -
23.  The consultants will also introduce a system of cost accounting.
The resulting cost information will be used by the port authorities to
establish a schedule of port charges, related to the cost of services
rendered, for the major ports.   The level of charges will be such that a
reasonable rate of return on the total net investment is assured.   The new
tariff of charges will be phased into operation as data on the cost of
services provided are obtained through the cost accounting system.
IV.   General
2L. The Government trusts that the World Bank, in its studies con-
cerning the grant of the Highway Loan, will take due account of the above
measures, wh1ich embody certain asDects of the country's transDort policy.
The Government will at all times be receptive to any technical assistance
intended to improve and perfect the country's transportation media.
Yours truly,
(signed)
Mario Andreazza
(Minister of Transport)



