Lo?AJ 56A&- 61&
FILE       COPY                  RESTRICTED
Report No. TO-664a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
FIRST HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
BRAZIL
September 25, 1968
Projects Department



Currency Equivalent
Currency Unit            New Cruzeiro
(Symbol NCr)
US$1                -    NCr 3.65
US$1 million        =    NCr 3.65 million
NCr 1 million            US$273,973
Note: The currency equivalent at the time
detailed engineering cost estimates were
drawn up was US$1 = NCr 2.7, which has been
used in this report unless otherwise stated.
Weights and Meaurwes Equivalents
1 m                      3.28 ft
1 km                     o .62 mi
1 km2                    0 o.386 sq mi
1 m ton                  0 0.98 ton
=    1.1 U.S. sh ton
Fiscal Year
January 1           -    December 31
Abbreviations Used in the Report
DER - State Highway Department
2DER - National Highway Department
GEIPOT - Transport Policy Planning Group
SUDENE - North East Brazil Development Agency



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF FIRST HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
SUIRY                                                        i.R
1.  INTRODUCTION                                                  1
2. BACKGROrMm                                                     3
A. General                                                    3
B. Transportation in Brazil                                   3
C.  Transport Coordination                                    5
3. THE HIGHiAY SECTOR                                             7
A. Highw¢ay Administration                                    7
B. Highway Engineering                                        8
C. Highway Construction                                       8
D. Highway Maintenance                                        9
E. Highway Financing and Planning                            10
F.  Characteristics and Groith or Road Traffic               12
4.  THE PROJECT                                                  14
A.  General Description                                      14
B.  Design and Consulting Services                           17
C.  Cost Estimates and Financing                             17
D.  Execution of the Project                                 20
S. ECODIOMIC JUSTIFICATION                                       22
A.  Introduction                                             22
B.  The Project Roads                                        22
C.  Benefits from the Project                                26
6.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECO4IENDATIOIS                              28
This report has been prepared by Messrs. Schaefer (Engineer), Parmeggiani
(Engineer), Hughes (Economist) and Siret (Engineer/Economist), mrembers
of the June-July, 1967 Bank Project Appraisal T4ission to Brazil, and up-
dated by 14essrs. Schaefer and Hughes in M4ay, 1968.



-2-
Table of Contents (Continued)
TABLES
1. Freight Transport by Mode of Transport, 1961-1967.
2. Passenger-Kilometers, Percentage Shares, and Average Annual
Growth Rates of Total and Selected Items, by Mode of
Transport, l950-1961 and 1961-1965.
3.  Investment in Tran-port by Modes & Percentage Share of Modes
in Total Investment, 1960-1965.
4. Highway Revenues and Expenditures, 1961-1966.
5. Classification of Highways, Lengths According to Type and
Jurisdiction, December 1966.
6. Highway Design Standards for New Roads.
7. Admissible Highway Design Standards for Improvement of Existing Roads.
8.  Vehicle Registrations, By State, 1965.
9. Vehicle Fleet, 1965.
10.  Projected Average Annual Growth of Rate by Class of Vehicle, 1965-1971.
11. Average Daily Traffic (ADT), Selected National Highways, 1966.
12. Average Cperating Costs of Selected Vehicles on Flat Paved Roads.
13. List of Roads and Cost Estimates.
14. Average Daily Traffic, Project Highways, 1966.
CHARTS
I. National Highway Department
II. Highway Department of Minas Gerais
III. Highway Department of Parana
IV.  Highway Department of Rio Grande do Sul
V. Highway Department of Santa Catarina
ANNEX
A. Consultants Engaged in the Brazil Transport Survey.
B. Transport Survey, Phase I - Main Recommendations.
C. Formulation of Transport Policy in Brazil.
MAPS
1.  General Highway Map
2. Minas Gerais
3. Parana
4. Santa Catarina
5. Rio Grande do Sul



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF THE FIRST HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        The Bank has been closely associated with the comprehensive
planning of Brazil's transport system over the past several years. The
Bank's Economic Mission in 1964 concluded that Brazil's transportation system
faced serious problems and that a major effort towards comprehensive transport
planning was needed. The Government accepted these conclusions; it was agreed
that a transport survey should be undertaken by foreign consultants and,
because of the size of the country and the magnitude and complexity of the
problems involved, that this survey should be carried out in stages. In
1965, the Bank made a grant to provide half the foreign exchange cost of
Phase I of the Transport Survey, covering the entire railwiay system, three
principal ports and the highway systems of four States. Phase II, a con-
tinuation of the highway studies in fourteen additional States, was com-
menced in 1967 with UNDP and USAID financing, with the Bank acting as
executing agent. Phase I is virtually complete and Phase II will be largely
completed by the end of 1968.
ii.       The Government of Brazil has asked the Bank for a loan to assist
in financing a highway project which is based on recommendations resulting
from the Phase I studies.  The project consists of:
(a)  the construction, including paving, of three highways
totalling 165 km;
(b)  the paving of four highways totalling 264 km; and
(c) the detailed engineering and construction supervision
for the proposed works.
Six of the highwzays are important links which will go far to integrate
regional economies through lower transport costs, while the seventh road is
an urban improvement which will relieve congestion in the rapidly developing
suburbs of Porto Alegre. The longest road, 99 Im in Minas Gerais, will
greatly shorten the highway route between the underdeveloped northeast of
Brazil with the highly developed southern towms. One road in the State of
Parana will link the timber region of the west with the eastern consuming
region while the other is an alternative coast route to the south. The
Santa Catarina highway will join the economically developing west with the
coast.  In Rio Grande do SUl, the higlhways are essentially links between the
city of Porto Alegre and the northeast, providing low cost transport routes
mainly for agricultural produce.



- ii -
iii.      The total cost of the project, including contingencies, is estimated
at US$65.5 million equivalent. The Bank loan of US$26.0 million equivalent
would finAnce 40 percent of the construction cost, and the full foreign ex-
change cost (about 40 percent) of consultants, including the retroactive
financing of their services from April 1, 1967. The balance will be provided
by the Government.
iv.       The project will be the first highway construction project financed
by the Bank in Brazil, though a highway maintenance project was financed in
1953 (US$3 million) covering the purchase of maintenance equipment. A rail-
way project was financed in 1952 (US$12.5 million) covering the rehabilitation
of the Central do Brasil facilities and the purchase of new rolling stock.
v.        Design standards adopted for the project roads are satisfactory.
Detailed engineering has been completed by consultants who will assist the
Government in analyzing bids and supervising construction. The cost estimates
are considered reliable, and adequate contingencies have been included.
vi.       The project is technically and econamically sound. The economic
rates of return for the different roads range from 13 percent to 40 percent,
with the project as a whole giving a return of 21 percent.
vii.      Contracts for the project works will be let on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
viii.     Execution of the project will be the responsibility of the National
Highway Department for national highways and of the respective State Highway
Departments for state highways. The National Highway Department will delegate
authority to the State Highway Departments for the highways which belong to
the national as well as to a state highway network. The loan will be to the
Federal Government, and the National Highway Department, as executing agency,
will administer a revolving fund for payments to contractors and consultants.
ix.       Based on the recommendations of the Transport Study, the Government
has submitted a letter to the Bank stating its intention to take certain
measures regarding transport policy. If these measures are followed through,
they will result in substantially decreased railway deficits and a more
rational organizational structure in the transportation agencies. The
project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$26.0 million equiva-
lent. An appropriate term would be 25 years, including a 4hk year period of
grace.



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF FIRST HIGHWAY CONJSTRUCTION PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Brazilian Government has requested a loan of US$26.0 million
equivalent to help finance a) the construction, including paving, of three
highways totalling 165 km, b) the paving of four highways totalling 264 km;
and c) the detailed engineering and supervision of construction for the
proposed works.
1.02      The Bank has been closely associa-ed over several years writh the
comprehensive planning of Brazil's transport system. The Government of
Brazil agreed with the conclusion of the 1964 Bank Economic Mission that
the country's transportation system faced serious problems and that
important improvements in planning, administration and operation of the
various transport facilities were urgently needed. It was then agreed
that a transport study should be undertaken by foreign consultants and
because of the size of the country and the magnitude of the problems
involved, that this survey should best be carried out in stages. In
1965, the Bank made a grant to provide half the foreign exchange costs
of Phase I of the Transport Survey. This Phase included several high-
way feasibility studies, and master plans for:
(a) construction, improvement and maintenance of
some 8,000 km of roads in the three southern
States of Parana, Santa Catarina and Rio Grande
do Sul, and about 4,700 km in the State of
Minas Gerais;
(b) reorganization of the State Highway Departments
of Minas Gerais, Parana, Santa Catarina, and Rio
Grande do Sul;
(c) improvement of facilities and administration in
the three major ports of Rio de Janeiro, Santos
and Recife;
(d) improvement of railway services and administration;
and
(e) rehabilitation of coastal shipping.
The highway feasibility studies were made for selected high priority roads
in the four States for which highway master plans were carried out. Foreign
consultants were employed to carry out Phase I (Annex A).



1.03      Phase II, a continuation of the Phase I studies, commenced in
1967 with Government, UNDP and USAID financing, with the Bank acting as
executing agent. This Phase includes highway feasibility studies and
master plans for highways in fourteen States in central and northeastern
Brazil. One major study in this Phase is the proposed beltway for the
city of Sao Paulo and an expressway from Sao Paulo to Santos. Again,
foreign consultants have been engaged.
1.04      In addition, training Fellowships for overseas study are being
provided. To coordinate and supervise the Survey, as well as to provide
counterpart personnel and physical facilities, a Brazilian Government
agency (GEIPOT) was formed in 1965, staffed largely by engineers and
economists. For both Phases fourteen consulting firms were engaged from
eight countries (Annex A). The total cost of Phase I studies was about
US$8.0 million equivalent, of which US$1. 5 million was provided by Bank
Technical Assistance, and the remainder (including US$1.5 million equiva-
lent in foreign exchange) by the Government. Phase II studies are being
financed by the Government (US$5.o million equivalent in local currency
and US$1.4 million in foreign exchange), UNDP (US$1.4 million), and
USAID US$1.0 million. Phase I is virtually completed and it is expected
that Phase II will be largely completed by the end of 1968. The size of
the Government's contribution is a significant indicator of the importance
it attaches to developing the transportation system on a sound economic
basis. Further details of the Survey are given in Annex B.
1.05      The proposed highway construction project, which is the direct
outcome of the highways studies of Phase I, will be the first to be
financed by the Bank in Brazil. A highway maintenance project was financed
by Loan 75-BR (US$3 million) in 1953 covering the purchase of maintenance
equipment for the State of Rio de Janeiro. Two railway projects of US$12.5
million each (Loans 65-BR and 92-BR) were financed in 1952 and 1953 res-
pectively. The 1952 loan covered the rehabilitation of the E.F. Central
do Brasil facilities and the purchase of new rolling stock; the 1953 loan
covered purchase of suburban passenger cars for the same railway. All
three loans have been fully disbursed.
1.06      This report has been prepared by Messrs. Schaefer, Parmeggiani,
Hughes and Siret, members of the June-July, 1967 Bank Project Appraisal
Mission, and up-dated by Messrs. Schaefer and Hughes in May 1968.



2. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Brazil is somewhat larger than the continental United States,with
an area of about 8.5 million km2. It is divided administratively into 22
States with limited autonomy, a federal district and four territories ad-
ministered directly by the Federal Government. The population (88 million
in mid 1968) is the eighth largest in the w,orld and is growing at about
three percent per annum.
2.02      The Gross Domestic Product for 1967 is estimated at NCr 47.2
billion, equivalent to about US$15 billion (US$170-180 per capita).     The
annual real growth rate, after falling to 2.2 percent in 1963-64, is re-
covering slowly, having been 3.7, 4.4 and 4.1 percent respectively in
1965, 1966 and 1967, and is expected to be at least 5.0 percent in 1968.
2.03      The public sector generally has been a major source of inflationary
pressure over the past decade. Operating subsidies to transport have been
particularly important in this respect. The Government's objective is to
reduce gradually the rate of inflation by, among other things, improving
transport operations and by setting limits on permissable wiage increases.
Government policies and general economic conditions are promising; the 1968
Economic Mission to Brazil expects an average annual growth rate in the
Gross Domestic Product of about 5.5 percent during the next few years.
B. Transportation in Brazil
2.04      Brazil's transport network has been influenced by geographical and
historical factors. The easily accessible coastline of nearly 5,000 Ion
together with 1,600 kn along the Amazon River has been instrumental in the
development of population and economic centers. Settlement along or near
water has also been influenced by the partially navigable Sao Francisco,
Parana and Paraguay Rivers. Railways were developed primarily to penetrate
the interior and to carry resources to the ports. For the most part, these
lines are unconnected wsith each other and often have different gauges. Road
transport, in terms of ton-km performed, has been more important than rail
transport for many years and has almost doubled in importance over the last
seven years (Table 1). This rapid growth has been both a consequence and a
cause of difficulties in coastal shipping and railways. However, important
parts of the highway system are deficient even for present needs. Aviation
has been important for many years, providing transport to many otherwise
inaccessible areas.
2.05      In Brazil there are 15 federal railway systems and 7 railway systems
owned by the State of Sao Paulo. These total approximately 25,000 km and
6,500 km, respectively. Another system (E.F. Vitoria a Ilinas), of about 570



khm, is operated by a mining company that is partly owned by the Federal Gov-
ernment. In absolute terms, railway freight traffic has increased by h2 per-
cent from 1961 to 1967, but in relative terms the railway share of total
traffic decreased from about 18 to 15 percent in this period (Table 1). The
largest absolute increase in freight hauled was in iron ore, accounting for
about 46 percent of total railway traffic and 92 percent of the 1linas a Vit-
oria traffic. In recent years the federal and state railways have been suf-
fering from intense road competition, even for bulky commodities such as
sugar, livestock and timber; they are inefficient, with overextended light
density lines and large staffs. The consultants for Phase I of the Transport
Survey (Para. 1.02) made recommendations to increase efficiency but progress
has been slowJ (Para. 2.14 et seq.).
2.06      Brazil's coastal shipping fleet consists of four passenger vessels,
small tankers and 145 dry cargo vessels over 500 deadweight tons. The fleet
is generally old, slow, expensive to operate and poorly utilized.   A major
renewal and expansion program is underway. Coastal shipping traffic has in-
creased from 14 billion net ton/km in 1961 to 19 billion net ton/km in 1967
(Table 1). The increase is due to longer voyages rather than to greater ton-
nages.
2.07      Of Brazil's five major commercial airlines, four (VARIG, CRUZEIRO
DO SUL, PARAENSE ANuD SADIA), are privately owned and operated, while the
fifth, (VASP), is owned by the State of Sao Paulo. VARIG has the most ex-
tensive network,linking Brazil with other cities in South and North America
as wiell as with Western Europe and Africa. The airlines contributed 0.2 per-
cent of the total freight ton/kcm amounting to about 240 million ton/km in
1967 (Table 1).
2.08      For passenger traffic in 1965, bus transport was the most important,
accounting for 53 percent of the total passenger km. Automobile transport
accounted for 31 percent and railways 14 percent (Table 2).
2.09      Pipelines, all except one operated by the Government monopoly PETRO-
BRAS, are becoming important in the movement of crude oil from the fields in
Bahia and for oil and derivatives inland from the coast. Three short pipe-
lines are located in the States of Bahia, Sergipe and Guanabara and a fourth
links Rio with Belo Horizonte, a distance of 365 km, while another of 90 ka
connects an inland refinery near Porto Alegre with its sea terminal in the
State of Rio Grande do Sul. Another line of 120 km, owned by the federal
railways, links the city of Sao Paulo with the port of Santos.   The ton/km
movement by pipeline is not knowqn.
2.10      Investment in transport has averaged about NCr 3.2 billion annually
(1967 prices) from 1960 to 1966 (US$1.2 billion equivalent, Table 3). In the
public sector transport investment is about one-third of total public invest-
ment, road construction alone accouting for about 22 percent.l/ Investment
in highway construction rose significantly by about 25 percent betwseen 1960
and 1966, as did investment in fixed facilities for other forms of transport.
1/ Economic Growth of Brazil: Problems and Prospects, Vol. I.
IBRD October 23, 1967, p. 45



Transport Coordination
2.11      Transport coordination, in the sense of a set of policies to en-
courage the movement of traffic by that mode of transport which, in the long
run, can move it at the lowest economic costs, does not exist at present in
Brazil. By and large, many past transport investments have been made with-
out reference to priorities based on relative net contributions to national
income and a number of investments have been made where the yield has been
extremely low.
2.12      Current pricing policies do not ensure recovery of investment
and operating costs of any mode of transport except pipelines. In rail
and maritime transport not even current operating costs are recovered and
large subsidies have been required. These are a major source of inflation
as the federal subsidies accounted for about 43 percent of the federal
cash budget deficit in 1967.  In that year for &xarrple, the subsidies.were;
federal railways NCr 474 million, ports NCr 34 million, shipping NCr 112 mil-
lion, and air transport NCr 14 million, a total of NCr 634 million or US*i234
million equivalent. The largest share, US$lh0 million equivalent, was for
the federal railways. Moreover the yield of road user charges is about 40
percent of the economic cost of highways.
2.13      Following the Bank's Economic Mission in 1964, the Government and
the Bank realized the serious situation in the transport sector. In ar-
ranging for the subsequent Transport Survey (Para. 1.02), the Government
signed a MIemorandum of Understanding, the main provisions of which committed
the Government to pursue rational investment policies and aim for efficiency
in the transport sector.  The railwrays were to be reorganized into regional
systems, uneconomic lines were to be abandoned, the construction of unremu-
nerative new lines was to stop and some of the excessive staff was to be re-
duced. Hanagement was to be operated on sound business principles and rates
were to be raised over time eventually to cover costs. Some specific mea-
sures were to be undertaken during the course of the study; 1,000 Ioms of un-
economic lines to be closed in 1965/1966, the excessive labor force to be
reduced by 10,000 in the same period and rates increased by an amount which
would exceed any cost increases by at least 20 percent. The Government ac-
tually achieved the target for the abandonment of uneconomic lines, the
staff was reduced by 8,300 and the railway deficit declined in real terms
by 24 percent. In respect of ports, the Government undertook that ports
would be operated by local port authorities and on a commercial basis with
Government's function being limited to coordination. The Port Master Plan
to implement these objectives has been prepared by consultants. The Gov-
ernment also stated its intention to reorganize the National Highway Depart-
ment and to pursue a policy of highway financing whereby the users would
pay for their costs; these objectives are in the planning stage and are dis-
cussed further below in connection with the proposed project.
2.14      A further Memorandum of Understanding was agreed upon as a pre-
liminary to Phase II of the Survey. About 1,000 km of uneconomic railway
lines were to be abandoned in 1967 and staff reduced by another 10,000.
Construction of new^s lines was to cease unless recommended in Phase I, and



- 6 -
there were to be realistic increases in rates and fares.   W,hile some pro-
gress has been achieved performance has fallen short of expectations; line
abandonment was less than one-third of that agreed upon because the alter-
native highways have not been built, staff has been reduced by less than
3,000, and tariffs are still below costs for most goods and passenger traf-
fic.  The railway deficit, in real terms, was about the same in 1967 as it
was in the previous year and although most construction of newJ railway lines
has ceased some is still taking place contrary to Phase I recommendations.
2.15      In the highway sector, the Government was to limit highway con-
struction to roads indicated by the Phase I studies and those in other States
agreed upon with the Bank. Again the limitation of construction has not been
fully observed.
2.16      The Government is taking steps to remedy this situation.   A "Stra-
tegic Program" of broad objectives for transport policy was approved by the
Government in July 1967, which embodied most of the principles of the Memo-
randa of Understanding.  This was re-stated in the President's 1968 Budget
message, as a result of which a Plan of Action has been prepared including
a 3-year transport investment plan for 1968-1970 based principally on an
analysis of benefits and costs. The Plan also sets out the objectives and
measures by which it is intended to bring about improved transport coordi-
nation, including most of the measures agreed to in the Memoranda of Under-
standing and the recommendations of the Transport Survey.
2.17      Wfhen these measures are implemented, significant progress towards
transport coordination will have been made.   It should be recognized, how-
ever, that the transport problems to which these actions are addressed are
widespread and deep-rooted.  While the plans are well-conceived, it can be
expected that progress wrill be difficult and, at best, slow. The importance
of the problems and the Government's desire to work with the Bank in an am-
bitious program to bring about solutions, justify the Bank's continued efforts
along these lines in the face of the mixed progress to date. Close cooper-
ation between the Government and the Bank will be required. Prior to loan
negotiations, the Government communicated to the Bank the major objectives
of the Government's policies in highways, railways and ports and of the
measures and time schedules proposed to achieve these objectives. The
main elements of the Government's fu'ture t'ansport policy are'given in
Annex C.



- 7 -
3. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A. Highway Administration
3.01      Brazil has a total road network of about 825,000 km, of which
37,000 km are national, 99,000 km are state, and the balance municipal roads.
The figure for municipal roads is doubtful since it is not based on actual
inventories. The records of the National Highway Department show that 37
percent of the national highways, 16 percent of the state highways, and only
an insignificant portion of the municipal roads are paved (Map 1 and Table 5).
3.02      The national highways, which are mainly interstate roads and their
connections, are administered by the National Highway Department (Departamento
Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem - DNER) which has district offices in the
states and federal territories (Chart I). State highways are administered
by the State Highway Departments (Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem - DER
in all states except Rio Grande do Sul where it is called DAER).
3.03      The organization of DNER is shown on Chart I and of the DER's of
the States of i4inas Gerais, Parana, Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catarina,
in which project works would be carried out, on Charts II, III, IV and V.
There is wasteful duplication of services supplied by the National and State
Highway Departments, especially in the more developed and more populated
states wJhich have better organizations. The 1964 Bank mission recommended
that the DNER should be reorganized by gradually restricting its activities
to planning and supervision, leaving construction and maintenance to the
DER's. In view of the size and complexity of Brazil the proposed change
can be made only gradually. The present system should continue in the
poorer states which do not have suitable highway departments, and by neces-
sity will have to be continued in the outlying territories. The Government
has agreed and taken the first steps towards reorganizing DNER. Under a
USAID loan recently signed, experts of the US Bureau of Public Roads will
assist DNER and make recommendations how best to change the present organi-
zational structure within the 1968-1970 period covered by the Government's
Plan of Action regarding transport (Para. 2.16). The terms of reference
for this study have been submitted to the Bank and found to be satisfactory.
ENER has also retained the services of the Vargas Foundation to perform a
management study of DNER, in cooperation with the advisors from the US
Bureau of Public Roads.
3.o4      Concurrently with the reorganization of DNER, the reorganization
and strengthening of the DERts will be undertaken. The objective of this
program is to (1) increase the operational and administrative efficiency of
the DER's, and (2) provide for the gradual transfer of all services relating
to construction, maintenance and policing of highways within the states from
the DNER to the DERIs. A reorganization study of the four DER's of Minas
Gerais, Parana, Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul was made during Phase I
of the Transport Survey. The consultants who made the master plans and



- 8 -
feasibility studies for the project roads have been in charge of the reorga-
nization studies, Their recommendations should be carried out in phase with
the reorganization of DNER during the 1969-1971 period covered by the Plan of
Action. Assurances were obtained during loan negotiations that the States of
Minas Gerais, Parana, Santa Catarina, and Rio Grande do Sul will be required
to implement the recommendations in consultation with the Bank.
3.05      Reorganization programs for highway departments of the fourteen
states covered by Phase II of the Transport Survey have been included in
the scope of the consulting services.
B. Highlway Engineering
3.06      DNER and the DERst concerned have agreed to the general design
standards shown in Tables 6 and 7 for the roads included in the project.
These standards are in conformity with modern engineering practices and are
a considerable improvement over the 1949 standards. The latter standards are
now being revised and new improved standards will be adopted.
3.07      The shortages of staff in the DNER and in the DER1s concerned
necessitated the use of consultants for the highway studies of the Transport
Survey and the detailed engineering studies for the project roads. However,
Government counterparts to the key personnel of the consultants were and
continue to be assigned on a full-time basis for the purpose of training.
This should improve the critical staff situation of the DNER and the DER's
in the future if the Government provides working conditions sufficiently
attractive to retain this personnel.
3.08      Regulations for maximum motor vehicle weights of 22,000 lb for
single-axle and 35,000 lb for tandem-axle loads are similar to those in
other countries. Excess loading, however, is frequent, endangering safety,
increasing highway maintenance costs, and shortening the life of pavement
structures. During loan negotiations a commitment was obtained that weight
regulations will be enforced in the four states covered by the project.
C. Highway Construction
3.09      The quality of construction is sometimes poor, due mainly to
insufficient supervision, but also, in some cases, to hasty design. The
local construction industry, however, is well advanced and there are about
twenty construction firms with adequate experienced staff and equipment to
handle large-scale highway works.
3.10      At present, only Brazilian contractors participate in bidding for
construction work. Foreign contractors have in the past worked in Brazil,
but the continuing inflation, coupled with poor contracting procedures
and uncertainty of payments, have in recent years discouraged them from
bidding.



- 9 -
3.11      The manufacture of construction equipment has developed con-
siderably during the last decade, but heavy equipment, such as large
scrapers, shovels, crawler tractors and large hauling equipment, still
needs to be imported.  Prices of locally manufactured equipment are high
and, as a consequence, construction costs are generally higher than in
other countries.
3.12      Yany aspects of bidding and contracting procedures in Brazil
differ from international practice in respect of competitive bidding and
unit price contracts. The DNER with the assistance of the consultants
in charge of detailed engineering studies have prepared suitable documents
which are in agreement with the Bank1s guidelines (Paras 4.33 and 4.34).
D. Highway Maintenance
3.13      The quality of maintenance work on national and state highways
varies widely, depending largely upon the importance of the road. In
general, however, maintenance has been neglected until recently.   The
lack of proper organization and equipment, and of adequate funds, to-
gether with the uneconomic duplication of national and state maintenance
divisions, have made it difficult to keep national and state roads at a
suitable level of traffic serviceability.  Maintenance costs are high,
partly because of the use of old equipment, and partly because many of
the existing roads were not des%gned and constructed to support present-
day traffic, especially since weight regulations are not enforced. USAID
has given considerable financial assistance to several States for the
purchase of maintenance equipment. Loans amounting to US$20 million
each were given to Sao Paulo, Minas Gerais and SUDENE (the Government
development organization for the northeast), Parana received US$11.5
million and Rio Grande do Sul US$15.2 million.
3.lh      Consultants for Phases I and I: of the Transport Survey have
been entrusted with maintenance studies for the states concerned. The
recommendations concerning Phase I are now available. These involve im-
provements in mairntenance methods and operations, procurement of equip-
ment and materials required for maintenance, preparation of general
maintenance programs, and organizational changes needed to implement
these programs. Some of these recommendations have already been put
into effect, such as the purchase of new equipment with USAID
assistance; others are under consideration. During loan negotiations
the Government agreed to implement the recommendations in order to
arrive at a satisfactory level of maintenance on national and state
highways in the four States in which project works would be carried
out.



- 10 -
E. Highway Financing and Planning
Revenue Sources
3.15      The main highway user charge is the federal tax on fuels and
lubricants which is based on the price of imported crude oil. The greater
part of the fuel tax is paid into the National Road Fund. The fund is
then distributed to the DNER, the DER's and the municipalities on the
basis of population, area, fuel consumption and the production of crude
and refined oil. Deficits are made up from budgetary and other resources
at various Government levels (Table 4). Besides highways, railways and
airports, the Government oil monopoly (PETROBRAS) receives allocations from
federal fuel taxes as shown below:
Distribution of Federal Fuel Tax Receipts
1.  National Road Fund                                        Percent of
Total
1.1.  National Highway Department
1.1.1.  National Highwrays                32.9
1.1.2.  Reulacement of uneconomic railway
lines by highways                  5.0
1.1.3.  Airports                           1.6         39.5
1.2.  States and Territories
1.2.1. Construction of National Highways   2.4
(minimum)
1.2.2.  Airports                           1.3
1.2.3.  Unallocated                       28.3         32.0
1.3. IMunicipalities (Road construction and
maintenance)                               5i.O         8.0
79.5
2. PETROBRAS                                                     12.5
3.  Federal Railways                                              6.0
TOTAL     100.0
3.16      Several other special agencies receive or have received direct
budgetary appropriations for highway construction, apart from the National
Road Fund. For example, RODOBRAS, the agency responsible for the Brasilia-
Belem Highway, received large sums in the p)ast (in 1967 this agency was
merged with the National Highway Department). Regional agencies, such as
SUDENE, the body responsible for the development of the northeast, to-
gether with similar agencies for the Amazon and Sao Francisco River basins,
also channel funds through national and state highway deDartments for
highway plurposes.
3.17      The States impose other taxes such as registration fees,
inspection fees and road taxes on vehicle use. The total receipts from
such state taxes, however, are small compared with state expenditures
for highway purposes.



- 11 -
3.18      The Transport Survey showed that in the three southern States, and
in Minas Gerais, the total of state vehicle taxes amounted to only 5 percent
of highway expenditures in 1965, the balance being made up from tle National
Road Fund and budgetary appropriations. The mwiicipalities also impose
various vehicle use and ownership taxes. w Thile the receipts are generally
earmarked for expenditure on city streets, there are some exceptions such as
a social relief tax in Porto Alegre. The amounts raised by the municipalities
from user taxes are generally low.
3.19      The report of the Coordination Consultants for Phase I of the Trans-
port Survey concluded that users contributed about 40 percent of the economic
cost of highways and that the incidence of the existing user charges on dif-
ferent types of vehicles was not linked to their relative use of highways.
The Government is studying the possibility of reforming the road user charges.
However, in view of the very heavy tax burden already borne by the private
sector - federal, state and municipal taxes are about 30 percent of the GNP -
significant increases in the overall level of fiscal charges wiLl have to be
coordinated with adjustments in the overall taxation and expenditure of the
Government. The structure of the user charges, however, does need early
reform. The transport policy letter includes a statement of the Governmentts
intention to reform the structure of road user charges, so that there would be
a broad correspondence between the use of highways by particular classes of
vehicles and the economic cost of highways (Annex C).
3.20      In 1966 revenues received from users by federal and state governments
totalled about NCr 850 million while total highway expenditure in that year
was NCr 2,167 million. Users contributed, therefore, about 40 percent.
(Expenditure on city streets or the receipts from municipal taxes are not
compiled on a national basis. Their inclusion would not significantly change
this order of magnitude). However, there is no economic reason why total user
charges should cover annual highway expenditures.
Highway Planning
3.21      Highway planning in Brazil centers on the 25-year program contained
in Law 4592 of December 1964 which provides for the building of nearly 95,000
Im of roads. 'Within this program there is a "Preferential Plan," listing
25,000 km of priority roads. The DINMR cannot build outside the Priority Plan
which is being implemented and forms the basis of all annual budgets. Other
plans are armounced from tine to time, however. For example, in August 1967 a
high priority program for construction of roads in the northeast, totalling
2,132 ka of paving, 962 km of earthworks, and 677 kI of betterment - all to be
completed by 1970 - was announced. In the past most highway plans were not
based on economic analysis but this deficiency is being remedied as a result
of the Transport Survey and by feasibility studies financed by USAID for high
priority roads in the northeast.
3.22      The 25-year program is for national highways only, but state highways
account for 54 percent of the total of paved highways in the country. The states
thus have considerable autonomy in planning, since some of them provide over one-
half of highway expenditures from their own funds, the rest being automatically
forthcoming from the National Road Fund. The DNER does, however, approve state
expenditures from the National Road Fund, and is thus able to exercise some
measure of control.



- 12 -
3.23      A new road plan has been prepared as part of a 3-year -lan
(1968-70) for the transport sector (Para. 2.16). The plan is broadly
based on the priorities established for national and state roads by Phase
I studies of the Transport Survey, and the preliminary findings of the
Phase II studies.
F. Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
3.24      Data on the vehicle fleet are poor and the estimates given below
are to be considered as the best aoproximations. The national total in
1965 was estimated to be about 1.3 million cars and pick-ups, 57,000 buses,
and 436,000 trucks, and the total vehicle fleet has been growing by an
average annual rate of nearly 8 -percent in recent years. For Brazil as a
whole there was oae vehicle for every 47 persons in 1965 compared with one
vehicle for every 18 persons in Argentina and one for 40 persons in Chile.
The distribution among the states and territories was uneven; for example,
Sao Paulo accounted for about 37 percent of the total and Guanabara for
10 percent (Table 8).  Most of these vehicles were manufactured by the
local automobile industry at high costs under the protection of high im-
port duties reaching 150 percent. In fact, no significant vehicle imports
of any kind have occurred in Brazil since 1960. About half the truck
fleet is of 5-9 ton carrying capacity, gasoline-powered; heavr diesel
trucks of over 15 tons carrying capacity account for only 7 percent of the
truck fleet (Table 9).
3.25      The total vehicle fleet is expected to grow from about 1.8
rillion vehicles in 1965 to about 2.8 million in 1971 (Table 10). The
projected high growth rate for passenger cars (8.9 percent per annum)
reflects the expected greater availability of cars, higher personal
incomes and population growth. The highest growth rate is expected for
inter-city buses, refClecting the same factors, together with the move-
ment of passengers from uneconomic railway services that are to be
suspended.
3.26      Knowledge of traffic characteristics has improved in the last
two years as a result of the Transport Survey highway studies. The DNER
and GEIPOT now make regular traffic counts, as do some of the states.
The State of Sao Paulo for example, has over 800 regular counting
stations. Origin-destination surveys are done although not on a systematic
basis.   The Government has agreed that data collection for highwray planning
purposes will be undertaken systematically in the future.    -
3.27      The hub of Brazil's road transport network is the city of Sao
Paulo, where several important interstate highways converge. Route BR-116
starts in the northeast in Ceara and continues south through Feira de
Santana to Sao Paulo to the Uruguay border (Map 1). Its most heavily
travelled sections are in the south. In 1966, for example, at Governador
Valadares, the ADT was over 2,000 vehicles rising to 15,000 near Sao Paulo
and remaining over 4,000 in the State of Rio Grande do Sul (Table 11).
Freight traffic is heavy, trucks being as much as 80 percent of the traffic



- 13 -
flows in Minas Gerais. Other traffic data are given in Table 11 for all
the main highways. The high proportion of tracks is evident, averaging
51 percent for the highway sections shown. Vehicle operating costs are
given in Table 12. These tend to be somewhat higher than those experienced
in the US, primarily because of the higher price of vehicles.
3.28      Entry to the interstate road transport industry requires DNER
approval but is not difficult. Two-tlhirds of the ownership must be
Brazilian. It is not necessary to prove public convenience and necessity
for a proposed truck route, or to file information regarding tariffs, the
commodities to be carried or financial standing.   The granting of licenses
is more or less automatic. Intrastate trucking operators are licensed by
the DER's in the same way. Bus companies must apply to DNER or to DER's
depending on whether the proposed services are inter or intrastate. Unlike
truckers, however, applicants must prove public need and file tariffs and
timetables for each route. There is, then, clear demarcation of interstate
and intrastate road transport regulation which is, on the whole, not unduly
restrictive.



4. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The proposed project was chosen on the basis of feasibility
studies carried out for selected high priority roads during Phase I of the
Transport Survey. All of these roads are included in the resulting master
plans. The project consists of:
(i)  The construction, including paving, of three highways
totalling 165 kin, one of which is in IYinas Gerais and
two in Rio Grande do Sul (Maps 2 and 5, Table 13);
(ii)  The paving of a total of 264 km of four highways, two
of which are in Parana, one in Santa Catarina and one
in Rio Grande do Sul (Maps 3,4 and 5, Table 13); and
(iii)  The detailed engineering and construction supervision
for the above highways.
Highways to be Constructed (Table 13)*
Ipatinga-Governador Valadares: MG-4 or BR-381 (State of Minas Gerais)
4.02      The construction of the 99 km stretch of State Highway MG-4
(National Highway BR-381) would complete the connection from National High-
way BR-262 at Monlevade to National Highway BR-116 at Governador Valadares,
thus providing the shortest paved connection between the northeast and
the industrial centers of Belo Horizonte and Sao Paulo.   The route tra-
verses the heart of the Rio Doce valley, mainly rolling terrain,and its
future extension towards the east will eventually connect Belo Horizonte
and the steel-producing area between Nova Era and Ipatinga with the Port
of Vitoria and the beaches in the State of Espirito Santo (Map 2). The
design calls for Class I standards and asphalt concrete surfacing. The
construction cost is high because crushed rock for the base course will
have to be brought in from widely scattered quarries with an average
hauling distance of 20 km.
Tabai-Canoas: RS-13 or BR-386 (State of Rio Grande do Sul)
4.03      Highway BR-386, known as the "Xennedy Highway," connects the
productive northwestern area of Rio Grande do Sul with the capital Porto
Alegre (Map 5).  The major portion of the road is being completed with
financial assistance from USAID and is nearly completed up to the village
*Note: National highways are designated with BR-, State highways in Iinas
Gerais with MG-, in Parana with PR-, in Rio Grande do Sul with
RS-, and in Santa Catarina with SC-. National highways may also
have a state designation.



- 15 -
of Tabai.  However, traf°ic from Porto Alegre bound for the Kennedy High-
way must still use the roundabout route following Highway BR-116 via Sao
Leopoldo and then Highway RS-3 to Montenegro and Tabai, a distance of about
95 km.
4.04      The proposed construction of the 54 km stretch between Tabai and
Canoas will complete the Kennedy Highway by connecting it with Highway
BR-116 at Canoas and shorten the distance between Porto Alegre and Tabai
by about 34 km. The route traverses rolling terrain which does not pre-
sent major location difficulties, but difficult soil conditions may cause
embankment construction problems. The work comprises grading and drainage
works, and construction of pavement structure and bridges. The design calls
for Class I standards and asphalt concrete surfacing.
Sao Leopoldo-Novo Hambuargo: BR-116 (State of Rio Grande do Sul)
4.05      The existing 12 km, paved 2-lane highway between these two cities
(Map 5) is one of the most highly travelled routes in Brazil (Average
ADT = 6,500). It is proposed to increase the capacity by improving the
existing highway and by constructing two additional lanes.
4.06      The work proposed on the existing road is improvement of grade
and alignment in rolling terrain, repaving, and widening or construction
of drainage structures and bridges. The construction of the two additional
lanes includes grading, drainage works, paving and the constraction of
several bridges. The design calls for Class I standards and asphalt con-
crete paving.
Highways to be Paved (Table 13)
Sao Mateus do Sul-Uniao da Vitoria: PR-5 or BR-476 (State of Parana)
4.07      Highway BR-476 is a high priority road for the south of Parana
(Map 3).  It is paved between Curitiba and Sao NvIateus do Sul.  Earthwork
for the 85 km stretch beyond the latter point to Uniao da Vitoria has
recently been finished by the State and the grade is ready for paving.
The road for the most part traverses rolling country and has been built
in accordance with Class I design standards. It is proposed to provide
this section with an asphalt concrete paving.
Section of BR-468 from km 40 to km 83 (State of Parana)
4.08      This 43 km section is part of the high priority road between the
state capitals Curitiba (State of Parana) and Florianopolis (State of Santa
Catarina). The 290 km road is designated BR-468 from Curitiba to the town
of Joinville in the State of Santa Catarina, and BR-101 from there to
Florianopolis (Maps 3 and 4). It has been designed in accordance with
Class I design standards. Construction was started about six years ago
and pavement of about 170 km is finished. Earthiwork is nearly finished
and pavement contracts are under way for the remaining 120 kIm, with the
exception of the section between km 40 and Im 83 in the State of Parana
(Map 3).



- 16 -
4.09      Earthwork in the Im 40 - km 83 section is being completed.The amount
of earthlwTorlc is considerable, since the road crosses very mountainous terrain.
Grade construction is expected to be firnshed by November 1968 at th latest,and
it is now proposed to pave this section and surface it with asphalt concrete.
Rio do Sul - Junction with BR-116: SC-23 or BR-470 (State of Santa Catarina)
4.10      Highway BR-470 is a high priority road for the State of Santa
Catarina since it links the western part of the State with the populated
coastal area and the sea (Map 4). 96 kn of the 140 km section between
Itajai, on the coast, and Rio do Sul are paved.   Pavement is under 1ray
.or the a?emainder of this section.
4.11      The 91 km section of Highway BR-470 between Rio do Sul and the
junction with BR-116 has been constructed in accordance with Class II design
standards, and the grade is ready for paving. It is now proposed to pave this
section and surface it wfith asphalt concrete.
Cai-Farroupilha: RS-4 (State of Rio Grande do Sul)
4.12      This 45 km section may- in the future be an alternate route for Highway
BR-116 between Caxias do Sul and Vila Scharlau (Map 5)e The road, which in part
crosses very mountainous terrain, has been designed to Class I standards.
4.13      Grade construction of 41 km has been finished and the remaining
4 km (which are between Sao Vendelino and Farroupilha) will be finished by
November 1968. It is now proposed to pave the entire 45 km section and sur-
face it with asphalt concrete.
4.J1      Following is a summary of the highway construction and paving pro-
gram included in the project.
Cost Estimate
June 1967
Type of Work         Excluding
Construction         contingencies
Road Number                           & Paving    Paving US$ Equivalent
State   National  State   Road Section               Km      Km          Million
1. Mijnas                    Ipatinga-Governador
Gerais   HL-3Ql   iG-4    Valadares                  99      -            11.7
2. Parana   BR-476   PR-5    Sao Mateus do Sul-         -       85            8.4
Uniao da Vitoria
3. Parana   3R-466    -      Km 4o - Km 83              -       43            4.9
4. Santa                     Rio do Sul-Junction
Catarina BR-470   SC-23    BR-116                    -       91            8.8
5. Rio Grande
do Sul   BR-386   RS-13   Tabai-Canoas              54       -             8.0
6. Rio Grande
do Sul     -      RS-4    Cai-Farroupilha            -      45             4.4
7. Rio Grande                Sao Leopoldo-
do Sal   BR-116     -     Novo Uamburgo              12      -             3.3
TOTALS       165     24 Z



- 17 -
B. Design and Consulting Services
4.15      Feasibility studies for the highways proposed for construction
and/or paving have been carried out as Dart of the Bank-financed Phase I
of the Transport Survey (Para. 4.01). In order to ensure continuity of
responsibility, the Government in 1965 decided to employ, for detailed
engineering studies and later for supervision of construction, the same
consultants who made the feasibility studies. Detailed engineering is now
completed.
4.16      During the feasibility and detailed engineering studies, the con-
sultants have thoroughly reviewed existing surveys, soil studies, geometric
and structural designs, and administrative and technical specifications.
Design of pavement structures was based on the legal 10 m ton single axle
load, and is satisfactory.
4.17      The cost of constructing pavement structures is generally higher
in the three southern States than in Minas Gerais where suitable materials
are more readily available. This is especially true with regard to base
courses which in the southern States, due to the lack of natural gravel and
sand deposits, will have to be either of the crushed rock or the macadam
type of construction.
4.18      Employment of the same consultants for supervision of con-
steilctl.on is necessary since experience has sloIM that local supervision tends
to be lax. In addition, it is highly desirable to establish continuity of
responsibility by making the consultants responsible for seeing that the
workmanship meets the requirements of their own detailed engineering plans
and specifications. On the other hand, to avoid excessive supervision costs
and duplication of personnel, the consultants ai.ll provide only a limited
number of key personnel who xrill closely cooperate with the highway offi-
cials in charge of the works, and will avail themselves of the supporting
services (personnel and equipment) of the respective highway departments.
This supervision arrangement  aras agreed during loan negotiations.
C. Cost Estimates and Financing
4.19      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$65.5 million
equivalent, including contingency allowances. A surmmary of the project
cost follows:



- 18 -
Costs in US$ Equivalent
(Millions)
Foreign Exchange Component
Total        Component
1. Construction and/or pa-ving of
429 km of highways                      49.5            11.4 (23%)
Quantity Contingencies 10%               5.0             1.1
Sub-Total       51.5 (23%)
Price Contingencies 10%                  5.4             1.3
Total Item 1     59.9           13.8 (23%)
2.  Detailed Engineering                     1.2             0.5 (40%)
3.  Construction Supervision                 4.0             1.6 (40%)
Contingencies 10%                        0.4             0.2
Total Item 3      _7             17  (40%)
Total Project    65.5           16.1 (25%)
4.20      The estimate of construction and paving costs is considered ade-
quate. It is based on June, 1967 estimates, converted at the then current
exchange rate of US$1.00 = NCr 2.7 (Table 13). Quantities used for this
estimate were taken from the detailed engineering studies, and unit prices
from contracts recently awiarded to domestic contractors for similar works
and checled by independent estimates of the consulting engineers.
4.21      A 10 percent contingency allowance has been added to the con-
struction cost for quantity increases.  This is considered sufficient in
view of the accuracy of the quantity estimates in the detailed engineering
studies.
4.22      The 10 percent price contingencies are to cover the probably
changes in the cost estimates which were prepared in mid-1967; prices of
imported equipment and materials are expec-ted to increase and, further-
more, exchange rate adjustments may lag behind price increases, as they
have in the past.
4.23      The foreign exchange cost of detailed engineering corresponds to
amounts already disbursed for the services of foreign consultants. The foreign
exchange component of construction supervision costs is based on estimates
which wiere discussed with the consul-tants.
4.24      The foreign exchange component for construction has been estimated
for each highway on the basis of contract awards to   1) local firms or
2) foreign firms.  The range is from 15 percent o2 the total construction
cost if only local contractors, using primarily local equipment, were
employed to 45 percent if all worlc was carried out by foreign contractors.
In spite o° the lack of interest showm in recent years by foreign con-
tractors to bid in Brazil, it could be reasonably expected that the improved



- 19 -
bidding and contracting procedures, introduced for the project, will
make it easier for foreign contractors to participate. Assuming that
one-fourth of the construction would go to foreign contractors and three-
fourthb to local contractors, the foreign exchange component would be
about e3 percent. The total foreign exchange component of the project,
including consulting services, then becomes 25 percent.
4.25      With regard to the  Bank's contribution to the project cost,
the following participation is proposed:
a) 40 percent of construction costs; and
b) the foreign exchange cost of consultants. Since the
project has been prepared in close cooperation with the
Government the loan would provide retroactive financing,
limited to expenditures after April 1, 1967.
4.26      One of the major problems in establishing a disbursement
procedure for foreign currencies for this project is the relationship
between changes in the exchange rate and the domestic price level in
view of the record of price inflation and currency devaluation. Disburse-
ment of Bank funds should be associated with the project until the
completion of the works. It is conceivable that in the case of disburse-
ments based on a fixed percentage of Cruzeiro costs converted to dollars
at the prevailing exchange rate, a substantial lag in the exchange rate
behind changes in domestic costs could result in the exhaustion of loan
funds before the completion of the project. Disbursements will be made
on the basis of unit costs, expressed in dollars at the exchange rate
applicable at the date of bid opening. Disbursements will be made v"'
Cruzeiros and the Government will from time to time request the Bank to
reimburse the agreed percentage of expenditures, arrived at by the
conversion of physical units of work into dollars at the appropriate dollar
unit prices.
4.27      The composition of the proposed Bank loan would be as follows:
40 percent of total estimated construction
cost of US$59.9 million                           US$23.9 million
Foreign exchange cost of consultants for
detailed engineering studies and construction
supervision, with retroactive financing from
April 1, 1967.                                        2.1 million
Total proposed loan      US$26.0 million
4.28      Construction is expected to commence during the second quarter
of 1969 and be completed towards the end of 1971; on this basis the
tentative annual breakdown between estimated Government expenditures and
those covered by the Bank loan is as follows:



- 20 -
Total Expenditures    Government Expenditures    Bank Participation
US$ Equivalent Million US$ Equivalent Million US$ Equivalent Million
1966/67           0.9*                     0.9                       -
1968              0.3                       -                      0.3
1969             20.8                     12.5                     8.3
1970             34.0                     20.4                    13.6
1971              9.5                      5.7                     3.8
L5.5                     22~           _26.0
*Detailed engineering, retroactive financing for which is included in the
Bank participation for 1968.
4.29      The loan would be to the Federal Government.   The DNER will be
the executing agency and will administer a revolving fund for payments to
contractors and consultants. The Federal Government will finance the cost
of construction and consulting services on national and state highways in-
cluded in the project and withhold from subsequent Road Fund allocations to
the particular states such amounts as are expended on the state highways. The
revolving fund will be replenished with the Bank's reimbursement from payments
made and with the Federal Governmentts contribution coming from DNER's share
of the National Road Fund. During loan negotiations assurances were obtained
that the amount of the revolving fund will alw;ays be kept at a level sufficient
to cover 3 months of project cost, in accordance with work schedules. An
initial revolving fund of NCr 18 million in a blocked account at a suitable
Brazilian bank, has been agreed with the Brazilian authorities; its estab-
lishment will be a condition of effectiveness of the loan.
D. Execution of the Project
4.30      Execution of the project will be the responsibility of the DWER.
Of the seven highways included in the project, one is a state highway, two
are national highways and the remainder belong both to the national and state
networks. The DNER will be responsible for the works relating to the two
exclusively national highways. The works on the other five highways will be
under the respective state highway departments. Table 13 shows the highway
department responsible for each highway.
4.31      The Government and the respective States will conclude agreements,
acceptable to the Bank, for the construction of the highways by the respective
States. These agreements will include the standard provisions of project
agreements, and their satisfactory conclusion will be a condition for the
effectiveness of the loan.



- 21 -
4.32      Contracts for the project works will be let on the basis of
international competitive bidding and in accordance with the Bank's
established bidding procedures. The consultants have assisted the Government
in the preparation of prequalification, bidding and contracting documents.
They will also assist the Government in the analysis of bids and be
responsible for the supervision of construction. The Government is proceed-
ing with the prequalification of interested firms. The results of the
prequalification as well as proposed contract awards will be submitted to
the Bank for approval and this was agreed during loan negotiations.
4.33      Appropriate price escalation formulas prepared by the consultants
and the Government have been made legally effective. Bidding and contracting
documents have been approved by the Bank. The legal adoption of these
documents,for the national and state highways included in the project, will
be a condition of effectiveness of the loan.
4.34      An existing law and a decree, not yet declared effective, would
permit duty free import of equipment for the project, if no similar equipment
is produced domestically. If such equipment is produced domestically,
duty free import of equipment would be permitted if the price of the
domestic product is more than 15 percent above the c.i.f. price of the
imported equipment. The declaring effective of the decree will be a
condition for the effectiveness of the proposed loan.
4.35      Brazilian legislation facilitates acquisition of lands needed for
highway purposes. Construction or relocation of roads is often started
before right-of-way is secured. However, to avoid difficulties and un-
necessary delays later on, the Government has confirmed that the acquisition
of right-of-way for project roads will be given immediate attention.
4.36      Any surplus funds remaining in the loan account on completion
of the project should be cancelled.



- 22 -
5. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. Introduction
5.01      The size of Brazil, its economic potential, and the need to in-
tegrate its different regions require the continuing improvement of the
existing transport facilities and increases in its capacity. Highway
transport, in view of its pre-eminent role in the transport sector, will
require a particularly large volume of investment. Highway master plans
and project feasibility studies are being prepared in almost all the
States. In four (Minas Gerais, Rio Grande do Sul, Parana and Santa Cata-
rina) they are already completed. The project includes road construction
and/or paving in all of these States in wihich accelerated highway programs
have been set up to offset the present backlog in the transport sector.
Meanwhile, expenditures in the rest of the country will be kept low pending
the completion of the Transport Survey Phase II studies. In this respect
the proposed Bank loan will constitute a najor step towiards the fulfillment
of the immediate highway program objectives. The forecasts on which the
economic justification was based were made by the consultants responsible
for feasibility studies (Annex A).
B. The Project Roads i/
In the State of 1{inas Gerais (il[ap 2)
5.02      Ilinas Gerais extends over 587,000 kmi2, or almost 7 percent of the
total area of the country.  Its present population is close to 11.5 million
or 13 percent of the total Brazilian population and is currently growing at
an average annual rate of 2.2 percent. The main activities in the State are
related to tle exploitation of iron ore (18.5 million tons in 1965) and it
produces about half of the country's steel. These activities are princi-
pally located within the 11Zona Metallurgical' which is centered on Belo Hori-
zonte, the State capital. Agriculture, however, is important particularly in
the"Triangulo11, or western part of the State.  Crops include rice (1.3 million
tons, 1965), corn (2.2 million tons), beans (0,3 million tons), coffee (0.4
million tons) and sugar cane (2.0 million tons). Cattle and pig raising is
also important, PMinas Gerais having about 19 percent of the total livestock
of the country. Due to the richness of soil and subsoil, agriculture and
mining offer particularly good prospects for the further economic develop-
ment of 2Iinas Gerais State.
5.03      Route MG-4 (99 km) This road will connect the eastern part of the
State of Minas Gerais and the northeastern states of Brazil. Its local in-
fluence area spreads over 6,000 km2 and encompasses a population of close to
250o,00.  It includes Governador Valadares, the major settlement in the zone
with a population of over 100,000. The route will connect important agricul-
tural areas with the Zona Metallurgica and, thereby, facilitate the supply
of food and agricultural products to this rapidly developing zone. Though
the FIG-4 is in poor condition, traffic reaches about 310 vehicles per day
/ Project roads are discussed by States and not by type of
work as in Chapter 4.



- 23 -
at present, of which nearly 45 percent are heavy vehicles (Table 14)1/ Future
traffic will consist of local traffic and traffic diverted from BR-116 since
the project road between Governador Valadares to Belo Horizonte is about 20
percent shorter than the present route. Annual traffic growth rates over the
period 1971-1980 are expected to be about 9 percent for goods, 10 percent
and 8 percent for bus and private car traffic respectively. Traffic projec-
tion for both freight and passenger vehicles have been assumed to level off
at 7 percent from 1981 onwards. Part of the "Iinas a Vitoria" railway system
parallels the road; this ispredominately an iron ore line, with heavy trains
of up to 100 iron ore hopper cars, and it is planned to phase out all other
traffic wthen MG-4 is opened. No road-rail coordination problem is involved.
In the State of Parana (Map 3)
5.04      The State of Parana covers an area of about 200,000 km2, or 2.4 per-
cent of the total area of Brazil. Its present population is close to 7
million, or nearly 8 percent of the country's total population. Timber pro-
duction and processing, which accounts for just over 12 percent of Brazil's
total production, forms the bulk of the industrial activity. Agricultural
production includes sugar (3.2 million tons in 1965), coffee (1.8 million
tons), rice (0.6 million tons in 1965), potatoes (0.3 million tons), beans
(0.6 million tons), maize (2.2 million tons) and manioc (2.1 million tons).
In addition, about 6 percent of the country's cattle is raised in Parana.
5.05      Route PR-5 (85 kmi  This project road runs from Uniao da Vitoria
along the southern border of the state to Sao Mateus do Sul; it links the
rapidly developing area of southwestern Parana to Curitiba and Sao Paulo.
The local area of inrluence covers 3,500 km2 with a population of roughly
100,000 including about 45,000 settled in Uniao da Vitoria and its ixmme-
diate surrounding area. The proposed highway will principally accommodate
long distance traffic and particularly timber traffic wihich is expected to
amount to 70 percent of all eastbound tonnage. Traffic on the route -as
disrupted in 1966 and diverted to parallel routes, mainly because of de-
tours to facilitate grade construction. Counts taken prior to the inter-
ruption of traffic showed an ADT of 490 vehicles, about 75 percent being
heavy vehicles. of which about 25 percent were long distance trucks. Based
on the expected growth of the regional economyy, the future traffic growth
over the 1971-1980 period is estimated to be 9 percent and 6 percent per
annum respectively for local and long distance freight traffic, with 10
percent per annum being forecast for passenger traffic. From 1981, growth
has been conservatively estimated to be 7 percent per annum.
5.06      Route BR-468 (43 km)  This road is one of the highest priority
routes in the I4Iaster Plan for the three southern states, forming an alter-
native coastal route between Curitiba and Porto Alegre, thereby relieving
the mountainous BR-116 alternative. Traffic on the present gravel road is
already heavy, 589 vehicles per day in 1966, 60 percent being trucks
(Table 14). It is estimated that car traffic will continue to grow at an
/ Traffic volumes shown in Table 14 relate to volumes at traffic
counting points and are not averages over the whole sections.



average annual rate of 7 percent per year throughout the life of the road,
though bus and long distance truck traffic will probably grow at 5 percent
and 6 percent per year respectively. These are conservative estimates
and should the plan for a freeway from Porto Alegre to the coast materialize,
truck growth may be higher.  On the other hand, a railway connection between
Sao Paulo and Porto Alegre is being constructed (The Tronco Sul). This will
not be directly competitive,but if completed will probably attract agri-
cultural traffic from BR-116 which would otherwise be diverted to BR-468.
Consequently no growth in this traffic has been forecast. There is also a
small amount of coastal shipping competition but it is expected that the
road improvement will make this relatively unattractive for some commo-
dities which are now being carried by ship.
In the State of Santa Catarina (Xap 4)
5.07      Santa Catarina is the smallest of the three southern states, with
96,000 km2 and a population of about 2 million, engaged for the most part in
agricultural production, which accounts for over half of the regional income
of the state. The most important agricultural products, relative to total
Brazilian production are pine (40 percent) and tobacco (32 percent). Manioc,
maize, grapes and livestock are also important. WXood processing is the lar-
gest industry, employing over 30 percent of the industrial population, while
textile manufacturing employs 23 percent.
5.08      Route SC-23 (91 km)  This road will form a link of the future main
west-east artery of the state, connecting the harbor of Itajai and the grow-
ing industrial town of Blumenau with the whole of western Santa Catarina
and its important timber growing areas. The present connections for traffic
from and to the wvest of the important BR-116 are extremely poor and costly
and there is no through railwiay. Long distance through trucks are expected
to be the main users of the road, the main traffic being timber to the port
and petroleum products and building materials in the opposite direction.
Even though grade construction is only just completed, traffic is heavy with
a count of 596 vehicles per day, 66 percent being trucks (Table 14). The
road has three distinct economic sections. The most easterly section, 16
km starting at Rio do Sul and serving the largest settlements, has the
heaviest traffic, more than half of -which are passenger cars. Traffic
growth is expected to be 4.5 percent annually during the life of the road.
The 16 km section west of Trombudo do Sul serves small farming settlements
and traffic growth is expected to be slow, at 2.8 percent during the road's
lifetime. The western section of 58 km is essentially a through route with
no local traffic in the mountainous terrain. Because timber production will
not increase signi-f,icantly, traffic growTth in this section is expected to
rise by only 1.4 percent per year to 1980 and 1.2 percent thereafter.
In the State of Rio Grande do Sul (map 5)
5.9       mThe State of Rio Grande do Sul has a total land area of 267,000
km2, covering about 3.1 percent of Brazil. Its population amounts to roughly
6.5 million, or 7.5 percent of Brazil's population and is currently growing



- 25 -
at a rate of about 2 percent per annum. Agriculture is the main economic
activity, generating about 40 percent of the total regional income and em-
ploying more than 50 percent of the active population. Income derived from
agriculture has been growing at a rate slightly over h percent annually during
the 1949-1960 period. Maize (5.0 million tons in 1965) is used chiefly for
animal feeding, while wheat (0.4 million tons), rice (1.3 million tons),
beans (0.2 million tons) are grown for human consumption. In addition about
12 percent of Brazil's cattle is raised in the state. Industry represents
a relatively small sector (17 percent of regional income), with about 60
percent of its production being based on agricultural raw materials.
5.10      Route RS-13 (54 km)  This project road is the continuation of the
"Kennedy Highway" towards Porto Alegre. It will mainly accommodate long dis-
tance traffic between the northwestern part of the state and the Porto Alegre
area. The traffic, largely diverted from other routes, is expected to reach
1,700 vehicles per day by 1971, with about 45 percent being heavy trucks.
Future rates ol growth, based on an analysis of the regional economy, have
been estimated to be 6 percent and 9 percent per annum for long distance and
local goods traffic respectively, and 10 percent for passenger traffic. On
the basis of these forecasts, the capacity of the highway will be reached
in 1981, hence no traffic increase has been assumed in subsequent years for
the purpose of economic analysis.
5.11      Route RS-4 (45 kaa)  This road has two distinct sections, from Cai
to Sao VendeiLno, 2 hTm and then to Farroupilha, 21 km.  Traffic on the
first section is already heavy, and reachad 1,329 vehicles per day on the
old earth road before construction started, nearly 70 percent being trucks
(Table 14). On the first 24 km section traffic is expected to grow by an
average annual rate of 7 percent to 1980 when the capacity of the road will
be reached. On the second section, traffic is expected to grow by 7 percent
per year to 1980, falling to 6.5 percent thereafter. The assumption regarding
this section are very conservative as no long distance through traffic has
been included in the calculation of benefits. Should a by-pass of the town
of Caxias do Sul be constructed in the future, a great deal of truck traffic
would use RS-4 in preference to the mountainous alternative, BR-116,but this
will not affect the econonic justification of the 12 km of BR-116 between
Sao Leopoldo and Novo Hiamburgo (Para 5.12).
5.12      Route BR-116 (12 kim) This is an urban route from Sao Leopoldo to
Novo Hamburgo, a satellite city of Porto Alegre.  The Porto Alegre-Novo
Hamburgo corridor is of paramount importance to the state. It includes a
population of over one million that is currently growing at rates ranging
from 3.5 percent to 9.0 percent per annum according to locality. About 40
percent of the state population engaged in industry lives in the corridor.
This 2-lane highway is now carrying heavy traffic of about 6,500 vehicles per
day, about 30 percent of which is trucks. As a result, the capacity of the
existing facility is reached several hours every day and the ensuing delays
to users lead to important losses to the economy. Construction of two addi-
tional lanes, as proposed in the project, will relieve the present congestion.
Passenger and goods traffic is expected to increase at annual rates of 13
percent and 7 percent per annum respectively until 1981. Capacity of the new
facility will be reached in 1981 and no subsequent growth of traffic was
considered thereafter.



- 26 -
C. Benefits from the Project
5.13      On most of the project roads, benefits will materialize through
lower vehicle operating costs on paved roads as compared with those on
gravel roads.  In addition, reconstruction wiill often include the shortening
of routes either for n-rmal or diverted traffic and thereby lead to further
road user benefits. Benefits from reductions of vehicle operating costs have
been estimated by the consultants, during the preparation of the master plans,
for the various vehicles commonly used in Brazil. They are based on an ana-
lysis of trucking companies' records and test drives of the various kinds of
vehicles over the different types of roads and are conservative estimates.
On route BR-116, an urban road, benefits will be derived from the reduction of
congestion. These were estimated by attributing a value to time-savings,
based upon driver's wages for commercial vehicles and wages for passengers
on business trips, the numbers of which were found from origin-destination
surveys. There are other benefits from paving, for example, reduced spoilage
of bananas result in benefits from using the asphalted BR-468 instead of the
existing gravel road while  losses of hogs and cattle  will be very much
reduced on all roads. These benefits have been included where appropriate.
Finally, while the costs of maintaining well constructod bituminous paved
roads vary little with the level of traffic, the costs of maintaining the
existing gravel roads would substantially increase with the continued growth
of traffic if the roads were not improved. The federal and state governments
will therefore derive large benefits by avoiding high maintenance expenditures.
5.14      The very active ccmpetition within the transport industry makes it
likely that a large part of savings in truck operating costs will be passed
on to the productive sector in the form of lower freight rates. Greater con-
sumption and/or reinvestment will therefore be made possible.
5.15      The estimated benefits, discounted over the 20 year economic life-
time of roads, show rates of return on the investments ranging between 13 and
40 percent, as follows:
1. Minas Gerais State                                   Rates of Return
MG-4       Ipatinga-Governador Valadares                    14%
2. Parana State
PR-5       Sao Mateus do Sul-Uniao da Vitoria
Section 1                          13%)
Section 2                          13%
Section 3                          16%
Total                  14%
BR-468     Km 40 - Km 83                                   40%



- 27 -
3. Santa Catarina                                       Rates of Return
BR-470     Rio do Sul - BR-116
Section 1                          20%
Section 2                          23%
Section 3                          18%
Total                     20%
4. Rio Grande do Sul
RS-13      Tabai-Canoas                                    21%
RS-4       Cai-Farroupilha
Section 1                          43%
Section 2                          15%
Total                     34%
BR-116     Novo Hamburgo-Sao Leopoldo                       31%
5. Totial Project                                                    21%
Both the individual and the overall rates of return are acceptable.  The pro-
ject is, therefore, economically justified.
5.16      Additional, but not readily quantifiable, benefits will also re-
sult from the project roads. These are, for example, increased transit speeds
leading to faster turnover of capital; a lowiering of inventory costs; and
the development of tourism. 14oreover, easier communication and exchange
between the different regions of this exceptionally large country will faci-
litate the broader objectives of unity and economic integration.



- 28 -
6. CONCLUSIONS AND REC0IMMDATIONS
6.01      The project, which is the outcome of studies financed under Phase I
of the Transport Survey, is technically and economically sound. The cost
estimate, as expressed in US currency, is considered realistic, and the pro-
ject as a whole gives an average rate of return of 21 percent on the invest-
ment.
6.02      The same consultants who made the feasibility studies have been in
charge of detailed engineering which is now complete. They will also be
employed for the supervision of construction.
6.03      The Bank's contribution to the project would be 40 percent of the
construction cost (foreign exchange component is about 23 percent), and the
full foreign exchange cost (about 40 percent of total cost) for consulting
services. Disbursements in respect of construction will be made on the
basis of unit costs expressed in US dollars.
6.o4      Before loan negotiations the Government communicated to the Bank
the main objectives of the Government's three-year plan of action for the
transportation sector (Annex C). This was accepted by the Bank as a suitable
basis for proceeding with the negotiations.
6.05      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached with the
Government on:
(a) the reorganization of the WNER, and of the DERts of
Minas Gerais, Parana, Rio Grande do Sul and Santa
Catarina (Paras 3.03 and 3.04);
(b) the enforcement of weight regulations (Para 3.08);
(c)  the implementation of consultants' recommendations
concerning highway maintenance (Para 3.14);
(d) the construction supervision arrangements (Para 4.18);
(e) the maintenance of the revolving fund at a level
sufficient to cover 3 months of construction work
(Para 4.29); and
(f) the acquisition of right-of-way for project roads
(Para 4.35).
6.06      During loan negotiations it was agreed that the effectiveness of
the loan will be contingent upon the Government:



- 29 -
(a) establishing an initial revolvring fund of NCr 18 million,
in a blocked account at a suitable Brazilian bank
(Para 4.29);
(b) concluding an agreement with the respective States
for the construction of the highways included in the
project (Para 4.31);
(c) legalizing the revised bidding and contracting pro-
cedvures (Para 4.33); and
(d) making effective the law regarding imnportaticn of
construction equipment (Para 4.34).
6.07      The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan off US$26.0
million equivalent. An appropriate term would be 25 years, including a h½
year period of grace.
September 25, 1968



TABLE 1
BRAZIL
FIRST HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Freight Transport by Mode of Transport, 1961-1967
(billions of net ton-km)
Railways             Coastal                  Air
Year  Total  Total Federal    State  CVRD    Shipping?     HIZDwavs  Transport/
1961   74.4   13.6    7.5      2.9    3.2      13.9        46.8      001
1962   82.7   14.4    7.7      2.8    3.9      16.2        52.0      0.1
1963   87.3   14.9    7.7      3.1    4.2      14.2        58.o      0.2
1964   95.0   16.0    8.2      2.8    5.0      14.3        64.5      0-.2
1965  104.0   18.2     8.8     3.2    6.2      14.0        71.6      0.2
1966  115.4   18.8     9.2     2.8    6.7      16.9        79.6      0.2
1967  127.9   19.3     9.0     2.7    7.6      19.5        88.9      0.2
Percentage Shares
Air
Year    Total    Railways       Coastal Shipping      E H hw2s    Transport /
1961     100        18.2              18.6              63.0         0.2
1962     100        17.4              19.6              63.0         0.2
1963     100        17.0              16.2              66.5         0.3
1964     100        16.8              15.1              67.9         0.2
1965     100        17.4              13.5              68.9         0.2
1966     100        16.5              13.5              69.8         0.2
1967     100        15. 1             15.2               69.5        0.2
lJ  "Minas a Vitoriat" railway, subsidiary of CVRD mining company.
/ Excluding river traffic for which no statistics are available.
2/ Includes international services.    Domestic figures not available
separately.
Source: GEIPOT.



BRAZIL                                            TABLE 2
FIRST HIGHWAY OONSTRUCTION PROUECT
Passenger-Kilometers, Percentage Shares, and Average Annual
Growth Rates of Total and Selected Items, by Mbde of Transport
1950-1961 and 1961-1965
Average Annual
Growth Rate
Passenger-Kilometers (billions)         Percent Shares         (percent)
Mode of Transport & Item   1950   1961   1962   1963   196-4  1965   120    1961   1965    1950-61   1961-6
Highways
Medium and long distance
bus traffic             9.8   25.5   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   45.1   26.7   31.6   36.7      9.1       15.3
Automobile medima and
long distance traffic   3.9   13.0   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   21.2   10.6   16.1   17.3     11.6       13.0
Subtotal                 13.7   38.5   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   66.3   37.3   47.7   54.0     9.8       14.6
Local bus traffic         4.2   10.9   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   19.5   11.4   13.5   15.9      9.1       15.6
Automobile local traffic  3.2   10.1   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   16.5    8.7   12.5   13.4     11.0       13.1
Subtotal                  7.4   21.0   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   36.0   20.2   26.0   29.3     9.9       14.4
Total                    21.1   59.5   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.  102.3   57.5   73.5   83.3     9.9        14.5
Railways
Interior traffic          5.7    7.4   7.9    8.2    8.1     8.2   15.5    9.2    6.7     2.4         2.6
Commuter traffic          7.9   10.6   11.4  10.9   10.3     9.4   21.5   13.2    7.6     2.7        -3.0
Total                    13.6   18.0   19.3  19.1   18.4    17.6   37.0   22.4   14.3      2.6       -0.6
Coastal Shipping          0.5    0.3    0.3   0.3    0.3     0.4    1.4    0.4    0.3     -4.5        7.5
Airwaysa)                 1.5    2.8    3.1   3.0    2.6      2.6    4.1    3.5    2.1     5.8       -1.8
Total                    36.7   80.6    -      -      -    122.8  100.0  100.0  100.0      7.4       11.1
n.a. - not available
a)  Includes international travel since figures for domestic travel are not available separately.
Source:  Brazil Transpcrt Survey, Draft Volume II.



TABLE 3
BRAZIL
FIRST HIGHWJAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Investment in Transport by Ilodes
& Percentage Share of .ilodes in
Total Investment, 1960-1965
(Constant NCr June 1967, Millions)
Railways            1960     1961     1962    1963     1964     1965     1966
Equipment          215.2    221.9    165.1   191.1    169.0    239.4     NA
New Lines          317.3     30.4    100.6     91.4    53.7     74.2     NA
Total              532.5    252.3    265.7    282.5   222.7    313.6    328.1
Highwaysl/
Trucks & Buses   1,264.8  1,095.9  1,501.1  1,227.7  1,195.4   904.7 1064.6
Automobiles        383.6    462.8    579.4    771.2   781.3    716.0    749.1
Construction       904.5    609.6   834.3    612,5    694.9  1,138.2  1,135.8
Total            2,552.9  2,168.3  2,914.8  2,611.4  2,671.6  2,758.9  2,949.5
Maritime
Ships              110.3    109.8     81.9    156.3   112.7     79.8    154.7
Ports              41.5      26.2     52.9     52.2    72.6     15.9     47.4
Total              151.8    136.0    134.8    208.5   185.3     95.7    202.1
Air
Aircraft           206.3     87.6    132.2     20.2     20.3    29.5     95.9
Airports            48.9     31.4     26.3     23.1     43.2     39.5    49.7
Total              255.2    119.0    158.5     43.3    63.5     69.0    145.6
Pipelines             -        -        4.3     10.8     32.0    48.6      8.7
Total Investment  3,492.4  2,675.6  3,478.1  3,156.5  3,175.1  3,285.8  3,634.0
Percentage Shares
Railways              7.8      9.7      7.7      9.0      7.0      9.5     9.0
Highways             79.5     80.8     83.8     82.7    84.2     84.0     81.3
Maritime              4.7      5.1      3.9      6.6      5.8     2.9      5.5
Air                   8.0      4.4      4.6      1.4      2.0     2.1      4.0
Pipelines              -        -        -       0.3     1.0      1.5      0.2
1/ Does not include investment in urban roads or in highway construction equip-
ment.
Source: Brazil Transport Survey, Draft Volume II.



TABLE 4
BRAZIL
FIRST HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Highway Revenues and Expenditures, 1961-1966
(Constant June 1967 NCr (million)
1966 US1;/
1961        1962         1963        1964        1965        1966         equiv. million
Expenditure                   b/
National Highway Dept. (DNER)-
Construction                             291.4       461.3        303.0       207.5       387.2       488.9            222.7
Maintenance & Acministration             131.9        56.8        169.0       152.8       130.6       156.9             71.3
kRODORAS21                                  -          36.2         4.9         5.4         40.0        81.5             37.0
FLoan Amortization                          -           -          15.5         6.2         29.3        31.5             14.3
Total                                    423.3       554.3        492.4       371.9       587.1       758.8            344.9
States and Federal Districts
Construction                             284.3       327.5        252.4       467.5       688.8       582.5            264.8
Maintenance & Administration             240.1       256.3        266.6       280.6       354.0        553.4           251.5
Loan Amortization                          -            -           -           -           0.4          0.6             0.3
Total                                    524.4       583.8       519.0        748.1     1,043.2     1,136.5            516.6
Municipalitie,3/                         146.2       147.1        140.6       138.0       260.0       272.6            123.9
Total Expenditure                      1,093.9     1,285.2     1,152.0      1,258.0     1,890.3     2,167.9            985.4
Revenue                       a/
National Highway Dept. (DNER)-
Revenues from:
National Road Fund (FRN)                 206.3       200.2        208.2       215.9       283.3        376.5           171.1
National Budget                          322.1       417.8        413.2       194.6         -           12.4             5.6
SUDENE                                     -           0.9          6.3         3.1         2.3         5.0              2.3
USAID                                      -           -            -           -          40.2         36.9            16.8
Inter-American Development Bank            -           -            -           -           -          14.9              6.8
RODOBRAS                                   -          34.9          4.4         5.0        38.0         74.3            33.8
Other                                      8.9         5.8         62.1         2.7        26.7        242.5           110.0
Total                                    537.3       659.6       694.2        421.6       390.5       762.5            346.6
States and Federal Districts
Revenues from:            /
National Road Fund (FRN)-                239.2       254.0        239.9       270.7       439.5        455.0           206.8
Exterpal loans                             -           -            -          41.4        17.5         7.9              3.6
Other'-                                  349.2       385.9        348.2       564.9       727.2-      941.4            427.9
Total                                    588.4       639.9       588.1        877.0     1,184.2     1,404.3            638.3
Municipalities
National Road Fund (FRN)                  62.2        61.8         63.1        69.2       125.5       122.6             55.7
Other                                     75.5        76.6         77.5        84.1       152.5       149.9             68.1
Total                                    137.7       138.4       140.6        153.3       278.0       272.5            123.9
Total Revenues                         1.263.4     1,437.9     1,422.9      1,451.9     1,852.7     2,439.3          1,108.8
Notes:  1/  Actual expenditures in 1966 converted to US$ by 1966 rate of exchange, Cr 2,200 - TS$1.
2/ Brasilia-Belem Highway.
3/ Separate figures for construction and maintenance not available.
/   Budgets and earmarked taxes, no breakdown available.
Sources:  a/  Sistema Rodoviario Brasileiro, DNER-DP 03-1966 (1961-1965), National Department of Highways.
b/ GEIPOT
/ Plano Decenal - EPEA, Ministry of Planning.



TABLE 5
BRAZIL
FIRST HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Classification of Highways
Lengths According to Type and Jurisdiction, December 1966
NATIONAL HIGRWAYS                9ATE UmieAYs               MUNICIFAL HIGHWAYS
State or Territory     Total               Km                               Km                          Km
Total   Unpaved      Paved      Total    Unpaved    Paved    Total  I Unpaved | Paved
Rondonia                1,022       715       715           _         61        61      -         246       246       _
Acre                      197         48        48          _         44        44      -         105       105        -
Amazonas                1,232        45         27   (a)     18      551       482       69       636       615      21
Roraima
(formerly Rio Branco)    282       142       142           -        -         -        -         140       140       -
Para                    5,577       601       357          244     2,655     1,971      684     2,321     2,235      86
Amapa                      868      385        385          -        -         -        -         483       483        -
Maranhao               23,947     1,427     1,397    (a)     30      895       895      -      21,625    21,625       _
Piaui                  21,475     1,399     1,273          126     1,120     1,109       11    18,956    18,956       -
Ceara                  45,229     1,800     1,427          373     1,878     1,862       16    41,551    41,468      83
Rio Grando Norte        9,295       663       432           231    2,455     2,329      126     6,177     6,177       -
Paraiba                23,021       764       529   (a)    235    2,401      2,334       67    19,856    19,856       -
Pernasmbuco            16,878     1,881     1,457          424     1,997     1,710      287    13,000    13,000       -
Alagoas                11,268       595        349          246    2,273     2,200       73     8,400     8,400        -
Fernando de Noronha        40       -         -            -          40        40      -         -         -         -
Sergipe                 3,514       268       158           11o    1,224     1,214       10     2,022     2,022       -
Bahia                  63,263     3,308     2,360           948    6,055     4,843    1,212    53,900    53,884      16
Minas Gerais          1142,707    5,244     1,530         3,714   13,504    12,118    1,386   123,959   123,886      73
Espirito Santo         14,954       695       455           240   3,225      3,073      152    11,034    11,016      18
Rio de Janeiro         16,523     1,203       202        1,0o0l   4,320      3,052    1,268    11,000    11,000       -
Guanabara               1,101        95       -              95    1,006       443      563       -         -         _
Sao Paulo             136,479     2,525       176         2,349   13,954     5,287    8,667   120,000   120,000       -
Parana                 82,795     2,286     1,084        1,202     7,113     6,344      769    73,396    73,396       -
Santa Catarina         31,427       940       506          434     5,443     5,243      200    25,044    25,044       -
Rio Grande do Sul     108,447     2,682     1,701           981    9,765     9,291      474    96,000    96,000       -
Mato Orosso            27,594     3,694     3,596            98    5,388     5,356       32    18,512    18,500      12
Goias                  34,939     3,311     2,752           559   11,628    11,385      243    20,000    20,000       -
Federal District,
Brazilia                 668       271        126          145      397       397      -         -         -         -
TOTAL       824,742    36,987    23,184       13,803   99,392     83,083   16,309   688,363   688,054     309
Note: (a) Pavement deteriorated
Soure.:   National Highway Department



TABLE 6
BRAZIL
FIRST HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
HIGHWAY DESIGN ST.NDARDS FOR NEW RCtDS
Class of Highway
0        I        II        III
Design Speed,            flat                    120      100        80        60
km/h                    rolling                 100       80        60        40
mountainous              80       60        40        30
Minimum Horizontal       flat                    570      380       230       130
Radius, m               rolling                 380      230       130        50
mountainous             230      130        50        30
Maximum Grade, %         flat                      3        3         3         4
rolling                   4      4.5         5         6
mountainous               5        6         7         8
Sight Distance for       flat                    210      150       110        75
Stopping, m             rolling                 150      110        75        50
mountainous             110       75        50         -
Sight Distance for       flat                    730      650       500       350
Passing, m              rolling                 650      500       350       175
mountainous             500      350       175         -
Pavement Width, m        flat                   7.50     7.20      7.00      7.00
rolling                7.50     7.20       to        to
mountainous            7.50     7.20      6.50      6.oo
Shoulder Width, m        flat                   3.50     3.00      2. 50     2.00
rolling                3.00      to        to        to
mountainous            2.50     2.50      2.00      1.20
very mountainous       1.00     1.00      1.00      0.80
Right-of-Way, m          flat                    _         60        30        30
rolling                           70        40        40
mountainous                       80        50        50
Source: GEIPOT



T&BLE 7
BR&ZIL
FIRST HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
A.34ISSIBLI HI3MWAY DESIGN STANDARDS FOR I&PROVEMENT OF EXISTING ROADS
Class of Highway
0         I        II        III
Design Speed,            flat                   100       100        80        60
kmh                     rolling                 80        80        60        40
mountainous             60        60        40        30
Minimum Horizontal       flat                   430       340       200       110
Radius, m               rolling                280       200       110        50
mountainous            160       110        50        30
Maximum Grade, %         flat                     3         3         3         4
rolling                  4       4.5         5         6
mountainous              5       6.o         7         8
Sight Distance for       flat                   150       150       100        75
Stopping, m             rolling                100       100        75        50
mountainous             75        75        50         -
Sight Distance for       flat                   650       650       500       350
Passing, m              rolling                500       500       350       175
mountainous            350       350       175         -
Pavement Width, m        flat                  7.50      7.00      7.00      7.oo
rolling               7.50      7.00       to        to
mountainous           7.50      7.00      6.oo      6.oo
Shoulder Width, m        flat                  3.00      2.50      2.00      1.50
rolling               2.50      2.00      1.50      1.20
mountainous           2.00      1.50      1.20      1.00
very mountainous      1.50      1.00      1.00      0.80
Right-of Xay, m          flat                   _          60        30        30
rolling                           70        40        40
mountainous                       80        50        50



TABLE
BRAZIL
FIRST HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Vehicle Registrations, By State, 1965
State                  Cars       Buses     Trucks       Total      % Distributi
Ceara                               32,134       972     11,68&E      44,790         2.5
Pernambuco                         29,792      1,536      9,417       40,745         2.2
Bahia                               34J475     1,963     12,120       48,558         2.8
Minas Gerais                      118,391      4,210     44,058      166,659         9.3
Rio de Janeiro                      57,244     5,462     26,378       89,084          5.0
Sao Paulo                         487,875     14,054    155,652      657,581        36.6
Parana                              81,572     1,832     50,706      134,110         7.5
Santa Catarina                      30,963       967     17,701       49,631         2.8
Rio Grande do Sul                  171,862     4,933     32,464      209,259         11.6
Guanabara                          148,96h    14,371     2h,808      188,143         10.5
Other states and territories      107,728      6!600     51,012      165,340         9.2
National Total                  1,301.000     5      !436,000      1.793,900       100.0
Source: Brazil Transport Survey, Phase I, (source book)
Transport and the Growth of the Economy, Draft Volume II.



TABLE 9
BRAZIL
FIRST HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Vehicle Fleet, 1965
(000)
Cars                                    975.0
Pickups                                 326.0
Total                                 1,301.0
Buses:
Gasoline                              28.5
Diesel                                28.4
Total                                    56.9
Trucks:
2-h tons gasoline                     95.8
5-9 tons gasoline                    226.7
5-9 tons diesel                        4.4
10-14 tons gasoline                    4.4
10-14 tons diesel                     76.
15-17 tons diesel                     21.8
18 tons and over diesel
(tractors/semi-trailers)            6.5
Total                                   436.0
Source: Brazil Transport Survey, Draft Volume TI.



TABLE 10
BRAZIL
FIRST HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Projected Average Annual Growth of Rate
By Class of Vehicle, 1965-1971
1965              1971             1965-71
No. of Vehicles   No. of Vehicles    Growth Rate
Class of Vehicle      ('000)             ('000)              %
Cars                  975.0            1,625-0            8.9
Pickups               326.0              458.o             5.8
Buses (Intercity)      36.9               65.0            10.1
Buses (City)           19.9               35.o             9.7
Trucks                436.o              588.1             5.1
Total               1,793.9            2,771.1         Av.6.3
Source:  Brazil Transport Survey, Draft Volume II.



TABLE 11
BRAZIL
FIRST HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Average Daily Traffic, (ADT)
Se.ected National Highways, 1966
ADT /
Highway-BR          State                         No.    Trucks %
040             i.finas Gerais                 1,717     52.7
050             Minas Gerais                   1,226     60.2
060             Goias                          1,726     60.4
101              Santa Catarina                1,233     36.9
116              Ceara                         1,212     64.0
116              Bahia                         1,492     71.2
116             Kinas Gerais                   1,038     80.5
116             Rio de Janeiro                 5,853     69.7
116              Sao Paulo                    15,438     46.1
116             Rio Grande do Sul 10,561                25.9
135             I"iinas Gerais                 4,273     44.7
135             Rio de Janeiro                10,661     39.0
153              Goias                         1,726     39.5
222             Ceara                          1,332     42.6
230              Paraiba                       1,310     57.0
262             Minas Gerais                   1,208     50.0
277              Parana                        3,688     71.3
324              Bahia                         4,990     44.6
363/464           Rio de Janeiro                 3,107     32.5
365             Minas Gerais                   1,764     59.o
381             Minas Gerais                   3,588     43.6
462              Guanabara                    15,349     42.3
471              Rio Grande do Sul             1,797     46.3
2/ ADT at selected counting stations.
Source: Anuario Estatistico de Transito nas Rodovias Federais, DNER, 1966,
National Department of Highways.



TABLE 12
BRAZIL
FIRST HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Average Operating Costs of Selected Vehicles
on Flat Paved Roads
(NCr, June 1967, per km, net of taxes)
Truck
Load Capacity     Load Capacity             Passenger Car
6 ton, gasoline   15 ton, diesel     Bus       Volkswagen
Fuel                              0. 044           o.o46         0.030 
Lubrication                      0.006             0.010         0.008)
Tires                             0.032            0.073         0.025        0.005
Maintenance                       0.040            O.081         0.070        0.013
Wages                             0.065            0.093         O.096          _
Depreciation and interest         0.062            0.217         o.o86        0.026
Total                             0.249            0.420         0.315        0.059
US¢ equivalent per km             9.25              15.6         11.65         2.14
Source:  Brazil Transport Survey, Phase II.  Guideline 014.



BRAZIL                                                  TABLE 13
FIRST HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
List of Roads and Cost Estimates
Estimates June 1967
Type of Work         Total Cost
Construction         Exclusive Conting.
Road Number   Responsible                               and Paving  Paving   NCr.     US$ Equiv.
State           National State     Agency             Road Section             Km       Km    Million Million
1. Minas Gerais       BR-381   MG-4    DER/MG    Ipatinga-Governador Valadares      99        -      31.5      11.7
2. Parana             BR-476   PR-5    DER/PR    Sao Mateus do Sul-Uniao daVitoria -         85      22.7       8.4
3. Parana             BR-468     -     DNER      Km 40 - Km 83                      -        43      13.3      4.9
h. Santa Catarina     BR-470   SC-23   DER/SC    Rio do Sul - Junction BR-116       -        91      23.8       8.8
5. Rio Grande do Sul BR-386    RS-13   DAER/RS   Tabai - Canoas                     54       -       21.6      8.0
6. Rio Grande do Sul    -      RS-4    DAER/RS   Cai-Farroupilha                    -        45      11.9      4.4
7. Rio Grande do Sul BR-116      -     DNER      Sao Leopoldo - Novo Hamburgo       12       -        8.9      3.3
165      264     133.7     h9.5
Totals               429
Note:  As stated in paragraph 4.24, the foreign exchange component assuming one-quarter foreign and
three-quarters local contractors is about 24 percent. The corresponding foreign exchange
cost component of construction (excluding contingencies) is therefore $11.9 million.



TABLE 14
BRAZIL
FIRST HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Average Daily Traffic i/
Project Highways, 1966
Highway and              No. of               Percentage of
Counting Station          Vehicles        Cars    Buses  Trucks    Other
MG-4      Ipatinga             213           30.0     7.5    46.5    16.0
MG-4      Governador
Valadores            348          36.5      5.7    38.2    19.6
BR-468    Km 48                589          31.3      6.5    59.7     2.5
PR-5      Sao Mateus do Sul    480          13.5      2.1    80.2     4.2
PR-5      Uniao da Vitoria     575          34.8     0.9     63.5     0.8
RS-4      Cai                1,3992/        19.5     2.1     68.5     9.9
BR-116    Vila Scharlau     10,561          62.4      6.8    25.9     4.9
(Sao Leopoldo)
BR-470/   Trombudo Central      5963'        33.0     1.0    66.0      -
1/ Traffic volumes shawn in this table relate to volumes at traffic
counting points and not averages over the whole sections.
2/ January-May 1967.
3/ May 1968.
Source: DNER



BRAZIL: FIRST HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION AND ENGINEERING PROJECT
ORGANIZATION      CHART OF     THE NATIONAL       HIGHWAY    DEPARTMENT       (DNER)
LEGAL OFFICE                          DIRECTOR     GENERAL                       TECHNICAL ADVISORS
DEPARTMENT OF                                      TECHNICAL
ADMI STRATION                                     DEPARTMENT
ADMINISTRATION          APPRAISAL                   DESIGN              MAINTENANCE
DIVISION             COMMITTEE                  DIVISION               DIVISION
FINANCIAL              TRAFFIC                  RESEARCH                PAVING
DIVISION              DIVISION                  DIVISION               DIVISION
INFORMATION             PLANNING                COORDINATION          CONSTRUCTION
DIVISION              DIVISION                  DIVISION               DIVISION
DISTRICT OFFICES              SUPPLY               EQUIPMENT                           COMPETITIVE
(ONE IN                   DVSODISONBIDDING
EACH STATE)                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COMMITTEE
Jonuary. 1968                                                                                                        (R)IBRD-3644



BRAZIL: FIRST HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION
AND ENGINEERING PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
OF THE STATE HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT OF MINAS GERAIS (DER-MG)
EXECUTIVE COUNCIL                          HIGHWAY COUNCIL               -       -     TRAFFIC COUNCIL
AUDITING COMMITTEE   --_-__ -----           DIRECTOR GENERAL         ---------------r
|  GENERAL  l                                                 |MTECHNICAL
SECRETARIAT                                                     |    ADVISORS
1_ I                                                                      111 
|LEGAL                    DESIGN       |      |CONSTRUCT10ON|       EQUIPMENT AND      |     |FINANCIAL 
DIVISION               DIVISION              DIVISION              EDIVISION               DIVISION
PLANNING AND             RESEARCH             MAINTENANCE          ADMINISTRATIVE           TRANSPORT
CDIVISION              DIVISION               DIVISION              DIVISION               DIVISION
0
I
Jonuary, 1968                                                                                                        (RI IBRD-3645 



BRAZIL: FIRST HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION
AND ENGINEERING PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
OF THE STATE HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT OF PARANA' (DER-PA)
HIGHWAY COUNCIL
C RADMINISTRATIVE                     TAF           CONTROL BUREAU                  P
H   ECHNICAL DIRECTOR   h                  IETOR GENERAL       W               DIITRATIVE DIRECTOR    h
I  A       <            X       H... .v<                                    H       \       m              0M,I  I
DESIGN        CONSTRUCTION                    LEGAL MOCMETAO                              ADMINISTRATIVE   SUPPLY
DIVISION       DIVISION                       DIVISION       D IVSINC                        DIVISION       DIVISION
CONSERVATINDCP__  PAVING                      DOCUMENTATION __ TAFC|METHODS AND                              PLANNING l
RESEARCH  EQUIPMENT                ~~~~~~~SOCIAL                                PERSONNEL       BUIDMINGSRTO
DIVISION  DIVISION  ASSISTANCE                                      SERVICE        SERVICE
l  AND    l
|COMPUTATIONS|
l       I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
9HIGHWAY DISTRICTS-COORDINATION                 I
Jonuary, 1968                                                                                                        (R) IBRD- 3646  F



BRAZIL: FIRST HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION
AND ENGINEERING PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
OF THE STATE HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL (DAER-RG)
| ~HIGHWAY COUNCIL
EXECUTIVE COUNCIL 
1' ~~~IRECTOR GENERA                                    RFI     ONI
AUDITING COMMITTEE
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE
r   RECRUITING SERVICE  l                                                   COMMUNICATIONS AND
| AND MEDICAL ASSISTANCE   C                                           C         FILING SECTION
r  PERSONNEL SECTION  S                                        A       GENERAL RECORDS
|  SURVEY AND  l l     SMAINTENANCE       CONSTRUCTION           MEUIPMENT                SUPPLY             ACCOUNTNG
DESIGN            AND IMPROVEMENTS          DIVISION          |     DIVISION             DIVISION            DIRECTORATE
SPECIAL             TRAFFIC              ASSISTANCE TO            LEGAL
SERVICES           DIRECTORATE           MU NICIPALITIES        DEPARTMENT
January, 1968                                                                                                              (R) AE3D 3647



BRAZIL: FIRST HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION
AND ENGINEERING PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
OF THE STATE HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT OF SANTA CATARINA (DER-SC)
HIGHWAY COUNCIL     }
E    EXECUTIVE COUNCIL
AUDITING COMMITTEE                DIRECTOR GENERAL                    TRAFFIC COMMISSION
LEA                   TEHICL2 DISTRCT| ADMINISTRATIVE                               l
DIVISIONDIVISION                                                 DIVISION
TESTING OF                 PAEETTAFCCOMMUNICATIONS
MATERIALS    CNTRUCTION     DEINSTATISTICS                  ACCOUNTING   PURCHASING    AND) FILING
AND ROAD SIGNS
MAINTENANCE      .           .SISTNC
AND        ASURDESIGN    EQUIPMENT    TO COUNTIES          TREASURY     PERSONNEL
IMPROVEMENTS  AND DESI
0
Jun~e 1968                                                                                        IBRR-3902,



AINEX A
Page 1
BRAZIL
COWSULTA:rTS ERIGAGED IIT THE TRA2ISPORT SURVEY
Consultants and Nationality                 Duties
PHASE I
1)  Coverdale & Colpitts (USA)     Co-ordinating consultants and
railway studies.
2)  INGEROUTE (France)             Highway master plan and orga-
nization study, and feasibility
studies in the State of Minas
Gerais.
3)  KAM.PSAX (Denmark)             Highway master plans and orga-
nization studies, and feasibility
studies in the States of Parana,
Santa Catarina,and Rio Grande
do Sul.
4) NEDECO (Netherlands)            Study of the Ports of Rio de
Janeiro, Recife and Santos,
and of coastal shipping.
PHASE II
1)  KAMSLX (Denmark)               Co-ordinating consultants.
2)  Parsons, Brinkerhoff,     )    Highway master plans and feasi-
Quade & Douglas (USA)     )    bility studies in the States
)    of Sao Paulo, Mato Grosso and
Edwards & Kelcey (USA)    )    Goias.
ASPLAN (Brazil)                Highway organization studies in
)    the States of Mato Grosso and
MONTOR-MONTREAL (Brazil)  )    Goias.
3) NORCONSULT (Norway)        )    Highway master plans and orga-
)    nization studies in the States
Servicos de Planejamento  )    of Rio de Janeiro and Espirito
(Brazil)           )    Santo.



AIEh.;: A
Page 2
Consultants and Nationality                 Duties
4) Xaver Dorsch (Germany)          Highway master plans and orga-
nization studies, and feasi-
bility studies in the States of
Bahia and Sergipe.
5) Louis Berger (USA)              High-way master plans and
organization studies in the
States of Alagoas, Pernambuco,
Paraiba, and Rio Grande do
Norte.
6)  Sauti (Italy)                  Highway master plans and
organization studies,and
feasibility studies in the
States of Maranhao, Piaui,
and Ceara.



ANNEX B
Page 1
TRANSPORT SURVEY, PHASE I, 1iLAIN RECOliE 1ATIONS
Transport Coordination
1.        The consultants made general recommendations which, if adopted,
would go far to ensure) the movement of traffic by that mode of transport
which incurred the least cost to the economy. It was recommended that
investments be made according to economic criteria, that there be free
user choice of mode of transport, that government policies should not unduly
favor or discriminate between modes and that users pay their full costs.
Railways
2.        An extensive analysis of the federal and state railways was
made and a litany of problems catalogued. The principal recommendation
was that all the railways should be merged into one system, controlled by
a Board with a ManagJiig Director directly responsible to the Minister of
Transport. A manpower study to reduce staff to reasonable levels was re-
commended, and several lines were recommended for abandonment. Where the
armed forces insisted on the retention of uneconomic lines, the resulting
deficit should be handled in such a way as not to be a burden to the rail-
ways. Various improvements in equipment, signalling and operations were
recommended, as well as the institution of cost-oriented tariffs. It was
envisaged that implementation of the recommendations would require the
engagement of a highly qualified team of consultants.
Ports
3.        The ports of Rio de Janeiro, Santos and Recife were studied in
detail with a view to providing guidelines for the improvement of adminis-
tration and to prepare master plans for investment. The situation in the
ports was unsatisfactory in almost every respect, the principal cause being
overcentralization. It was proposed that the National Port Organization
be responsible only for rational planning and coordination and that indi-
vidual ports should be transformed into largelyindependent port authorities.
For the port of Rio de Janeiro, the Survey recommended extensive rehabili-
tation and expansion of facilities, including new wheat and dry bulk termi-
nals, and new general cargo berths.   In Santos new facilities, including a
container berth, were recommended to handle increasing traffic. In Recife,
replacement of almost all equipment was recommended as well as the re-
building of sheds.
Coastal Shipping
4.        The consultants were asked to identify major shortcomings and
to recommend any new investment in ships that may be required. A major
finding was that the present fleet was much too large for the available
cargo and extensive scrapping was recommended.   Fixed sailing schedules



ANNEX B
Page 2
were suggested, as were the consolidation of shipping companies and the
decrease in the role of the regulatory body, the Merchant Marine Commission.
If the recommendations are adopted, greater efficiency and reduced costs
could be expected, resulting in a reduction in subsidies.
Highways
5.        The highway studies covered Parana, Santa Catarina, Rio Grande do
Sul and Minas Gerais, including the review of design standards, economic
studies, master plans for construction, the preparation of financial programss
maintenance equipment needs, organization of highway departments and feasi-
bility studies. Some of the feasibility studies are the basis of the present
proposed loan. Recommended construction and maintenance expenditures from
1969 to 1976 for the states were:
Recommended Expenditures in US$ Millions
Rio Grande do Sul Santa Catarina    Parana  Minas Gerais
Priority roads          350.0           227.0       576.0       h34.0
Improvements             63.6            h5.5       127.1   (incl. in above)
Maintenance, in-
cluding equipment        88.6           54.5         84.0       224.0
502.2           327.0        787.1       658.0
6.        A major recommendation was that user charges be revised so that
each category of vehicle paid its share of the economic cost of the high-
ways. Calculations were made of the amounts appropriate for each type of
vehicle. It was also recommended that the National Highway Department,
where feasible, hand over its project design, construction, and maintenance
functions to State Highway Departments,and be restricted to an agency for
planning, programming and financing highways and establishing standards.
Other recommendations were that a pavement reinforcement program be under-
taken, traffic studies improved, geometric design standards reviewed and
construction inspection intensified.
Transport Investment Program
7.        The recommended transport investments for the period 1967-1976
are as follows:                              US$ Million Equivalent
Highway construction            2,080 (3 southern states and
Minas Gerais)
Railways (priority program)       810 (all federal and state
systems)
Ports                             208
Coastal shipping                   30
3,128
It may be expected that the Bank will participate in some of these as
projects become ready for appraisal.



ANNEX C
Page 1
FORIUtTIATION OF TRANSPORT POLICY IN BRAZIL
Background
(a) First L!nmcrandum of Understanding. The 1964 Bank lUission to
.razil (11H-146a) noted several shortcomings in trahsport policy ahdc planning
which had resulted in mistaken or ill-timed investments and large cash
deficits, particularly for railways and ports. In turn these were the most
important sources of inflation, subsidies to the transport sector reaching
58 percent of the federal budget deficit in that year. The Government agreed
with the mission's conclusion that urgent steps were required to cope with
the serious problems.
2.        In October, 1965 the Government requested technical assistance
from the Bank to undertake a transport survey which would study the problems
and make recommendations. The resulting Survey included a study of all
railways, the ports of Santos, Rio de Janeiro and Recife, coastal shipping,
and the highways in the States of Parana, Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina
and llinas Gerais. The Bank and the Government agreed upon a Memorandum of
Understanding which conmnitted the Government to implement the recommendations
of the Survey to the largest possible extent, in respect both to policy and
to investments.
3.        (b) Program of Action. The Survey is virtually complete and has
resulted in Master -ians for all sectors. The main recommendations of the
Survey are given in Annex B. A second phase of the Survey was commenced
in 1967 to complete highway master plans for fourteen additional states
with USAID and UNDP assistance, the Bank being executing agent. This
phase is expected to be completed by the end of 1968. The Government
furnished the Bank with a further Hemorandum of Understanding in January,
1967 in which the Government restated its intention to support the principles
and policies set out in the 1965 Memorandum. The Government further agreed
that it would undertake, by the end of February 1967, an additional program
of action, acceptable to the Bank, for highways and transport coordination
(including railways, ports and coastal shipping). The Government and the
Bank were to agree on measures of implementation.
4.        (c)  10-Year Plan 1967-1976. In March, 1967 the Government
produced a 10-Year Plan for Economic and Social Development which, in the
transport sector, broadly followed the first phase consultants' recammen-
dations. Before the Plan could be implemented, however, the new Government
of President Costa e Silva took office and the Plan was suspended.
5.        (d) Strtegic Program 1968-1970. The new President, in his
Budget Message to the National Congress in July of 1967, announced that a
Strategic Program for Development would be presented shortly and a new
Three-Year Plan (1968-1970) would be fonmulated within the guidelines of
the Program. The Strategic Program was published and approved by the
President on July 14, 1967.



ANNEX C
Page 2
6.        The Program set out the basic objectives and policy guidelines
adopted by the Government.   In the traisport sector these included statements
that:
(a)  investment was to be based mainly on economic criteria;
(b) economic costs were to be reflected in prices paid by
users for all forms of transport;
(c) ocean shipping was to be expanded, as was coastal shipping
which was also to be put on a scheduled basis;
(d) ports were to be modernized and reorganized;
(e) railways were to be consolidated into one system; and
(f)  the National Highway Department was to be reorganized.
These guidelines are in accordance with the Memoranda of Understanding with
the exception of the expansion of ocean shipping.
7.        (e)  Three Year Plan 1968-1970. The Plan for the transport
sector allows for Federal Government capital expenditures as follows:
US$ Equivalent
(Million)
Roads                                      1,646.0
Shipping and navigable waterways             227.9
Railways                                     217.9
Ports                                        116.1
Air Transport                                 48.5
Protection of coastal navigation              10.8
Administration                                 1.2
$2,268.4
Expenditures for other levels of Government are excluded, as are private
projects and certain projects for which foreign financing is expected.
The Plan is essentially a list of projects which are authorized by law
to be proceeded with. This does not mean that all the projects will be
undertaken, but even so, many of them could not be construed to be
economically justified and therefore are not within the spirit of the
Memoranda of Understanding or the Strategic Program.
8.        (f)  Letter of Intent. The 1967 Bank Mission to Brazil (WH-173a)
was concerned with the continung large subsidies to the transport sector
and the consequent inflationary pressure, in spite of the progress made to
improve efficienqr and the elimination of uneconomic services. The
proposed loan is seen as a means of following up the Memoranda of
Understanding by requiring specific further actions, as lending conditions,
related to the improvement of efficiency in the transport sector and to
the consequent reduction of deficits.



ANNEX C
Page 3
9.        As a result of extended discussions a letter of intent, out-
lining the necessary measures, has been presented to the Bank which states
the intention to undertake the following important measures:
(a)  Recommendations for the consolidation of the railway system
are to be drawn up by a special commission to merge   the
railways into a single organization directly reponsible to
the Iviinister of Transport;
(b)  A manpower survey by the railways aimed at reducing staff
by 11,000 over the next 3 years;
(c)  The introduction of cost accounting as a basis for railway
tariff reform;
(d) A program of abandonment --P uneconomic railway stations
and lines to be concluded by the end of 1972;
(e) The termination of new line construction as recammended in
the Transport Survey, except for those socially and
strategically required;
(f)  The reorganization of the National Highway Department in
accordance with a program to be formulated early in 1969;
(g)  The formulation of proposals for the reform of the structure
of road user charges;
(h) The basing of highway construction priorities on the
recommendations of the Transport Survey;
Ci) The decentralization of port administration and the
representation of State and Municipal government
in port authorities;
(j)  The introduction of commercial accounting in the ports of
Rio de Janeiro, Santos and Recife by mid-1969; and
(k)  The use of cost accounting in the ports as a basis for
assessing port charges.
The Government understands that this statement of intentions and the
program proposed are of importance to the Bank and that progress towards
implementation will be an important factor in the consideration of future
loans in the transport sector.
Future Lending in the Sector
10.       If progress is made by the Brazilian Government regarding the
above matters, the Bank might contemplate further lending in the transport
field. The Survey, Phase II, includes feasibility'studies for highways which
could be appraised shortly and others which will be ready early in 1969.
Highway projects are being identified for appraisal while lending might
later be possible in the port and railway sectors, depending largely on
financial performance in the future.



V   E  N  E  Z  U  E  L As  Helena
C  0  L  0  M  B  I A                               Th6.. t 7
1   0    BOA VISTA);  !
1.   5                        - *, * t < f  ARACARAI
MITU         UCUI
( NCANA(.                   l  t   ,  f   I N
Ana-010"~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~* 1
'\    S  *\ StX },^\-'-00 SA
S- g XEN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERURI  ACNUMAS
'W   O    DO EOU DORR NJAU~~~~~IM CONSTANT  S
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
=~ ~  ~    ~       ~     ~~~           ~    ~~~~~~ C  MAT )0005RE00
RA   \   OBAZVL                                        )
i-                                      MAU UO   e   -n 4\  ITA 
CL~~~~~~~~~~~~ BR SI E0 ACREAMII      <DOI
BRASIL>s                       V L >
M Ae
-rARCO SAC, MAT
B R A Z I Lt



~~~~~~~~~"Olo . . .. . . . . .'                   . 
X '. ,.o, ...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... .........                         , , S16R. 165X 
a   '   <tb         |        .'Oe°   I                                   t             0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .. ..
9 \\-;~L                                     4 .'-','9C 
f   SR;/Se,  O    ,,'s,.--'              /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F
BR           !s5                                                                                      s
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B                                3                                     an
>  J   t  ;  >°6<   s  >  ,i       =<                          }     9~~~~~~~
/s ' s o{ m            X  *            @ . .,,,,, 6R, 00
/   _ ,   g  a j C _   I  sX    to     '  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ B   @   e  \_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~153



MAP 1
bPANEM
q ARACUME  SAO LUIS
/     *      tPARNAIRA
/      . |LS ORI 
/    '$DR 40D  , ,flTAP~EOURIJ-MIRIM >  a  LOE  
STA. INE     RR   /  *   TIA     \ ORUA    FOTLEZA     ARHCHI[PELAGO
FERNANDO DE NORONHA A 
4 RA     N HIA    ?                  .$    DOCESARIS
RATRIZ  *   UT  . .R
AUA4~~~.J0  *  /  -  'N~~ATAL
ro FRANCO C;                                               2 *      E DE MIPIBU
I          O DA IIAN G A B E I R  
/  MANSASEI  R..  N                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PATOS  ABDL
'IN; *  -   -   -   g    s    .   CMP(OS SALES    R P
-d'~~~~~~~~~~-P                                        JOAO
BALSAS        E    .  S  D                          *       -   PESSOA
I ~~~~~~        *     PAU~~~~~~~~~~L'S'ANA  232
P   t;.7 R   A         .       * P  4CECIFE
. E RAIMULI  NONATO             tN_UN
I  I               EAS.    e                p>  RV05
, 0/' \  .                                SALVADORO '-'@   ' CA N U O ERE
I\~ ~       .        G    * a*\               @  s 
/ *.  .--  .      f ...YITSRIA SA C .NSUIAUCAN  t
S       *R :0 /EA oA*,.    ,  U     *L -,ARACAJU
01   B . .   *GE/A   H /    .  ,CIA
t o   .  . *       CARAADA
/   * *  '  *  ~~ITABERABA ^G,,   /
Al 5t-" .CORRENTIN^                  4 o
74    * */- ~~~~~ZA;; I N";H  e0  EU  CAMPINHO
g^ X / brs ot ;  /t  > y   y  ~~~~~UB ITARA
o$.       )   es  ;  V~~~~~~ I TO RIA DA CONDU ISTA,{B 
'   /    .     _ >  st    ITABUNi  ~~~~~ ~ ~  ~~~~~ILHEUS  
LIA       4OR,.       '.    \ 1/4e    pAC
*. . Bs2  | *    SALINASoa***f  POAAU 
p /NA 58  - *>M~~~ONTES CL;O  | 
tt¢.;1  e  ..<ERAIs / 
60 * -   /;/     Z M  -M  rR41  {  *................-llA AV LA



B R A Z I L)
FIRST HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION
PROJECT                                                              _j
NATIONAL HIGHWAY NETWORK
1967                                                                          ORTE
HIGHWAYS
.... ..     Paved (4 lanes)
Paved                                                                           Q
Constructed (not paved)
............  Planned
Compl/ed from /967 map prepared
by Notionol H,ghwoy Deportment
- --- - -International boundaries
- - - - - - -  State boundaries
A,, URUGI
BARRA 00 QUA0
0     100   200   300   400   500
KILOMETERS                                                            u
L
FEBRUARY 1968



GOIANIA            *  R02 |          SALINAl'. *  PDA AZUL'/
*w                     ../NA.5  * *: *N* ......
PORTS ESPERANCA                 *  * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0ftv~~~NTS  LAO
I  RI!OVERDE  )1 ER             O* .. G     E RTA  / AC
FORTEYCOIMBRA  . .  ~ &V~  RR.265  *     FRAA p                   6  8 4         *   I
..ESL,VOAS  8 ARDERAC:~,  E~A  %  *g         *O a      , ~.k  ,~  J, OGVA UVEA
j/ISUEL~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i DOE  *.  *. S                    262'R^t
* JAROIM             T*                        *             .x" E.\ D IFAF
RI;TO EPRNAARANGE;O-O                   O                        IPATINA             MATEU
\  RTITA3  ELA VISTA  .  k*                  .     * 4..e /. I           ,     TA
AN  URUGUAIA;N RI1O* .Q,;E6RETE  * S:JTA MARI  TAM'.  TO |C  RRES
ARRA  0   COI  UARAMPB                            F                                   COPESALEGRE
J v     LA VRAMUA E°                                                                        IVA
$~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ JOS D. R. PETO J
0 ARROIO GR8DE d  .FRIO GRANDE
U R U G U A            2
ERA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
J~ ~ ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 69  RIND
) }      CHUt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4E



*. *rU5* AALINAS o * -  /  PEORA AZ)IL
M4INAI.. .......
/NA 5   *MONTES CLAROS  |
. GER A RA           *
*. *  -  7:         C jl  GR  . .-1ARAVELAS
1'PATOS DOV EM  5SS ER                                 ( . *   *. 
FELIOL~                         ,
\--   \'T _ CLItL  *   -V -  L L D N s t lSW MATEOS
OVA   '-.f0A~       *    { TARUAC )    RES
SOil  *. -7   \*tG.f | '~  4j 2/   0 o NEIVA
854 WR 65. s   t/           C  ASEIRS SEI
JOAO DA SA6RA
R
F ^ iN/ z.° ..IIF  (
K *  RASUATUBA  St /L  
3 5 SESASTIAS  @>&/D            \
IAEM
IBRD-2220



B       .      ... .14MAP 
BRAZIL                                                  .'/           .
STATE OF MINAS GERAIS
FIRST HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
P-~ - RAD5vDR CO NSTRUCT lo TA  AN/O  P01|
FOANR PIPED MUcINEONE A NEODRIUUDERNN   f                        rsw  \                      O           \>
Ss!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                             S     OILIE OTISHI  EONOI2ELt fN  CO OflNO*Z 
.-I,  OLD NAT-OEAL Nl1N1- I N           |                             ,  .     5:
A,                                                                           ODTER CELD lulNlehlANtcS HS  6 .  550410' iLAOS 4  *N  ..
>  IR.C.TU               2    f      )/
1~~ , O .  Dt Xst
o ~ ~ ~~~~5 5 777D 



MAIt J
B R AZ I L
S A C    P A U L 0     SIGeWAY NUaEsS   STATE OF PARANA
R.  rv                            st~~~~~~~t. ~~FIRST HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION
°2 R  s   '    ,*'      <   _   .....      ,.x    y.,, ,' ..__PROJECT
92 ffi                                                  p e-;  t   00   >   \  ;   >    "1,_L,,.hEe n ch a
I' -. -  ntrnti da   -1adahe
R b-5. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~Sat  aedre
iT~~~~~ ~                     A SK  TA   'K' A-==a&  TAR      ffa3s.z-c AO     A 
dONE IShR                                                    GS                                 -th
db     t we- _ ° W 11 = -i-,dA / / a               o- P-i g
S  A  G8d  T  A  \8J   C  A  T  A  R  0  N  ^       | C.;: C| A-
....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. S . O IURIT                                              7IB     J 



MAP 4
'AA
8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OAAd SR 2r <j 
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0A          SoTCr  2     pr       /      T-d
O DDESTE   M   I h   t     e =  -  Q c  ;  D 0  F    }    p  r o d  n   s    j l_
STT     OF  SA T  CATARINA                                                     <<       ;'
ALL                 - ARODSeA AURAS  A
ERAZII               "''          _2         _   ; l r,'' J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CIOXCNMBR
FIRST~~~W HIGWA COSRCINPOET,-                                   6 
A SP NARPLTENO
___T_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A ALO  DO  CCE RCAD  _R                       SRA  A
=   =   = = UN RA  PLNITRUTO  I  TION C  ==_= CAR =====      $  -< -               E-R  OA  *ARO
tISHWAYS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~  ~   ~  C \rCUt  Ir               PR-Ap  ACRiJRCT  0 
0~~~~~~~0C
APDR F I ELCO CR ISCAStArIOL FCAACrDCU [S                   /O S                         _
JSNt 196 CAR                                                                                      D 212R



MAAP 5
f~~~~~
1-
V. 
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
o  K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~co
BR ZI
FIRST  HIGHWAY  CONSTRUCTION  S
4  r /  A  N  2 I C
C    F  A  Nt
AL T   .. T .. ?S .C                  /dT
Q~ ~~~~/ tOTS  Tont .S t ,_tSH Ht S Hr



