Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4528-AL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$ 94.0 MILLION
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR THE
CHELIFF IRRIGATION PROJECT
April 17, 1987
This document has a festricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the petformance
of their of ficil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclose without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Algerian Dinar (DA)
US$ 1.00 = DA 4.7
DA 1.00    US$0.213
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BADR     Banque de l'Agriculture et du Developpement Rural
(Bank for Agricultural and Rural Development)
DAP      Direction de l'Agriculture et de la Pache de la Wilaya
(Provincial Directorate for Agriculture and Fisheries)
DAS      Domaine agricole socialiste
(Socialist Sector Farm)
DGPI     Direction des Grands P6rimetres Irrigues
MAF      Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
MHEF     Ministere de l'Hydraulique, de l'Environneunent et de~s Forets
(Ministry of Hydraulics, Environment and Forests)
O&M      Operation and Maintenance
OPI      Office des Perimetres d'Irrigation



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLC OF ALGERIA
CHELIFF IRRIGATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Ebrrower:             Government of Algeria
Amunot:               US$94.0 million equivalent
Terms:                15 years including 3 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project Description:   The proposed project has the following objectives: (a)
at the local level: (i) to implement the first priority
investment package for the development of the Cheliff
river basin; and (ii) to safeguard and improve the
income of the farmers and their families living in the
subproject areas and improve social welfare by
providing some babic infrastructure; (b) at the sector
Level: (i) to develop and implement new institutional
arrangements to ensure adequate water management,
operation and maintenance in the Cheliff river basin
which, when replicated, would benefit all major
irrigation in the country; and (ii) to develop and
improve internal financing of Operation and Maintenance
(0&M) by increasing user charges to fully cover costs;
and (c) at the national level, to develop efficiently
irrigation potential in the country by expanding the
large-scale irrigation areas presently used for
irrigation by about 25X.
The Project would consist of: (a) rehabilitation of
existing irrigation infrastructure over 5,000 ha in Bas
Cheliff; (b) construction of new irrigation systems
over 8,000 ha in Haut Cheliff; (c) provision for
equipment and vehicles for extension and O&M staff; (d)
technical assistance for the supervision of works, for
studies of further irrigation works in the Cheliff
valley and for 0&?4; (e) training and recruitment of
local staff; and (f) on-farm investments.
Project Risks:        The risk of slow project implementation which was
experienced with a previous project has been minimized
by careful design of the procurement packages to
facilitate efficient construction operations
I This document has a resticted distuibution and may be used by recipints ony in the pefance
of their officWdute. Its contents may not otrwise be diclosed without Word Bank authofiton.



- ii -
(large contracts). The risk of a slower buildup of
benefits than the conservative estimate made has been
minimized by introducing a strict monitoring system and
remedial measures to be taken to improve agricultural
performance if necessary.
Estimated Project Costs:                            Local I/    Foreign         Total
-      ---US$ million)-
Civil works                                      44.9           45.0         89.9
Equipment and vehicles                            5.1           14.7         19.8
Technical assistance, Training and studies    1.5                5.2          6.7
On-farm investments                               9.8            8.1         17.9
Incremental Recurrent costs                       3.2            2.3          5.5
Total Base Costs                           64.5            75.3        139.8
Physical contingencies                 6.5            7.9         14.4
Price contingencies                   20.2           11.2         31.4
Grand Total                                91.2           94.4         185.6
Financing Pau-                                      Local        Foreign        Total
-===-US$ million)--
World Bank                                        -             94.0         94.0
Government                                       32.6            -           32.6
Beneficiaries                                     7.5            -            7.5
BADR                                             17.0            -           17.0
Net Project Costs                          57.1            94.0        151.1
Taxes and Duties                           34.5                         34.5
Total Project Costs                        91.6           94.0         185.6
Estimated Disbursements:
1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
…----- -(- ( i million)-…- -
Annual                            2      5    12    16    19    16    15        9
Cummulative                       2      7    19    35    54    70    85    94
Economic Rate of Return:              The Cheliff Water Master Plan:  17%
The Project:                       15S
Staff Apprail Report:  No. 6514-AL          Date:  April 1, 1987
Map No.   IBRD 19879R
1/ Including US$ 34.5 million in taxes and duties.



WITERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVEODPMENT
REPORT ANID RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTiVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN WI AN
AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$94.0 MILLION TO THE
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERA
FOR A CHELIFF IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria, for the equivalent of
US$94.0 million, to help finance a Cheliff Irrigation Project. The loan would
have a term of 15 years including 3 years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       An economic mission visited Algeria in June 1986 to review the second
Five Year Development Plan (1985-89). The mission's report is under
preparation and its conclusions are reflected in this brief. Country data
sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.       Algeria is a centrally planned economy.  It has a per capita income
(GNP) of $ 2530 (1985) and a population of 21.9 million (as of 1985) growing
at the average rate of 3.2% p.a. Approximately 751 of its population is under
the age of 30. Forty-eight percent of the population lives in urban (coastal)
areas. In 1986, industry and agriculture produced 48.3% and 8.2% of the GDP,
respectively. Hydrocarbons have been the most sigrificant natural resource of
the country. Given current production levels of about 33-34 million tons p.a.
and barring any significant new discoveries, oil production should last for
about another 32 years. The country's gas reserves, the fifth largest in the
world, are immense and to date only 17% of proven reserves have been
depleted. Hydrocarbon-related products account for 44.22 of the industrial
output and provide over 901 of total current foreign exchange earnings, and
produce 431 of budgetary revenues.
4.       The National Charter (approved by referendum in 1976) has provided
the ideological framework for combining the values of Islam and of socialist
central planning. The plan is an instrument for democratizing the economy and
achieving equitable distribution of country's wealth under a socialist system.



-2-
5.       The main long-run objectives of the Algerian development strategy
have been the establishment of a diversified and integrated industrial base,
enhanced efficiency in production and distribution, expansion of agricultural
output to achieve self-sufficiency, and improvement of income distribution.
Consistent with these objectives, Algeria, throughout the presidency of Houari
Boumedienne (1965 to 1978), undertook a massive industrialization effort
within *. highly centralized, planned economy. In the 1970's, the economy
enjoyed high GDP growth rates (9% p.a. for 1970-73, and 7% p.a. for 1974-77),
and benefited from strong industrial growth, a high savings rate and rapid
employment creation. During this period, the country resorted to external as
well as domestic financial resources to realize its massive investment program.
6.       Since 1979 under the pragmatic approach of President Chadli
Bendjedid, the emphasis in economic policy has gradually shifted away from
investment in heavy industries towards the development of light industries
aimed at improving the living standards. The eradication of urban and rural
poverty, and the development of agriculture and the social sectors were also
emphasized. At the same time, the need for industrial and administrative
decentralization, and the fostering of a non-exploitative private sector, have
also been recognized as policy objectives.
First Five-Year Development Plan (1980-84) Period
7.       In the 1980-84 period, significant efficiency oriented institutional
reforms in different sectors of the economy were initiated, consistent with
the shift of emphasis in policy objectives. The Government started to
restructure and decentralize state enterprises increasing the total number of
enterprises from 61 to 350. In agriculture and small and medium industry, a
framework to introduce selective credit and taxation measures to promote
private economic activity was prepared. Steps were taken to deregulate
agricultural prices and marketing, primarily in vegetables and fresh fruit.
New financial incentive schemes were introduced in industry with the intention
of improving labor productivity.
8.       In the first five-year development plan period, 53.3% of investments
were allocated to productive sectors i.e. industry, agriculture, transport and
construction, showing a marked reduction from the 71.6% of the previous
period, while 24.5% were devoted to social sectors, i.e. housing,
training/education. The remaining 23% were used for economic and social
infrastructural development.
9.       Algeria achieved moderate but progressively increasing growth rates
during the years 1980-84. The average rate of 4.6% p.a., however, fell below
the target rate of 7.11 p.a. Even though oil piices ceased to rise after 1981
and workers' remittances started to decline, the country was able to maintain
a virtually balanced current account and, at the same time, reduce its
external debt. This was achieved by restraining import expenditures in step
with export receipts and in diversifying hydrocarbon exports towards
condensate, natural gas and refined products. The 1980-84 period was also
marked by slower growth in the hydrocarbon sector and by substantial
modifications in relative growth rates of other subsectors. Investments
remained high at 402 of GDP. These investments included the development of



-3-
gas export industries as well as intermediate and consumer goods industries
for import substitution. Consumption increased more rapidly than investments
over this period.
10.      External long-term debt was reduced from US$16.3 billion in 1980 to
US$12.1 billion in 1984, despitA falling current account surpluses. This
resulted in lower levels of reserves.  The debt-service ratio (exluding
workers' remittances) increased from 26.4% in 1980 to 33.5% in 1984 as large
debts contracted during the late 1970's fell due and exports stagnated.
Second Five-Year Development Plan (1985-89) and Recent PDeveloments
11.      The Second Five-Year Development Plan was prepared with the
expectation of a difficult international environment and unpredictable
hydrocarbon revenues due to uncertainties in world hydrocarbon demand and
prices, as well as in the dollar exchange rate. The external and internal
economic uncertainties and the reorientation of Algeria's strategy
(specifically, a more pragmatic approach to the development process and an
attempt to cautiously open the economy) were key factors leading to the
redrafting of the National Charter in 1985.
12.      The primary objectives of the 1985-89 Plan were to keep external debt
within acceptable limits, attain a low debt-service ratio, significantly
reduce investment and production costs, and achieve a more balanced
distribution of the financing of development by transferring a portion of
these costs from the Government to enterprises and households. As in the
1980-84 Plan, the highest priorities were given to (a) the development of
agriculture and water resources, (b) the continued development of the social
and economic infrastructure, human resources and housing facilities, and
(:) the initiation of medium-scale industrial projects. The Government
intended to achieve these objectives by promoting decentralization,
regionalization, and subcontracting, by stimulating self-financing, and by
exploiting the country's private enterprise potential more efficiently in
addition to the traditional public support of investment.
13.      The investment program intended to reflect these priorities and was
to remain at 40% of GDP. The total planned expenditure under the 1985-89 Plan
contained higher shares for agriculture, housing, economic infrastructure and
community facilities, compared to both the planned and realized investment
allocations of the 1980-84 period. The expenditure shares targeted in 1980-84
Plan for the same sectors were lower by 17.5% in agriculture, by 4.5% its
housing, by 15.2% in economic infrastructure and by 74.5% in community
facilities. In contrast, shares allocated declined substanttally compared to
the planned shares in the 1980-84 Plan: in industry by 17.1%, construction
enterprises by 30%, transportation by 15.6% and education and training by
21.9%. During the 1985-89 period, the Plan's anticipated GDP and
non-hydrocarbon GDP growth rates were 6.6% p.a., and 7.5% p.a. respectively,
based on the expectation of increased capacity utilization and on increased
efficiency derived from public sector restructuring and rehabilitation
programs. On the other hand, a sluggish growth of exports (5.3% p.a.) and
reduced imports (not exceeding 6% p.a.) implied a reduced consumption growth
of 5.9% p.a. The sectoral composition of consumption was envisaged to be such



-4-
that while public consumption would grow at 7.5% p.a., private consumption
growth would slow down to 5.7%.
14.      The program had a cautious start in 1985, during which only 84% of
the average annual investment budget was utilized. At the sectoral level,
industry (due to the constraints in capacity utilization), agriculture
(despite the activity of water resources subsector) and housing (as a result
of the inefficiency of construction enterprises) used up less than their
respective average allocation of resources. On the other hand, investment
programs in economic infrastructure, non-rail communications, education and
training, community facilities, and sociul infrastructure performed very close
to or ahead of their targets in 1985. The negative investment growth of -1.6%
reflects the mediocre capacity utilization of high-share sectors. During that
year the country achieved a 3.4% GDP growth rate reflecting the slow-down in
hydrocarbons, construction and public works. The growth of value-added in
agriculture (7.2%), helped by favorable climatic conditions, and in the
manuf&cturing industries (7.9X) contributed positively to the overall growth
of the economy. The debt-service ratio remained high, at about 33.1% of GDP.
15.      The 40% drop in Algeria's hydrocarbon prices in 1986 necessitated a
revision of the implementation program for the Plan and the introduction of
austerity measures. In June 1986, the Algerian Government enacted a package
of adjustment measures (the Corrective Finance Law) designed to restore
economic stability. The investment program was revised downward according to
the following principles: the main premises of the Plan would remain intact;
ongoing programs would be completed and unstarted programs deferred;
infrastructural investment would focus largely on rehabilitation and
modernization; and agriculture would remain an investment priority. In
addition, in industry, preference would be given to investments which could
bring increased returns very rapidly, relieve some existing constraints, and
help save on foreign exchange. Hydrocarbon production would be maintained.
Moreover, necessary changes in the legal structure have been implemented to
attract foreign companies to Algeria. Simultaneously, industrial
diversification would be encouraged to reduce the hydrocarbon dependency of
the country in the long-run.
16.      During the first two years of the Plan, GDP and consumption growth
rates are estimated to be 2.6% p.a. and 3.9% p.a. respectively, both falling
seriously behind plan targets, as well as below previous performances. Crowtb
in imports also projected to be negative as a result of the austerity
measures. Despite the adjustment in imports, a deficit of about $1.7 billion
in the external current account is estimated for 1986. The current budget
surplus of the Government has declined from DA 45 billion in 1985 to DA
37 billion in 1986 due to a 35% reduction in oil tax receipts and the
difficulty to cut back rapidly current expenditures. In order to stabilize
the overall budget deficit in 1986 at DA 25 billion the Government has reduced
its capital budget by about 10%. However 50% of the overall budget deficit
has been financed by advances from the banking system (the bulk of it coming
from Central Bank), exerting serious pressure on domestic prices.



-5
17.      The Bank's projections of the medium-term performance (1985-90) of
the Algerian economy are based on the assumption that almost all the impact of
the decrease in oil prices will be absorbed through reduced consumption,
investment and government investment expenditures. At the same time, the
Government set a target to stabilize the external debt at under US$14 billion
To meet this constraint, it is assumed that imports would be reduced
drastically to 65% of their previous levels and would stabilize there until
1990; the investment program would be cut by 40%; and efficiency improvements
would take place in the productive apparatus in agriculture and industry. The
import restrictions are estimated to have led to a 29% drop in import
expenditures in 1986. There will be further smaller adjustments in the
1987-88 period, primarily affecting the availability of intermediate and
capital goods rather than food imports. The exceptionally good crops in 1985
and 1986 have already reduced the need for imported foodstuffs. Underutilized
capacity and remaining accumulated inventories, hc.iever, should help reduce
the adverse effects of the decline of imports on the production process
through 1987.
18.      Real GDP growth is projected to average about 1.8% p.a. for the next
five years. Since the population growth rate (3.2% p.a.) exceeds the average
growth rate, per capita income (GNP) is projected to decline by an average
rate of 1.4 percent p.a. from 1985 to 1990. Total consumption would increase
by 2.42 p.a. on average for 1985-1990. The debt-service ratio would climb to
50% of GDP in the period of 1985-1990, due to the bunching of maturities on
commercial debt and then decline to 24% by 1995.
Future Development Prospects
19.      Algeria's development prospects still significantly depend on the
growth and revenues of hydrocarbon exports. Other elements which would play
an important role in the country's future performance are the level and
sectoral distributions of fixed investments and improvements in sectoral
efficiency, particularly in agriculture. In the light of the most recent oil
price projections of $17.0 to $18.0 per barrel in current market prices
between the years 1986 and 1990, the country would have to continue to make
adjustments in order to maintain real GDP growth, minimize per capita income
declines, and avoid serious deterioration in its balance of payments.  Algeria
needs to become more competitive and improve the efficiency of import
substituting sectors. The Government has already taken some measures to
decentralize and restructure parastatal enterprises and improve financial
incentives for increased productivity and efficiency. Further measures are
under preparation to promote reaource mobilization and more rational
management of available resources by means of increased tariffs, lower
subsidies, reduced transfers to public enterprises, and reform of the banking
sector. This latter step would give more. autonomy and responsibility to banks
for mooilization of resources, investment decisions, and risk evaluation.
Interest rates are also planned to be increased to positive levels in real
terms in the future.
20.      Another challenge facing Algeria is making the best use of its
abundant human resources.  The population growth rate is expected to increase
further in the years ahead from 3.2% p.a. to 3142. The country's population



-6-
growth thus is a potential source of economic and demographic instability. It
establishes a lower limit for the rate of acceptable GDP growth as well as
carrying powerful structural and interregional implications. The urban
population continues to increase along the coastal strip further amplifying
the interregional development gap. Two years ago the Government launched a
family planning program in order to reduce population grc-h.  Up to the
present, the program has not been very effective due to, uOth, the lack of a
nationwide network to successfully carry out the program, and sociological
difficulties generally faced in family planning efforts. Similarly, the
Government's plans to divert internal migration flows away from high urban
concentration areas, however, cannot be easily implemented in the near future,
and remains a long-run issue.
21.      Export diversification of country's exports is another long-term
goal. There has been a gradual but marked change in the perception of foreign
trade. Traditionally Algeria followed a strict import substitution policy
where imports were seen as a "temporary" solution to the unavailability of
local substitutes and exports as a "residual" after the satisfaction of total
domestic demand. In the light of existing external debt and the decrease in
the availability of foreign exchange, the country's future foreign trade
strategy is expected to change. The expansion of import substitution sectors
should slow down and the development of new export sectors aside from
hydrocarbons should gain pace, as the country seeks a more active export
policy. The exchange rate policy which the country pursues in the near future
will be a crucial factor in the success of the new trade policy. Presently
the Algerian Dinar is overvalued. An early correction in the overvalued
exchange rate and a gradual adjustment to a realistic level would help in
promoting non-hydrocarbon exports, curbing imports, as well as attracting
workers remittances and improving resource allocation by reducing the
distortions in the price system.
22.      In the medium-term, the debt burden of the country should remain
manageable provided that future oil prices do not collapse, current economic
policies are successfully implemented, and Algeria continues to receive
support from international and commercial sources. As mentioned previously,
Algeria will attempt to stabilize its long-term debt at about US$14 billion
over the next five years in order to maintain its creditworthiness and a
manageable debt-service ratio, not exceeding 50%. The external debt in 1986
amounted to about 21.42 of GDP, and 150.32 of exports of goods and services
and workers' remittances. The latter index is expected to decline and
stabilize at 100% after 1987.
23.      Up to the present, confidence in Algeria's political stability,
overall economic perfnrmance, stable record in meeting its debt-service
obligations and astute debt management have encouraged banks to continue to
provide the country's external borrowing requirement. Many traditional and
several new foreign commet.rcial banks are still willing to continue lending to
Algeria given their business and trade interests. Algeria's heavy dependence
on private commercial debt and suppliers credits places an additional strain
on the country's debt-service, given the average maturities of between 6 to 8
years in such a debt structure. However, Algeria is expected to sustain the
anticipated level of borrowings despite the gradually hardening credit terms,



-7-
reflecting the increased risk of the lenders. Algeria would reconfirm the
confidence of present lenders in its creditworthiness and could possibly
attract new lenders if the country can successfully implement a structural
adjustment program to reduce imports and to reach a new foreign trade balance,
in the near future.
PART II BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ALGERIA
Baekuground
24.      The Bank has made 28 loans to Algeria totaling US$1,881 million.
After three early loans (two before Independence) there was an interval of
about' nine years when the Bank had no on-going projects in Algeria. Lending
restmed in FY73, and by July 1980, 23 loans, totaling US$1,120.5 million were
approved. Most of these loans were in the education and infiastructure
sectors, where Bank lending aimed at meeting and solving the demand for
skilled manpower. There were, in addition, two loans to industry (one for
industrial finance, and the other for cement); two in agriculture (for
irrigation and meat production); and a technical assistance loan for rural
development. No new loans were made from mid-1980 until December 1983 when a
loan for a telecommunications project was approved by the Executive
Directors. In June 1984, the Executive Directors approved the Algiers
Regional Water Supply Project, and in June 1985 the First National Water
Supply and Sewerage Project.  Current outstanding principal as of December 31,
1986 was about $1120.54 million.
25.      The Bank's economic and sector work dialogue with the Government led
to a basic economic report in 1966, and several studies on economic
development and prospects in the 1970s, complemented by sectoral analyses in
agriculture and industry. These were followed by a study of enterprise
financing and the banking system in 1980, and a review of the 1980/84
development plan. A review of the 1985/89 development plan is currently under
discussion with the Government and a Financial Sector review mission has just
been completed. Future economic and sector work is likely to focus on
assessing medium-term prospects, and their implications for overall economic
and sector management.
26.      During the early 1980s, the Algerian authorities and the Bank were
concerned by the low disbursement rates resulting from pervasive problems
affecting project implementation such as procurement-related issues
and delays in critical policy decisions. At the Annual Meetings in 1980 and
1981, and in other high-level contacts (particularly two Country
Implementation Reviews in November 1981, and June 1982), agreement was reached
to improve project performance through specific measures such as, monitoring
and follow-up, and cancellation by mutual agreement of projects and project
components where it did not appear likely that progress or resolution would be
forthcoming. Following cancellations of about $262 million by FY82, and a
further $156 million by FY84, the Bank's portfolio in Algeria was trimmed to
nine projects. At the end of CY1986, our portfolio contained only five active



projects    one transportation, one telecommunications and three water supply
projects (Algiers Sewage; Algiers Water, Orar and Constantine Water). All
other projects have been closed. Progress on the remaining projects continules
to be monitored closely and disbursements rates have again reached regional
averages. Disbursements in the highways, telecommunications, and water supply
sectors have, in fac., started to accelerate as major contracts begin
execution.
Recent Developments
27.      Based on these experiences, Algeria and the Bank agreed that in the
future, project preparation activities should insure that major project and
sector issues (such as procurement, pricing, cost-recovery, institutional and
financial policy objectives) should be resolved at an early stage of the
project cycle; and that new sector and project initiatives should only be
undertaken once a 'relationship has developed and existing policy .ifferences
in these newer sectors had narrowed down to acceptable ranges.
PART UI - THE AGRICUJLTURAL SECTOR AND THE IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR
Backjrpound
28.      The combination of high nopulation growth (3.22 p.a.) and rising per
capita income (3.2% - 3.6% p.a.) resulted in food consumption increases of 6%
p.a. from the mid-1960s to the late 1970s. As the agricultural sector was
unable to supply the additional food requirements, imports grew rapidly and
Algeria's food self-sufficiency ratio fell to 40% in 1984, from roughly 90Z in
the period immediately following independence in 1962. This decline has beer
particularly severe for cereals, two-thirds of which need to be imported. At
the same time, the volume of food exports (principally wine, fruits, and
vegetables) fell by almost 90% between 1972 and 1983, representing only 32 of
total imports at the end of the period, compared to 632 at the beginning.
During the 1980-84 Plan period, Algeria had to spend almost 15% of its
merchandise export earnings to import foodstuffs (cereals, dairy products,
sugar, oil products, etc.). For all crops, including those enjoying the most
favorable conditions, present yields are only about 50-70% of those in other
Mediterranean countries. Moreover, yields have not increased commensurately
with investment in agricultural equipment and inputs channeled to the
socialist sector. A recent review of the agricultural sector indicated that
the basic factors of poor agricultural performance were:   (a) limited
physical investments (when compared to investments in other sectors); (b)
inadequate deliveries and quality of inputs; (c) inadequate marketing and
pricing policies; (d) neglect of the private sector; and (e) lack of
sufficient managerial and technical proficiency in the socialist farms,
Reforms and Recent Trends
29.      With the 1980-84 Development Plan, the Government introduced a series
of reforms, most of which are consistent with recommendations made by the Bank
in its previous Agricultural Sector Work. The reforms have been primarily



-9-
aimed at improving: (a) the structure of socialist sector farms; (b)
assistance to the private sector farms; (c) organization of the marketing
agencies; and (d) current marketing and pricing regime through deregulation.
Because the reform measures have been put into effect only recently, i.v is too
early to assess their dire^t impact on improvements in agrir-dltural
productivity. Although ag!:..cultural growth has in any case been greatly
affected by a far below normal rainfall in the 1981-1984 period, there have
been recent positive results that can be partially attributed to the reforms.
After an intensive campaign, cereal production in 1984/85 increased sharply to
its highest level ever following their deregulation and good rainfall. There
has been continuous growth in production of vegetables (52 p.a.) and poultry
products (13% p.a. for meat). The quantity of inputs marketed by the
restructured marketing boards increased substantially; fertilizer
distribution, for example, increased by 362 between 1984 and 1985. Private
sectcr farmers have had access to additional land, credit and inputs.
30.      Despite these improvements- performance of the agricultural sector
remains below potential and major ILJues remain to be addressed, such as
distribution of agricultural inputs and credit, in particular for the private
sector; inadequate research programs and extension services, in particular for
the private sector; staff training; further deregulation and productivity
incentives for workers in socialist farms. Through the preparation of
Individual sector notes, the Bank began a dialogue with the Government on
these issues.
frintion Subsector
31.      About 40% of agricultural value added is from irrigated areas and the
potential for development of new irrigation and for increased production from
existing irrigated areas is large. Estimates show that about 800,000 ha or
about 10% of total arable land (7.5 million ha) can be irrigated compared with
only 310,000 ha presently irrigated, i.e. 371 of potential -- a much lower
ratio than in Tunisia (821) or Morocco (69%). One of the aims of the Project
would be to increase irrigated areas. The present use of existing irrigation
infrastructure is low. In the large-scale perimeters (LSI), the existing
networks cover about 166,000 ha, but given their severe deterioration, only
98,500 ha (or 60S) can potentially be used for irrigation. In addition, the
current water scarcity resulting from under-investment in dams and water
control structures, allow only 65,000 ha (701) to be actually irrigated. Other
reasons for underutilization of the irrigation systems in la^ge perimeters
are: competing demands for water to meet urban and industrial needs; lack of
adequate maintenance and rehabilitation; and inadequate drainage systems.
Reent Trd
32.      During the 1980-84 Plan, investment expenditures for water
development increased to 2,420 million DA/year from 850 million DA/year during
the 1977-79 Plan during the 1980-84 Plan - an almost threefold increase. The
most noticeable progress was made in the mobilization of additional water
resources by the construction of new dams and other infrastructures. While
only three dams were constructed between 1962 and 1980, nine have been
commissioned since that date and twelve others are being constructed, doubling



- 10 -
the annual surface water resources available for irrigation and making
possible a much fuller use of existing irrigation facilities.
33.      Under the 1985-89 Plan, the importance of irrigation is maintained.
The Government's main objectives for the subsector under this Plan are to
continue mobilization of water resources by constructing storage dams; and to
rehabilitate, expand and intensify large-scale (LSI) and small and
medium-scale irrigation (SMSI) areas. On the institutional side, the
Government intends to improve O&M of existing irrigation areas, improve
cost-recovery, enhance the performance of the public construction companies,
expand staff training programs, and complete %ater legislation. The proposed
project would contribute to achieving these objectives.
Qsngaton
34.      The central and regional departments of the Ministry of Hydraulics,
Environment and Forests (MHEF) are responsible for planning, studies, and
execution of all major irrigation works and operation and maintenance. In
particular, operation and maintenance are the responsibility of the Ministry's
field subdivisional units located in each irrigation district. Since the
Ministry's main interest has been in the development of major works,
construction has taken priority over operation and maintenance. The Ministry
of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF) has, through its provincial offices, the
responsibility for on-farm water use and crop production by the farmers. It
coordinates these activities with the local staff of MHEF.   However, MAF's
major activities in the irrigated areas have been concentrated on monitoring
the performance of the state farms and cooperatives rather than providing
technical assistance and advice tailored to the needs of irrigated agriculture.
Subsector ssues
35.      Operation and maintenance (O&M) have been long neglected, causing
serious deterioration of the irrigation systems. The neglect of O&M was
raised as an issue in 1984 by the Bank. The Government was urged to take
steps to improve efficiency of O&M operations in the large-scale irrigation
perimeters. In October, 1985, the Government issued decrees defining the
roles and responsibilities of new regional irrigation authorities (Offices des
Perimetres Irrigues, OPI) to be established throughout the country's LSI
perimeters, including one in the Cheliff River Valley encompassing the project
area. It also decided to undertake a study on the detailed organization and
management of the Cheliff OPI. This study is expected to become a model for
the organization and management structures of all other OPIs. The new OPIs
would be state-owned enterprises established as separate legal entities with
financial autonomy. Both local governments and farmers in the irrigation
schemes would be represented on their boards of directors. Through
contractual agreements to be signed with the Ministry of Hydraulics, OPIs
would be responsible for adequate water distribution; operating and
maintaining the irrigation and drainage systems under their control;
collecting water charges; and providing assistance to farmers for on-farm
water management. The current project would include the necessary investments
(equipment and vehicles) required to establish the Cheliff OPI and provide



- 11 -
technical assistance to help put into effect the proposals of the organization
and management study for the new Cheliff OPI. In addition, assurances were
obtained during negotiations that: (a) adequate consultation between the Bank
and the Government would take place on the findings of the study on the
detailed organization and staffing arrangements of the Cheliff OPI; and (b)
the Cheliff OPI would become financially independent from Government budgetary
support before December 31, 1989.
36.      In 1984, the Bank urged the Government to improve cost-recovery in
the LSI perimeters. Subsequently, the Government issued a decree defining
the policy framework for cost-recovery in the LSI perimeters which has as its
main features that water charges would increase by 50% in current terms; and
that water charge revenues of the Offices should cover O&M as well as the
replacement costs of all hydromechanical and electromechanical equipment;
including the principle of recovering a proportion of capital costs. Despite
significant recent increases (507), water charges are still too low. They
cover less than 60% of operation and maintenance costs. They could be
increased without seriously affecting farmers' revenues since they represent a
low percentage of the cost of production of the irrigated crops ranging, for
example in the project area, from about 32 for the socialist farms to 6% for
private farmers. Water charge collection rates have been good (exceeding 80%)
given the great scarcity of water. The current project would include actions
to introduce further improvements in cost-recovery in LSI areas.
37.      In this respect assurances were obtained during negotiations that:
(a) Government would increase volumetric water charges (VWC) in
the Cheliff valley so as to recover 100% of O&M expenditures
and the replacement of irrigation equipment by December 31,
1989 and increase fixed annual levies so that at least 25% of
capital costs are recovered by December 31, 1992; and
(b) Government would carry out a study on capital cost-recovery
policy, discuss the recommendations of the study with the Bank
by June 30, 1989, and, on the basis of such discussions, take
all measures necessary to implement such recommendations.
38.      Because of their poor performance and low productivity in the past,
socialist Aarms were restructured by Government in 1982 to establish farm
enterprises that are more technically efficient, managerially and
economically viable. As a result, more manageable production units
(Domaines Agricoles Socialistes - DAS) have been formed with an average size
of 680 ha each (1,140 ha prior to restructuring); in the process about
740,000 ha. were distributed to private farmers as individual holdings. In
addition, the following major organizational changes have been introduced:
(a) the organization of assistance to the DASs has improved; (b) DAS
management units have been granted greater authority over farm level
planning, operational and financial management; and (c) a large number of
engineers and technicians have been hired as DAS farm managers to replace
unqualified personnel. The current project would further strengthen such
efforts.



- 12 -
Past Le
39.      Bank lending for Agriculture in Algeria began in 1974, but to date,
only three projects have been approved for a total of US$ 58.0 million. Of
these, however, US$ 45.0 million were cancelled including about $42 million
for one project alone. Performance under these three projects was mixed,
reflecting the institutional constraints in the sector. The US$ 8.0 million
Technical Assistance - Rural Development Project (Loan 1159-AL) was
completed in 1983 after considerable delays due mainly to lack of
commitment, lack of coordination and poor supervision by Ministry of
Agriculture. In spite of these delays, that project met its objectives of
analyzing the major constraints and designing and, in some cases, testing
different approaches to rural development in Algeria. The US$ 8.0 million
Bas-Cheliff Irrigation Project (Loan 1802-AL) was 802 completed when the
Government and the Bank decided to close the loan in 1985, two years after
the Closing Date foreseen at appraisal. Delays occurred during bidding when
no offers or expressions of interest were received for the major civil works
and during implementation of these works by a local public sector
enterprise. However, the physical works will be completed by the end of
1986 and project studies have provided an essential framework for the future
development of the Cheliff river basin -- the basis for the present
project. The US$ 42.0 million Meat Industry Project (Loan 1739-AL) was
cancelled in 1983 at the Government's request, a few months after the loan
became effective. Two other projects, the Sidi Bel Abbes Agricultural
Development Project and the Fisheries Development Project, were appraised by
the Bank but were not submitted for Board approval because the Government
did not take certain preliminary institutional measures in time.
40.      With the recent renewal of the dialogue, however, the Government of
Algeria has requested Bank assistance to help improve agricultural sector
performance. In particular, the Government has requested the Bank to put
emphasis on irrigation as well as on input supply, credit and extension and
research subsectors. We are currently assessing these requests and the
revised operations program is expected to focus on improvements in these
subsectors.
PART Iv - THE PROJECT
Objectives/Description
41.      The project was identified during a Bank reconnaissance mission
which visited Algeria in February, 1985. It was prepared by the Government
with assistance of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program in January, 1986 and was
appraised in April, 1986. Negotiations were held in Washington in March,
1987. The Algerian delegation was headed by Mr. M'hamed Oualitsene, Deputy
Director from the Ministry of Finance. The project area is part of the
Cheliff River Basin, the largest in the country and one which shows the
greatest irrigation development potential. The Project would be the first
operation in the agricultural sector since the FY80 Bas Cheliff Irrigation
Project which, inter alia, financed the Cheliff Water Master Plan, resulting
in the technical underpinning of this project.



- 13 -
42.      The Project has the following objectives:
(a) at the local level, it would aim at safeguarding and improving
the income of the farmers and their families living in the
project area and improving social welfare by providing some
basic infrastructure;
(b) at the sector level, tha Project would help (i) implement the
Cheliff Water Master Plan, one of the first such plans carried
out in Algeria; (ii) establish the first new independent water
management authority in Algeria, and (iii) improve water
pricing and cost-recovery measures; and
(c) at the national level, the Project would provide a model for
further development of the subsector and contribute to
increasing the efficiency of use of the country's secure water
resources.
43.           The Project would finance, over seven years, the following
components:
(a) construction of new sprinkler irrigation, drainage and road
infrastructure serving about 8,000 ha in Haut Cheliff;
(b) rehabilitation or upgrading of existing surface irrigation,
drainage, and road infrastructure serving about 5,000 ha in Bas
Cheliff; and
(c) purchase of equipment and vehicles for O&M and extension staff;
(d) on-farm investments as required to develop and intensify
irrigation crops; including sprinkler irrigation and farm
machinery equipment, stables and fruit tree plantations.
(e) technical assistance and training to support local staff in
supervision of works, operation and maintenance of irrigation
systems, extension services, and monitoring and evaluation of
socialist farms, and to carry out studies for further irrigation
works in the Cheliff Valley;
(f) incremental recurrent costs, including salaries of local
technical staff to strengthen the OPI and MAP and incremental
operating and maintenance coSts of the new infrastructure.
Detled Features
44.      Construction Works in Haut Cheliff.  The Project would provide for
the construction of an 8,000 ha sprinkler irrigation system in the Amra Abadia
district of Haut Cheliff. This system would consist of two sectors, each
served by its individual pumping station and underground distribution network:
the Amra sector covering 3,600 ha and the Abadia sector covering 4,400 ha.
The works would include: (a) construction and equipping of two pumping



- 14 -
stations on the Cheliff River; (b) construction of underground
concrete/asbestos pipes (366 km) and installation of hydrants, each serving
about 20 ha; (d) construction of about 300 km of open ditches to drain
overland flows and percolated irrigation waters; and (e) construction of about
9.5 km of gravel feeder roads.
45.      Construction Works in Bas Cheliff.  The Project would provide for the
rehabilitation/upgrading of part of the existing surface irrigation systems in
Bas Cheliff, serving seven sectors totalling about 5,000 ha. The works would
include: (a) improvement of the irrigation network by the replacement of the
deteriorated canals by about 63 km of elevated precast concrete canals over
2700 ha and by about 48 km of low pressure concrete/asbestos pipes over 2,300
ha; and installation of hydromeebanical equipment as necessary; (b)
enlargement of existing drainage channels and construction of new ones
involving earthmoving of about 200,000 m3; (c) placement of tile drains over
about 1,000 ha; and (d} repairs of 28 km of existing gravelled roads and
construction of 65 km of new unsurfaced feeder and farm access roads.
46.      Equipment and Vehicles.  The Project would provide for the purchase
of O&M, radio-communication and computer equipment to support management and
field operations of the new Cheliff Irrigation Office (OPI) and the purchase
of vehicles for supervision of works by MHEF, for O&M by Cheliff OPI and for
extension services by MAF.
47.      Technical Assistance, Training, Studies. The Project would finance
components which would support MHEF and MAF staff in supervising the project
works, enhancing O&M operations in the Cheliff Valley and improving extension
services. These would include Technical Assistance consisting of: (a) 340
man-months to assist MHEF staff in supervising the project works in Haut
Cheliff and in Bas Cheliff; the Cheliff OPI in O&M, financial management and
cost accounting; the MAF in monitoring and evaluating performance of the
socialist farms; and studies for the detailed design of the remaining works in
the Bas Cheliff district; and (c) staff training involving local and overseas
training sessions.
48.      Increased Farm Investments.  As a result of the irrigation works
carried out under the Project, farmers are expected to increase on-farm
investments to take advantage of the increased water resources available.
These investments would be for mobile pipes and sprinkler equipment, stables,
stores and repair workshops, pure-bred in-calf heifers, replacement of citrus
plantations, planting of new apple trees, and farm machinery.
49.      Incremental recurrent costs would include recruitment of local key
staff consisting of engineers, agriculturists, and financial analysts.
Incremental recurrent costs would also include additional O&M costs on the new
and rehabilitated schemes.
Proiect Implementation, Organization and Management
50.      The Project would be implemented over a seven-year period (January
1987 to December 1993) in accordance with an agreed implementation schedule.



- 1$ -
Detailed designs and bidding documents for the Bas Cheliff works are already
available. Detailed designs and bidding documents for the Haut Cheliff works
were completed in 1971 by international consultants and are currently being
updated by MHEF. Prequalification of bidders for the Haut Cheliff area and
the invitation to bid for the works in Bas Cheliff are expected to take place
during the first six months of 1987. The organization and management study
for the Cheliff OPI started in March, 1987 and is expected to be completed in
about 10 months. It will be carried out by a French international consulting
firm. The study will determ ne inventory and working conditions of the
irrigation, drainage and road infrastructure that the OPI will run, its
organization, staffing, management and budget systems. In particular, the
study will determine the precise list of equipment, vehicles and technical
assistance necessary to ensure successful OPI operations. The Project would
contribute to the start-up of the OPI.
51       The water resources development potential for the two project areas
has been estimated by the studies undertaken under the Cheliff Water Master
Plan. Water for the Haut Cheliff area would be pumped from the Cheliff river
after releases from existing upstream dams and the Sidi Mohamed Ben Taiba dam
to be constructed in 1988-92 (see map). Preliminary designs of this dam have
been completed and detailed designs are currently underway. Before the Sidi
Mohamed Ben Taiba dam is constructed, the demand for water in the subproject
area would be met by releases from existing dams. Starting in 1994, however,
water regulated in the existing dams would become insufficient to meet the
requirements of all of the Haut Cheliff perimeters including the project
area. In order to ensure that there are adequate water supplies for the
Project in 1994 and beyond, assurances were obtained at negotiations that
Government would cause construction of the dam to be completed before
September 30, 1993. In addition, a condition of disbursement would be that
after December 31, 1988 no disbursements would be made for project related
infrastructure and equipment in the Haut Cheliff unless the invitation to bid
for the construction of Sidi Mohammed Ben Taiba dam has been issued. Water
for the Bas Cheliff subproject area would originate from unregulated flows of
the Cheliff river. In winter, part of the diverted flows would be used for
irrigation, the other part stored in the existing Merja Sidi Abed storage
reservoir (see map). Water stored in the reservoir would be delivered for
irrigation during the low rainfall season (April to October) with the balance
of the requirements coming from direct river diversion in the winter.
Assurances were also obtained that all respective upstream dams would be
routinely inspected.
52.      MHEF and MAF would have the overall responsibility for the execution
of the Project. The Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (BADR) would
provide credit for financing on-farm investments. The lead would be taken by
MHEF's Department of Large Scale Irrigation Perimeters (DGPI), which is
responsible for design, construction and O&M of the LSI perimeters in the
country. It would be supported as necessary by consultants &nd would
designate two full-time project managers, one for each project area. The
MAF's Department of Planning would be responsible for coordinating at the
central level the agricultural development activities of the Project, in
collaboration with other MAF departments involved in the Project (crop
production, livestock, extension and farm structures). At the regional



- 16 -
project level, the Provincial Directorates of Agriculture (DAP) will be
responsible for executing project activities with regard to DAS restructuring,
monitoring and performance evaluating, and strengthening extension services to
all farmers in the Project area through their SDA and DAD services.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government would cause input
deliveries to the Project area farmers to be timely and in adequate quantities
to meet demand.
53.      Overall coordination of project implementation and related
institutional development would be carried out at the national level by
periodic meetings of representatives of all agencies concerned, chaired by the
Secretary General of MHEF. The purpose of the meetings would be to monitor
progress in project execution, review work programs and progress, resolve
problems involving different Government departments and recommend additional
measures to assure prompt execution of the project.
54.      Further restructuring and performance measures would be taken under
the Project to ensure more intensified use of land by the project water users
once the rehabilitated and new systems are ope ational. Because the DASs in
the Haut Cheliff area will be almost fully irrigated under the proposed
project, further restructuring (from an average of 690 ha. to 400 ha.) is
required in order to continue to ensure their effectiveness. However, no
further restructuring of these Bas Cheliff DASs is currently foreseen, given
that only a small part of each farm (about 170 ha.) will be irrigated. In
addition, performance of all DASs would be closely monitored under the
Project. Criteria for monitoring performance would include consideration of
productivity in terms of inputs (cost of direct and indirect labor, farm
machinery and seasonal inputs, water use per irrigated ha) and output
(irrigation intensity, yields of major crops) relative to established norms
and financial performance in terms of cash flow by quarter and profit/loss of
the cropping year. Existing planning and accounting systems will be used as
the basis for establishing the criteria.
55.      The Government submitted to the Bank, prior to negotiations, a
statement acceptable to the Bank defining the principles to be followed and
actions to be taken during project implementation to restructure the DAS and
ensure satisfactory performance, and a model development plan for one DAS. In
addition, assurances were obtained during negotiations that: (a) by December
31, 1988, Government would exchange views with the Bank on the management and
financial criteria, such as those described above, to establish a detailed
monitoring system for each DAS; (b) by December 31, 1988, Government would
exchange views with the Bank on actions that will be taken if the expected
performance levels are not met; and (c) by December 31, 1989, Government would
complete the restructuring of the eight DAS of the Haut Cheliff project area.
Costs and Financing
56.      Total project costs are estimated at US$185.6 million (DA 872
million) of which US$94.0 million (DA 444 million), or 51 is foreign
exchange. Total project costs include an estimated US$34.5 million (DA 162
million) of taxes and duties. Base costs, valued in March 1987 prices, were



- 17 -
derived from recent bidding and appraisal estimates. Physical contingencies
have been included at 15% for the pumping station civil works and 102 for the
other civil works, equipwent, vehicles, and technical assistance, amounting to
US$14.4 million (8S) of total project costs. Price contingencies have been
calculated on the basis of the projected annual price increases applied to
locAl and foreign costs including physical contingencies, amounting to US$31.4
million (17%) of total project costs.
57.      A Bank loan of US$94.0 million is proposed to be made to the
Government of Algeria to finance 100% of the project's foreign exchange
component. On-farm investments would be financed by the beneficiaries (US$7.5
million) and by BADR (US$17.0 nillion) under its current lending policies and
procedures. Bank financing would cover an estimated 511 of total project
costs, or 62% of project costs net of taxes. The Government would finance the
balance of net project costs (US$32.6 million). The Bank loan would be for 15
years including a three year grace period.
58.      The Government would earmark the proceeds of the Loan and its own
financing for the Project to MHEF (US$153.9 million), to the Cheliff OPI
(US$6.5 million) and to MAF (US$0.7 million) through their annual budgets to
finance project activities. The Government would also cause BADR to provide
investment credit to farmers (US$17.0 million). Beneficiaries would share the
project cost through their down payments for the credit component.
Procurement and Disbursements
59.      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following table:
PROCUREMENT METHODS ^'
(US$ million)
Project Element                 Procurement Methods            Total
ICB      LCB     Other        N.A.     Cost
Civil Works                   114.3      4.8                 -         119.1
Equipment and Vehicles         22.1      -         3.0       -          25.1
Technical Assistance,
Studies and Training          -        -         8.5       -           8.5
Incremental Operating Costs    -         -         -         8.4         8.4
On-farm Investments                                         24.5        24.5
TOTAL               136.4       4.8     11.5       32.9      185.6
(80.3)    (3.3)   (10.4)      (-)       (94.0)
a/ Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.



- 18 -
Contracts for civil works estimated to cost US$1,000,000 equivalent or more
each and contracts for equipment and vehicles estimated to cost US$300,000
equivalent or more each and valued together at a total of about US.136.4
million, would be awarded through international competitive bidding (ICB), in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Qualifying domestic manufacturers of
equipment would receive preference in bid evaluation of 152 or the prevailing
import duty, whichever is less. Contracts for civil works estimated to cost
less than US$1,000,000 equivalent each and aggregating not more than US$4.8
million could be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. Contracts for equipment
and vehicles estimated to cost less than US$300,000 equivalent each and
aggregating US$3.0 million would be purchased through SONACOM and other
specialized agencies who shall follow international shopping procedures
acceptable to the Bank. Contracts for technical assistance, studies and
training totalling about US$8.5 million would be awarded in accordance with
Bank guidelines. All bidding documents and awards of contracts for civil
works estimated to cost the equivalent of US$1,000,000 or more and for
vehicles and equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of US$300,000 or more
would require the Bank's prior approval as well would contracts for
radio-communication and computer equipment. Other contracts would be subject
to random post review by the Bank after contract award, in the course of
supervision missions.
60.      Local competitive bidding procedures are generally consistent with
the need for economy and efficiency in the execution of the Project. There
were, however, a few procedures which were inconsistent with Bank procurement
guidelines and others which required clarification. These procedures and
proposals to improve them have been discussed during negotiations, and
agreement was reached regarding the needed changes to m.ake the current
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
61.      The proposed Bank loan of US$94.0 million would be disbursed over a
period of eight years. The Closing Date of the Loan would be December 31,
1994, or one year after the provisional acceptance of the works which is the
time needed to monitor the performance of the works and to return retention
money on the civil work contractors. The historical disbursement profiles for
Bank-wide agricultural projects indicate that full disbursement generally
requires eight years. Efforts to enisure that this norm will be adhered to
include: the advanced stage of preparation of the detailed designs which will
permit prompt start of project works; and major investments are scheduled for
the first five years of the project period.



- 19 -
62.      Disbursements would be made on the following basis:
DISBURSEMENT PROCEDURES
Categories                    Amount of the          X of Expenditures
Loan Allocated           to be financed
(US$ million)
1. Civil Works
(a) Haut Cheliff               43.0      652 of total expenditures
(b) Bas Cheliff and Others    20.5       65% of total expenditures
2. Equipment, Vehicles, and
Spare Parts
(a) Haut Cheliff               12.0      752 of local expenditures and 1001
of foreign expenditures
(b) Bas Cheliff and Others      2.0      75% of local expenditures and 100l
of foreign expenditures
3. Training, Technical
Assistance and Studies          7.5       1002 of total expenditures
4.  Unallocated                     9.0
TOTAL                     94.0
A condition of disbursement for categories l(a) and 2(a) would be that after
December 31, 1988, disbursements would be made only after the invitation to
bid for the construction of the Sidi Mohammed Ben Taiba dam had been issued.
Monitorin, Evaluation, Audits
63.      The DGPI of MHEF would be responsible for overall monitoring of
project implementation through the offices of the project managers including
the preparation of all periodic reports and the project completion report.
Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
64.      MHEF maintains separate accounts and records for its projects.  A
financial controller from the Ministry of Finance permanently controls the
accounts, which nevertheless should be audited by independent auditors. To
this end, assurances were obtained during negotiations that Project accounts,
along with the statements of expenditures, the accounts of the OPI and the
revolving fund account, would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank and submitted to the Bank not later than six months
after the end of each fiscal year. Certified copies of the accounts as well
as the auditors' report would also be furnished to the Bank.
Environmental Imact
65.      The Project would have no adverse effects on the environment.
However, cities such as Ech Chlef and Khemis Meliana presently discharge



- 20 -
untreated sewage in the Ckeliff River.  A study conducted under the Cheliff
Master Plan has shown that, although no problem has been noticed yet, this may
pose a danger for the irrigation of fruits and vegetables in the future. To
allow the Government to undertake timely corrective measures as needed,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that MHEF would, through the
Cheliff OPI, closely monitor the variation in the pollution of the Cheliff
water caused by sewage and, not later than December 31, 1990, forward to the
Bank for its review and comment a report summarizing the data recorded on the
evolution of this pollution; and take all such remedial actions as may be
required to limit this pollution hazard. In addition, MEEF is establishing a
system to assess the overall environmental impact of irrigation development,
including in the Cheliff Valley. The results of such assessment will be
closely followed by MHEF and the Bank.
Benefits / Jus4 ifications
66.      The directly juantifiable benefits of the Project would come from the
rehabilitated works in BEs Cheliff and the extension of the irrigation system
in Haut Cheliff which would result in providing more water and more efficient
use of water for agricultural and livestock activities. These works would
result in a shift from rainfed crops (cereals) to fruits and vegetables and
forage crops for livestock, and would lead to a higher cropping intensity and
to higher yields for all crops resulting in increased crop and livestock
production, income generation and employment opportunities. Cost savings in
foreign exchange would result from the reduced imports of wheat, livestock
products, potatoes and other vegetables. Financial savings for Government
would result from improved cost-recovery which would permit adequate operation
and maintenance of the irrigation system, thus reducing the need for eventual
major rehabilitation in the future and reducing as well the budgetary outlays
to finance the O&M costs8 Secondary, but not quantified, benefits include:
improved water management throughout the irrigated areas of the Cheliff River
Basin by setting up the OPI; establishing a replicable model for water
management; and DAS restructuring and management. These are important
sectoral contributions, particularly but not exclusively in the context of
irrigation development in Algeria.
67.      The overall economic rate of return for the Master Plan, of which
this Project is a time-slice, is estimated at 172 and the rate of return of
the Project (the time slice of the Master Plan) is estimated to be 15X.
68.      Project associated risks are: inefficient DASs; inadequate and
untimely delivery of equinment or inputs; and, an ineffective OPI. The
Project's design has attempted to minimize these risks. As far as achieving
acceptable performance by the DAS, the Project would ensure that adequate
arrangements are in place to restructure the DAS to handle the increased
agricultural activities and to establish performance monitoring arrangements
with suitable sanctions. Availability of credit, inputs and equipment would
be ensured by agreement with Government that this is a priority investment
area. In addition, lead time, between the beginning of the project works and
delivery of water, is sufficiently long that credit for equipment can be
applied for in advance of water delivery. Finally, to ensure efficient



- 21 -
operation of OPI, the project would provide tecbnical assistance in the early
years to help the newly-formed organization begins its operations.  In
addition, water delivery would come on-stream grpually, and this would give
OPI time to develop satisfactory staff and organization.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
69.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
this loan.
Barber Conable
President
April 17, 1987
Washington, D.C.



AtOUIA - iEtuuC INDICrTs   - 22 -                         co,siy Group;
...................-                               0.imtsy mu  2   ALZXA
H14-19S Popilatimn (mtU..)     22                                                                             ?ag.:   10of 3
14*1 NV Capita    in ml$  2530                                                                       Date Prepard:   3110181
A. $havs$ of cm$ oss st1o prio6wt                      3. Gzovth Rsto* (2 per amum)
(StunM mutM priCe data)                                (f rc coismmt prces data)
195  913    In0    1984    196SP   1984.            196313  1973-80 1980-84    I63p   1986.
cm* DamittaPre&het C.P.           100     100      100     100      100     100                1     1.4       5      3. 4     -.
$wt luAltect Tme               4.6     5.9      G.?     8.9      8.7     8.6.                       .
Aq4$cltw=r                    14.9     1.9        a     1.5      8.3     8.2              2.4     8. 6     0.9,    1.2I       5
labOUT                3~~~3.1    46.1    51.8    49.9    48.4    48.5              9.1     1.3     5.1      3.9     -2.5
(of 4*Uh brof4ctwItt)         11.2    13.8      8.4    10.1    10.6    10.9              10.9    10.9      9.1     7.9
terVLes                       31.5      46    38.3    42.6    43.2    43.5                5.3     1.4      5.4     2.1      1.3
Maourom Ma.1...                   -5    -6.3        4      2.1     2.6      2.6..                      .
S""m of =S                    22.3    23.3    34.3    26.2    24.1    23.6                4.6     0.9,    0.53    2.6,       .6
Tiqegt of am1                 25.)    31.6    30.4    23.S    21.5    21.1                9.3     8.1      2.6    -0.4    -28.8
Total      lxwura                103   106.3       96    97.3    91.4    91.4               10.4    11.4      5.?     2.6     -9.1
TOWa COMORIPUM                00.1      v      S6. 9    60.6    61.5      44              6.8      13      6.3     5.2      -2.2
h1wzna eimspti.on          65.9    51.4    43.2    45.4    46.2        ..7.1    13.1                    5.9    11.1
GROS, 00mastle br4eatmant     22.5    40.3    39.1    36.1    35.9    38.8               11.4     9.5      4.0    *1.6    -12.-
hlind rvswmazt               ..     35.9    31.8    34.1       ..      .                 .     12.2     5.9
Ozesiga Sa Stock             ..     4.4      5.3     2.6       ..       .                        .
am"e Cmautto swing               19.3      34    43.1    39.4    38.3        36             13.8    10.4      4.2    -1.4    -23.1
list Factor 1amm              -3.4       3    -2.9    -2.6    -2.5    -2.4                  .       .
let omrnt 111mfara              .      3.9      0.6     0.5      0.6
ago" lerigol swvimg.                     40.9    40.8    312    36.1         .              15.9     1.3 4S.2    -0.3,
In S11l11m  of 1w.              1965    1973    1980    1984    lIi    1986.
(at consantu 198 prless)         -        -
Can" CmSntI* PrbAct              1      99      163     198      205     204                1     1.4        5     3.4      -0.4
Copwftv  o %*art12              21      54       43       63      45              5.2     9.3       2    -0.2    -16.1
Tern of lea", dJaatowntr      -25      -31        0       6       5      -16..                      .
am"oe.maticleMMM                35      63      165     204      209     18                 9    11.8      5.4     2. 6    -10.:2
Groes National Pto&,ct          s9     102      158     193      200     199              7.8     6.6      5.1     3.1    -8.3
OM". UatluaI 1aOM               34      65      158     199      205     183             10.4      U       5.5     2.8    -10.3
C. Prues UIuiae                 1980    1982    1983    1984   lImp   Ig6.               165-13 1913480 1980-84    I98p   1986.
Cmawar Pg1.e.a (In 64)           100   122.3   121.9   136.3        .        ..2.5    10.9                   1.6    10.1      14.4
lbleae1  Ntice  (VS 63)..                  .        .        .       ..       ...                      .
laplolt=  Dailm                  100      11,7   124.8   132.5,  142.8   151.8               3.8    13.6     4.9      7.8'     6.5
W91181 bp.i1tocaa Osflator       100   112.1   121.4   129.1   140.6   164.8                 1.6     9.3     6.6      8.9     17.2
0. Othr luilcatar                     1965-13          1973-80          1980-09                                         ----p 
- - -  - --------  -------~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ltaS
arwuith lAte (3 p.a..);
Population                               3              3.1              3.2         Data, an the SoonAnic Idieators table.
Labor Yame                              ...                               .           ho    fellow the dafUlation a d
cross latS.mml Inc..e P.C.             7.2              1.1,             1.8         ouwepta of the Stauiaui Tables #w.
Pritata CaIasoptlmt p.c.                .29.1                            2.9         Standard Attaothuaut*. Ihe fodlqA4s 
sbmad loolmde data tbrmaih the aet.
Jepout Elasticity$                                                                      recently Comleted eaL.arV year tow
1Mrta (04@S) I MP (op)                 1.4              1.1              0.4        fIscal year La the ease of fisal year
ecunaties). staff eutimates sew be uased
VAnUW1e laWVing  letest                                                                 if final ot pvelalzazy actuala "Se not
CM"s Eatimul saving                     .419                              21         yet available. The us* of estimates ami
Gases Datlo samug                     53.8'            50.1             20.6         preliminary f4uAres should be Indicated
by:
ZOO& (period a'mrsga):                      3              5.38.
aaestimated data
SUwr of Total                   1963    1973    1980    1985p                                   p-relntydata
Labor teame isa                 ----    ----    ...       ---
hgrtcUltz                     51.2      S1    a5.9    21.2
Ls&mta7                      14.4       32    21.4    16.1
tearvids                      26.4      37    46.7    32.8
Total                          100     100      100     100------------------------



- 23 -
At="  - EBGOUC 19          m                                                   I
?ae:r     2 of 3
Volum lae  (t9w0 a 100)I                     Value at Curgm  Prices (aillms =SS)
3 Ikthe.'lse bpon.                10t        im      1         9       I        196    1980       1982     1)    19"  1 "sp    198"61
Liquid 1Fa1S                       100    S7.2       98.5   W1.6    94.4    96.8   10695          6036     6167    6076    610         5030
Natural GU 6 10                     100    16M.4   166.7   111.9   101.4   112.3    1970          5040     3"4      362      5521      2167
Uwt   II Wi1 C"                    100       ...               ...      ...      ...       .      ..       209    ms....
Iatfactua                           10o    152.)   108.6    82.)    24.0         ...       6        91       99      191      141        78
oti"aros                           100    151.0    86.0   149.0    65.5          ...     177       145       87       96      1in
tStal Ibtd ise Savona 109          100      U3.2   108.4   105.6    72.0         ...   1391    1)I1   12556    1786    130)4           7773
I. ih_aaIaut
load                               100    121.4   10.8    99.    12*             ...     992      2023     2026     1769     218      1304
UUL .  Other,1wzm                   1      17.n   152.1   124.4    80.6          ...      258      165      214           1  14         ---
ftb, Imparts                       100    123.5   121.4   101.1    83.5          ...    887      8492      O9       80       7442      583
Ot   C     _m  Coas              100    133.3   127.4    69.7    89.2         ...    115       198o     1682     145      12"       2576
oth_  tatlate Good               1       96.8    1A        92.4   107.2       ...      606      S45      S9W      631      126   t 46
Capita G0ad                     100    130.2   111.8   105.1    78.4          ...    56        5965      82      6190       W2      2515
T l Ibgi1.s Tota CI                 100    114.2   117.6   102.5      6S.        ...   105317    1680    10331   10260    9811         1142
0. Tom  od trd  (1980 - 100)    19I0        1982     198      1984    198       196e         --------------------------------
--- _---           -- ----                       Votest
b. Z_ats .i. iea              1to    101.3    92.2    89.9    87.4          45
"nm%. amports Price lads            100     96.5    94.9      9.r    92.5   100.9             Date anth. Icatol  Indlceno   table.
Ib1vA        en  ad Ttied           it:    104.9    97.2    95.9    94.4        4.4          sbmad follow the definiasa arA
caimapta of tin Stmovld Tables and
U04   nUm  (at cutrr  prices):                        ftazdar Atcmens. Th  indicator
___-    -__------- - --- ---Amiud  mclu   data thzunb the mt
B. kefn. ad Peta                  190      190 2     1983     1984    1985p    1996.           .ca*ly c1pet ed aeadar yar (or
____- ____  _- _  __- --- ----                                       fisa  yea  in the ewe of fisal year
1    esof ad GAd.d IS            14258    14144    13509    13447   13669    S981            rcumaie).  Staff atiites my be used
_i11dim    (l)                 13652    1)509    12142    12791   104        T1            Is finA  cc praliaitary actual, aes  t
Ww?alow  Sergios                406a      635      161       35      GU      1214!        yet avUslbl.. In usW  of astinaand
prelImUa  fiwAraasbml4 be Wrdicated
fora    af Goad  IIIFS 1s36               13211    1 ?7  12184    11610    9o3               by%
ibrc5.au ()                     996      g8m9    951"      9235    6m1       714
U-htor ftis.                   3464  s4e4         3031    2949    2799      2389          a - a      ted dae
Ua4o-s  IM1                        1198     866       963    1264    2059    -551
F-t o  l_                        -119    -1315   -1225    -13#8  -li          -1176
*.nlest e WS)                  1396     1368     1221     1290    1291      1280
not-nrant usters                   243      263      178      154      330      246
cim     mit_Ima)                   334      41       3217     292      263      412
San. Aouot s au                    24)    -184  - 4            80    1042   -141
as-Termn Capital  dlZa            1030    -432    -371    -241         166      101
Dizeo I      _neama             382      -42       15       16        3      290
Offcle   Capital Gcrts            0        0         0        a       0        a
Net LU    m  (1  daS 4d)        6S6    -60       -182       -92      6S    -160
Ohr L  SaIl. (Nat)              -39      21       -204     1         96    . -23
total Oabs te110 (E.)              6       -W        34    -172    -1ee         55
nEt as9-eu  Capital             -69     -366    -1S9        25    -314        55
Capital lins  ..1.                0        0        0        0        0        0
Sgs ad aseLrns                  131      -6       193    -197       126        0
Gas.. la net Usseras             -1)41     1070      421      333   -1020      1s9
ot C d fg  ItW                    0        0        0        0        0        0
Od  s              s
C -    Jn11aats hnase)        -1341     1070      421      33)   -1010      1319
As as eof OM:
- sgiiia 1wtwao                 2.8       1.9        2      2.4      3.5    -0.9
lA tPayents                     3.3        3      2.5      2.3      2.2        2
a wret Mowmt 3altc              0.6    -0.4    -0.2         0.2      1.8    -2.3
Inrmtomw    Rseests (m1. US$)    377)    2422       188o     1464    2819      3325
_servs md. G0O1  (.11. Us$)    7064         4973    4010      3185    4645     3325
Offici  X--ate (I'MIU8)           3.84     4.59     4.19      4.98    5.0)        ..
A    Re t f. Xl1 ..                 ..       .. B     1980                              --------------------------------------------------
C (M (ilims of oarnt Us$)         43   5191    488           52639   5l177    63183



AtQ1A - UcWm@c 2Iicaw0s- 24 -e,                                               
£~see of c-  (2                                          Usetbts (a a...)
0mu.m %"es.                     24.2    27.4    37.       39.     36.5    31.0             11.*              1.2     1.0       0.9
Canme rj~Atdtwfa                17.0    20.0    19.3    20.0    10.8    19.1              1U.?               1.2     1.2       1.0
ouitt   M oist sleAlmi          21.2    17.4    18.0    19.5    15.7    11.9                6.8              1.2     0.9       0.8
e1ta1 hagipt                     0.6      0.2     0.4      1.3     0.9     1.0            -14.7              4.9     0.7       1.1
Wtud1 bwii1tum                  30.4    26.1    37.6    29.       24.7    21.0              7.4             -1.3      1.0      0.9
Osmiul bIlkit                    8.5    11.8    20.8       9.0     8.1     8.1             54.5             -0.7    -1.0      -1.1
bteual hsovwIa. (MOt             0.1      0.1     0.0     0.0o    0-0,    0.              -2.                0.       .
amms t ft 4WAt Viinla            5.2      9.1    11.2     4.5      4.8     5.9             29.2              0.7     1.7       0.6
ft"t" U* rumaLTS3.5              2.8      9.5     4.5      1.5     4.2             40.2              0.8     0.2      3.4
Oat vd"Uahamote (Us$ otlIlam)                 babt *Astmoftg a 01.batsd (OS8 all.)
midof bak utm hatla          1980    1982    1983    198       lilp    1908.   198      1982    1983    191       1985p  1I86
9Publil a Ih1t11j Q.MmNSa  LT    686    -46      -182      -a2      67    -lE0   1829    13953   12aw    1221    13664    1500
OffioaUl Stadltot,            364      12      178      -38    -1I=       .     2512    2562    2710    255       2684
IS4tl3Ataua                   9       5      so      136       4       ..     254     280      330     485      469
of ddeb tm         26        S      43       28     10       .      253      280      323     349     450
allatonta                   355     157     1i9    -174    -132        .     2258    2302    2380    2089    2215
hItws CaUtusn                 323    -82      -380      -54     198            ism378    371   1027      965?   10980
sopptlesa                  -100    -382    -304      -57    -336       .     4053    3238    277      2557    2552
Viwaata HIM&"               421    -440     -56        3     531             gm 73   am       7499    n100     an
Pglwto Iin-@memtee L2              .       .        .       .        .       0       .        .      .         .      .         0
798.1 is                         406    -460    -182      -92       67    -16     1628   195    12985   12211   1344 
zw uascaais                        0       0        0       0       a        .      .         .      .
met man-Tom Cq5tal               -%,    -366    -159       25    -314       55    225    2751    1957    1759    188          190
TOWa 'nald-lms UP & Oat St       Ol8   -1026    -341      -68    -247       ..   18SM    1670    14942   1597    155m
booka mi D Oatie                1980    196      1983    1984    1988p   19w.o
Ofg MMUotl LIW-TeiM OM       1.55    2.01    2.49    2.86    5.29
1I R    a I oC toal              .       .        .       .        .       .         Daes.an dom 3a.iina  lidlgaot, tables
2. to& as I .1 lt"ta            1.55    2.01    2.49    2.86    5.29                   sh e"l follow tim daflaltlma  ad
S. Z5j*=  as I5 ofTM".                                                                 oamqtu of tde 6.Adaa Tabl"s oa
Rmet of toal 21 babt Sgeofes                                                           ktwawda   Attealmat. Um  ladlestoan
1. Moo as 2 of tota             1.01    1.16    1.03    1.51    1.0         ..ammdoM twuja dat. thgsub ph. eut
2. 286..s 2 ot totaw.                     .         .      . .  I                      zalyti oompl.t.4  alwAda yeaw Coe
3. IU*MA as I of total          1.01    1.16    1.03    1.51    1.48        ..         1*al yes 1. tie O0" of 118011 yew
tamla. Stafn  "tum"e NW be used
DDD-to-Eagat RAtlos                                                                    1 fla.1 or Pv.llaAZY gouMla Oft Att
ge a,oabll. . DI. we of at3msa" ad
1. laa-tm kbtIntt              111.4   96.461   94.41   £9.41   98.59  150.20          paalilrAfaa  flow..el.wld be leAleated
3. meat-tm kbtftlapg           13.89   190       42      29       24      1.15
4. IIUPU DW/tIoUat            127.29  115.42   109.1  102.2  112.05         ..a m etuwted dafta
am-te4m gets"                                                    p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *Pzellrm3a dat
I. Leg-ter D*tI                38,49   30.8      2.6    25.2   25.49   21.$7
2. 2W Cnim6LI.                             .       .
S. Mamt-Te.m DsbsIO             5.49    6.09    4.01    S3.41    2.2    3.01
4. LT+nD4nDI= 00m               3.98   34-.96- 2.0.   -U2.84    WO.6        ..          MifaMa amber, em* Leaf  lAtlVax 30
OUt.a uabmaleu00lttaai.a
Dabts .WaviqforW*btalVrkmgtltn
1.- AmM.lo & 0otan-e"6 LT      25.33   20.41    32.1   55.46   33.0    54.9
2. 1g185a& Uga-0uzmted LT         a.      .         .       .       . 
3. Toam a labt lavw  *e)       26.35   29.41    22.5   55.48   52.07   54.99
4. DO 3OVAob1m.es*Sw Cp
5.l zaea oMIT a St Deft
6. total 0X#T.46  In.)                                                            ------
I.Tmd L 3 Debt Sewloa b)        25.0    28.6    31.7    22.8    52.5    52.3



- 25 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF DANK PROJECTS IN ALGERLA
A. STATEMUEN  OF BAJN? LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of March 31, 1987)
Toan or                                                        Amount in US$ million
Credit                                                         (less cancellations)
Number   Year             Borrower               Purpose       Bank  IDA Undisbursed
Twenty two loans fully disbursed                              556.10
1545-AL  1978   The Democratic and Popular   Sewerage          82.00         15.95
Republic of Algeria
1892-AL  1981   The Democratic and Popular   Highways         110.00         43.83
Republic of Algeria
2370-AL  1984   The Democratic and Popular   Telecom          128.00        107.51
Republic of Algeria
2461-AL  1985   The Democratic and Popular   Water Supply  290.00           136.43
Republic of Algeria
2591-AL  1986   The Democratic and Popular   Water Supply  261.00           249.13
Republic of Algeria
TOTAL                                             1,428.10
of which has been repaid                     287.92
Total now outstanding                              1140.2
Amount sold                         36.00
of which has been repaid   34.81               1.19
Total now held by Bank                             1140.2
Total undisbursed                                                 552.85
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTNTSI
None (Algeria is not a member of IFC)
Source: Statement of loans, March 31, 1987
04793(p.1)
04/15/07



- 26 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
CHELIFF IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section k Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the Project:  About 15 months;
February, 1985 - April, 1986
(b) Project Preparation Responsibility: Ministry of Hydraulics,
Environment and Forestry
assisted by FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Program
(c) Bank Missions:                        Identification: February, 1985
Appraisal: April, 1986
(d) Negotiations:                         March 10 - 18, 1987
(e) Planned Date of Effectiveness:        September 1987
Setion n: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section m: Suecial Conditious
(i) Conditions of Disbursement:
For expenditures for construction of infrastructure and purchase of
equipment for the Haut Cheliff perimeter after December 31, 1988 no
disbursement would be made in the relevant categories unless the
bidding documents for the construction of Sidi Mohamed Ben Taiba dam
had been issued (para. 51).



- 27 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(ii) Other Conditions:
(a) Regarding the organization for improved O&M: (a) Government would
submit to the Bank for review and comment the findings of the study
on the detailed organization and staffing arrangements of the Cheliff
OPI; and (ii) Government would agree on the principle that the
Cheliff OPI would become financially independent from Government
budgetary support by December 31, 1989 (para. 35).
(b) Regarding the improvement of the socialist farms' performance:
(i) by December 31, 1988, Government would exchange views with the
Bank on the detailed management and financial criteria to be used to
evaluate DAS performance and establish a detailed monitoring system
based on these criteria to monitor performance of each DAS; (ii) by
December 31, 1988, Government would exchange views with the Bank on
actions that will be taken if the expected performance levels are not
met; and (iii) by December 31, 1989, Government would complete the
restructuring of the eight DAS of the Haut Cheliff subproject area so
that they can use efficiently the project irrigation systems and be
profitable under irrigation conditions (para. 55);
(c) Regarding cost-recovery: (i) Government would annually increase
the volumetric water charges and the fixed annual levy in the
subproject area so that, by December 31, 1989, 100% of O&M
expenditures and by December 31, 1992 at least 252 of the investment
costs would be recovered; and (ii) Government would carry out a study
on capital cost-recovery policy with a view to determining if
increased levels of recovery would be possible, discuss the
recommendations of the study with the Bank before June 30, 1989, and,
on the basis of such discussions, take all measures necessary to
implement such recommendations (para. 37).



ALGERIA
CHELIFF IRRIGATION PROJECT
Tines
BAS CHELIFF                           Ch
PERIMETER TO BE
REHABILtTATED          ~                 IC
BAS CHELIFF                           ria Sidi Abed
* /     ~Reservoir
(5OMmf3l Slosc
UOd          ~~Yac
o Mostaganem                          M                           (981
kt.@Oran                                                                     INA
0Oran
Sidi Mohamed
PROJECT FEATURES:                                   to Ben Aouda
Areas to be Equipped for Irrigation
Irrigated Areas to be Rehabilitated
CD    Major Pumping Stations
Tiaret0
OTHER FEATURES:                                                     8akhadda
Lower Cheliff Catchment Boundaries
Existing Irrigated Areas
Aeas to be Equipped for Irrigation
Existing Major Pumping Stations
Existing Diversion Weirs
Existing Dams
OJ    Dams under Construction
O     Dams to be Constructed
f98Mm1) Volume of Annually Regulated Waters
Rivers
@     Province Capitals
g    National Capital



IBRD 19879R
ALGIERS
Cherchell 
as                                                                                             Blida
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
Sidi Mohamed
Ben Taiba
(56Nm3)
HAUT CHELIFF                    0M6dea
~~~ ~~Defla 
NEW AMRA ABADIA                                        *Ghrib
PERIMETER                    Harrezza                       (82Mm3)
t   mchleff     (8000ha)                   *123101r30)
ff   ~ ~     ~       ~ ~ Lb~eurdeur
MOYEN  CVELIFF                                            (43.5Mm
Fodda
idi Abed              (54Mm3)
ir
;Sidi
Yacoub
ar (98Mm3)
Im3)
TiaretJ
-2ALGIERS6
DAHRA HILLS
20  40        60            ®~~~~~~~~~Mostaganem  t             3
o           20          40           60
Kilometers
UPPER AND LOWER
CHELIFF CATCHMENTS
Is nup ha bWe Pmwd tY Th. KW7 B.* St eckr*  ne VrcW  -34-                                 34'-
mt nea s _Wdi b,*amt for VW   aW   T f Th. VA0 a el hVrnw t
F0&-CV C_on The iathe- eeedwd usW aW t bo.,R5 ghed to e do nMt
ept. m  mepit of lb$e smal * old VWo fid.,bot,eJ    a m   N st   a vt
tme VegnW  sbtew ib or  it°)t wwww,Wtt swnftwo o . bww$                     2A
APRIL 19B7



