Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15019
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ALGERIA
CHELIFF IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2809-AL)
SEPTEMBER 29, 1995
Natural Resources and Environment Division
Maghreb and Iran Department
Middle East and North African Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Algerian Dinar (DA)
At Appraisal:
April 1987: US$1 = DA4.7
Annual Average:
1988: US$1 = DA 5.9
1989: US$1 = DA 7.6
1990: US$1 = DA 9.0
1991: US$1 = DA 18.5
1992: US$1 = DA 21.8
1993: US$1 = DA 23.3
At Closing Date:
1994: US$1 = DA 36.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGID        Agence nationale de realisation et de Gestion des Infrastructures hydrauliques
pour l'Irrigation et le Drainage
ANRH        Agence Nationale des Ressources Hydrauliques
BAD         Banque Algerienne de Developpement
BADR        Banque pour l'Agriculture et le Developpement Agricole
DAS         Domaine Auto-gere Socialiste
EAC         Exploitation Agricole Cooperative
ENHYD       Entreprise Nationale des 6tudes Hydrauliques
EPIC        Entreprise Publique a caractere Industriel ou Commercial
LSI         Large Scale Irrigation
OPI         Office de Perimetre Irrigue
OPIC        Office des Perimetres Irrigues de la Vallee du Cheliff
PASA        Projet d'Ajustement Structurel Agricole
PNE         Plan National de l'Eau
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
SMI         Small/Medium Scale Irrigation (also SSI, for Small Scale)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Page
Preface   .................................................                                                        i
Evaluation Summary .......................................... ii
PART I: Project Implementation Assessment ...............                                                          1
A.  Statement/Evaluation of Objectives  ..............................    I
B.  Achievements of Project Objectives  ..............................    2
C.  Major Factors affecting the Project  ..............................    4
D. Project Sustainability .              .......................................  6
E. Bank Perfornance  .                  .......................................   6
F. Borrower Perfornance  ......................................    8
G.  Assessment of Outcome  .....................................   10
H.  Future Operation   .              ........................................   11
1. Key Lessons Learned .                 ....................................... 12
PART II: Statistical Annexes
Table 1.        Summary of Assessments ...............................   14
Table 2.        Related Bank Loans/Credits  .............................   16
Table 3.        Project Timetable   ...................................   17
Table 4A.   Annual Loan Disbursement   .............................   18
Table 4B.   Cumulative Loan Disbursements   ..........................   18
Table 5.        Key Performance Indicators for Project Implementation   ............  19
Table 6.       Key Indicators for Project Operation (not applicable)  ..............  20
Table 7.        Studies Included in Project ..............................  20
Table 8A.   Total Project Costs   ..................................   21
Table 8B.   Project Financing   ...................................   22
Table 9.        Economic Costs and Benefits (not applicable)   ..................  23
Table 10.    Status of Legal Covenants  ..............................   23
Table 11.    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements   ................  25
Table 12.    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs   ............................   26
Table 13.    Bank Resources: Missions  ..............................   27
Appendixes    ..............................................   28
ThIs document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforffance of their |
ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.             l



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLEIION REPORT
ALGERIA
CHELFF IRRIGATION PROJECT (LOAN 2809-AL)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Cheliff Irrigation Project in
Algeria, for which Loan 2809-AL in the amount of US$ 94.0 million was approved in June 1987
and made effective in January 1988.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1994 (as originally planned in the SAR) despite
requests from the Government for a 1.5 year extension. Final disbursement took place on
December 29, 1994, at which time a balance of US$ 46.8 million remained and was cancelled.
The present ICR draft was prepared by an PAO/CP mission", on the basis of information
collected in Washington and discussions with two of the borrower's representatives who visited
the FAO HQs in Rome from 13 to 18 March 1995. Due to security problems in Algeria, no
field visit could be organized.
Preparation of the ICR could not be initiated during the last supervision mission, carried
out in September 1993, because it was not anticipated that security conditions would prevent any
further visit to Algeria. The ICR is based on: (a) a review of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
and legal documents, the eight WB Supervision Reports, and the project files of ECA/MNA
Infornation Service Centre, and (b) discussions with the Bank task managers and AGID officials
associated with the project.
" Messrs. J. Chabloz (Irrigation Engineer) and J.M. Bisson (Economist).



- ii -
CHELIFF IRRIGATION PROJECT
Loan 2809-AL
ALGERIA
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
Bank Group lending for agriculture in Algeria started in 1974, but only three projects had
been approved (US$ 58 million in cumulative commitments) prior to the Cheliff Irrigation
Project. Performance under the first three projects was unsatisfactory, reflecting the country's
serious institutional constraints. The Rural Development Project (Loan 1159-AL) was completed
after considerable delays, mainly due to a lack of commitment and coordination. The Lower
Cheliff Irrigation Project (Loan 1802-AL) was 80% completed when the Bank closed the loan,
two years after the initial closing date. The Meat Industry Project (Loan 1739-AL) was
cancelled at the Government's request, with no reason given a few months after the loan became
effective.
Project Objectives
With a view to promoting agricultural production, the project was designed to: (a)
implement the first priority investment package for the development of 8,000 ha and the
rehabilitation / modernization of 5,000 ha in the Cheliff river basin; and (b) set up suitable
organizational and financial arrangements for the O&M of existing infrastructure. The project
components were: (a) construction of an 8,000 ha sprinkler irrigation system in the Upper
Cheliff; (b) rehabilitation/upgrading  of existing surface irrigation, drainage and road
infrastructures serving about 5,000 ha in the Lower Cheliff; (c) provision of equipment/vehicles
for O&M and extension staff; (d) technical assistance to the concemed governmental entities for
supervision of works, studies of irrigated areas and O&M of irrigation systems; (e) overseas
training in O&M for local staff; (f) on-farm investments, including sprinkler irrigation and farm
machinery / equipment, and (g) all incremental recurrent costs.
In retrospect, considering the relatively modest size of the total investments compared with
the overall needs in the irrigation sector, the project's institutional and financial objectives -
although very relevant - were probably too ambitious given the country's limited institutional and
financial capacity. The intended impact on agricultural production has not materialized since
the irrigation was not completed at the closing of the loan.
Implementation Experience and Results
The overall project objectives were not achieved since the foreign contractors left the
country due to the insecurity situation and none of the planned irrigation infrastructure wa



completed and the strengthening of the concerned governmental institutions (mainly AGID and
OPIC) was not effective. Nevertheless, the completion of drains and roads on the two sub-
project areas had some positive impact: the rural roads have improved access to the project areas
and the surface drainage canals have slightly increased the yields of rainfed crops. The
Government and the Bank agreed that if the project re-started, it would be preceded by a
thorough review of all economic, social, fnancial and institutional aspects, followed by the
necessary actions to pave the way for sound irrigated agriculture.
The total project cost, without on-farm investments, originally assessed to be US$ 161
million, did not change significantly: the total of all project contracts, including all the agreed
amendments, is now evaluated at US$ 159.7 million. About half of the loan amount was
disbursed at closing (US$ 47.2 million). (Table 8)
Most of the works in Upper-Cheliff area started in 1990, about 2 years later than
scheduled at appraisal time; for the Lower-Cheliff area, the rehabilitation works were initiated
as scheduled in July 1988. The whole infrastructure was planned to be completed by end 1993,
but at the scheduled closing date on December 31, 1994, respectively 80% and 50% of the
works were completed on the Upper and Lower Cheliff perimeters. The on-farm investments
and the incremental recurrent costs could not be spent since the construction/rehabilitation works
were not completed.
Two main exogenous factors affected project implementation: (a) since early 1994, the
insecurity prevailing in Algeria seriously hampered the work of the consulting firms, suppliers
and contractors involved in the project, and (b) the gradual currency devaluation from 1$ = DA
4.7 in 1987, to 1$ = DA 36 at end 1994. To these factors must be added Algeria's
cumbersome and time-consuming administrative and banking procedures, which constituted a
serious impediment to project execution. (Chapter C)
The engineering aspect was properly monitored by the Bank: between July 1988 and
September 1993, the Bank sent an irrigation engineer to Algeria for 8 supervision missions and
5 follow-up visits, totalling: 112.2 man-weeks. (Chapter E). In May 1992, the Bank sent a
Programming/Implementation Mission (PIM) to Algeria, with the main objectives of conducting
a review of the main issues influencing the whole Bank's portfolio and identifying the problems
affecting projects' execution. Despite the Government and Bank agreement on an action plan
to improve the Cheliff project's situation, no real Government action resulted from this mission.
(Chapter E). It is regrettable that the Bank had not insisted to undertake a mid-term review by
the end of 1991, when major difficulties had accumulated, to re-adjust the project objectives and
components.
On the Borrower's side, many institutional changes which took place during project
implementation proved to be disruptive for project implementation. The executing agency
(AGID) lacked the necessary experience for managing/monitoring such type of project.
Specialized technical assistance allocated at appraisal for specific technical problems encountered
during project implementation and also for on-the-job training was not provided, due mainly to



- iv -
difficulties of disbursing in foreign currency for small operations, such as the recruitment of
individual consultants. (Chapter F)
The overall project outcome is unsatisfactory.  The project has not generated any
significant additional agricultural production.  The concerned institutions have not been
strengthened. Policy reforms have not been undertaken, especially regarding the OPIC 's
financial autonomy and the investments and O&M costs recovery. The organization and the
management of O&M on existing schemes has been weak. It must be pointed out, however, that
under Bank insistent pressure, at the closing of the project, water charges had been increased
from 0.35 to 0.80 DA/m3, although this was insufficient to cover actual O&M costs. The
project also has had some other positive aspects: (a) construction of 80 % of the Upper Cheliff
8,000 ha sprinkler irrigation system, (b) upgrading of 636 ha (13 %) surface irrigation in the
Lower Cheliff, (c) part of the equipment defined in SAR for OPIC and AGID. In addition,
despite heavy initial difficulties and delays, AGID developed a significant capacity in handling
procurement matters and in supervising studies and works. (Chapter G)
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
The project encountered a large number of difficulties and issues which hampered project
implementation. In addition to the security conditions which have progressively worsened during
the last two years of the project, weak central and regional institutions and the lack of sound
sectoral policies were the main constraints, not only at the level of the technical ministries in
charge of the project but also at the level of the Ministry of Finance. This and the somewhat
outdated engineering design of the irrigation system led to the conclusion that the conclusion that
the project could not be executed under the present circumstances and to the closing of the loan.
When the overall political/security situation in Algeria improves, future operations must
concentrate on strengthening the institutions involved and on implementing sectoral policy
reforms (Chapter H). At the time of loan closure, in December 1994, the Bank proposed an
Agricultural Structural Adjustment Loan (ASAL), aiming at assisting the Government in the
necessary reorganization of the agricultural sector, with a particular view to developing an
enabling environment for irrigation operations in Algeria on a sound basis.
Key lessons learned from the project can be summarized as follows (Chapter I):
(a)  the change of OPIs statutes into EPIC's (Etablissements Publics a caractere
Industriel et Commercial) should have been more closely monitored by the Bank;
(b)   water tariff adjustment should have been a condition of loan effectiveness;
(c)   key indicators for project implementation should have been followed up by the
Government and the Bank; greater care should have been given to the monitoring
system to be put in place for the project;



v 
(d)  the Bank should endeavor to agree on an Authorized Allocation deposited in the
Special Account commensurate with the actual project financial needs.
(e)   a time-gap with the structural adjustment process negatively affected the project
particular factors: shortage of foreign currency, shortage of construction materials,
deficiency in the banking sector delaying creditors payments, cumbersome
administrative procedures.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ALGERIA
CHELIFF IRRIGATION PROJECT (LOAN 2809-AL)
PART I: Project Implementation Assessment
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.   The project was the Bank's first loan in agriculture in Algeria since the completion of the
Cheliff Master Water Plan. In addition to directly promoting agricultural production, the project
was designed to address the general problem of unsuitable organizational/financial arrangements
for the O&M of existing schemes.
2.   The main objectives of the project were:
(a)   at the local level: (i) to implement the priority investment package for the
development of the Cheliff river basin; (ii) to safeguard/improve the income of
farm families living in the subproject areas, and improve social welfare by
providing some basic infrastructure;
(b)   at the sector level: to develop/implement new institutional arrangements to ensure
adequate water management/operation/maintenance in the Cheliff river basin which,
when replicated, would benefit all major irrigation in the country;
(c)   at the national level: to develop efficient irrigation potential in the country by
expanding the large-scale irrigation areas presently used by about 20%.
3.   To achieve these objectives, the project was expected to finance, over seven years, the
following components:
(a)   an investment component including: (i) construction of an 8,000 ha sprinkler
irrigation system in the Amra-Abadia region of Upper Cheliff; (ii)
rehabilitation/upgrading of existing surface irrigation, drainage and road
infrastructure serving about 5,000 ha in the Lower Cheliff perimeter;  (iii)
provision of equipment/vehicles for O&M and extension staff, and (iv) studies for
the development of 14,500 ha of irrigated areas in Lower Cheliff.
(b)   a technical assistance, training and support component, including: (i) technical
assistance to the relevant governmental entities for supervision of works, studies
of further irrigation works, and O&M of irrigation systems, (ii) overseas training
in O&M for local staff;



(c)   on-farm  investments,  including  sprinkler  irrigation  equipment,  farm
machinery/equipment, high-yielding milk cows, stables and fruit tree plantations;
(d)  incremental recurrent costs, including: (i) recruitment of local staff to strengthen
the O&M of infrastructures, extension services and management, as well as the
monitoring/evaluation of socialist state farms, (ii) O&M of the new irrigation
systems, and (iii) pumping costs for irrigation in Haut Cheliff.
4.  In retrospect, considering the country's limited institutional, financial and technical
capacity, the size of the total investments and the project's objectives - although very relevant -
were probably too ambitious. Furthermore, improvement in agricultural production was far
from substantial.
5.   At the local level, the objectives of safeguarding/improving farmers income and improving
social welfare were hampered by the transformation of DAS in EAC.
B. Achievements of Project Objectives
6.   The overall project objectives were not achieved since none of the planned irrigation
infrastructure were completed and the strengthening of the concerned governmental institutions
(mainly AGID and OPIC) has not been effective. Agricultural production has not increased.
Organizational/financial arrangements for the O&M of existing schemes have not improved. It
must be pointed out, however, that in November 1993, the water charges were increased from
0.30 to 0.80 DA/m3, but were still insufficient to fully cover actual O&M costs. The specific
achievements of the various project components are detailed below.
7.   Construction of a new sprinkler irrigation system, drainage and road infrastructure
(8,000 ha). About 80% of the works are completed. Under national funding, the Amra
upstream perimeter (3,600 ha) is expected to be completed by the end of 1995 and the Abadia
downstream perimeter (4,400 ha) to be completed by mid 1996. A complete compound has been
implemented in Abadia by the Chinese contractor and includes: office buildings (170 m2),
housing facilities for 16 families (ten 100 m2-houses and six 120 m2-houses).
8.   Amra Perimeter (3,600 ha). The execution of irrigation, drainage and road systems,
including a large storage tank (31,000 m3) and a new 60 KV power line (not financed by the
project) is almost completed. About one third of the civil works for the main pumping station
had been implemented, when the Chinese contractor was forced to withdraw its teams because
of security problems; the electrical and hydro-mechanical equipment was delivered to AGID and
stored in the contractor's yard in Abadia awaiting installation.
9.   Abadia Perimeter (4,400 ha). Drainage and road infrastructures were completed as well
as the temporary compound (base-vie d'Abadia), two large regulating tanks and a 60 KV power
line, the twin intake structure and the pumping station while only 80% of the piped irrigation



- 3 -
system are completed. The electrical and hydromechanical equipment of the pumping stations
was delivered and stored in the contractor's yard in Abadia awaiting installation.
10. Rehabilitation/upgrading of existing surface irrigation, drainage and road
infrastructures on 5,000 ha of the Lower Cheliff Perimeter. By the end of 1994, the whole
surface drainage and rural road networks were commissioned. Out of the targeted 5,000 ha to
be rehabilitated, 636 ha (13%) were completed at project closing, and 1,860 ha (37%) would
be ready by early 1996 under local funding. As for the 1,000 ha of sub-surface drainage
included in the project at appraisal, it was eventually recommended to implement only 230 ha
as a test operation; only 130 ha were actually executed.
11.  Provision of equipment and vehicles. OPIC, the regional authority responsible for the
management and O&M of irrigation infrastructure, received:
(i)   a complete radio communication system, with fixed and mobile stations;
(ii) computer equipment and various ancillary instruments;
(iii) one set of tools for the maintenance workshop, fixed and mobile workshops, and
equipment for infrastructure maintenance;
(iv)  for administrative reasons, no vehicles were provided although, at appraisal, it was
envisaged that four-wheel drive and standard vehicles would be purchased.
12. AGID, the central agency responsible for the design and implementation of
irrigation/drainage infrastructures, was provided with four-wheel drive vehicles and standard
cars.
13.  Technical assistance and training. Out of the 340 man-months of technical assistance
programmed at appraisal, 209 man-months (61 %) were used for the supervision of works by
three engineers from POLSERVICE, a Polish consulting finn, from 1991 to end 1993; in
addition, four engineers and three technicians from AGID assisted also OPIC in supervision
activities. The technical assistance allocated at appraisal to help resolving specific technical
problems encountered during project implementation and to give on-the-job training, was not
provided. This is due to difficulties for the Government to pay in foreign currency for small
operations contracts. The AGID staff benefitted from some limited training, but this was
generally funded by bilateral assistance or national programs.
14. Studies. AGID contracted MacDonald/BNEDER for the detailed design of further
irrigation developments in the Lower Cheliff, including rehabilitation works over 4,300 ha and
new irrigation works over 10,000 ha. The studies lasted almost five years, from May 1989 to
March 1994. Basic and preliminary studies on 14,500 ha, as well as topographic surveys and
soil investigations, have been fully commissioned. Detailed designs and tender documents were



also completed on 9,000 ha; the remaining 5,500 ha are not expected to be developed due to the
low quality of soils (waterlogging, salinity, etc).
15.  Section 5.01 of the Loan Agreement foresaw a cost recovery study, to be completed before
June 1989. TORs were agreed by the Bank, but tender was never launched by the Ministry of
Agriculture. This study would have determined the actual cost of the water, taking into account
investment and O&M costs, as a base for an adjustment of the particularly low water tariffs.
In November 1993, after several Bank warnings, the Government decided to increase the cost
of water from 0.35 to 0.80 DH/m (3), still much too insufficient to cover O&M charges. Early
1994, without Bank's agreement, GOA contracted ISPG (Institut Superieur de Gestion et
Planification), a local finn, for a rapid water cost study; a first draft was submitted for AGID
review in March 1995, but AGID claimed that the ISGP lacked the necessary experience in
water management.
16.  The Management Information System Study of tle OPIC, not initially scheduled at
appraisal, started in February 1993 to set up an accounting system for OPIC after its
restructuring. Only the diagnostic phase was completed before the study was discontinued mid-
1994 due to security conditions.
17.  Also, it should be mentioned that a study of reorganization of OPIC was undertaken in
1991/92 by BRL a French Consulting firm. The recommendations of this study have never been
implemented.
C. Major Factors affecting the Project
18.  Two main exogenous factors negatively affected project implementation: a) since early
1994, security conditions hampered the work of foreign consulting firms, suppliers and
contractors involved in project implementation, and ii) the gradual currency devaluation from
1$ = DA 4.7 in 1987, to 1$ = DA 36 at end 1994.
19. The following factors, linked to Algeria's cumbersome administrative procedures, were
also identified: (a) constraints imposed by the Ministry of Economy in controlling operations;
(b) time-consuming procedures in procurement processing; (c) lengthy procedures of the BAD
(Banque algerienne de developpement), combined with deficiencies in the national banking
system, delaying creditors' payments, and inadequate foreign exchange regulations affecting both
local and foreign contractors; (d) the general shortage of foreign currency, preventing suppliers
from importing foreign equipment (vehicles, technical equipment, spare parts, basic materials)
(para. 13); (e) shortages on basic construction material, such as iron bars, aggregates from
quarries due to the strict regulations on the use and transport of explosives, and sometimes on
cement supply, and (f) shortage of prefabricated canals, pipe accessories, PVC drains, and
accessories; and (g) frequent changes in the governmental entities involved in the project.



-5
The implementing agencies
20.   AGID is the main central implementing agency for all the civil works and studies.
Despite a declining purchasing power of AGID staff's salaries and increasing difficulties in work
conditions, the project was monitored by a sufficient number of competent technicians, who were
reasonably well-motivated. Main factors affecting project implementation were: (i) limited
receptiveness and/or difficulties in organizing the training program and mobilizing technical
assistance; (ii) low performance of some contractors, initially due to inadequate site organization
aggravated by the above mentioned shortages of material and equipment.
21.  The regional OPIC is the entity entrusted with managing, operating, and maintaining
irrigation infrastructure. The strengthening of OPIC, an important project component, was
mainly hindered by the transformation of this previously subsidized state agency (before 1988)
into a public entity EPIC (Etablissement public a caractere industriel ou commercial), with
commercial vocation. OPIC's new autonomous statute prevented it from benefiting from any
subsidy to compensate for the low level of water charges which are entirely determined by GOA
without taking into account the actual costs of water distribution. In the meantime, OPIC could
not purchase vehicles nor equipment because, as a public entity, it could not have access to
foreign currency.
22.  The total project cost without on-farm investments, originally assessed to be US$ 161.1
million, did not change significantly, and is now evaluated at US$ 159.7 million, corresponding
to the total of all project contracts. Only 50% of the loan amount was disbursed at project
closing. It must be emphasized that the 33 % physical and price contingencies at appraisal were
correct in terms of project costs expressed in US$. (Table 8)
23.  Disbursements were processed by BAD. Exchange rates applied by the Bank for the
project's transactions were different to those used by the BAD under Algeria's multiple-exchange
regime; in addition, due to cumbersome and lengthy procedures, contractors received foreign
currency with great delays preventing them from operating efficiently and, in some instances,
from completing the works.
24.  At appraisal, it was assumed that the project would be implemented over a 7- year period
(January 1987 to December 1993), commensurate with the nature of the works. The key
implementation indicators (Table 5) show that part of the OPIC equipment was provided, except
for the vehicles. Until 1992, civil works generally progressed in line with the working program
established in the SAR. Then, delays occurred, mainly attributable to the security situation and
the fact that foreigners could no longer stay in Algeria, resulting in the suspension of the works
and, subsequently, the closing of the loan by the Bank on December 31, 1994 without any
extending it for an additional period of 1.5 year as requested by the Government.
25.  In order to ensure adequate distribution of irrigation water in the Upper Cheliff area, GOA
agreed in the Loan Agreement to construct and commission the Sidi Mohamed Ben Taiba storage
dam by the end of 1993 under. Difficulties in finding a financier, cumbersome administrative



procedures, and the security situation led to considerable delays: finally, with financing from the
AfDB, the construction of the dam was supposedly to start only in July 1994, and would not be
completed before the end of 1998. Given the security conditions, it is most unlikely that the
dam can be completed as scheduled.
D. Project Sustainablity
26.  In the present situation, the sustainability of the. Cheliff project is highly improbable with
works, actions and measures defined at appraisal which could not be completed. Sustainability
wil depend mainly on OPIC's capacity to fix, collect and retain the proceeds of water charges,
so as to fully cover the O&M costs of irrigation infrastructure, and part of the initial investment.
This implies that the agency would be given a degree of institutional/financial autonomy, which
it presently does not have. In addition, farners should be in a position to pay for such charges.
This supposes that net income derived from the use of irrigation water would be sufficient.
Limited information available to the mission prevent any firm conclusion. There is no guarantee
that the farmers will accept to pay increased charges as long as alternative sources of water are
available, such as groundwater and direct pumping from the rivers; although more costly, the
supply of this water is more reliable.
27.  Finally, "sustainability" has a limited meaning in the conditions now prevailing in Algeria;
At project closing, both parties agreed that any possible re-start of the project should be
preceded by a thorough review of all economic, social, financial and institutional aspects,
followed by the necessary measures to develop sound and viable irrigated agriculture.
E. Bank Performance
28. The project was identified in February 1985 during a World Bank reconnaissance mission,
and prepared in January 1986 by the Government with the assistance of the FAO/WB
Cooperative Program. The SAR Yellow Cover, dated April 1987, was presented to the Board
in May 1987 and the loan signed in June 1987. It became effective in January 1988.
29. The project was adequately prepared, with a favorable balance of expertise from the
Govermment, consulting firms and the FAO/WB Cooperative Program. The detailed design for
the Upper Cheliff had to be completely updated since the 1971 SOGETHA study was almost
obsolete; in addition, the necessity to provide an additional power line was not considered. At
appraisal, it was considered that the risk of slow project implementation would be minimized
by the design of large procurement packages and the provision of a strict monitoring system to
ensure an adequate build-up of benefits; in retrospect, the above assessments appear to have been
over-optimistic, partly due to failure of the Bank to monitor procurement arrangements more
closely. Also, the Bank should have given more attention at appraisal to the monitoring system,
other than strictly engineering (AGID), for the development of the enabling environment
necessary for project success.



- 7 -
30. In February 1988, the Bank transferred to the Algerian Central Bank a US$ 8 million
Authorized Allocation to be used as a revolving fund for project expenses. Due to low
disbursements and an unsatisfactory use of this fund, total disbursements through the Special
Account reached this amount only in August 1992, five years later, leading to the payment of
full interest charges by the Government. At appraisal, more attention should have been paid by
the Government and the Bank to a stricter adherence of the Revolving Fund to actual project
needs.
31.  Between July 1988 and September 1993, the Bank sent an irrigation engineer for 8
supervision missions and 5 follow-up visits (total: 112.2 man-weeks). In retrospect, this
engineering-orientated monitoring was justified; however, the assistance of other specialists
(finance, procurement) would have been fruitful.
32.  It is regrettable that the Bank had not insistently requested that a mid-term review, -- not
specified in the Loan Agreement --, be carried out towards the end of 1991, when major
difficulties had become manifest, thus allowing re-orientation of the project objectives and
components.
33. In May 1992, the Bank sent a Programming/Implementation Mission (PIM) to Algeria,
aiming at conducting a review of the main issues influencing the whole Bank portfolio and
identifying the problems affecting project execution. Main bottlenecks were procurement,
disbursement, institutional capacity, mobilization of technical assistance, and the water tariff
structure for the Cheliff project. An action plan was prepared outlining the measures to be taken
to ensure continued Bank support. These measures included the resolution that the local
enterprises should have access to foreign exchange in amounts at least equal to the values
estimated in the contracts. The action plan also contained a request that the Government provide
OPIC with sufficient counterpart funds to carry out the strengthening program financed by the
Bank.  Despite the Government agreement on this action plan, there was no effective
implementation of the proposed actions.
34. The Bank systematically and rightly advocated the financial autonomy of OPI through
suitable water charges covering at least O&M costs. The Government agreed in a covenant in
the Loan Agreement, that 100% of the actual O&M costs and a reasonable part of the
investments costs should be recovered through water fees. However, OPIC could not determine
and apply these water charges which are set up by the central Ministries based on political
considerations. During the initial phase of the project, when income from water charges was
insufficient, OPIC needed governmental subsidies to assume its functions and services, in
particular O&M of the irrigation infrastructure. These were not provided since the Government
maintained that the new commercial vocation of OPIC transformed into EPIC, excluded such
financial assistance. Hence, the OPI found itself in an unbearable financial situation. To ensure
the sustainability of the Cheliff projects, the Bank should have negotiated appropriate
arrangements to enhance OPIC's viability.



-8-
35. As scheduled at appraisal, the Bank closed the project on December 31, 1994 although the
Government insistently requested an extension of the project till June 1996, claiming to be in
a position to complete the various project components by mid-1996.
F. Borrower Performance
36.  During the 1980s, the irrigation sub-sector went through severe disruptions because of the
following major institutional changes:
-    In 1985, creation of OPIs (Offices des perimetres irrigues) entrusted with the O&M
of irrigation infrastructure in the four main irrigated areas;
In July 1987, transformation of the socialist state farms (DAS) into private,
voluntary and autonomous cooperatives (EAI/EAC). The resulting fragmentation
of large state farms should lead to an increase of farmers' incomes. This would
have justified a re-orientation of the project components by the Bank or by the
Government, which was unfortunately never done;
In August 1987, creation of AGID entrusted with full responsibility for design and
implementation of the irrigation infrastructure, while the overall planning and
coordination activities were retained by the DGPI (Direction g6n6rale des
perimetres irrigu6s) in the Ministry of Hydraulics and Forests, which in 1990
became the Ministry of Equipment and Housing;
In 1988, OPIs were given EPIC statute depriving them of any governmental
subsidies while not allowing them to determine and apply more adequate water
tariffs;
In 1992, the responsibility for the whole irrigation sub-sector was transferred from
the Ministry of Equipment to the Ministry of Agriculture.
37.  AGIE) Assessment. This new implementation authority (created in 1987, after project
appraisal), made reasonable efforts to ensure efficient project implementation, but most of its
efforts were thwarted by cumbersome administrative and financial procedures outside its
jurisdiction. AGID made strenuous attempts to strengthen its structures, the most noticeable
results being the well staffed Studies and Works Department, which were directly involved with
project implementation. AGID's efforts to recruit competent staff were constantly hindered by
the private sector which is more attractive because of higher remuneration and fringe incentives.
38.  No training was provided to AGID staff who were not familiar with the Bank procurement
and disbursement procedures, the compi.x budgeting and processing systems of the multiple
entities involved, and the administrative circuits and procedures. Despite loan agreement, many



9
Government officials maintain that Algerian laws supersede all other signed agreements.
Nevertheless, tender procedures wete properly followed, and contracts correctly drafted.
39. Perfornance of consulting firms and contractors. The foreign consulting firms and
contractors, particularly the Chinese CFCEC, developed specific skills for the organization of
their work and supplies, given the multiple difficulties affecting the project (See chapter C); in
general, their performances were satisfactory in the demanding Algerian conditions, especially
the enormous delays and difficulties for payment. The association of foreign and national firms
could be considered successful, as it constituted an excellent occasion for training of the latter.
Most of the problems with the international contractors were the consequences of external
factors, such as the security conditions which prevented field visits in Algeria since early 1994.
Many contracts were amended several times due to the modification of quantities, design
adjustments, contractual delays due to unforeseen circumstances, devaluation of the local
currency, changes in the fiscal regulations, etc.
40. Project monitoring. According to the SAR (para 6.05), the Ministries of Hydraulics and
Agriculture were expected to jointly monitor and evaluate project implementation and benefits.
They were also required to draft semi-annual progress reports as well as a project completion
report within six months of loan closing date on the execution of the project, its costs and the
benefits derived, the performance and fulfillment by all authorities involved.
41. From June 1988 to December 1994, AGID prepared 13 semi-annual progress reports;
these reports dealt only with the progress of works and financial aspects of the contracts. No
project completion report was prepared since the Government considers the project not yet
completed.
42.  The project had persistent problems of non compliance with audit requirements; for
example, the 1992 audit report was received in November 1993. The Bank sent warning letters
urging the borrower to comply with audit covenants without any result since OPIC doesn't have
an adequate auditable accounting system. To improve audit compliance, an action plan was
agreed upon which included the installation of a Management Information System for OPIC, but
these efforts were interrupted, with the withdrawal of the French consulting firm CEGOS from
Algeria, in December 1993, due to the security conditions.
43. Another monitoring shortcoming was the lack of an AGID book-keeping system in US
dollars for the project, allowing an easy comparison of resources and expenditures for each
category of loan proceeds and providing the available balance for remaining activities. During
the last supervision mission in December 1993, a Bank economist suggested to AGID a suitable
cost table presentation allowing monitoring of expenditures, which has been used since in all
AGID progress reports.
44.  Technical assistance. Because of administrative and financial constraints, technical
assistance allocated at appraisal was not provided to AGID, except for the supervision of works
by POLSERVICE. Only a few studies were carried out such as: (a) capacity of production of



- 10-
pipe and canal suppliers; (b) up-dating of detailed designs for the Amra-Abadia pumping
stations and reservoirs; (c) the design of irrigation infrastructure in the Lower Cheliff, carried
out by Mc DONALD-BNEDER and (d) OPIC's management information system contracted to
SFC/SEDES-CEGOS and interrupted early 1994. No training was provided.
45.  Compliance with covenants. Table 10 shows a detailed status of with the Loan
Agreement's legal covenants. The Government only complied, albeit after lengthy delays and
several Bank warnings, with the covenants related to accounts, financial records and audits.
46.  The construction of the Sidi Mohamed Ben Taiba, expected to be completed by 1993
(para. 25), has not started. Most of the important loan covenants related to water tariffs and
cost recovery, were not complied with, despite numerous warnings from the Bank. In
October 1993, the Bank announced that it would suspend disbursements if: i) the water charges
were not doubled by the end of 1993; ii) this tariff was not in effect in the Cheliff perimeters
by the end of April 1994, and iii) a rapid study on the actual cost of water was not commenced
before the end of April 1994. As a result, the new water price (0.80 DA/m3) was published in
the Algeria Journal Officiel dated 13 November 1993 and was effective in December 1993.
G. Assessment of Outcome
47. The overall outcome of the project is unsatisfactory. Works defined in SAR have not been
completed. Farmers' income, social welfare, agricultural production have not been improved.
Institutional arrangements have not been implemented to (a) ensure reliable water distribution
through adequate infrastructure management and O&M, and (b) cover all irrigation costs through
appropriate water tariffs. Nevertheless, despite all difficulties encountered, the project presents
some positive results, constituting a favorable asset if the works could be resumed. For the
moment, since works are not completed, and in the absence of a field visit, any economic
analysis of the actual situation, particularly the determination of a rate of return, would be
virtually meaningless.
48. Only 80% of the irrigation infrastructure of the Upper Cheliff (8,000 ha) was completed
(Paras 6 to 8). AGID is reportedly continuing the construction of the pumping stations by local
contractors since the withdrawal of the Chinese construction company, since the electro-
mechanical equipment was already purchased. The completion of drainage and rural road
networks has improved the farmers' activities in the project area..
49.  The Lower Cheliff (5,000 ha) rehabilitation works were completed, thus significantly
improving the farmers' working conditions. Other positive results were a decline in overall
erosion and salinity, elimination of waterlogging and better access to the whole area thanks to
the improvement of rural roads. These results cannot yet be fully evaluated, without further field
information.



- 11 -
50.  AGID estimated that 2,500 ha could become irrigable by gravity, including the 636 ha
completed in 1994. However, incremental agricultural production resulting from the project is
reported to be presently minimal. In 1994, out of these 636 ha, the equivalent of 250 ha were
irrigated, of which 62 ha, were cultivated with citrus, 160 ha with horticultural products, 16 ha
with olive trees, and 13 ha with fruit trees.
51.  An estimate of the production deriving from the project is made more difficult by the fact
that the DAS were abolished during the project period, and consequently the land tenure
situation has substantially changed. Furthermore, government-fixed prices on strategic products
(e.g. milk and wheat) have been eliminated, hence, farmers are now responding better to market
forces. For instance, on the basis of the information provided by AGID, in the case of Upper
Cheliff, even with uncompleted infrastructure, farmers have modified their cropping patterns
in favor of high-value added crops such as horticultural products, with higher than previous
yields, in areas where security conditions are sufficient.
52.  Finally, a significant outcome for future irrigation development is the completion of
detailed designs and tender documents for the Lower Cheliff extensions on 9,000 ha, to be
implemented in a further project phase.
H. Future Operation
53.  No place for the project's future operation has been prepared since a new project in
Algeria,-- the Irrigation Management Project --, was to be appraised early 1994 to implement
all necessary policy and structural reforms for the irrigation sub-sector. Due to the unexpected
aggravation of the situation in Algeria, the preparation of this new project was interrupted.
Priority should be given to the completion of the on-going works, security conditions permitting.
New water tariffs should cover full O&M and investments costs with OPIC assuming full
responsibilities for managing its income derived from water charges.
54.  Another important prerequisite should be to resume the Management Information System
study so as to provide OPIC with an adequate accounting system.
55.  At project closure, in December 1994, the Bank proposed to the Government an
Agricultural Structural Adjustment Loan (ASAL) aiming at assisting the Government with the
necessary reorganization of the agricultural sector, with a particular view to founding future
irrigation development in Algeria on a sound basis. The Cheliff project should be reviewed in
the context of this ASAL.



- 12 -
I. Key Lessons Learned
55.1 Key lessons learned from the project can be summarized as follows:
(a)  the Bank should more carefi 'v monitor and act on project organizational changes.
Financial aspects of the ch  <OPIC's statute to EPIC were in conflict with
specific project covenants ag  vith the GOA. Low tariffs and/or frequent
droughts, as well as farmers' itnancial difficulties, led to insufficient income for
OPIC to provide a reliable water distribution. The interruption of public subsidies
should have been progressive and commensurate with the expected revenue derived
from authorized water tariffs, with a view to allowing OPIC to ensure minimal
O&M tasks.
(b)  timely provision of technical assistance and mraining should be provided from the
project's start by specific arrangements (as, for example, Gvt./FAO Agreements
put in place with project's proceeds). The same agreements could also cover
training needs for the staff in charge of project's implementation and O&M.
Ideally, technical assistance for the supervision of works should be contracted at
the same time that works are tendered;
(c)   contracts for study, works or supply should include clauses clearly defining
conditions and exchange rates; most of the contractors' claims arose from equivocal
specifications or interpretation; the Bank needs to monitor procurement
arrangements better (para 29);
(d)   all progress reports should include a financial balance sheet, in the form of a
bookkeeping system in local currency and in U.S. dollars to allow an easy
comparison of resources and expenditures for each category of loan proceeds, and
to show the available balance for the remaining activities.
(e)   AGID's project monitoring focused only on technical aspects of infrastructure
implementation under the responsibility of the Ministry of Equipment. All other
aspects, such as OPIC's restructuring, improving the performance of DAS, and
later of EAC/EAI, and strengthening extension services in the project area, under
the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, were not dealt with; more
attention should be given to key indicators for project operation following its
implementation; at appraisal, the Bank should give greater care to the monitoring
system to be put in place for the project (para 29);
(f)  the Bank and the Government should redefine an appropriate Authorized Allocation
(LA Schedule 6) to be deposited in the Special Account. The Authorized
Allocation, initially defined in the Loan Agreement, was too high in the Algerian
context since it took more than 5 years to spend such amount (US$ 8 million),



- 13 -
during which period the full interest rate was running at the expense of the
Government;
(g)   more care should be given during preparation and at the appraisal stages to such
"ancillary" works as the Upper Cheliff power lines; they indeed developed as a
costly sub-component not financed by the Loan;
(h)   the Bank needs to ensure that an enabling environment for project implementation
is created and maintained. In this case, a time-gap with the structural adjustment
process negatively affected the following project particular factors: shortage of
foreign currency, shortage of construction materials, deficiency in the banking
sector delaying creditors payments, cumbersome administrative procedures.



- 14 -
PART 11- STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of obiectives          Substantial     Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
Macro policies                        L            O             n           E
Sector policies                         i          Li          LII          [EC
Financial objectives                 ED           Ei           [7]            1]
Institutional development            OIO    El    1171                       Ei
Physical objectives                   Li                        Li            Li
Poverty reduction                     Li           Li          Lf 7i
Gender issues                         Li          ED            Ci |7]
Other social objectives              Ei            Li          [7]            Li
Environmental objectives             Li            Li          [71            L
Public sector management             Li              i                       [ CI
Private sector development           Li           Li            Li] EC
Other (specify)                       Li           Li          El             L
II. Proiect sustainability             Likely       Unlikely    Uncertain
(1            (0          (6
Li    l                   Li
Highly
C. Bank performance                  satisfactory    Satisfactory   Deficient
(6            (e          (6
Identification                       Li                         Li1
Preparation assistance                  i         EC            L
Appraisal                             Li          [71           L
Supervision                           Li          L71          Ei



- 15 -
Highly
D. Borrower performance                satisfactory    Satisfactory   Deficient
(e            (e          (e
Preparation (n.a.)                                [I ]
Implementation (acceptable)           E]                       FE
Covenant compliance                  [J           [D           [f1
Operation (if applicable) (n.a.)     [                            ] E
Highly                                       Highly
E. Assessment of outcome            satisfactory    Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactorv
Acceptable                        [                            [E1



- 16 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan Title                       Purpose                Year of              Status
Approval
1159-AL: Technical Assistance                                   before 1980    Completed in 1983
and Rural Development Project
1802-AL: Bas-Cheliff Irrigation    Rehabilitation works on main  before 1980    Completed in 1985
Project                         conveyors
2809-AL: Cheliff Irrigation     New irrigation infrastructures    1987         Works completed at
Project                         on 8 000 ha in the Upper                       60%
Cheliff Valley and                            Disbursement: 53%
rehabilitation of 3 000 ha in                 Closed end 1994
the Lower Cheliff to improve
the income and social welfare
of families living in project
area
2978-AL: Engineering            Create portfolio of feasibility  1989          Studies completed 40%
studies for irrigation projects for           Disburse: 39%
a 10-year national investment                 Closed:June 1994
program
3009-AL: Agricultural Credit    Strengthen the BADR (Banque    1988            Closed: Sept. 1992 (See
Agriculture et Developpement                  PCR Report
Rural) through financing of                   No 13196, dated June
various agricultural equipment,               1994)
technical assistance and training
3017-AL: Locust Control         Support Algeria's Locust        1988           Closed: Dec 1991
Control Program
3076-AL: Mitidja Irrigation     Improve agricultural            1989           Closing date :June 1996.
Project                         productivity hy developing 14                  Possible earlier
000 ha new irrigation in the                  suspension under
Western part of the Mitidja                   consideration.
Plain                                         Restructuring being
considered
3216-AL: Research and           Initiate reform of national     1990           Closing date:Dec.1997,
Extension                       research system and test new                  to be reexamined at Mid-
extension approaches for                      Term Review (May 95).
cooperative farms (EAC)                       Restructuring being
considered
3405-AL:Sahara Development      Rehabilitation of southern oases   1991        Disb.4% (SAR:47%)
and on-farm development,                      Suspension to be
supported by institution                      envisaged if no progress
strengthening, technical                      recorded early 1995.
assistance and training                       Restructuring being
considered
3487-AL: Forestry and           Develop a long-term action      1992           Progress satisfactory; in
Watershed National              program to better                              process of restructuring
protect/manage Algeria's natural
resources. Institution
strengthening
3690-AL: Locust control         Support Algeria's Locust        1994           Effective since
Control Program                               July 94



17
Table 3. Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                 Date Planned           Date Effective
Identification (EPS)
Preparation                               Sep-86                 Sep-86
Appraisal                                 Dec-86                 Dec-86
Negotiations                              Mar-87                 Mar-87
Board Presentation                        May-87                 May-87
Signing                                   Jun-87                 Jun-87
Effecti veness                            Jan-88                 Jan-88
Project Completion                        Dec-93                  n/a
Closing                                   Dec-94                 Dec-94



- 18 -
TABLE 4A. Annual Loan Disbursement
(US$ Million)
Actual            Actual/
FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    Total    SAR             SAR
SPECIAL ACCOUNT               8.00      -        -        -       -        -        -        -         8.0
(1) Civil Works
(a) Haut Cheliff                        -                 -        2.55     4.94     8.00    -        15.49    43.00     36~',
(b) Bas Cheliff and others     -         1.41    -        0.79    -         1.94     4.61    -         8.75    20.50     437,
(2) Materials, Equipment,
Vehicles and spare parts
(a) Haut Cheliff               -        -         0.03    -       -         2.62    9.79     (.01     12.45    12.00    104%
(b) Bas Cheliff and others     -        -        -        -        -       -         0.38    -         0).38    2.00     19,;
(3) Training, Technical
Assistance and Studies         -        -        -        -       -         1.20     0.95    0.01      2.1(    7.50       29211
TOTAL                           8.00     1.41     0.03    0.79     2.55    10.70    2.3.73   0.02     47.23    85.00      56'e
Unallocated                                                                                                     9.00
Total      94.00
ACTUAL CUMULATED                8.00     9.41     9.44    10.23    12.78    23.48    47.21    47.23           .
TABLE 4B. Cumulative Loan Disbursements
(US$ Million)
FY88      FY89  FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95
Appraisal Estimate              4.00     9.00    21.00    37.00    56.00    72.00   87 00    94.00
Actual 1/                       8.00    9.41     9.44    10.23    12.78    23.48    47.21    47.23
Actual as % of Estimate       200%    105%       45%      28%     23';,     I 33S.I  54%      50"(),
1/ Date of Final Disbursement is 12/29/94
Source: World Bank Disbursement System Reports N. 1060/1071



- 19 -
Table 5: Key Performance Indicators for Project Implementation
(March 1995)
Itemn                  Appraisal      Actual %           Comments
Targets        Achiev.
(Implement.      (March
Period)        1995)
Strengthening of OPIC
-Maintenance equipment           1989              100        Delivered
-Radio equipment                 1988/90           100        Delivered
-Computing equipment             1988/90           100        Delivered
-Management Information System    1988/91           10        Consultant selected; diagnosis
completed, but other studies
not implemented (security
conditions)
Infrastructure
AMRA-ABADIA (8,000 ha)         l    _l
-Constructions (P.S.)            1988/92            53        Works on pumping stations
,_______________________________                               stopped
-Pumping equipment               1989/92                      Pumping equipment delivered
. Delivery:                                       100
. Installation:                                    0
-Irrigation networks             1988/92           90
-Drainage and roads              1988/92           100
BAS-CHELIFF (5,000 ha)
-Irrigation networks             1988/92           50         Contractor is importing
missing materials; additional
contract under review
-Drainage                        1988/93           100
-Roads                          1988/92            100
-Studies for irrigation extension  1988/90         100        Completed: awaiting final
commissioning



- 20 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(not applicable)
Table 7: Studies included in Project
STUDY               Purpose at SAR             Status        Impact of study
(Names of consulting firms)
A - Lower Cheliff New          Preparation of      Preliminary studies   Questionable; will
Irrigation Development (14 500   further stages of  completed on        depend on the
ha)- Feasibility studies,     irrigation            14 500 ha; detailed   availability of funds
preliminary and detailed designs  development, to  studies and tender    to execute the works.
on 9 000 ha. implementation    better exploit the  documents ready for
tender documents.              national irrigation  9000 ha. The
potential.          remaining 5 500 ha,
(Sir MacDonald Ltd +                               eliminated due bad
BNEDER)                                            soil conditions
B - Management Information    To implement new    Started in February   So far, negligible
System Study.                  managerial tools to   1993; scheduled to
(SFC + SEDES + CEGOS)          ensure rational     be completed by
irrigation          end 1994. Only
development.        diagnostic phase
achieved, in July
93, then,
discontinued due to
security conditions.
C - Rapid study of the water    Define the water   After withdrawal of  Pending; AGID not
cost (awaiting the complete    charge required to   the Tunisian        satisfied as ISPG
Water Tariffication Study)     recover O&M costs,  consultants, a local   considered lacking in
and possibly 25% of  firm (ISPG)         water management
investment.         provided a first     experience.
draft in March' 95,
now under AGID
review.



Tabk BA. Total Project Costs
(USS Tbounbds)
Amounts Payments
Cempoents                              SAR Estimate                        Amounts Committed                          Payments Made          as % of   as % of
Local I/   Forein      Total             Local 4/   Foreign    Total            L_a 5/  Foreign    Total   SAR    Amounts
CMvU Works
Pumping saions                    5155      4525      9680                13187      3212     16399                6945     2463    9408      169%       57%
Imgaaion/drainage/rwal roads
inrrastrcmiure I/                59876     56701    116577                79262     22536    1 01798              25612    12788   38400       87%       38%
Sub-total                         65031     61226    126257                92449     2S748    118197               32557    15251   47808       94%       40%
Equipenat
Electroamchanical                 3654     10424      14078                7827     10525     18352                3396    10525   13921      130%       76%
Radio                              338      1013       1351                 629       962      1591                 220      962    1182      118%       74%
Computer material                  237       709       946                  163       440       603                  57      440      497      64%       82%
lnfrastrncture maituentnce         242       704       946                 1391       780      2171                 487      780    1267      229%       58%
Sub-t_al                           4471     12850      17321               10010     12707     22717                4160    12707   16867      131%       74%
Vehicles                            276        412       688                  831       255      1086                291       255     546      158%       50%      '-
Technkal AsitUac                     927      2783      3710                 1689      1473      3162                 334      772    1106       85%       3S%
Traning                              180       385       565                    0         0         0                   0        0        0       0%        0%
Studes                               547      3390      4237                 1745      1612      3357                 502     1447    1949       79%       58%
On-_farMinvestents                 14345     10154     24499                    0         0         0                   0        0        0       0%        0%
Addtial recurrest cods
Staff                             1796         0       1796                1796         0      1796                1468        0    1468      100%       82%
Operation and Mantenac            2864      2907      5771                 2864      2907      5771                1338        0    1338      100%       23%
Pumping energy 2/                 448       347        795                3307       347       3654               1157        0    1157      460%        32%
Sub-total Recurren coss             5106      3254      8362                 797       3254     11221               363          0    393       134%       35%
Total Costs                        91185     944S4    185639               114691     45049    159740              41807    30432   72239        86%       45%
I/ lcluding Ilydro rehaakal Equipmeat
2/ Including the electrkity Une for contracted amounts and effective payments
3/ Calculated with an exchange rate of DA 4.7 = USS I
/1 Calculated with an excbhag rate of DA 7 = US$ 1, le. average over the earier years wben the commitments were made
S/ Calculated with an exchange rate of DA 20 = US$ 1, le. average over the whole project period
Note: On-farm investments are considered negUgible over project execution
Source: AGID



Table SB. Project Financing
(US$ Millions)
SAR Estimate                   Effective Disbursements
Sources of Financing         Local Foreign    Total             Local Foreign    Total
World Bank                     0.0    94.0    94.0                7.0    40.2    47.2
Government                    67.1      0.0    67.1              25.0              25.0
Beneficiairies                 7.5      0.0      7.5              0.0      0.0      0.0
BADR                          17.0              17.0              0.0      0.0      0.0
Total                         91.6    94.0   185.6               32.0    40.2    72.2
Note: In the case of the World Bank, the amounts do not include any disbursements established
through balance adjustment entries. In the case of the Government, it is considered that taxes and
duties are part of its contribution. Also, the on-farm investments (to be financed by the beneficiaries
and the BADR) are considered by the AGID to be negligeable. The discrepancy between the total of
the disbursements (in local and foreign currencies) and AGID's estimation of the total payments made
(Table 8A) can only be interpreted by the mission as amounts sent by the World Bank to the BADR
but not passed on to AGID because of the multiple exchange rate system in place.



- 23 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable in the present conditions
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Algeria
Cheliff Irrigation Project
Loan        Covenant    Present      Orig.       Rev.         Description of           Comments
Agreement    Type           status      fulfil,     ulfil,        covenant
(Section)                               date       date
4.01           F            OK         -                      Maintain separate
records of project
expenditures
4.01           F            OK         6/30/93                Have the financial     1992 report has been
records audited for    received
each fiscal year and
sent to the Bank
4.01           F            OK                                Maintain records for all
withdrawals from Loan
Account based on
statements of AGID
expenditure and have
them audited annually
5.01/a         F            RVS         12/89      9/92       Adjust water charges as  11/13/93: New tariffs
required and recover    (0.80 DA/m3) published
full operation and    in the JA; enforced
maintenance costs      during 1994/95 campaign
5.01/a         F            ACT         12/92      12/93      Recover 25% of
construction cost      Early 1995 local
through water
charges                consultant (ISGP)
5.01/b         T            ACT        6/89                   Carry out a study on   provided a first
adequate level of water
charges and send it to    draf early 1995, now
the Bank
under review by AGID
5.02/a         T            OK         -                      Monitor water pollution   Done
of Cheliff river
5.02/b         T            OK          12/90                 Provide the Bank with    Reports submitted
a monitoring report on
the pollution of the
Chetiff river



- 24 -
Loan         Covenant    Present        Orig.        Rev.         Description of              Comments
Agreement    Type             status       fulfil.     fulfil.         covenant
(Section)                                 date         date
5.03            T             RVS          12/93                  Commission the           Construction expected to
construction of the Ben   be completed in Dec. 98;
Taiba dam               financing assured by
AfD)B
5.04            M             RVS                                 Provide timely and       Foreseen in the DAS
adequate agricultural    context; non-applicable
__________    __________    _________    __________    ________  inputs  to  farmers     for  the  EAC     now
5.05/a          M             OK           12/88                  Recruit consultants to   Done
annualy inspect the
dams located within the
Cheliff basin
5.05/b          T             OK                                  Issue a report on dam
l _______________   _____________   ___________        __________  safety                  _____________________sfet
Schedule 5      M             OK                                  Organize bi-annual       Done on an ad-hoc basis
A. I                                                              coordination meetings
A.2             M             OK           12/89                  Recruit consultants to   Done
assist in supervision
B.d.i           M             OK           12/89                  OPIC to be financially    Juridically established,
independent              but resources are limited
due to low level of water
charges
B.d.ii          M             RVS                                 Establish MIS in OPIC    The consultant has
stopped the work due to
security conditions
Key:
Covenant Type             Status:
E - Economic              ACT - Needs use of formal remedies to bring into compliance
F - Financial             NYD - Not yet due
M - Managerial            OK  - Covenant complied with
T - Technical             RVS - Revision required
SOON- Compliance imminent



- 25 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title          Deacribe and Comment on Lack of Compliance
BP 6.50: Disbursement profiles              Slow disbursement because of cumbersome payment
procedure
Use of Consultants by WB Borrowers (1981)   Reluctantly complied with
General Conditions Applicable to Loans and  Final evaluation report not prepared by the
Guarantee Agreements (1985): Section 9.07   borrower, which considers that the project is not
completed, as it was closed unilaterally by the Bank
OD 8.40: Technical Assistance               No proper system to mobilize the technical
assistance
OD 10.60: Accounting, Financial Reporting, and   Generally not complied with
Auditing
OD 10.70: Prcject Monitoring and Evaluation  Limited monitoring and complete lack of evaluation
OD I 1.00: PROCUREMENT                      Many specifications not complied with
(11.02: Procurement arrangements for Investment
Operations)
OD 13.05: Project Supervision               Only by an Irrigation Engineer
OD 13.10: Borrower Compliance with Audit    Generally not complied with; severe delays in audit
Covenants                                   reports delivery



- 26 -
Table 12. Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Stage of                  Planned             Revised              Actual
Project Cycle         Weeks      US$      Weeks      US$      Weeks      US$
Through Appraisal                                              31.2
Appraisal - Board                                              47.0
Board - Effectiveness
Supervision                                                    112.2
Completion             10.0      37.6      8.0       32.2       8.0
Total                                                          198.4



Table 13. Bank Resources - Missions
Specialized         Performance Rating
Stage of                            No. of Days in    Staff Skills    Implementation    Development   Types of
Project Cycle        Month/Year   Persons  Field      Represented        Status         Objectives    Problems
Through Appraisal        Sep-86
Appraisal - Board    Sep-86 to May-87
Board - Effectiveness May-87 to Jan-88
Supervision
Fw-up 1              Oct-87         1       14          E
Fw-up 2              Dec-87         2        6        E,C
Fw-up 3              Feb-88          1      16          E
Fw-up 4              Jun-88         1       16          E
Fw-up 5              Nov-88          1      11          E
Spn I                 Jul-88         1       5          E                 2               1          Mangt.
Spn 2                Jun-89         1       11          E                 2               1          M,F,Pr
Spn 3                Jun-90         1        9          E                 3              2           M,T,Tr
Spn 4                Oct-90         1       10          E                 2              2          Tr,M,Pr
Spn 5                Oct-91         1        8          E                 3              2          Tr,TA,F
Spn 6                May-92         1       13          E                 3              3          Tr,TA,F
Spn 7                Oct-92          1       6          E
Spn8                 Sep-93          1       6          E                 4              4             All
Completion             Mar-95         2                 E,C
Note: Fw-up = Follow-up mission  E = engineer  C = economist



- 28 -
APPENDIXES
A.  Mission's aide-memoire
No ICR mission was done due to security situation.
B.  Borrower contribution to ICR
No comments were received despite reminders.
C.  Cormancier contribution to the ICR
n/a
D. Miscellaneous appendixes
n/a
E.  Map
n/a



