RESTRICTED
R*port No.  PTR-83a
ThIs Port is fr Ifis ugp ona by the  kGoup and specllY sauthized rpnintios
oir pemo It MY not be pebflhhd, quoted or te vitho*t DA Group suthoutn. Th
Bank Grop does nt apt apoedbit for the ac    ar compketa of the report
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
A FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
KOREA
June 9, 1971
Transportation Projects Department



Currenc,y luivalents:*
Currency Unit       = Won (W)
US$1                 =  W315
Wl                   =  US$0.0032
Wl million           =  US$3,174
*The exchange rate is floating, but the rate
used in this report is indicated above.
Fiscal Years January 1 - December 31
System of Weights and Measures: Metric
Metric                        BritisUS        valent
1 meter (m)                =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)           =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)  =  0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg)            =  2.205 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (m ton)       = 0.98 long ton (lg ton)
= 1.1 US short ton (sh ton)
Abbreviations and Acronyms:
BPR       =  Bureau of Public Roads
EPB       =  Economic Planning Board
KHC       =  Korea Highway Corporation
KNR       =  Korean National Railroad
MOC       = Ministry of Construction
MOF       =  Ministry of Finance
MOT       = Ministry of Transportation
PCBs      =  Provincial Construction Bureaus
RCBs      = Regional Construction Bureaus
TCMC      =  Transport Coordination Ministers Conference
TPO       =  Transport Planning Office
UNDP      =  United Nations Development Programme
GDP       =  Gross Domestic Product
GNP       =  Gross National Product
vpd       =  vehicles per day



KOREA
APPRAISAL OF A FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLIJSIONS ................... ......................
I.     INTRODUCTION ............................................... 1
II.   BACKGROUND ................................................. 1
A.  Economic Setting ......................................             1
B.  Transportation ........................................   2
C.  Transport Planning and Coordination ...................   4
III.  THE HIGHWAY SECTOR ........................................   5
A.  The lHighway Network ...................................   5
B.  ilighway Traffic       ................................             6
C.  Highway Administration ................................             7
D.  Highway Planning and Financing ........................             8
E.  Highway Design and Construction ...............                     8
F.  Highway Maintenance ...... ..............                           9
IV.   THE PROJECT ...............................................  10
A.  General Description ...................................  10
B.  Construction of Chonju-Pusan National Primary Highway .  11
C.  Construction Supervision ..............................  11
D). Feasibility Studies of National Highways
for Future Projects .................................  11
E.  Detailed Engineering of Primary National Highways                  12
F.  Detailed Engineering of Further National Highways                  12
G.  Study of Highway Maintenance ..........................  12
EI.  Procurement of Mechanical Equipment ....            ...............  13
I.  Refunding of IDA Technical Assistance Project -
Transport, Credit S4 KO .............................  13
J.  Cost Estimates, Foreign Exchange Components,
and Financing .......................................  13
K.  Project Execution, Procurement, and Disbursements  .....    16
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION .17
A. General .17
B. Chonju-Pusan Road .17
VI.   RECOMMENDATIONS .........               .............   19
This report was written by Messrs. P. R. Morris (Engineer), H. Hansen and
A. F. Ballereau (Economists), and was edited by Mrs. P. Valad.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEX
Details of Construction of Chonju-Pusan National Primary Highway
TABLES
1.  Domestic Freight and Passenger Traffic Data, 1065 and 19'9
2. Government Transport Investments During Second Five-Year
Economic Development Plan, 1967/71
3. Public Roads Network, 1970
4. Motor Vehicle Statistics, 1962-70
5. Motor Vehicle Fuel Consumption, 1962-69
6. Highway Authorities and Agencies
7. Highway User Charges
8. Expenditures on Roads, 1965-71
9. Design Standards for Primary National Highways (Rural)
10.  MOC Field Organization for Maintenance of National Highways:
Program and Implementation Schedule
11.  MOC Field Organization for Maintenance of National Highways:
Estimated Capital and Recurrent Costs for Pilot Province, 1971-73
12.  MOC Field Organization for Mfaintenance of National Highways:
Mechanical Equipment for Pilot Province (Gyeongi-do)
13. Roads Included for Feeasibility Studies
14. Estimated Cost of Project
15. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
16. Estimated Traffic Volumes on Chonju-Pusan National Primary
Highway, 1970-93
17. Vehicle Operating Costs on Chonju-Pusan National Primary Hliglhway
18. Rates of Return on Chonju-Pusan National Primary Highway
CHARTS
1. Ministry of Construction Organization
2. Bureau of Public Roads Organization
MAP
Republic of Korea National Highway Network



KOREA
APPRAISAL OF A FIRST HIGIHWAY PROJFCT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises the First Highway Project in the Republic of
Korea proposed for Bank financing. The project comprises: construction of
372 km of primary national highway between Chonju and Pusan, including super-
vision by consultants; feasibility studies of about 1,400 km of primary na-
tional highways; detailed engineering of about 1,100 km of primary national
highways; a highway maintenance study; and establishment of a national high-
way maintenance organization in a "pilot" province, including procurement of
equipment and spare parts.
ii.       The economy of Korea has been growing very rapidly during the last
10 years, due mainly to a sharp increase in industrial production and exports.
The annual growth rate of real Gross National Product accelerated from 3.5%
in 1962 to 15.9% in 1969, while the value of commodity exports increased at
an average of 39% p.a. in recent years. By 1969, all the major targets of the
Second Five-Year Economic Development Plan for 1971, except in agriculture,
had been exceeded.
iii.      Korea's transport system has been severely strained over the past
decade by the extremely rapid economic expansion. The Government's initial
efforts to improve transport gave priority to railroads, with financial as-
sistance by foreign governments and the Bank Group. Meanwhile, the Bank made
a special grant for a Transportation Survey, completed in 1966. Between 1965
and 1969, in line with the recommendations of the Survey, the Government
sharply increased annual transport investments, particularly for highways,
but demands still were not satisfied. More recently, the Association provided
the Government with a credit of US$3.5 million (S4 KO, July 1968) for highway
feasibility and detailed engineering studies, as well as a highway organiza-
tiorn and transportation coordination survey. The proposed First Highway Proj-
ect stems directly from these studies.
iv.       The highway between Chonju and Pusan links the major cities of
Kwangju, Sunchon, Chinju, and Masan and highly populated rural areas in the
southwest. The present road is narrow and poorly aligned, with a rough gravel
surface, except for the Masan-Pusan section which is paved but narrow and con-
gested. Reconstruction to a two-lane paved standard is of high priority and
should yield a rate of return of 28% from savings in vehicle operating costs
and time.
v.        Feasibility studies, detailed engineering, and a highway maintenance
study by consulting firms, as well as purchases of mechanical equipment for
highway maintenance, are included in the project. The feasibility studies will
cover a further 1,400 km of primary national highways identified by the Trans-
portation Survey as likely to be of high priority, with subsequent detailed



- ii -
engineering of about 900 km if found justified. In addition, detailed engi-
neering of about 200 km of national highways between Wonju-Kangnung and !Mukho-
Sokcho (studied under Credit S4 KO) is included. The comprehensive study of
national highway maintenance will help the Government improve organization,
administration, and methods, as well as assess the need for facilities, e(uip-
ment, and funds. The mechanical equipment to be purchased will be for setting
up a new national highway maintenance organization in the pilot province of
Gyeongi-do.
vi.       The total project cost, including contingencies but excluding re-
funding Credit S4 KO, is US$102.5 million. A Bank loan of US$54.5 million is
proposed, of which US$45 million is for foreign exchange costs, US$6 million
for local costs, and US$3.5 million for refunding Credlit S4 (!. The balance
of the local costs (US$51.5 million or about 50% of the total project cost)
will be made available by the Government. The contracts for construction
and for supply of equipment will be awarded after international competitive
bidding; construction supervision and other expert services will be carried
out by consultants. The Ministry of Construction, through its Bureau of
Public Roads, will be responsible for project execution and administration.
vii.      The proposed project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan to
the Government of US$54.5 million. Based on the economic life of the project,
an appropriate term is 24 years, including a four-year period of grace.



KOREA
APPRAISAL OF A FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Republic of Korea has asked the Bank to help
finance a highway project consisting of: (a) construction of 372 km of a na-
tional primary highway from Chonju to Pusan, including supervision by consul-
tants; (b) feasibility studies by consultants of about 1,400 km of national
highways; (c) detailed engineering by consultants of about 1,100 km of pri-
mary national highways; (d) a highway maintenance study by consultants; and
(e) establishment of a national highway maintenance organization in a "pilot"
province, including procurement of mechanical equipment and spare parts.
1.02      Although this would be the first highway project in Korea to be fi-
nanced by the Bank Group, we have been involved in the transport sector since
1962 through three railroad projects (Credits 25 KO, US$14 million, 1962 and
110 KO, US$11 million, 1967; and Loan 669 KO/Credit 183 KO, US$55 million,
1970) (para. 2.10), a Bank grant of US$200,000 in 1965 for a Transportation
Survey, and a credit (S4 KO) of US$3.5 million in 1968 for highway studies.
Performance on these projects has been generally satisfactory. The proposed
project is in line with the Transportation Survey, which recommended that in-
vestment in highways should be greatly increased. It is based on highway
feasibility studies and detailed engineering by consultants under Credit
S4 KO.
1.03      This report was prepared from information supplied by the Govern-
ment and the recommendations of their consultants, as well as the findings of
the November/December 1970 Bank appraisal mission, composed of Messrs. P. R.
Morris (Engineer), H. Hansen, and A. F. Ballereau (Economists). The report
was edited by Mrs. P. Val-ad.
II. BACKGROUND
A.   Economic Setting
2.01      The economy of Korea has grown rapidly during recent years, largely
because of the unusually high growth rate of the industrial sector. The an-
nual average growth rate of real Gross National Product (GNP) increased from
7% during 1962-64 to 11.4% during 1965-70 despite droughts in 1967 and 1968.
GNP is expected to grow at 10% p.a. in 1971, with a long-term average annual
growth rate of 8.6%. Per capita GNP was about US$233 in 1970.
2.02      With a total land area of 98,000 km  (roughly the size of Guatemala
or Portugal) and a population of about 31.8 million in 1970, Korea has a den-
sity of 320 inhabitants/km2; this is higher than Japan (270) but less than
Taiwan (360). Tn the past decade, family planning was vigorously implemented,



- 2 -
resulting in decreased population growth from 3% to 2.1% p.a.; the Government
plans a further reduction to 1.5% p.a. by 1976. Industrialization has been
accompanied by a population shift from rural to urban areas, where more than
half now live (about 15% in the greater Seoul area). During 1960-69, unem-
ployment was reduced from 8% to about 5%.
2.03      Industrialization, supported by development of the economic infra-
structure, has played a leading role in Korea's economic growth. During
1965-70, the manufacturing and social overhead sectors increased by 17% p.a.,
while agriculture grew by 3-4% p.a. The share of agriculture in total Gross
Domestic Product (GDP) fell from 39% in 1965 to 27% in 1970, whereas that of
manufacturing and mining rose from 20% to 28%. Thus, in less than a decade,
the Korean economy has been transformed from predominantly agricultural to
semi-industrialized. Exports of manufactured goods have greatly increased
from less than US$90 million in 1962-64 to almost IUS$900 million in 1970.
Two-thirds of exports by value now are manufactured products. Regarding pro-
ducer goods, the fastest growth was in production of fuels, cement, electri-
ca.& machinery and appliances, electronics, chemicals, and petrochemicals.
Seoul and Pusan are the foremost industrialized cities, but the Government's
policy is to promote manufacturing in other cities and populated rural areas
throughout the country.
2.04      Agriculture in Korea is limited because less than 30% of the land
is arable; the remainder is mountainous terrain and rivers. However, agricul-
ture, forestry, and fishing are the livelihood for about half the population;
for this reason, the Government is increasing considerably its investments in
irrigation, land reclamation, and fertilizer development. Rice and barley are
the most important agricultural products, constituting the staple diet of the
population. Livestock and cereal production for market have increased consid-
erably due to rising urban demand and government promotion.
B.   Transportation
(a) General (Tables 1 and 2)
2.05      The very rapid expansion of production and exports has led to great-
er demand for freight and passenger transport. As the transport sector demand
and investments have increased, its value-added has grown faster than GDP.
Annual transportation investments, including storage and communications, in-
creased from W20.4 billion (US$65 million) in 1965 to W126.2 billion (US$400
million) in 1969, or from 17% to about 28% of the total capital formation.
The transport sector's contribution to GDP during the same period rose from
3.4% to 4.5%.
2.06      Domestic passenger and freight movements increased between 1965 and
1969 at an average annual rate of about 17%. Despite rapid growth in traffic
by road and coastal shipping, the rallronalH continued to le the predomllnant
frefglht carrier. Ilowever, their slare declined from an average of 877 IT) 1960-
i)' to 68% in 1969, due mainly to the rapid growth of coastal shlppinp. Since
1965, road transport has taken the lead for passengers from railroads and ac-
counted for 60% of pass-km in 1969.



- 3 -
2.07      The Third Five-Year Economic Development Plan (1972-76), presently
being prepared by the Economic Planning Board (EPB), is likely to allocate
investments to the transport sector at least equal to the present proportion
of about 25% of the total capital formation. The tentative Plan indicates
that the focus of transport development will shift to emphasize road con-
struction, although railways will continue to absorb a substantial amount of
the investment.
(b) Highways (Table 3)
2.08      Until 1967, road transport played a relatively small role and high-
way construction was given low priority. Even now, only 8% of the 37,000 km
of public roads are paved (including 25% of the national highways); the re-
mainder are gravel or earth surfaced. Lack of investments in roads and poor
maintenance have led to high road transport costs. The highway system is dis-
cussed further in Chapter III.
(c) Railroads
2.09      The railroads are operated by the Government's Korean National Rail-
road (KNR); KNR is controlled by the Ministry of Transportation (MOT), which
has authority over rates and fares and staff matters. The KNR has an indepen-
dent general manager and its own budget and commercial accounting system.
The network consists of 3,100 km of standard gauge track and 126 km of narrow
gauge; about 470 km are double tracks. Between 1965 and 1969, passenger traf-
fic grew 12.5% p.a.; in 1969, railroads carried 11.1 billion pass-km or 40%
of all passenger traffic. Most passenger traffic (88%) is long distance. Be-
tween 1965 and 1969, freight traffic increased 9.8% p.a.; in 1969, railroads
carried about 7.3 billion ton-km or 68% of all freight traffic. Freight con-
sists mainly of bulk commodities (anthracite coal, oil, cement, fertilizers,
and grain) and the average haul is about 240 km. Freight traffic under 50 km
is prohibited, except for coal.
2.10      Although there has been a shortage of managerial skills in some
fields, operations are generally efficient. The main constraints on railroad
operations have been the shortage of rolling stock, limited capacity of key
lines, and obsolete communication system. Thus, railroad investments have
been concentrated on expanding motive power and rolling stock and increasing
stations and line capacity. These improvements have been financed by loans
and grants from Japan, the United States, and the World Bank Group.
(d) Ports and Shipping
2.11      The increase in domestic and foreign trade is reflected in a grow-
ing demand for ocean and coastal shipping, which cannot be handled efficiently
because of lack of vessels and inadequate port facilities. However, tonnage
handled by ports increased from about 11.3 million m tons in 1965 to 36.2 mil-
lion m tons in 1969, mainly due to increased imports of grain, oil, and lum-
ber, and some diversion of fuel and cement transport from the overburdened
railroads. In 1969, ports handled 17.1 million m tons of imported goods and
2.9 million m tons of exported goods, which reflects Korea's dependence on



- 4 -
importing industrial raw materials. Coastal shipping amounted to 16.2 million
m tons. Pusan and Inchon are both general and bulk cargo ports, handling about
22% and 15%, respectively, of total cargo in Korea. Ulsan and Yosu are oil-
handling ports, handling about 25% and 10%, respectively, of total cargo.
2.12      The Ministry of Construction (MOC) is responsible for planning, con-
structing, and maintaining 16 first-class ports, which include Pusan, Inchon,
Ulsan, Yosu, Gunsan, and Mokpo, and 24 second-class ports. All other ports
come under the governor of the respective province where they are located.
The MOT is responsible for daily operation, while cargo is handled by private
stevedoring companies. Revenues from port charges are not presently suffi-
cient to cover expenditures for investment, maintenance, and other services.
2.13      In 1970, the Bank assisted the Government in obtaining financial
assistance from the United Nations Development Programme (tJNDP) for a devel-
opment study of Korea's main ports. The Bank is the Executing Agency for the
study, which is expected to result in projects suitable for Bank financing
from FY 1973 onwards.
2.14      Vessels registered under the Korean flag are mainly oil tankers and
coastal bulk carriers. Gross registered tonnage increased from 370,000 in 1965
to 1,122,000 in 1969, and the total number of vessels grew from 11,830 to
16,900 in the same period.
(e) Aviation
2.15      Air traffic remains comparatively small; the privately-owned Korean
Air Lines provides domestic and some international flights; Korea is also
served by other international airlines. Air traffic increased from 285,000
passengers in 1965 to 887,000 in 1969, due mainly to an increase in domestic
passengers. Most traffic is handled at the Seoul-Kimpo International Airport,
which may be expanded. Pusan is the second international airport. Air freight
is expanding rapidly, but still is of minor importance.
C.   Transport Planning and Coordination
2.16      The limited funds available and inadequate transport planning have
been obstacles to meeting the rapidly growing transport demand. Investments
have not always been made according to economic priority because alternative
solutions have not been studied. Responsibility for planning has been scat-
tered; the MOC has been responsible for roads and ports, and the MOT for air-
ports, the KNR, shipping, and road transport regulation. The EPB has been
the only organization in a position to coordinate transport investments, but
it has not been staffed for this purpose.
2.17      To provide a basis for improving transport planning and coordina-
tion, a study was financed under Credit S4 KO and carried out by the consul-
tants BCEOM/NEDECO (France/Netherlands). The consultants' final report (May
1970) suggested, as a long-term solution, placing responsibility for all



-5-
transport modes under one Ministry. This was not acceptable to the Government
so BCFOM/NEDECO proposed setting up a new three-tiered organization responsi-
ble for transport planning and coordination. This would consist of:
(a)  Transport Coordination Ministers Conference (TCMC), a policy
committee chaired by the T)eputy Prime Minister and composed of
the eight ministers most concerned with transport matters;
(b)  Transport Coordination Working Group, a civil service committee
representing the same ministries as those in the TCMC but
dealing with lesser policy matters and referring major issues
to the TCMC; and
(c) Transport Planning Office (TPO), a full-time staff for the
TCMC, under the Deputy Prime Minister.
As recommended, the Government set up the three bodies in 1970, but the TPO
was placed in the MOT. The Government has thus taken steps to improve trans-
port planning and coordination. The measures now being studied, with technical
assistance by BCEOM/NEDECO, include reviewing transport regulation, licensing,
taxation, and rate structures. However, it is too early to see how effective
this somewhat complicated system will be.
III. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A.   The Highway Network (Table 3)
3.01      The public road network is about 37,000 km long, consisting of about
8,600 km of national highways (including 470 km of expressways) and 28,500 km
of provincial and local roads. The national highways include expressways, pri-
mary, and secondary roads, under the authority of the Minister of Construc-
tion. The local roads include provincial, special city (Seoul and Pusan) 1/,
city, and county roads, under the respective local authorities. The average
road density is 0.4 km of road per kmi of land area and 1 km of road per 850
inhabitants (these ratios are 2.7 km road per km2 and 1 km per 100 inhabitants
in Japan; 0.4 km road and 1,400 inhabitants in Thailand; and 0.2 km road and
600 inhabitants in the Philippines).
3.02      Most roads are badly aligned, narrow, poorly drained, and either
roughly surfaced with gravel or unsurfaced; only about 3,100 km (8%) are
paved, including 2,100 km (25%) of national highways. This poor condition re-
flects the low priority the road network had received in the past. In line
with the recommendations of the Bank-financed Transportation Survey (para.
1.02), the Government increased road investments sharply from 1967. However,
1/   These two cities are called "special" cities because their administra-
tive status includes higher responsibilities than other cities.



-6-
most funds have been devoted to expressway construction, particularly the 450
km long Seoul-Pusan toll expressway. As a result, inadequate attention has
been given to maintenance of existing roads. Recognizing this need, the Gov-
ernment intends, during the Third Five-Year Economic Development Plan (1972-
76) (para. 2.07), to improve and pave about 50% of the most heavily traf-
ficked national highways. The Government also intends to make substantial
improvements in highway maintenance.
B.   Highway Traffic (Tables 4 and 5)
3.03      The motor vehicle fleet at the end of 1969 consisted of about
109,000 units compared with 31,000 in 1962, an average increase of 20% p.a.
Between 1967 and 1969, the increase accelerated to 34% p.a. Although increas-
ing rapidly, the vehicle fleet is still very small (1 vehicle per 300 persons
compared with 1 per 110 in the Philippines and 1 per 100 in Thailand). Gas-
oline and diesel consumption increased between 1962 and 1967 by 27% and 17%
p.a.. respectively, and between 1967 and 1969 by 26% and 55% p.a., respec-
tively.
3.04      The vehicle fleet is relatively small because of the Government's
long-standing policy of severely restricting vehicle imports. However, in
1966 the first vehicle assembly plant was established, and the Government re-
laxed restrictions on importing parts. Two more companies have since estab-
lished assembly plants. The three companies are associated with Toyota, Ford,
and Fiat; they have a combined assembly capacity of more than double the total
output of 31,000 vehicles achieved in 1969. The Government expects production
to reach about 100,000 in 1974. To promote domestic industry and to save for-
eign exchange, the Government is still restricting imports of assembled ve-
hicles and parts. The largest manufacturer has already reached a local con-
tent of 45% for cars, 50% for trucks, and 80% for buses. The Government hopes
that a maximum local content of production will be reached by 1974. As this
goal is approached, the Government may reduce the vehicle taxation, which is
particularly high on cars.
3.05      Present motor vehicle regulations allow a sufficiently high maximum
single axle-load of 10 m tons, but may be unduly restrictive in some respects,
such as the total weights and sizes of vehicles. During loan negotiations, as-
surances were obtained that the Government will review and revise the regula-
tions governing vehicle weights and dimensions and implement them in accor-
dance with an agreed time schedule.
3.06      Since 1965 MOC, assisted by local authorities, has made annual traf-
fic counts. These have included nationwide origin and destination surveys
of all primary and secondary national highways and main provincial highways.
Counting is carried out at more than 30 stations once or twice a year during
three consecutive working days (from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m.). Although a signifi-
cant amount of traffic information is consequently available, it is not yet
fully used for highway planning and maintenance programming. During loan ne-
gotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that traffic counts
will be continued and that the processing of traffic data will be improved.



- 7-
C.   Highway Administration (Table 6)
3.07      The principal defect in highway administration is the lack of a
satisfactory organization for maintaining national highways (paras. 3.17 and
3.18). However, the Government plans to overcome this by setting up a new MOC
field organization with sufficient staff, equipment, and financing (paras.
3.19 and 3.20); this will enable the provincial, county, and city governments
to concentrate their limited resources on adequately maintaining their own
roads. The existing organizations for highway planning, design, and construc-
tion, with the assistance of consultants on major works, are adequate.
3.08      The MOC (Chart 1), through its Bureau of Public Roads (BPR) (Chart
2), is responsible for the construction, maintenance, and administration of
the national highway system, as well as for the formulation and execution of
Government policy in relation to other roads. The MOC became responsible for
maintenance of national highways only in January 1971; before then, mainte-
nance was the responsibility of the provinces, assisted by grants for this
purpose from the MOC (para. 3.12). The MOC does not yet have a field organ-
ization to carry out highway maintenance and this work is still being per-
formed by the provinces. However, MOC is preparing to set up its own field
maintenance organization for national highways (para. 3.19).
3.09      The Korea Highway Corporation (KHC), under the MOC, operates and
maintains toll expressways.  The Government intends that the KHC will also
be in charge of constructing any future toll expressways. Also, under the
MOC are two organizations which provide services for all types of work (in-
cluding roads) undertaken by the MOC and the provinces: the National Con-
struction Research Institute provides laboratory services, and the Office of
lieavy Equipment supplies and maintains mechanical equipment (mainly for the
hiOC, but also to a limited extent for the provinces).
3.10      The BPR is presently a headquarters organization. In accordance
with the recommendations of BCEOM/NEDECO in their study under Credit S4 KO
(para. 1.02), the BPR was reorganized during 1970 into divisions dealing with
planning, administration, finance, construction, and maintenance. Design and
construction of national highways are carried out by the five Regional Con-
struction Bureaus (RCBs), which also carry out construction for other agencies
within the MOC.
3.11      The provinces are responsible for the construction, maintenance,
and administration of the provincial highway system, except that unpaved pro-
vincial highways are maintained by the counties (guns). The special cities
of Seoul and Pusan are responsible for all roads within their areas. The
Provincial Construction Bureaus (PCBs) are responsible for designing and ex-
ecuting all provincial works, including road works. The cities and counties
are responsible for roads other than the national or provincial systems.



- 8 -
D.   Highway Planning and Financing (Tables 7 and 8)
3.12      Planning and financing of the national highway systemii, including
expressways, are the responsibility of the MOC, administered through its BPR.
The BPR Planning Division collects data on highways, including traffic fig-
ures. It also drafts the Five-Year Development Programs and the annual bud-
gets, which are reviewed and coordinated by the EPB and the Ministry of Fi-
nance (MOF) and then incorporated into the national Five-Year l.conomic De-
velopment Plans and annual budgets. The drafts take into account the overall
national objectives established by the EPB and the estimates of higlhway user
revenues given by the MOF. The BPR also gJves technical guidance on highw,Iy
matters to the Ministry of Home Affairs and provinces, including reviewlng
requests from the provinces and special cities for road construction and
maintenance grants.  Planning of provincial roads is carried out by the prov-
inces, and that of city and county roads by the respective local autthorities.
3.13      Since 1967, road expenditures have been financed from earmarke!
revenues from road user charges (Table 7). The law provides for: (a) the Gov-
ernment highway budget to receive 75% of the gasoline and diesel tax and 1u00'
of the transport tax levied on public passenger traffic on roads, and (b) the
highway budgets of the provinces, cities, and counties to receive the annual
vehicle tax, the vehicle acquisition tax, and the registration fees. Othier
user charges, such as customs duties (in excess of the general level), are
not earmarked. Total road user charges have generally covered road expendi-
tures (Tables 7 and 8) except during 1969, the peak year for the construction
of the Seoul-Pusan expressway. The Government's long-term policy is for road
expenditures to be limited to the earmarked revenues from road user charges.
However, during periods when construction expenditures are exceptionally
heavy, the shortfall is met from external and internal loans serviced from
the earmarked revenues.
3.14      The Government's expenditure on highways under the Second Five-Year
Economic Development Plan (1967-71) is expected to total about W90 billion
(US$285 million). The Third Five-Year Economic Development Plan (1972-76) is
being prepared, but a tentative draft suggests the allocation for highway'-
will be about W160 billion (US$510 million). Of this, about W135 billion
(US$430 million) will be for construction and improvement (including paving)
of about 3,000 km of national highways. Government allocations for highway
maintenance are also expected to be increased sharply.
E.   Highway Design and Construction (Table 9)
3.15      These functions are carried out under the responsibility of various
public services according to the category of highways concerned. The BPR is
responsible for design and supervision of all road works financed by the Gov-
ernment. Under the BPR, a National Expressway Design and Survey Office has
recently been set up for designing and supervising major construction works
on principal national highways. The design work and supervision are mainly
carried out by consultants. The five RCBs of MOC, under the technical direc-
tion of BPR and sometimes assisted by consultants, design and supervise other
construction works on national highways.  The KiC (para. 3.09) is intended



- 9 -
to be responsible for design and supervision of any future toll expressways
which may be constructed. The design standards for primary national highways,
given in Table 9, are reasonable.
3.16      Major construction works are almost entirely carried out by con-
tracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding. The Government does not
impose restrictions on the way in which the work is carried out, including
the use of mechanical equipment. The domestic contracting industry has de-
veloped rapidly in recent years. There are 550 contracting firms engaged in
public works; 30 have undertaken substantial highway works and in 1969 the
10 largest firms were undertaking highway contracts ranging from US$2-15 mil-
lion. Minor construction is sometimes undertaken by force account by the
RCBs, the PCBs, and city and county construction sections. The Army also
undertakes some road works, chiefly in the northern area. While little civil
engineering work has been undertaken by foreign contractors, some have re-
cently expressed interest in bidding on such works.
F.  Hlighway Maintenance (Tables 10, 11 and 12)
3.17      Highway maintenance is unsatisfactory, chiefly due to weak and con-
fused organization; insufficient financial allocations; outdated and ineffi-
cient methods; and insufficient and poorly maintained mechanical equipment,
much of which is old. Pavements are not being resurfaced on a regular basis
and shoulders are badly maintained and rough. The gravel surfaced roads
(most of the roads) are usually surfaced with river gravel; no attempt is
made to select or prepare the material, and it contains a high proportion of
large stones and even boulders. This results in extremely rough and corru-
gated surfaces, aggravated by the lack of sufficient mechanical equipment to
maintain them at the required intervals. Many gravel-surfaced national roads
are already carrying traffic near the upper limit of their capacity. The re-
sult of unsatisfactory maintenance is that the entire road system (including
the national highways) is in poor condition and that road transport costs
are high.
3.18      The agencies which maintain the various classes of roads are shown
in Table 6. Paved roads (including national highways) are maintained by the
provinces; unpaved roads (including national highways) are maintained by
cities/counties. The provinces and cities/counties have inadequate permanent
maintenance forces, which are supplemented by a traditional system of commu-
nal labor; i.e., families are obligated to work without pay for three to four
days each spring and fall, chiefly on digging, carrying, and spreading gravel
on the roads. This labor is, of course, unskilled and difficult to supervise
as it is supplied in very large numbers for short periods; productivity is
very low.
3.19      The Government recognizes that maintenance is unsatisfactory, par-
ticularly for the national highway system. Although MOC, through its BPR,
became formally responsible for the maintenance of national highways in Jan-
uary 1971, it does not yet have a highway maintenance field organization.
As recommended by BCEOM/NEDECO, the Government is preparing a plan to set up
such a field organization. Since this will be a major undertaking, it will



- 10 -
be carried out in three stages. Initially, from January 1972, this field
organization will be established only in a pilot province (Gyeongi-do) under
an existing RCB (in Suwon); the RCBs presently deal only with construction.
Subsequently, from July 1974, the MOC field organization will take over the
maintenance of all national highways based on the four remaining RCBs. Fi-
nally, by about July 1975, new regional offices of the BPR will be set up
and will take over the RCBs' responsibilities, staff, and equipment for
maintenance and construction of national highways.
3.20      The Government, assisted by BCEOM/NEDECO, has prepared an implemen-
tation schedule for establishing the MOC highway maintenance field organiza-
tion (Table 10) as well as a detailed plan for setting up the pilot organiza-
tion, with estimates of costs (Table 11) and mechanical equipment required
(Table 12). To assist the Government in implementing the new maintenance
system, the project will finance purchases of mechanical equipment for the
pilot province. It will also include a detailed study of highway maintenance,
bv consultants, to help prepare the detailed implementation plan and schedule
for setting up the nationwide MOC field organization for maintaining nation-
al highways; this will include a detailed maintenance program for five years
and estimates of required funds, staff, installations, and mechanical equip-
ment. During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Govern-
ment that it will: (a) set up the MOC pilot field organization for mainte-
nance of national highways in accordance with the program and implementation
schedule; (b) carry out the study of highway maintenance assisted by consul-
tants, and agree with the Bank on a program for improving highway maintenance
(including setting up the nationwide MOC field organization for maintaining
national highways), all in accordance with the agreed time schedule; (c) car-
ry out the agreed program and thereafter cause the national highway system to
be adequately maintained, in accordance with sound engineering and highway
practices, and provide promptly as needed the funds, facilities, services,
and other resources required for such maintenance; and (d) make satisfactory
arrangements for maintaining the roads to be constructed under the project,
if necessary through interim measures pending effective implementation of
the new MOC field organization.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   General Description
4.01      The project (see Map) consists of:
(a) construction of a 372 km national primary highway from Chonju
to Pusan, with two-lane bituminous paving, including supervision
by consultants;



- 11 -
(b) feasibility studies by consultants of about 1,400 km of national
highways;
(c) detailed engineering by consultants of 200 km of national
primary highways from Wonju to Kangnung and from Mukho to
Sokcho;
(d) detailed engineering by consultants of about 900 km of national
highways to be selected, if found justified, from the highways
to be studied in (b) above;
(e) a highway maintenance study by consultants; and
(f) establishment of a national highway maintenance organization
in a pilot province, including procurement of mechanical
equipment and spare parts.
B.   Construction of Chonju-Pusan National Primary Highway (Annex)
4.02      The road to be constructed links the major cities of Chonju,
Kwangju, Sunchon, Chinju, Masan, and Pusan. The existing road from Chonju to
NIasan is narrow, poorly aligned, badly drained, and has a rough gravel sur-
f ace, except for short paved sections near Sunchon and Masan. The Masan-
Pusan section is paved, but is narrow and becoming increasingly congested.
4.03      The new highway will be built on a new alignment and will have a
two-lane asphaltic concrete pavement 7.2 m wide. Shoulders will be 3 m
wide, except for the lesser trafficked center section, Yonhwa-Masan, where
they will be reduced to 1.75 m (Table 9). The standards, which have been
reduced at the Bank's suggestion, are reasonable. The new highway, 372 km
long, will be 56 km shorter than the existing road.  The Masan-Pusan align-
ment was chosen to connect with an intra-urban link in Pusan to be financed
arid built by the Government/city (Annex, para. 11). During loan negotiations,
assurances were obtained from the Government that it will: (a) provide suffi-
cient funds for constructing the link, and (b) construct the link in a timely
nanner, including awarding the construction contract for the link before
awarding any contract for the Bank-financed Masan-Pusan section.
C.   Construction Supervision
4.04      The Government intends to retain the consulting firm Ingeroute
(France) for construction supervision. Ingeroute prepared the feasibility
study and detailed engineering for the highway, and the firm is acceptable
for the construction supervision.
D.   Feasibility Studies of National Highways
for Future Prolects (Table 13)
4.05      Feasibility studies, by consultants acceptable to the Bank, of the
possible improvement or reconstruction of about 1,400 km of national primary



- 12 -
highways are included in the project. Improvement of these highways, includ-
ing paving, appears to be of high priority (para. 5.03); they are expected
to carry traffic varying between 500 and 3,000 vpd by 1976.
E.   Detailed Engineering of Primary National Highways
4.06      The project includes detailed engineering, by consultants accept-
able to the Bank, of two primary national highways: Wonju-Kangnung, 100 km;
and Mukho-Sokcho, 100 km. Feasibility studies of these roads were financed
under Credit S4 KO and carried out in 1969-71 by the consultants Ammann andl
Whitney/Trans-Asia (United States) and by Ingeroute. Construction of these
highways is expected to cost around US$45 million, with a foreign exclhange
portion of about US$20 million; they could be the basis of a second hi Tlway
project.
F.   Detailed Engineering of Further National Ilighways
4.07      The project includes detailed engineering, by consultants accept-
able to the Bank, of about 900 km of national highways to be selected, if
found justified in agreement with the Bank, from the highways to be studied
in D. above. Construction of these highways could be the basis of a possible
third highway project; detailed engineering is included under this project,
rather than under a second highway project, to avoid possible delay between
carrying out feasibility studies and starting detailed engineering, which
would delay preparing a third project. To avoid wasted expenditures, asstir-
ances were obtained from the Government during loan negotiations that it will
not carry out any works other than maintenance or minor improvements on the
highways included for feasibility study or detailed engineering (paras. 4.05
and 4.06) without prior consultation with the Bank.
G.   Study of Highway Maintenance
4.08      The project includes a study, by consultants acceptable to the Bank,
of the organization of highway maintenance and methods of carrying it out.
This study will include:
(a) preparation of a detailed program for carrying out the
reorganization of highway maintenance, including setting up
a new field organization of the MIOC for maintaining national
highways (para. 3.19);
(b) preparation of a five-year maintenance program;
(c) assessment of mechanical equipment needs for highway
maintenance; and



- 13 -
(d) assessment of capital and recurrent financial requirements
for implementing the reorganization and carrying out the
maintenance program.
hlie study could lead to Bank financing, under future projects, of purchases
of mechanical equipment for maintaining the national highway system.
H.   Procurement of Mechanical Equipment (Table 12)
4.09      To assist the Government in setting up the MOC field maintenance
organization in a pilot province (para. 3.19), the project includes procure-
ment of necessary mechanical equipment. The list has been prepared with the
assistance of BGFOM/NEDECO (paras. 3.10 and 3.20).
I.   Refunding of IDA Technical Assistance Project - Transport, Credit S4 KO
4.10      The proposed loan will provide US$3.5 million to refund the amount
already disbursed under Credit S4 KO (about US$3.2 million) and to finance
the consultants' services still to be completed (para. 2.17) as well as the
training of government staff in the transportation field included in the
Credit S4 KO project (about US$300,000).
J.   Cost Estimates, Foreign Exchange Components,
and Financing (Table 14)
4.11      The cost estimates for the project are summarized as follows:



- 14 -
Foreign
Won million           US$ million       Exchange
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Component
A.Construction         13,660   9,120 22,780  43.4   29.0   72.4        40
B.Consulting Services:
1. Supervision
of A                410      630  1,040   1.3    2.0    3.3       60
2. Feasibility
studies             250      570    820   0.8    1.8    2.6       70
3. Detailed engi-
neering             910   1,260  2,170   2.9    4.0    6.9        60
4. Highway main-
tenance study        30      130    160   0.1    0.4    0.5       75
Sub-total        1,600   2,590  4,190   5.1    8.2   13.3
C.Mechanical equipment
and spare parts        a/      280    280    a/    0.9    0.9    100
D. Contingency
allowances
20% on Item
A (Quantities
- 10% and
Prices - 10%)
and 10% on
Items B and C       2,840   2,170  5,010   9.0    6.9   15.9
Sub-total
A-D          18,100  14,160 32,260  57.5   45.0  102.5
E. Refunding
of Technical
Assistance
Credit S4K0          -       1,100  1JJ0Q    -      3.5    3.5
Total
A-E            18 100  15323360  57.5   48.5  106.0
a/   Small amount for local handling and transport of imported equipment;
also possibly a small amount of local manufacture/assembly if domestic
suppliers submit successful bids for part of the equipment.



- 15 -
4.12      The cost estimates for construction have been prepared by Ingeroute
on the basis of quantities after completing detailed engineering and of unit
prices obtained for similar work after competitive bidding in 1970 (adjusted
to cover increases to early 1971). Although these prices are predominantly
based on contracts where bidding was restricted to local contractors, they
are acceptable as indications are that the domestic construction industry is
competitive and that international competitive bidding would not produce
significantly different prices.
4.13      The cost estimates for consulting services for construction super-
vision, feasibility studies, and detailed engineering of further national
highways are based on previous contracts for similar works in Korea.  The
cost estimates for the study of highway maintenance are based on an assess-
ment of the man-months required.
4.14      The cost estimates for procurement of mechanical equipment to set
up a national highway maintenance organization of the MOC in a pilot province
are based on an assessment made by the consultants BCEOM/NEDECO (para. 3.10)
and are satisfactory.
4.15      Contingency allowances of 20% for construction and 10% for consult-
ing services and purchases of mechanical equipment are reasonable. The 20%
for construction includes 10% for quantities of work and 10% for price in-
creases estimated at an average of about 5% p.a. for both local and foreign
currencies over the two-year period from the time the detailed estimates were
prepared (April 1971) to the mid-point of the approximat,ely three-year con-
struction period; it is assumed that adjustments in the foreign exchange rate
of the Won will reflect changes in the relative purclhasing power of domestic
and foreign currencies. The 10% allowance for mechanical equipment includes
5% for additional purchases of unforeseen equipment items and 5% for price
increases between March 1971, when the estimates were prepared, and the ship-
ment of the equipment. The 10% allowance for consulting services is for un-
foreseen increases in the man-months of work involved in supervision, studies,
design, and other services.
4.16      The estimated foreign exchange component of the construction cost
is based on the consultants' estimates of 50% when work is carried out by for-
eign contractors and 38% when carried out by domestic contractors, in each
case following international competitive bidding. The domestic civil engi-
neering contracting industry is well developed and is expected to win most of
the 10 contracts to be awarded under the project. Assuming that 75% of the
work is carried out by domestic contractors and 25% by foreign contractors,
the resultinig foreign exchange component is about 40%.
4.17      The foreign exchange component of consulting services varies be-
tween 60% and 75% for different types of service. The cost of mechanical
equipment for road maintenance probably will be entirely in foreign exchange,
except small amounts for such items as local handling and transport. Domes-
tic manufacturers (chiefly of vehicles) may bid, but they are not expected to
win contracts for a substantial proportion of the equipment, with a margin of
preference limited to 15% over foreign bidders.



- 16 -
4.18      The proposed loan of US$54.5 million will finance 47" (US$41
million) of the cost of construction; the foreign exchange cost (US$10
million) of consulting services and mechanical equipment and spare parts
purchases; and the refunding of Credit S4-KO (UIS$3.5 million). The Bankk's
participation in construction would cover the foreign exchange component
(US$35 million) and some local currency expeniditures (US$6 !Aillion).
The balance of the local costs (US$51.5 million), amounting to ahout hIalf
the total project cost, will be met by the Government. From experience
with previous loans, no difficulties are expected in making adequate pro-
vision in the budget; an assurance on this was obtained from the Government
during loan negotiations.
K.   Project Execution, Procurement,
and Disbursements (Table 15)
4.19      The MOC, through its BPR, will be in charge of the execution an(d
administration of the project, which will be carried out by contractors and
consultants. Highway construction will be carried out thIrough contracts
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding. Construction
supervision, feasibility studies, and detailed engineering for future proj-
ects, as well as the study of highway maintenance, will be carried out by
consultants acceptable to the Bank; assurances on this were obtained fromn
the Government during loan negotiations. The mechanical equipment will be
purchased on an international competitive bidding basis, with bids evaluated
on the c.i.f. landed cost; assurances on this, and that the Government will
not place restrictions on the importing of equipment for this project, were
obtained from the Government during loan negotiations.
4.20      The work included in the project is expected to take about three
years and, allowing for awarding contracts and making final payments on com-
pletion, disbursements would take about four years. The timing of project
execution was agreed during loan negotiations.
4.21      Disbursements of the loan would be made to the Government on the
basis of:
Ilighway construction - 47% on the cost of the works;
Consulting services - the actual foreign exchange cost
of payments to consultants; and
Equipment - the c.i.f. landed cost of imported mechanical
equipment, and 90% of the ex-factory price of any locally
produced equipment.
4.22      The Government will acquire the right-of-way for the road sections
to be constructed, and has adequate powers for this purpose. During loan ne-
gotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that the right-of-
way will be acquired before awarding the construction contract for each con-
tract section.



- 17 -
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      In line with the recommendations of the Bank-financed Transportation
Survey (para. 1.02) and the Government's recognition that highway infrastruc-
ture was inadequate, in 1968 the Government greatly increased the allocation
for highway construction (para. 3.02). At the same time, the Government asked
the Association to assist in financing feasibility studies of selected high
priority roads identified in the Transportation Survey.
5.02      The objectives of the project are to:
(a) reduce transport costs on the important primary highway
connecting the cities of Chonju-Kwangju-Sunchon-Masan-Pusan;
(b) establish the technical and economic feasibility and provide
the detailed engineering of other roads identified as being
of high priority by the Government and their consultants,
BCEOM/NEDECO; and
(c) improve the organization and operations of the BPR, particu-
larly for highway maintenance, including setting up a mainte-
nance organization in a pilot province.
5.03      The justification for construction (para. 4.01(a)) is based primar-
ily on savings in vehicle operating and time costs (paras. 5.07 and 5.08).
The Justification for including the feasibility studies (para. 4.01(b)) is
based on reconnaissance studies made by the Government and BCEOM/NEDECO and
on the subjective judgment of the Bank staff; subsequent detailed engineering
(para. 4.01 (d)) would be undertaken only if supported by the feasibility
studies. The justification for the detailed engineering of Wonju-Kangnung
and Mukho-Sokcho highways (para. 4.01(c)), is that feasibility studies under
Credit S4 KO have established that their construction would yield a satisfac-
tory rate of return. The highway maintenance study (para. 4.01(e)) is re-
quired as a basis for establishing the MOC highway maintenance field organi-
zation and for preparing a Five-Year Program for highway maintenance. The
procurement of mechanical equipment (para. 4.01(f)) is required for setting
up the pilot maintenance organization, an essential step toward establishing
the nationwide highway maintenance organization; the equipment will also re-
sult in improved maintenance of highways in the pilot province and, although
not quantified, reduced vehicle operating costs.
B.   Chon]u-Pusan Road (Tables 4, 5, and 16-18)
5.04      The Chonju-Pusan road is the main road running north-south from the
city of Chonju (population about 220,000) in west-central Korea via Kwangju
(about 400,000) to Sunchon (about 80,000) in the southwest. From Sunchon,
the road runs near the southern coast via Chinju (about 110,000) and Masan



- 18 -
(about 160,000) to Pusan (about 1.4 million), the second largest city in
Korea and its main port. The influence area of the road includes the impor-
tant southwestern agricultural area and the rapidly developing industrial
area along the southern coast.
5.05      Average daily traffic on the road in 1970 ranged from about 300 vpd
on the Yonhwa-Masan section to about 2,500 vpd between Masan and Pusan;
about 35% were passenger cars and taxis and 65% heavy vehicles. Based on
available Government counts, traffic on the existing road has grown by about
22% p.a. between 1967 and 1969. As part of the feasibility studies and sub-
sequent detailed engineering, Ingeroute undertook detailed traffic counts in
1969 and 1970. These showed traffic growth rates of about 29% p.a. (36% for
cars, 19% for buses, and 28% for trucks), whiich support the high traffic
growth rates projected in the feasibility study (para. 5.06).  The motor ve-
hicle fleet in the influence area increased by about 37% between 1968 and
1969. Information on the growth of the motor vehicle fleet and gasoline con-
sumption in Korea is given in Tables 4 and 5.
5.06      Table 16 shows present and expected traffic volumes on the Chonju-
Pusan road. Traffic assignments between the existing road and the new high-
way have been made by Ingeroute after origin and destination surveys. Based
on recent traffic trends and projections of total population by Ingeroute,
production of goods and services, and per capita income, it is assumed that
traffic will grow at an annual rate of about 22% p.a. until 1973 and then
gradually decline to about 9% p.a. by 1988. The growth rates are high but
reasonable under the circumstances. The traffic forecasts and economic eval-
uation have been based on the Government's stated policy that tolls will not
be levied on the two-lane road.  During loan negotiations, assurances were
obtained from the Government that tolls will not be levied on any section of
the road without the concurrence of the Bank, and that if any tolls are im-
posed, the levels will be determined in consultation with the Bank.
5.07      Reduction in vehicle operating and time costs, due to improved run-
ning surfaces, improved alignment, and considerable route shortenings, is the
readily quantifiable benefit used in the economic evaluation. Savings in-
clude only the difference between present and expected operating cost levels
and do not take into account the increased operating costs which would take
place if the project were not carried out, nor do they include benefits from
a reduction in accidents.
5.08      Considering the savings in vehicle operating and time costs (taking
into account the estimated traffic growth over 20 years) and the additional
maintenance cost, the investment in the whole road will yield a rate of re-
turn of 28%, ranging from 22% for the Yonhwa-Masan section to 32% for the
Masan-Pusan section. Exclusion of passenger time savings would reduce the
rates of return by about four percentage points. The sensitivity of these
results was tested on the basis of a plus or minus 10% change in construction
costs and 20% change in benefits.  This resulted in a range of 24% to 33% as
the minimum and maximum possible returns for the road. In view of the unusu-
ally high traffic growth projections, a separate sensitivity analysis was made



- 19 -
assuming a 25% lower traffic growth rate. This resulted in a rate of return
of 23%. Returns on the various combinations are given in Table 18. The
project is, therefore, justified.
VI. RECONNENDAT IONS
6.01      During loan negotiations, the Government gave assurances on a
number of points. The most important of these are that the Government will:
(a) set up, in accordance with an agreed program, a MOC field organization
for maintenance of national highways (para. 3.20); (b) finance and construct
an intra-urban link in Pusan to connect with the Masan-Pusan section to be
financed under the loan (para. 4.03); and (c) not levy tolls on the road to
be constructed as part of the project (para. 5.06).
6.02      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$54.5 million equivalent, with a term of 24 years, including a four-
year grace period.






ANNEX
Page 1
KOREA
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Details of Construction of Chonju-Pusan National Primary Highway
1.        The 372 km primary national highway between Chonju and Pusan can
be divided, according to traffic volume, into three sections: Chonju-Kwangju-
Yonhwa, 138 km, Yonhwa-Sunchon-Chinju-Masan, 182 km; and Masan-Pusan, 52 km.
A.   Chonju-Kwangju-Yonhwa Section (138 km)
2.        A four-lane divided highway, completed in 1969, connects Seoul and
Taejon (155 km) and is part of the Seoul-Pusan toll expressway. Early in
1971, a further 80 km of two-lane paved highway was completed from Taejon to
a point 9 km north of Chonju; the new highway will start at this point. The
existing road is 142 km: Chonju-Kwangju, 111 km; and Kwangju-Yonhwa, 31 km.
The road is unpaved, with a river gravel surface containing many large stones
which corrugates badly under the traffic averaging in 1970 about 600 vpd.
The alignment varies from fair to poor, mainly following the river valleys,
but crossing a mountain pass near Sanam (halfway between Chonju and Kwangju),
where gradients reach 9% and many curves are sharp. Average travel speed in
dry weather is about 45 km/h, but is considerably reduced in wet weather.
Drainage is poor.
3.   Under the project, a new two-lane paved highway will be constructed on
an improved alignment roughly parallel to the existing road. The new high-
way will have a 7.2 m wide asphaltic concrete pavement, and 3 m wide shoul-
ders with a single bituminous seal coat. These specifications are reasonable
for the traffic of about 1,000 vpd expected when the road is completed. The
geometric design standards are given in Table 12; the terrain is about 75%
flat, 15% rolling, and 10% mountainous. To improve the alignment, including
reducing the maximum gradient to 6.5%, a tunnel 690 m long will be constructed
in the mountainous area. The construction will include 35 new bridges, the
longest being 462 m.
4.        This section includes construction to similar design standards, of
an 8 km link to Chonju and a 10 km link to Tamyang. The saving in distance
on the new highway between Chonju and Kwangju will be about 6 km, but for
through traffic from north of Chonju to east of Yonhwa (via the by-passes)
it will be over 20 km.
B.   Yonhwa-Sunchon-Chinju-Masan Section (182 km)
5.        The existing road is 214 km: Yonhwa-Sunchon, 66 km; Sunchon-Chinju,
93 km; and Chinju-Masan (to the junction with the Taegu road 4 km west of
Masan), 55 km. The existing road is unpaved except for about 6 km near
Sunchon. It is narrow (a total width between 5 and 7 m and virtually no
shoulders), poorly aligned, poorly drained, and surfaced with coarse river



ANNEX
Page 2
gravel. The road crosses much rolling country and some mountainous areas,
with gradients as steep as 9% and occasionally 11%. The normal average run-
ning speed for traffic is 40-45 km/h. The bridges are narrow and weak, and
the culverts are insufficient. The road passes through several sinall towns
and villages where buildings are constructed on the edge of the right-of-way
(only about 10 m wide) causing extremely hazardous traffic conditions.
6.        The new highway will have an asphaltic concrete two-lane pavement
7.2 m wide. The shoulders on this section will be only 1.75 m wide and will
not have a bituminous seal coat. The specifications are reasonable for thie
terrain and traffic volume, which is expected to be around 600 vpd when the
new road will have been completed. The new alignment will cross terrain
which is about 65% flat, 20% rolling, and 15% mountainous. There will be 83
new bridges, including one of 600 m (Somjin River) and one of 385 m (Nam
River), and two tunnels, one 170 m long between Sunchon and Chinju and one
555 m long between Chinju and Masan.
7.        The new alignment will be 10 km shorter between Yonhwa and Sunchon,
12 km shorter between Sunchon and Chinju, and 6 km shorter between Chinju andl
Masan. The saving for through traffic on the entire distance between Yonhwa
and M4asan (by-passing the towns) will be 34 km.
C.   Masan-Pusan Section (52 km)
8.        This section will start from the Taegu road junction, 8 km west of
Masan, since the traffic from there to Masan, and from Masan to Pusan (pres-
ently in the range of 2,000 to 4,000 vpd withi 65% heavy vehicles) is substan-
tially heavier than on the remaining project sections. Except for an unpaved
4 km west of Masan, the existing road has a 6 m wide pavement in fair condi-
tion, but shoulders only 0.5 m wide. Average travel speed is only about 40
km/h and congestion is considerable because 'of the high traffic volume, the
narrowness of the existing road, and the indifferent alignment of parts of
its length.
9.        The new highway will be constructed on a new alignment.  It will
be fairly close to the existing road for about 20 km from the western end,
but will include a 4 km by-pass on the north side of the city of Masan. The
center 20 km will be on a new and more direct route. The remaining 11 km
again will parallel the existing road to the end of the project section at
Kupo, on the western side of Pusan. There the new hiighway will join a 5 knm
intra-urban link, which will be built by the Government and the city of Pusan
to connect Kupo with the northeastern section of Pusan. The end of the new
highway also will connect with the existing road, which follows the eastern
bank of the Naktong River south from Kupo to the port, and old downtown area,
of Pusan. The existing road is congested and is being widened to four lanes;
the Government expects this work to be completed by the end of 1973.
10.       The new highway will have an asphaltic concrete, two-lane pavement
7.2 m wide; the shoulders will be 3 a wide with a bituminous seal coat. The
work includes building a major bridge 1,300 m long over the Naktong River, as



ANNEX
Page 3
well as 25 other bridges. The alignment is about 70% in flat, and 20% in roll-
ing terrain, with a shor' section crossing a narrow but steep mountain ridge
where a tunnel 390 m long will be constructed.
11.       The alignment selection for the Masan-Pusan section was based on
the Government's stated intention to build the Kupo intra-urban link (para.
4.03). The Government had a preliminary technical study of the link carried
out; it was started in December 1970 and completed in April 1971. The Gov-
ernment confirmed its previous statements that this link was required as
part of the Pusan urban plan, and that it would finance, engineer, and con-
struct the link separately from the project. The Government has stated that
detailed engineering of the link is nearing completion and that construction
is expected to start in July 1971 and to be completed ahead of the Bank-fi-
nanced Yasan-Pusan section.
D.   Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering
Of Road Sections to be Constructed
12.       Feasibility studies of the road sections to be constructed were car-
ried out in 1969-70 by the consultants Ingeroute (France) under Technical As-
sistance Credit S4 KO. The same firm carried out detailed engineering, com-
pleted in April 1971; this was also financed under Credit S4 KO.






TABLE 1
KDREA
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Domestic Freight and Passenger Traffic Data, 1965 and 1969
1965                      1969               1965-69
Ton-km                   Ton-km             Avterage Annual
Freight              (million)                   (million)       ( X    Increase (%)
Highway                 503            8.5        1,307         12.1         27.0
Railroad              5,044           87.0         7,328        68.2           9.8
Coastal shipping        263            4.5        2,107         19.7         68.0
Total                a           100.0        lo,742       100.0          16.6
Pass-km                   Pass-km
Passenger             (million)       (U)        (million)      (%)
Highway                7,975           43.0       16,688         59.2         20.2
Railroad              6,917            55.0       11,077         39.3         12.5
Coastal shipping         182            1.5          257          0.9          9.0
Air                      63             0.5          179          0.6         29.8
Total            15 137           100.0      28,201         100.0        16.9
E                           S
Source:  Statistics Yearbook of Transportation, 1970, Ministry of Transportation
December 1970



TABLE 2
IEA
FIRST HMDHWAY FROJECT
Government Transport Investments During Second
Five-Year Economic Development Plan, 1967/71
Transport Mode                           Billion Won
Highways                                    90.1
Railroad                                    86.3
Ports and Maritime Transport                28.8
Airports                                    4.0
Other                                        1.3
Transport Sub-total                     210.5
Total of Five-Year Plan                      777.9
Transport as proportion of total              27%
Source: Ministry of Construction
May 1971



TABLE 
KOREA
FIRST HIDHWAY PROJECT
Public Roads Network ,1970
(km)
Total
Category and Type                    Length        Paved        Graveled      Unsurfaced
National Highways
Expressways                          470        470  100          -
Other national highways             8 120     1 650   20        6,470
(primary and secondary roads)      ,         1
Sub-total                  8,590      2,120   26,470
Local Roads
Provincial highways               10,820        120    1       10,180           520
Special city roads                  2,740       450   16        1,850           440
City and county roads             15,020        430    2       11 920         2 670
Sub-total                 m    0      1,000    3      23,950
Total                     37,170      3,120    8      30 ,420        3 ,630
Source: Ministry of Construction
iecember 1970



TABLE 4
KOREA
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Motor Vehicle Statistics, 1962-70
Year          /         Trucks        Busei/        Othersi/       Total
1962         8,733      13,093         6,747        2,241          30,814
1963         9,569      13,929         8,132        2,598          34,228
1964        11,409      14,951         8,617        2,836          37,813
1965        13,001      16,015         9)316        3,179          41,5il
1966        17,502      19,432        1o,888        2,338          50,160
1967        23,235      22,955        11,499        3,008          60,697
1968        33,112      31,582        12,786        3,471          80,951
1969        50,299      40,134        14,237        3,999         108,669
19704/      56,254      45,720        14,831        3,519         120,324
% Annual Change
1962-69     28.2        17.3          11.2          8.5            19.7
1967-69     47.1        32.2          11.3         15.2            33.8
% Changing Composition
1962        28.3        42.5          21.8          7.4           100
1969        46.3        36.9          13.1          3.7           100
Includes tkxis.
2 Includes microbuses.
3/ Public service, motorcycles,and special vehicles.
Estimated.
Sourcs: Ministry of Commerce and Industry and Mission Estimnates
IDecember 1970



TABLE 5
KOREA
FIRST HIGHWAY ROJECT
Motor Vehicle Fuel Consumption, l96Z-6qr
(kiiloliters)
Year              Gasoline              Diesel
1962              108,150               225,190
1963               97,000               275,680
1964               97,480               274,740
1965              158,240               270,670
1966              239,180               256,795
1967              372,920               281,420
1968              493,900               510,120
1969              593,950               681,460
% Average Annual Increase
1962-69           27.5                  17.0
1967-69           26.0                  55.0
/Gasoline consumption is totally for vehicles, but diesel consumption
includes 20-30% of other consumption.
Source: Ministry of Commerce and Industry
December 1970



TABLE 6
KOREA
FIRST HIGI{HvAY PROJECT
Highway Authorities and Agencies
Expressways     National        ProvinciaJ,
(toll)       Highways        Highways_         City/County Roads
Planning             MOC             MDC             8 Provincial      City/County Con-
Construction     struction Sections
Bureaus (PCB)    (CCS), assisted by PCB
Construction
Design and         Korea High-       R Regional    PCB               CCS
supervision     way Corpora-    Construction
tion (KHC)?/    Bureaus (RCB)
Financing          140C/EHC3/      MOC             Provinces with   City/County with
MOC grants        Provincial grants
Maintenance
Executing author-
ity/agency
Paved         KHC              PCB            PCB                PCB
Unpaved        -               CCS            CCS                CCS
Financing          KHC             MOC anu        Provinces with    City/County with
Provinces     MOC grants         Provincial grants
1/ Includes the Special Cities of Seoul and Pusan.
2/ The Seoul-Pusan Expressway was constructed by the Seoul-Pusan Expressway Construc-
tion Office (SPECO); KHC was created in January 1969.
3/  XHC has not so far financed any construction.
Sources: Ministry of Construction and BCEOM/NEDECO
December 1970



TABLE 7
NDREA
FIRST HIGHW4AY PROJECT
Highwa User Charges
(million VJon)
Revenue                      1965      1966      1967     1968      1969     1970      1971-/
National taxes
Fuel taxes_/              2,512    2,887    4,048       9,680   12,791    16,958   20,033
Gasoline tax           (1,456)  (1,840)  (2,687)   (6,796)  (9,365)  (12,181) (14,358)
Diesel tax             (1,056)  (1,047)  (1,361)   (2,884)  (3,426)   (4,774)  (5,675)
Transportation tax          902    2,421    4,025       5,581    8,387    12,238   12,012
Commodity tax                67       348      500      1,178    2,277      2,619    3,024
Customs duties               N.A.      N.A.    N.A.       N.A.    N.A.      N.A.      N.A.
Sub-total             3,481    5,656    8,573    16,439   23,455    31,815   35,069
Local taxes
Vehicle tax (incl.
surcharge)                846    1,081    1,555      2,488    3,869      5,602    7,228
Registration fee)
Acquisition tax )           104      181       250        584      881      1,165    1,500
Sub-total               950    1,262    1,805      3,072    4,750      6,767    8,728
Tolls                          _-                 -           6      436       N.A.    N.A.
Total                4,431    6 918   10,378                28,641    40,569   46,912
1/ Budgeted.
2/ Total revenues, not only proportion earmarked for highways.
Sources: Ministry of Construction, Ministry of Finance, and Ministry of Home Affairs
May 1971



TABLE 8
1CREA
FIRST H lHWAY PROJECT
Expenditures on Roads, 1965-71
(million Won)
Item                           1965    1966    1967    1968       1969       1-/    971-/
Government Expenaitures on
National Highways
Administration               49      56       69      105       187     200        299
Construction                800   1,081   1,892   13,387   29,259  23,663    21,596
Maintenance3/                40 _            165      240       282     298        525
8ub-total               889   1,137   2,126   13,732   29,728  24,161    22,420
xpMenditures on-y/ _/
Provincial and City/County
Roads
Construction and
Maintenance             2,180   5,109   7,0h5    8,873   18,826  19,508    10,900
Total                3,069   6,2h6   9,171   22,605   L8_,554  h3,669    33,320
1/  Estimated.
2/ Budgeted.
3/ Does not include funds contributed by provinces for the maintenance of national
highways.
Maintenance includes some expenditure on national high.ays but does not include the
value ot voluntary labor provided for all highways.
5/ Incluces Government grants.
sources: Ministry of Construction ard BCEON/NEDECO
May 1971



TABLE 9
KOREA
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Design Standards for Primary National Highways (Rural)
Hilly/       All
Unit   Flat  Rolling   Mountainous /  Areas
Geometric Design Standards
Design speed                   kmoh    120     100          70
Minimum radius of curvature    m       630     390         180
Maximum gradient                %        4                   6.5
Roadway Features
Width of pavement               m                                       7.20
Width of shoulders              m                                       3.00-1.75
Width of right-of-way           m                                       42 minimum
Structural Design Features
Axle-load (pavement)            lbs                                     18,000Y/
Bridge loading                                                          DB-18, equivalent to
AASHO H20-S16
Bridge widths
(over 60-100 m long)3/       m                                        10.70
1/ Design speeds and widths may be reduced and gradients increased in mountainous/
alpine terrain, as appropriate to each case.
2/ Pavement designed for the projected number of repetitions of "equivalent 18,000 lb
axle-loads".
3/ Depending on traffic volumes.
Sources: Ministry of Construction, BCEOM/NEDECO, and Ingeroute
May 1971



TABLE 10
KfREA
FIRST HIGHWAY FROJECT
MOC Field Organization for Maintenance of National Highways:
Program and Implementation Schedule
Implementation
Program                                                   Date
A. Pilot Province (Gyeongi-do)
1. Establish a highway maintenance section
in the existing RCB at Seoul                         October 1, 1971
2. Establish two highway maintenance field
sections at Vijungbu and Suwon under the
existing RCB at Seoul, and take over main-
tenance of all national highways (other
than toll roads) in the Gyeongi-do province          January 1, 1972
B. Study of Highway Maintenance by Consultants
1.  Start study                                          October 1, 1971
2. Submit Phase I Report to Bank covering de-
tailed organization and implementation
schedule for setting up nationwide NDC field
organization for maintaining national highways       April 1, 1972
3.  Determine,in consultation with the Bank,the
organization and implementation schedule on
the basis of 2 above                                 June 1, 1972
4.  Submit Phase II Report to Bank covering
(a) detailed schedules of staff, facilities,
equipment and financing required for the
nationwide MOC field organization; and (b) pro-
posed five-year program (1974-78) for mainl-
tenance of national highways                         November 1, 1972
5. Adopt, in consultation with the Bank, a five-
year program of highway maintenance on the
basis of 4 above                                     February 1, 1973
C. Nationwide MDC Field Organization for
Maintenance of National Highways
1. Establish, in accordance with the agreed
organization and implementation schedule
(reference B.3 above), highway maintenance
sections under each of the existing RCBs             October 1, 1973
2. Establish, in accordance with the agreed
organization and implementation schedule,
the highway maintenance and field sections           July 1, 1974
3. Establish, under BFR, regional offices for
maintenance of national highways and trans-
fer to these offices from the RCBs the na-
tional highway maintenance field sections
(reference C.1 above)                                July 1, 1975
Source: Ministry of Construction
May 1971



TABLE 11
KOREA
FIRST HDGHWAY PROJECT
MOC Field Organization for Maintenance of National Highways:
Estimated Capital and Recurrent Costs of Pilot Project, 1971-73
(million Won)
1971     1972      1973
Capital Costs
Mechanical equipment and tools               250         60         -
Offices, stores, workshops,
furniture, etc.                             _5          -        _
Sub-total                               305        60         -
Recurrent Costs
Staff                                          1         13        13
Maintenance paved roadai/                      1        119        139
Maintenance gravel roadsi/                     2        158        158
Sub-total                                 4        290       310
Total                                   309        350       310
i/ Includes labor, materials, fuels, equipment operations; does not include
equipment depreciation.
Sources: Ministry of Construction and BCEOM/NEDECO
May 1971



TABLE 12
RKEA
FIRST HIGHWAY FROJECT
MDC Field Organization for Maintenance of National Highways:
Mechanical Equipment for Pilot Province (Gyeongi-do)
Estimated Costi/
Description                    No.                (Million Won)
Dump trucks                    20                     83
Motor graders                   6                     51
Rollers                         5                      25
Trucks                          9                      18
Tractors                        2                     16
Front end loaders               2                      14
Asphalt distributors            2                      9
Crushers                        2                      9
Station wagons                  5                      5
Snall equipment spare parts
and tools                                           50
Total                                             280
(Equivalent to approximately US$900,000)
/ C.i.f. landed cost.
Sources: Ministry of Construction and BCED1VNEDECO
May 1971



TABLE 13
KOREA
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Roads Included for Feasibility Studies (see Map)
Length
(km3
Taegu-Masan                          104
Samchok-Pohang                       223
Chonan-Changhang                     146
Wonju-Taegu                          262
Chongju-Jaechon                      126
Seoul-Kimchon                        253
Wonju-Chongju                         55
Mokpo-Sunchon                        141
Inchon-Suwon                          47
Naju-Shinshiri (Sihinjeongni)         43
Total                      1 400
Sources: Ministry of Construction and BCEOM/NEDEc0
May 1971



TABLE 14
flREA
FIRST HIGHWAY FROJECT
Estimated Cost of Project
Foreign
Won (million)           US$ (million)         Exchange
Item                           Local  Foreign  Total   Local Foreign  Total    Component
A. Highway Construction (370 km)
1.  Chonju-Kwangju-Yonhwa    4,110    2,740   6,85    13.1        8.7    21.8         4o
2. Yonhwa-Sunchon-Chinju-
Masan                   6,470    4,320  10,790   20.6    13.7    34.3           40
3.  Masan-Pusan               3,o80    2,060   5,140    9.7       6.6    16.3         40
Sub-total             13,660    9,120  22,780   43,4    29.0 "  72.4           40
B. Consulting Services:
1.  Supervision of A.           410       630   1,040    1.3      2.0      3.3        60
2. Feasibility studies of
about 1,400 km of
national highways         250       570     820    0.8      1.8     2.6         70
3. Detailed engineering of
Saemal (Wonju)-Kangnung
and Mukho-Sokcho (200 kx 190        250     440    0.6      o.8     1.4         60
4. Detailed engineering of
about 900 km of highways
to be selected from B.2  720    1,010   1,730    2.3        3.2     5.5         60
5. Study of Highway Mainte-
nance                      30       130     160    0.1      0.4     0.5         80
Sub-total              1,600    2,590   4,190    5.1       8.2    13.3
C. Mechanical Equipment for
Highway Maintenance in
Pilot Province                I/        280     280    V/       0.9      0.9       100
D. Contingency Allowance
1.  On Item A. 20%            2,680    1,890   4,570    8.5       6.o    14.5
(a) 10% quantity
(b) 10% price
2.  On Items B. and C. 10%      160       280     440    0.5      0.9      1.4
Sub-total              2,840    2,170   5,010    9.0       6.9    15.9
Sub-total A.-D.       18,100   14,160  32,260   57.5    45.0   102.5
E. Refunding of Technical
Assistance Credit S4 KD    -          1,100   1,100   -         3.5      3.5
Total A.-E.                    15 260  33 360   57.5    48.5   106.0
1/  Small amount for local handling and transport of imported equipment; also possibly a
small amount of local manufacture/assembly if domestic suppliers submit successful
bids for part of the equipment.
Sources: Ministry of Construction and Ingeroute
May 1971



TAB   15
DREA
FIRbT HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                         Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                              at end of Quarter
(US thousands)
1971/72
beptember j0, 1971                             3,200
December 31, 1971                              3,400
March 31, 1972                                 5,100
June 3O, 1972                                  7,700
1972/73
beptember 30, 1972                           10,300
December 31, 1972                            13,400
March 31, 1973                                17,100
June j), 1973                                 21,500
:1973/74
bieptember 30, 1973                          26,600
December 31, 1973                             32,300
March j1, 1974                                38,200
June JO, 1974                                43,800
1974/75
beptember 30, 1974                           49,200
December 31, 1974                             52,000
March j1, 1975                                53,500
June 30, 1975                                 54,500
Source: Mission Estimates
May 1971



KOREA
FlTS'T HIGHIRAY FItOJECT
Estimated Traffic Volumes on Chonju-Pusan National Primary Highway, 1970-93
Average Annual Daily Traffic                    _stimated Traffic GrowTh ( 
1970                       Estimated
Road Sections   Actual  Est. Diversion  1974   197T   1984   1955   1993          1970-72  1973-77  1978-82  1983-87  1988-93
Chonj u-Yonhwa
Cars             256        156           387    915  2,386  4,030  6,790         26        24        18       14        11
Buses            184          82          159    308    596    836  1,118         18        16        12         9        6
Trucks    1/    193          130          281    563  1,269  1,997  3,072         22        19        15       12         9
Gw ernment-       21          18            18     18      18     18      18       0         0         0        0         0
Yonhwa-Masan
Cars             115         96           238    563  1,407  2,377  4,005         26        2a4       17       14
Buses             80          52            98    172    316    446    596        18        15        11         Q        6
Trucks           120        105           219    424    914  1,438  2,212         2' 18               14       1          9
Government-        5           5             5      5       5      5       5       0         C         0        0         c
Mas an-Pus an
Cars             937        745         1,833  4,196  8,134  8,134  8,134         6        2 3        8                  0
Buses            691         144)         846  1,532  2,588  2,588  2,588         13        16        14        0         0
Trrucks     /   818         701         1,515  3,G36  5,5003  5,5co  5,500        22        15       1S         0         0
Government-       88          53            53     53      53     53      53       C         0         ^                  C
1/  Ingeroute has assumed a zero grQwth rate for this type of traffic.  AS this io a small proportion of traffic,
even significant deviation from this assumption would not appreciably affect the economic evaluation or
design standaras.
bources:  Ministry of Construction, Ingeroute, anAd lission Estimates
ijecember 1970



TABLE 17
FTIhT HMIGHAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs on Chonjn-Pusan National Primary Highway
(Won per km)
Chonju-    Yonhwa-      Masan-
Yohliwa    14asan       Pusan
Cars5:       Including Passenger Timel/
Existing Road                     33         33          26
New Road                          19         20          21
Saving                       m           13          3
% Saving                       42          39          18
Excluding Passenger Time
iLxjsting Road                    23         23          17
New Road                          14         14          15
Saving                        9           9           2
% Saving                        39         39          15
Buses:        Including Passenger Time
Existing Road                    101        100          82
New Road                          56         58          62
Saving                       4                       20
% Saving                       44          42          24
hxcluding Passenger Time
Existing Road                     54         53          40
New Road                          31         31          35
Savinif                      23          22          3
A Saving                       42          41          15
'I'rucks:    Existirng Road                     59         59          43
New Road                          36         36          36
Saving                       23          23           7
% Saving                        39         39          16
G overnmenit
Vehicles:2/  Existirig Road                     52         52          38
New Road                          31          31         32
Saving                        Ti 21                  7
% Saving                       40          40          16
1/  Passenger time savings have been valued at w58 (US$0.18) for car passengers
and W29 (US$0.09) for bus passengers.
2/ App.roximate weighted average of above types.
Sources: Ingeroute and Mission Estimates
May 1971



TiLz 18
KOREA
FIRST HIGHWAY HIOJECT
Rates of Return on Chonju-Pusarl National Primary Highway
(X)
Chonju-     Yonhwa-    Masan-
Assumptions                                 Yonhwa       Masan       Pusan        Totil.
Most likely values of investment,
traffic growth and vehicle operat-
ing costs, including passenger time           28           22          32
Most likely values of investment,
traffic growth and vehicle operat-
ing costs, excluding passenger time           24           19          23           *4
Most likely values of investment and
vehicle operating costs, including
passenger time, but assuming a 25%
reduction in traffic growth rates             21           16          27           23
Most likely values of investment and
vehicle operating costs, excluding
passenger time, but assuming a 25%
reduction in traffic growth rates             18           13          21           Id
Conservative values of investment,
traffic growth and vehicle operat-
ing costs, including passenger time-/         23           18          26           24
Conservative values of investment,
traffic growth and vehicle operat-
ing costs, excluding passenger time1!         20           15          18           iv
Optimistic values of investment,
traffic growth and vehicle operat- 2/
ing costs, including passenger time-           33          25          38           32
Optimistic values of investment,
traffic growth and vehicle operat- 2/
ing costs, excluding passenger time_          28           21          30           27
1/ Conservative assumptions are: (i) 10% increase in investment and (ii) 20%
decrease in benefits.
2/ Optimistic assumptions are: (i) 10% decrease in investment and (ii) 20w
increase in benefits.
Source: Mission Estimates
May 1971



KOREA: FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
MINISTRY OF CONSTRUCTION ORGANIZATION
MINISTRY OF CONSTRUCTION (MOC)
MINISTER
VICE  INISTER                                                                                                 I
r-------------------------------------_____ 
I                                                                                                                                                                                                          ICONT-OLLE OF
l                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PLANNING AND.I
ICOORDINATION
I                                                                                                                                                                                                          Il
KOE  U*  J0                                                                                         UEUOFOFC                                                                         A
&                                               ___________________________                                                                                                                                     _ _ _  _ |
* I__O_E___|             I                               BUREAU OF                      .URPLANEAU OF                              SFFIE OI ATBUREAU OA CITIES (2)                                                      PROVINCES (8)
KR    HIGHWAY                    H . HOUSING             NATIONAL                                                                                        ESEOUL  _ND PUTINSNDEGNVERNOR
*  CORPORAT ON       *       CORPORATION                                      ADCTRDSEQUIPMENT                                                                       RESOURCES            (SOLADPSA)GVRO
.     . . . . .......  .L . . . . .  -_            ---                                                                                                                                                        .  . .  . .  . . .IAC  .NTTT  ..EAC  POR  . OF HOM . .IR
REGION WATER                                                                                      DISTRIC   E ; iNATIONAL                                                         PROVINCIAL    ANDSPEC
DREDGING             I RDESOURE                                                                        TRAINING                     CONSTRUCTION               BUREAU OF                                                               CITIES UNDER MINISTRY
DEVELOPMENT                                                                  INSTITUTE                    REERHPoRT                                                                    *IOF HO0ME AFFAIRS
CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                                                                  CNSTRU         j
BUREAUS (5) (RCBI                                                                                 SO  (PC .
I   ~         ~~ I
(GUNS) j         I CITIES  i
LU.UNTIESI
SOURCE: Mini.Ery oF Co-t-ti                                                                                                                                                                                                             IIIID - 5616()
MhArh 1971






KOREA: FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
BUREAU OF PUBLIC ROADS ORGANIZATION
BUREAU OF PUBLIC ROADS (BPR)
| ~~~~DIREC^TOR|
HKIGRHWAY                NATIONAL                                                                                                   I
KOREWAY                   EXPRESSWAY                                       PLANNING
CORPHWAYIO                DESIGN AND                                         vVIN
KHC O                     SURVEY                                           DIVUSION
OFFICE (NEDSO)                                   DIRECTOR
|  ADMINISTRATION  |        |     FINANCE        t                     1-  CONSTRUCTION                     MAINTENANCE
DIVISION                           DIVISO                                  DIVISION                          DIVISION       
_________________________ 
REGIONAL CONSTRUCTION BUREAUS [5)
DIRECTOR (RCBs)
_._._.~~~~~~~~~~~ =-_-1 - - .J -..... I- - -I -.------ --- -   ---            
GENERAL                ~~~~PORTS                        NATIONAL                 .      RIVERS AND     jDESIGN
DIVISION            I           DIVISION       I                HIGHWAY             |           WATERWAYS                 I      AND
I          I ~~~~~~~~DIIINDIVISION                                          ITESTING
._._._._._._._                  ...._ ._._._. _._.. _.                                           ..._. _. _._.. _...             :_._._. ._._._
____ I   ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~ ~ I....I  ---
NATIONAL HIGHWAY
FIELD SECTIONS FOR I
I HIGHWAY            I
(TO BE SET UP)
I
SOURCE: Minisrry of Construction                                                                                                           IBRD - 5615(R)
March 1971






-.             /                                                          OF  ..                      . 
-     4.4+/   2     |- . .    -  ..  IBLIC.OF R          BREAB  
NATIONAL HIGHWAY NETWORK.
/  $,hm   e   41                     ; .   .....  ..                       K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0. R EA  /  \
*rsfX  t< l      ,      G,   J 2SuEORE A        S  EA              OF
$cA tO5~'                                                                              )(0SnXkwOt  X                                       SE //   MW   /    JA   P    A    N
<'--'"'-'"4~r~   j| haIoi  /ang*
A _ J  x\        ,             JA~~~~~Chunc o         
nek                  i           ~ Uiob         Hangonn                      *.4/    .%        |
-   Y                E L L O WPek
S E A                                                       CA-
|                         >     2 t                      =                        Sf               -        -        Z        -''-- < gi                     i~~~~~~~~~~~~hogi
.........Expressway (4-lanejtoll)                                                                  o ej n  \           .    N              *
-          Priony roads  aypoved)
----Prnciry roads (unpaved)                                                                            4.....1
Secondary (pavedi)
Secondory (unpaved)                                                        arson  /             /     Ki                   i                        \ ....one
..........  .Feasibility  study-techlncolassistance   CR   54-KO                                                                .                '..  YsrrJchon o
Constructron & impnrovement                                            j; -/
....-.-Study &engineerna                                     so          ahan4  ,. /
Railay
  Provincial capitals
     CObes &towns                                                             Chonju
Axports (Ilnterntosol)                                                                                  K h
0      20      40     6,0    s0        o                                                          X<                     - /Tof Wanau(
KILOMETERS                       <                                 n
W~~~~~~~~~~ 0,                                                                     R E A\ NZ
APRIL ma                                                                                                                                                                     IO 34 T3R   A    /  T
APRIL 1971                                                                                                                                                                        iBRD 3343



